CITY OF INKSTER, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2019 S-19 Supplement contains
Local legislation current through Ord. 875, passed 4-18-19
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 711
   AN ENACTING ORDINANCE TO ADOPT BY REFERENCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE
CITY OF INKSTER REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN
EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE CITY OF INKSTER DEALING WITH SUBJECTS
EMBRACED IN SAID CODE
   WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the City of Inkster are in need
of updating; and
   WHEREAS, the manner of arrangement, classification and indexing thereof is
insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the City; and
   WHEREAS, Public Act No. 279 of 1909, as amended, being MCL 117.1 et seq.,
and authorizes the Inkster City Council to adopt, revise, amend, restate,
repeal, codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to codify and/or incorporate
said ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, The Inkster City Council has authorized a general compilation,
revision, and codification of the ordinances of the City of a general and
permanent nature and publish of such ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Inkster City Council that:
   SECTION 1.   The general ordinances of the City of Inkster as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the City of Inkster, Michigan."
   SECTION 2.   Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
following titles, to-wit:
                                 City Charter
                     Title I         General Provisions
                     Title III         Administration
                     Title V         Public Works
                     Title VII         Traffic Code
                     Title IX         General Regulations
                     Title XI         Business Regulations
                     Title XIII      General Offenses
                     Title XV         Land Usage
                     Table of Special Ordinances
                     Parallel References
                     Index
   SECTION 3.   All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said
Code shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code
except as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code;
provided such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred
or any right established or proceedings which have begun and prosecutions for
violations of law or ordinances occurring prior to the effective date of this
Code are not effected or abated by adopting this Code; nor shall such repeal
affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating
money, annexing or detaching territory establishing franchises or granting
special rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements, authorizing
the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the purchase or sale
of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements, plats or
dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the boundaries
of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any subjects not contained
therein.
   SECTION 4.   Said Code shall be deemed as being adopted by reference in its
entirety and shall take effect immediately upon the approval of the Inkster
City Council and upon publication of this adopting ordinance and without the
necessity of publishing said Code in its entirety as is required by law.
   SECTION 5.   Said Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and
places of the ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations
therein contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly
signed, attested recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
   SECTION 6.   A complete copy of the Code shall be made available to the
public for inspection at the Office of the Inkster City Clerk in compliance
with State Law requiring that records of public bodies be made available to the
general public.
   SECTION 7.   This Ordinance shall take effect immediately upon posting as
required by law.
   Delphine G. Oden, CMC
   City Clerk
   Inkster, Michigan
ADOPTED:   December 7, 1992
POSTED:   December 21, 1992
EFFECTIVE: December 21, 1992
CHARTER
OF THE CITY OF
INKSTER, MICHIGAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Chapter 1 Incorporation and Boundaries
   
1.1   Incorporation
   
1.2   Boundaries
Chapter 2 Definitions and General Provisions
   
2.1   Records to be public
   
2.2   Definitions and interpretations
   
2.3   Publication of notices
   
2.4   Official performance
   
2.5   Public records as evidence
   
2.6   Quorum
   
2.7   Sundays and holidays
   
2.8   Penalties for violations of charter
   
2.9   Chapter and section headings
   
2.10   Amendments
   
2.11   Severability of charter provisions
   
2.12   No estoppel
   
2.13   Vested rights
   
2.14   System of accounts
   
2.15   City liability
Chapter 3 Municipal Powers
   
3.1   General powers
   
3.2   Additional powers
   
3.3   Further powers
Chapter 4 Elections
   
4.1   Qualifications of electors
   
4.2   Election procedure
   
4.3   Wards and precincts
   
4.4   Election dates
   
4.5   Election registration
   
4.6   Election commission
   
4.7   Special elections
   
4.8   Notice of elections
   
4.9   Voting hours
   
4.10   Nominations
   
4.11   Form of petition
   
4.12   Withdrawal of petition
   
4.13   Approval of petition
   
4.14   Public inspection of petitions
   
4.15   Form of ballots
   
4.16   Canvass of votes
   
4.17   Recount
   
4.18   Recall
   
4.19   Election by lot, in case of tie vote
   
4.20   General election laws
Chapter 5 General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel of the City
   
5.1   Eligibility for office and employment in city
   
5.2   Vacancies in office
   
5.3   Removals from office
   
5.4   Resignations
   
5.5   Filling vacancies in appointive offices
   
5.6   Filling vacancies in elective offices
   
5.7   Change in term of office or compensation
   
5.8   Oath of office and bond
   
5.9   Surety bonds
   
5.10   Delivery of office
   
5.11   Pecuniary interest prohibited
   
5.12   Compensation of officers and employees
   
5.13   Employee welfare benefits
   
5.14   Anti-nepotism
Chapter 6 Plan of City Government and Officers Thereof
   
6.1   Plan of government
   
6.2   Election of council, mayor, municipal judges and constables
   
6.3   First council and mayor
   
6.4   Election of mayor pro tempore
   
6.5   Duties of mayor of the city
   
6.6   Compensation of elective officers
   
6.7   Administrative service
   
6.8   City manager; appointment and qualifications
   
6.9   City manager; functions and duties
   
6.10   Acting city manager
   
6.11   Attorney; functions and duties
   
6.12   City clerk; functions and duties
   
6.13   City treasurer; functions and duties
Chapter 7 The Council: Procedure and Miscellaneous Powers and Duties
   
7.1   Regular meetings
   
7.2   Special meetings
   
7.3   Business at special meetings
   
7.4   Meetings open to the public
   
7.5   Quorum
   
7.6   Rules of the council
   
7.7   Investigations
   
7.8   Health and safety
   
7.9   Publication of council proceedings
Chapter 8 Legislation
   
8.1   Prior city legislation
   
8.2   Ordinances and resolutions
   
8.3   Enactment, amendment, repeal and effective date of ordinances
   
8.4   Recording of ordinances
   
8.5   Penalties for violations of ordinances
   
8.6   Special requirements for certain council actions
   
8.7   Enactment of codes by reference
   
8.8   Severability of ordinances
   
8.9   Initiative and referendum
   
8.10   Initiatory and referendary petitions
   
8.11   Council procedure on initiatory and referendary petitions
   
8.12   Submission of initiatory and referendary ordinances to electors
   
8.13   Ordinance suspended; miscellaneous provisions
Chapter 9 General Finance - Budget, Audit
   
9.1   Fiscal year
   
9.2   Budget procedure
   
9.3   Budget document
   
9.4   Budget hearings
   
9.5   Adoption of budget
   
9.6   Transfer of appropriations
   
9.7   Budget control
   
9.8   Depository
   
9.9   Independent audit
Chapter 10 General Taxation
   
10.1   Power to tax; tax limit
   
10.2   Subjects of taxation
   
10.3   Exemptions
   
10.4   Tax day
   
10.5   Personal property jeopardy assessment
   
10.6   Preparation of the assessment roll
   
10.7   Board of review
   
10.8   Duties and functions of the board of review
   
10.9   Meetings of the board of review
   
10.10   Notice of meetings
   
10.11   Endorsement of roll
   
10.12   Clerk to certify tax levy
   
10.13   City tax roll
   
10.14   Tax roll certified for collection
   
10.15   Tax lien on property
   
10.16   Taxes due; notification
   
10.17   Collection fees and interest
   
10.18   State, county and school taxes
   
10.19   Protection of city lien
   
10.20   Disposition of real property held by city
   
10.21   Collection of delinquent taxes
Chapter 11 General Finance - Borrowing Power
   
11.1   General borrowing
   
11.2   Special assessing bonds
   
11.3   Other bonds
   
11.4   Preparation and record
   
11.5   Unissued bonds
   
11.6   Limitation on indebtedness
Chapter 12 Special Assessments
   
12.1   Hazards and nuisances
   
12.2   Sidewalks
   
12.3   Boulevard lighting
   
12.4   General power relative to special assessment
   
12.5   Procedure to be fixed by ordinance
   
12.6   Objection to improvement
   
12.7   Installment payments of assessments
   
12.8   Additional assessments
   
12.9   Refunds of assessments
   
12.10   Special assessment accounts
   
12.11   Contested assessments
   
12.12   Reassessments for benefits
   
12.13   Delinquent special assessments
   
12.14   Lien not destroyed by judgment
Chapter 13 Purchase, Sale and Lease of Property
   
13.1   Purchasing procedure; ordinance required
Chapter 14 Municipal Utilities
   
14.1   Public utility powers
   
14.2   Management of public utilities
   
14.3   Rates
   
14.4   Utility rates and charges; collection
   
14.5   Disposal of utility plants and property
   
14.6   Utility finances
Chapter 15 Privately Owned Utilities
   
15.1   Franchise required
   
15.2   Regulatory powers
   
15.3   Permit revocable
   
15.4   Franchise elections
   
15.5   Franchise term
   
15.6   Further regulatory powers
   
15.7   Franchise conveyed by ordinance
   
15.8   Ordinance regulation
   
15.9   Repeal and termination of franchise; acquisition of utility property
   
15.10   Franchise of ordinance requirements
Chapter 16 Supervisors
   
16.1   Number of supervisors
   
16.2   Selection of supervisors
   
16.3   Duties of supervisors
   
16.4   Compensation of supervisors
Chapter 17 Judiciary
   
17.1   Creation of municipal court
   
17.2   Elections of judges and term
   
17.3   Qualifications
   
17.4   Jurisdiction
   
17.5   Act granting authority
   
17.6   Causes may be transferred
   
17.7   Ordinance cases to be heard
   
17.8   Right of appeal
   
17.9   Dockets
   
17.10   Salary and time of conducting court and court procedure
   
17.11   Fees, general law applicable
   
17.12   Disposition of fees, costs and fines
   
17.13   Judges bonds
   
17.14   Court clerk and deputies
   
17.15   Court officer
   
17.16   Jury trials
   
17.17   Place of court and furnishings
   
17.18   Probation
   
17.19   Words `justice' and `judge' synonymous
   
17.20   Pending causes saved
   
17.21   Violations bureau
   
17.22   Constables
   
17.23   Education and rehabilitation commission
   
17.24   Terms of court
Chapter 18 Policemen and Firemen Retirement System of the City
   
18.1   Name and establishment
   
18.2   Definitions
   
18.3   Normal retirement
   
18.4   Disability retirement
   
18.5   Eligibility for death benefits
   
18.6   Benefit amounts
   
18.7   Proof of continued disability
   
18.8   Partial disability
   
18.9   Dependent's benefits
   
18.10   Deductions
   
18.11   Termination of service
   
18.12   Effecting and terminating retirements
   
18.13   Applications for pensions
   
18.14   Fireman's and policeman's pension list
   
18.15   Fireman's and policeman's pension fund
   
18.16   Board of trustees
   
18.17   Corporate trustee or agent
   
18.18   Non-alienation or benefits
   
18.19   Monthly list; examination, order for payment
   
18.20   Applicants for pensions, examination under oath
   
18.21   Time of pension payments
   
18.22   Construction of chapter
   
18.23   Pensions represent contractual obligations
   
18.24   Village retirement system, transfer of funds
   
18.25   Integration with Federal Social Security
Chapter 19 Civil Service System
   
19.1   Civil service ordinance
Chapter 20 Schedule
   
20.1   Submission of chapter
   
20.2   Effective date
   Resolution of adoption
   Resolution and Certification of Election
ADOPTED OCTOBER 5, 1964
PREAMBLE
   We the people of the City of Inkster, by the grace of Almighty God, and
pursuant to authority granted by the Constitution and the laws of the United
States and the State of Michigan, in order to secure the benefits of local
self-government, and otherwise to promote the common welfare of all citizens,
do hereby ordain and establish this Charter for the City of Inkster, State of
Michigan.
Chapter 1 Incorporation and Boundaries
Sec. 1.1 Incorporation.
   The municipal corporation created by the vote of the electors on the 21st
day of October, A.D. 1963 to be known as the `City of Inkster' shall be a body
corporate and politic and shall have perpetual succession.
Sec. 1.2 Boundaries.
   The territory within the boundaries of the said City of Inkster shall be as
follows:
   All the tract of land situated in the Townships of Dearborn and Nankin,
County of Wayne, State of Michigan, known and described as follows, viz:
   All of Sections 24 and 25, E. 1/2 of Sections 23 and 26, N. 1/2 of Sec. 36
and N. E. 1/4 of Sec. 35, T. 2 S., R. 9 E. of Nankin Township, Wayne County,
Michigan, and all of Sections 19 and 30, and the N. 1/2 of Sec. 31, T. 2 S., R.
10 E. of Dearborn Township, Wayne County, Michigan, described as beginning at
the N 1/4 corner of Sec. 23 Nankin Township, said corner being the intersection
of the center lines of Henry Ruff and Cherry Hill Roads, so-called: proceeding
thence east along center line of Cherry Hill Rd., being also the north line of
Sections 23 and 24 of Nankin Township and Section 19 of Dearborn Township, to
the N. E. corner of said Sec. 19, said corner being the intersection of the
center lines of Cherry Hill Rd. and Beech-Daly Rd., so-called; thence south
along the said center line of Beech-Daly Rd., being also the east line of
Sections 19, 30 and 31, Dearborn Township, to the E. 1/4 corner of said Sec.
31, said corner being the intersection of the center lines of Beech-Daly Rd.
and Annapolis Ave., so-called; thence west along said center line of Annapolis
Ave., being also the E. & W. 1/4 lines of Sec. 31 of Dearborn Township and
Sections 36 and 35 of Nankin Township, to the center 1/4 corner of said Sec.
35, said corner being the intersection of the center lines of Annapolis Ave.
and said Henry Ruff Rd.; thence north along said center line of Henry Ruff Rd.,
being also the N. & S. 1/4 lines of Sections 35, 26 and 23, Nankin Township, to
the point of beginning.
Chapter 2 Definitions and General Provisions
Sec. 2.1 Records to be public.
   All records of the city shall be public unless otherwise provided by law,
shall be kept in city offices, except when required for official reasons or for
purposes of safekeeping to be elsewhere, and shall be available for inspection
at all reasonable times.
Sec. 2.2 Definitions and interpretations.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context of
this charter:
   (a)   The word `city' shall mean the City of Inkster;
   (b)   The word `council' shall mean the City Council of the City of Inkster;
   (c)   The word `law' shall denote applicable federal law, the Constitution
and statutes of Michigan, the applicable common law, and this charter;
   (d)   The word `officer' shall include, but shall not be limited to, the
mayor, the members of the council, and, as hereinafter provided, the
administrative officers, deputy administrative officers, and members of city
boards created by or pursuant to this charter: Provided, that city
representatives on the board of supervisors of Wayne County shall not be
officers of the city within the meaning of this charter, by virtue of being
such representatives;
   (e)   The word `person' may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships and associations, as well as to individuals;
   (f)   The words `printed' and `printing' shall include printing, engraving,
stencil duplicating, lithographing, typewriting, photostating, or any similar
method;
   (g)   The words `public utility' shall include all common carriers in the
public streets; water, sewage, electric light, gas, electric power, telephone
and telegraph lines, and systems, wharves and docks, garbage collection,
garbage disposal and reduction plants, and such other and different enterprises
as the council may from time to time determine or designate;
   (h)   Except in reference to signatures, the words `written' and `in
writing' shall include hand written script, printing, typewriting, and teletype
and telegraphic communications;
   (i)   All words indicating the present tense shall not be limited to the
time of the adoption of this charter, but shall extend to and include the time
of the happening of any event or requirement to which the provision is applied;
   (j)   The singular shall include the plural, the plural shall include the
singular, and the masculine gender shall extend to and include the feminine
gender and the neuter.
Sec. 2.3 Publication of notices.
   (a)   The requirement contained in this charter for the publishing or
publication of notices or ordinances shall be met by publishing an appropriate
insertion in a newspaper published in the English language for the
dissemination of news of a general character which newspaper shall have had a
general circulation at regular intervals in the city for at least two years
immediately preceding the time that it is used for such publication purposes.
The affidavit of the printer or publisher of such newspaper, or of his foreman
or principal clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice, ordinance, or
proceeding taken from the paper in which it was published and specifying the
times of publication shall be evidence of such publication.
   (b)   When any provision of this charter requires the mailing of notices,
the affidavit of the officer or employee, responsible for such mailing, that
such notice was mailed by him shall be evidence of such mailing.
Sec. 2.4 Official performance.
   Whenever this charter requires the performance of an act by an officer, the
act may be performed by a deputy or by a subordinate, under the officer's
direction, unless otherwise provided by law.
Sec. 2.5 Public records as evidence.
   All papers, books, or other records of any matter required to be kept by any
of the several departments of the municipal government, either by law or by the
provisions of any ordinance, shall be deemed public records of such department,
and they, or copies, duly certified by the custodian thereof, shall be prima
facie evidence of their contents in all suits at law or in equity, or in other
proceedings.
Sec. 2.6 Quorum.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this charter, or by general law, a
quorum of any board created by or under authority of this charter shall consist
of a majority of the number of its members as established by this charter or by
the ordinance creating such commission or board. The concurring vote of a
majority of such established number of members of each board shall be necessary
for official action by it.
Sec. 2.7 Sundays and holidays.
   Except as otherwise expressly provided in this charter, whenever the date
fixed by law or ordinance for the doing or completion of any act falls on a
Sunday or legal holiday, such act shall be done or completed on the next
succeeding day, which is not a Sunday or legal holiday.
Sec. 2.8 Penalties for violations of charter.
   Any person found guilty of any violation of this charter may be punished by
a fine which, in addition to court costs charged to him, shall not exceed five
hundred dollars or imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both such fine
and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court. This section shall not
operate to limit or prejudice the power to remove officers or discharge
employees as provided in this charter.
Sec. 2.9 Chapter and section headings.
   The chapter and section headings used in this charter are for convenience
only, and shall not be considered as part of this charter.
Sec. 2.10 Amendments.
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided by law.
Should two or more amendments adopted at the same election have conflicting
provisions, the amendment receiving the largest affirmative vote shall prevail
as to those provisions.
Sec. 2.11 Severability of charter provisions.
   If any provision, section, or clause of this charter, or the application
thereof to any person or circumstance, is held invalid, such invalidity shall
not affect any remaining portion or application of the charter, which can be
given effect without the invalid portion or application, and, to this end, this
charter is declared to be severable.
Sec. 2.12 No estoppel.
   No estoppel may be created against the city by any statement of any officer
of the city, either verbally or in writing, or by any act on the part of the
council or any officer, board, or commission.
Sec. 2.13 Vested rights.
   At the time this charter shall become effective, the city shall be vested
with all the real and personal property, moneys, contracts, rights, credits,
effects, records, files, books, papers and all other property of every name and
nature, belonging to the Village of Inkster. No right or liability, either in
favor of or against said Village, existing at the time this charter shall
become effective, and no suit, prosecution or legal proceeding of any kind,
shall be affected in any manner by the incorporation of the Village as a City,
but the same shall stand or proceed as if no change had been made. All debts
and liabilities of said Village shall be the debts and liabilities of the city.
All taxes and special assessments levied and uncollected at the time of the
change from the village to the city form of government, all taxes and special
assessments in the process of levy at the time of change from village to city
government, and all fines and penalties imposed prior thereto, shall be
collected or levied and collected by the city. All licenses, permits and
franchises granted by said Village, in force when this charter takes effect,
shall remain in full force and effect until the expiration of the time for
which they were respectively granted.
Sec. 2.14 System of accounts.
   Any system of accounts used for the city or any department thereof, shall
conform to such uniform system as may be required by law.
Sec. 2.15 City liability.
   The city shall not be liable for damages sustained by any person either to
his person or property by reason of the negligence of the city, its officers or
employees, nor by reason of any defective condition or of obstruction in any
public place unless such person shall serve or cause to be served upon the
clerk, within sixty days after the injury resulting in such damage shall have
occurred, a notice in writing, which notice shall set forth in detail the time,
place and cause of the injury, the manner in which it occurred, the extent of
such damages as far as the same have become known, the names and addresses of
the witnesses known at the time by the claimant and a statement that the person
sustaining such damages intends to hold the city liable for such damages as may
have been sustained by him. All claims, whether arising out of contract or
tort, shall be made under oath and shall be filed with the clerk for
consideration by the council after the cause of action has arisen.
   It shall be a sufficient bar to any action upon any such claim that the
notice of injury and the verified proof of claim required by this section were
not filed within the time and in the manner herein provided.
Chapter 3 Municipal Powers
Sec. 3.1 General powers.
   Unless otherwise provided or limited in this charter, the city and its
officers shall be vested with any and all powers, privileges and immunities,
expressed and implied, which cities and their officers are, or hereafter may
be, permitted to exercise or to provide in their charters under the
Constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, including all powers,
privileges and immunities which cities are, or may be, permitted to provide in
their charters by Act No. 279 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended, as fully
and completely as though those powers, privileges and immunities were
specifically enumerated in and provided for in this charter, and in no case
shall any enumeration of particular powers, privileges or immunities in this
charter be held to be exclusive.
Sec. 3.2 Additional powers.
   The city may sue and be sued in its corporate name; may plead or be
impleaded in all courts of law or in equity and in all actions whatsoever; may
contract and be contracted with; may acquire by condemnation, purchase, lease,
construction, gift, or otherwise, any property, real, personal and mixed, and
hold, lease, use and dispose of the same, whether the same may lie within or
without its boundaries. In any emergency when the necessities of life may not
be obtained or essential services performed necessary to the health or welfare
of the people, the city may take charge of, and supply such necessities or
services, but shall not do such acts for gain or profit.
Sec. 3.3 Further powers.
   In addition to the powers provided above, the city shall have power and may:
   (a)   Provide for the use, regulation, improvement and control of the
surface of its streets, alleys and public ways, and of the space above and
beneath them.
   (b)   Provide for the use, by other than the owner, of property located in
streets, alleys and public places, in the operation of a public utility, upon
payment of a reasonable compensation to the owners thereof.
   (c)   Provide for a plan of streets and alleys within and for a distance of
not more than three miles beyond its limits.
   (d)   Acquire by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction or
otherwise, either singly or in conjunction with other governmental bodies,
either within or without its corporate limits and either within or without the
corporate limits of the County of Wayne, the following improvements, including
the necessary lands therefor, viz: city hall, police stations, fire stations,
boulevards, streets, alleys, public parks, recreation grounds, municipal camps,
public grounds, zoological gardens, museums, libraries, airports, cemeteries,
public wharves and landings upon navigable waters, levees and embankments,
watch houses, city prisons and work houses, penal farms, institutions,
hospitals, quarantine grounds, electric light and power plants and systems, gas
plants and systems, waterworks plants and systems, sewage disposal plants and
systems, garbage disposal plants, rubbish disposal plants, market houses and
market places, office buildings for city officers and employees, public works
and public buildings of all kinds; and for the costs and expenses thereof.
   (e)   Acquire by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease or otherwise, private
property, either within or without the corporate limits of the County of Wayne,
for any public use or purpose within the scope of its powers, whether herein
specifically mentioned or not. If condemnation proceedings are resorted to for
the acquisition of private property, such proceedings may be brought under the
provisions of Act 149 of the Public Acts of 1911, as heretofore or hereafter
amended, or under such other provisions as shall be made by law.
   (f)   Maintain, develop and operate its property and upon discontinuance
thereof to lease, sell or dispose of the same subject to restrictions placed
thereupon by law; provided, that on the sale of any capital asset of a
municipally owned utility the money received shall be used in procuring a
similar capital asset, or placed in the sinking fund to retire bonds issued for
said utility.
   (g)   Acquire by construction, condemnation, or purchase and own, equip,
possess, lease, operate and maintain transportation facilities including a
rapid transit system consisting of a tunnel, subway, surface or elevated system
or any combination or qualification of these, in and through said city, and for
a distance of not more than ten miles beyond its limits, for the purpose of
furnishing transportation facilities to the city and to the people hereof; the
city may provide by ordinance or resolution for the preparation and publication
of plans for such construction, equipment and maintenance; for the operation of
such facilities independently or in connection with other transportation
facilities, or transportation system, owned, operated, or controlled by the
city or existing therein, or in the territory in which any such rapid transit
system is established; for the appropriate designation of such facility; for
the taking of the fee of or easement or right of way on, under, above and
through any property for the purposes thereof; by gift, grant or purchase, and
by condemnation proceedings in accordance with any law of the State of Michigan
providing therefor; and for the management of such facilities, for the purposes
for which the same is or may be acquired or constructed and for the execution
of contracts incidental to the carrying out of the purposes hereby
contemplated, subject to the general laws of the state.
   (h)   Negotiate, execute and perform contracts with any other municipality
or municipalities, duly authorized and empowered to that end, with reference to
the construction, equipment, operation, maintenance and management of a rapid
transit system and facilities, and finance any obligations assumed under or
imposed by any such contract.
   (i)   Provide for the use, control and regulation of streams, waters and
water courses within its boundaries, subject to any limitation imposed by law.
   (j)   Secure by condemnation, by agreement or purchase, or by any other
means, an easement on property abutting or adjacent to any navigable stream,
for the purpose of securing the privilege and right to construct, own and
maintain along or adjacent to any navigable stream an elevated structure of one
or more levels for the use as vehicular or pedestrian passageway or for any
other municipal purpose.
   (k)   Acquire, establish, operate, extend and maintain facilities for the
storage and parking of vehicles within its corporate limits, including the
fixing and collection of charges for services and use thereof on a public
utility basis, and for such purposes to acquire by gift, purchase, condemnation
or otherwise the land necessary therefor.
   (l)   Acquire, construct, establish, operate, extend and maintain facilities
for the docking of pleasure water craft within its corporate limits, including
the fixing and collection of charges for use thereof, and for such purposes to
acquire by gift, purchase, condemnation or otherwise the land necessary
therefor.
   (m)   Regulate and restrict the locations of oil and gasoline stations.
   (n)   Establish districts or zones within which the use of land and
structures, the height, the area, the size and location of buildings and
required open spaces for light and ventilation of such buildings, and the
density of population therein may be regulated. Such regulations in one or more
districts may differ from those in other districts.
   (o)   Regulate trades, occupations and amusements within its boundaries, not
inconsistent with state and federal laws, and prohibit such trades, occupations
and amusements as are detrimental to the health, morals or welfare of its
inhabitants.
   (p)   License, regulate, restrict and limit the number and location of bill
boards within the city.
   (q)   Enact and enforce all such local, police, sanitary and other
regulations for the public peace and health and for the safety of persons and
property as are not in conflict with the general laws.
   (r)   Establish any department that the council shall deem necessary for the
general welfare of the city and provide for the separate incorporation thereof,
subject to general law.
   (s)   The city and its officers shall have power to exercise all municipal
powers in the management and control of municipal property and in the
administration of municipal government, whether such powers be expressly
enumerated or not; to do any act to advance the interest of the city, the good
government and prosperity of the municipality and its inhabitants, and through
its regularly constituted authority, to pass and enforce all laws, ordinances,
and resolutions relating to its municipal concerns, subject to the Constitution
and general laws of the state and the provisions of this charter.
Chapter 4 Elections
Sec. 4.1 Qualifications of electors.
   The residents of the City of Inkster having the qualifications of electors
in the State of Michigan shall be electors of the city.
Sec. 4.2 Election procedure.
   The election of all city officers shall be on a non-partisan basis. The
general election statutes shall apply to and control, as near as may be, all
procedures relating to registration and city elections except as such statutes
relate to political parties or partisan procedures, or except as otherwise
provided in this charter.
Sec. 4.3 Wards and precincts.
   The City of Inkster shall consist of six wards, hereinafter referred to as
districts. Convenient election precincts shall be established by the city
council as required and provided by law.
   District No. 1 shall be bounded on the north by the centerline of Michigan
Avenue, the east by the centerline of Harrison, the south by Annapolis and the
west by Henry Ruff.
   District No. 2 shall be bounded on the north by Cherry Hill, the east by the
centerline of Eastern, the south by the centerline of Michigan Avenue and the
west by Henry Ruff.
   District No. 3 shall be bounded on the north by the centerline of Michigan
Avenue, the east by the centerline of Princess, the south by Annapolis, and the
west by the centerline of Harrison.
   District No. 4 shall be bounded on the north by Cherry Hill, the east by
Beech Daly, the south by the centerline of Avondale, and the west by the
centerline of Eastern.
   District No. 5 shall be bounded on the north by the centerline of Michigan
Avenue, the east by Beech-Daly, the south by Annapolis, and the west by the
centerline of Princess.
   District No. 6 shall be bounded on the north by the centerline of Avondale,
the east by Beech-Daly, the south by the centerline of Michigan Avenue and the
west by the centerline of Eastern.
Sec. 4.4 Election dates.
   (a)   A regular city election shall be held in the several voting precincts
of the city at such place therein as shall be designated by the council on the
3rd Monday in May 1966 and every fourth year thereafter.
   (b)   A non-partisan city primary election shall be held on the 1st Monday
in April, 1966, and every four years thereafter, if nominating petitions for
candidates eligible to be placed on the ballot to a number greater than twice
the number of positions to be filled in any elective office shall have been
filed with the clerk as provided in this charter.
Sec. 4.5 Election registration.
   The general election laws of the state shall apply to and control all
procedures relating to registration and cite elections except as herein
otherwise specifically provided.
Sec. 4.6 Election commission.
   An election commission is hereby created consisting of the city council. The
councilman receiving the highest number of votes at the last preceding election
shall be the chairman. The commission shall have charge of all activities and
duties required of it by state law and this charter relating to the conduct of
elections in the city. The compensation of election personnel shall be
determined in advance by the council. In any case where election procedure is
in doubt, the election commission shall prescribe the procedure to be followed.
Sec. 4.7 Special elections.
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
council at least sixty days in advance of such election, or when required by
this charter or the general laws of the state. Any resolution calling a special
election shall set forth the purpose of such election. No more than two special
city elections shall be held in any one calendar year.
Sec. 4.8 Notice of elections.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any election and of the officers to
be elected and the questions to be voted upon, shall be given by the clerk as
required by general election law.
Sec. 4.9 Voting hours.
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by law for the opening and closing of polls at state elections.
Sec. 4.10 Nominations.
   The method of nomination of all officers provided for in the charter who are
elected by the electors of the city shall be by petition. Such petition shall
be signed by not less than 50 nor more than 100 qualified registered electors
of the city. In the case of candidates for councilman, the petitioners shall
reside in the district for which the nomination is made. No person shall sign
his name to a greater number of petitions for any one office than there are
persons to be elected to said office at the following regular city elections.
If the signature of any person appears on more petitions than permitted by this
section, such signature shall not be counted on any one of the petitions so
signed for that office. The signatures shall be executed according to state
law. Each signer shall indicate next to his signature the date of his signing,
and the place of his residence, giving the street and number or other
description sufficient to identify it.
   Nominating petitions shall be filed with the clerk at least thirty days
prior to the date of holding the primary election. On the last date to file, no
petition shall be accepted at an hour later than 5:00 p.m. The clerk shall
publish notice of the last day and time permitted for filing nominating
petitions, at least one week before, and not more than three weeks before that
date.
Sec. 4.11 Form of petition.
   The form of petition shall be substantially as that required by state law
for state and county officers, except for references to political parties.
Official petition forms shall be prepared and furnished by the clerk. Before
the clerk shall furnish any nomination petitions to any person, he shall enter
thereon in ink the name of the person desiring to become a candidate for
office, or the person in whose behalf the petition is to be circulated and the
name of the office for which he is to be a candidate.
Sec. 4.12 Withdrawal of petition.
   A candidate may withdraw in the manner provided in the general election laws
of the state.
Sec. 4.13 Approval of petition.
   The clerk shall accept for filing nominating petitions on official blanks
containing the required number of signatures for candidates having those
qualifications required for elective city officials by this charter. When
petitions are filed by persons other than the person whose name appears thereon
as a candidate, they may be accepted for filing only when accompanied by the
written consent of the person in whose behalf the petition or petitions were
circulated. The clerk shall, forthwith after the filing of a petition,
determine the sufficiency of the signature on each petition filed, and if he
finds that any petition does not contain the required number of legal
signatures of registered electors, he shall immediately notify the candidate in
writing of the insufficiency of his petition. Each petition which is found by
the clerk to contain the required number of signatures of registered electors
for candidates shall be marked `In Order', with the date thereof, and he shall
so notify the candidate whose name appears thereon, in writing.
Sec. 4.14 Public inspection of petitions.
   All nominating petitions shall be open to public inspection in the office of
the clerk beginning five days after the final filing date for such petitions.
Sec. 4.15 Form of ballots.
   The form of the ballot used in any city primary or election shall conform as
nearly as may be to that prescribed by the general laws of the state, except
that no party designation or emblem shall appear upon any city ballot. The
names of qualified candidates or nominees for each office shall be listed in a
single column and shall be rotated systematically on the ballots. In all other
respects the printing and numbering of ballots shall conform to the general
laws of the state relating to elections.
Sec. 4.16 Canvass of votes.
   A board of canvassers as provided by state law shall be appointed by the
city council. The board of canvassers shall convene on the second day
succeeding each primary, regular or special election at the hour of 8:00 p. m.
at the office of the city clerk in the city hall, and shall canvass the returns
filed with the clerk and shall determine the results thereof. The board of
canvassers, after determination of the results of such election[,] shall
certify this determination with the city clerk.
Sec. 4.17 Recount.
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office or upon any
proposition may be had in accordance with the general election laws of the
state.
Sec. 4.18 Recall.
   Any elected official may be removed from office by the electors of the city
in a manner provided by the general laws of the state. A vacancy created by the
recall of any elected official shall be filled in the manner prescribed by law.
Sec. 4.19 Election by lot, in case of tie vote.
   If there be no choice for any office by reason of two or more candidates
having received an equal number of votes, the election commission shall name a
date for the appearance of such persons for the purpose of breaking the tie by
lot, as provided by law. Should any person or persons fail or refuse to appear,
in person or by representative, to determine the result of any tie election at
the time and place named by the election commission, such determination shall
be made by lot in his or their absence, at the direction and under the
supervision of the election commission. Such determination shall in any event,
be final, and the time allowed for recount shall not commence to run until such
determinations shall be made.
Sec. 4.20 General election laws.
   The general election laws of the state, when applicable, shall apply to all
primary, general and special elections in the city; provided however, that when
there is a conflict between such general laws and this charter as to any matter
which may be lawfully regulated by charter, then the provisions of this charter
shall control.
Chapter 5 General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel of the City
Sec. 5.1 Eligibility for office and employment in city.
   (a)   No person shall hold any elective office of the city unless he is and
has been a resident and a property owner of the city for at least two years
immediately prior to, and was a registered elector on, the last day for filing
petitions for such office, or at the time of his appointment to fill a vacancy.
   (b)   The municipal judge or judges shall, in addition, have the
qualifications for that office hereinafter set forth.
   (c)   The holding of office by any person who is in default to the city
shall create a vacancy unless such default shall be eliminated within 30 days
after the officer in default has received written notice thereof from the clerk
upon the direction of the council, or, unless the officer in good faith
contests his liability for the default in a court or tribunal of competent
jurisdiction.
   (d)   Each member of a city board or commission created by, or pursuant to,
this charter shall have been a resident of the city for at least two years
immediately prior to the day of his appointment and shall be a qualified and
registered elector of the city on such day and throughout his tenure of office.
   (e)   The council may, by ordinance, require residence in the City of
Inkster as a condition of employment of full-time appointive officers.
Sec. 5.2 Vacancies in office.
   Any city office shall be declared vacant by the council upon the occurrence
of any of the following events before the expiration of the term of such
office:
   (a)   For any reason specified by law as creating a vacancy in office;
   (b)   If the officer ceases to be a registered elector of the city;
   (c)   If no person is elected to, or qualifies for, the office at the
election at which such office is to be filled;
   (d)   If the officer shall be found guilty by a court of competent
jurisdiction of any act constituting a violation of the provisions of this
charter;
   (e)   If the officer shall absent himself continuously from the city for
more than 60 consecutive days in any one calendar year without the permission
of the council;
   (f)   If the officer is removed from office by the council in accordance
with the provisions of Section 5.3.
Sec. 5.3 Removals from office.
   Removals by the council of elective officers or of members of boards or
commissions shall be made
for either of the following reasons:
   (a)   For any reason specified by law for removal of city officers by the
governor;
   (b)   Members of boards or commissions may be removed for just cause at the
discretion of the council. Such removal of such member of a board or commission
shall only be made after due notice to the member affected has been given.
Action taken by the council shall be at a regularly scheduled meeting.
Sec. 5.4 Resignations.
   (a)   Resignations of elective officers and of members of boards and
commissions shall be made in writing and filed with the clerk and shall be
acted upon by the council at its next regular meeting following receipt thereof
by the clerk.
   (b)   Resignations of appointive officers shall be made in writing to the
appointing officer or body and shall be acted upon immediately.
Sec. 5.5 Filling vacancies in appointive offices.
   Vacancies in appointive offices shall be filled in the manner provided for
making the original appointment. In the case of members of boards and
commissions appointed for a definite term, such appointments shall be for the
unexpired term.
Sec. 5.6 Filling vacancies in elective offices.
   (a)   Any vacancy which occurs in the office of mayor or in the council
shall be filled within thirty days by a majority vote of the remaining members
of the council. Said vacancy shall be filled for the balance of the unexpired
term.
   (b)   Any vacancy which occurs in the office of municipal judge shall be
filled within thirty days by a majority vote of the council. Said appointment
shall be filled for the balance of the unexpired term.
   (c)   If any vacancy in the office of mayor, councilman, or municipal judge
is not filled by the council as required by subsection (a) or (b), or if the
number of vacancies existing in the council is such as to reduce the membership
below a quorum, the clerk shall, forthwith, call a special city election for
the purpose of filling such vacancy or vacancies for the balance of the term or
terms thereof. Such election shall be held not less than forty-five days nor
more than sixty days after the date of the call thereof by the clerk. Each such
election shall be governed by the provisions of this charter, except that no
primary election shall be held in connection therewith and the last day and
time for filing nominating petitions in connection therewith shall be at 5:00
p.m. on the 30th day before the date of such election. The qualified person or
persons receiving the highest number of votes cast at such election shall be
deemed to have been elected to fill the vacancy or vacancies, as the case may
be, to be filled at such election and, upon canvass of the votes cast at such
election, shall be certified as such, subject to the provisions of law.
   (d)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the filling of
vacancies resulting from recall.
Sec. 5.7 Change in term of office or compensation.
   Except by procedures provided in this charter, the terms of office of the
elective officers and of members of boards and commissions appointed for
definite terms shall not be shortened. The terms of elective officers of the
city shall not extend beyond the period for which any such officer was elected,
except that an elective officer shall, after his term has expired, continue to
hold office until his successor is elected and has qualified. The council shall
not grant or authorize extra compensation to any officer or employee after the
service has been rendered. The salary of any elective officer shall not be
increased or decreased from the time of his election or appointment until the
end of his term of office for which he was elected or appointed.
Sec. 5.8 Oath of office and bond.
   Every officer, elected or appointed, before entering upon the duties of his
office, shall take the constitutional oath of office and shall file the same
with the clerk, together with any bond required by law or by the council. In
the case of failure to comply with the provisions of this section within ten
days from the date of his election or appointment, such officer shall be deemed
to have declined the office and such office shall thereupon be vacant, unless
the council shall, by resolution, extend the time in which such officer may
qualify as above set forth.
Sec. 5.9 Surety bonds.
   (a)   The council may require any officer or employee to give a bond, to be
approved by the city attorney, in such sum as the council determines. The bond
shall be conditioned upon the faithful and proper performance of the duties of
the office or employment concerned. All officers and employees who receive,
distribute, or are responsible for city funds or investments shall be bonded.
The resignation, removal, or discharge of any officer or employee, or the
appointment of another person to the office or employment, shall not exonerate
the officer or employee or his sureties from any liability incurred by them.
   (b)   All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums
thereof shall be paid by the city. No official bonds shall be issued for a term
exceeding three years, except bonds which are required of officers serving
terms of office which are longer than three years. No bond shall be renewed
upon its expiration but a new bond shall be furnished in each case.
   (c)   The bonds of all officers and employees shall be filed with the clerk,
except that the clerk's bond, unless he is covered within the scope of a
blanket surety bond, shall be filed with the treasurer.
   (d)   The requirements of this section may be met by the purchase by the
city of one or more blanket corporate surety bonds covering all or any group or
groups of the officers and employees of the city. Any officer or employee who
is covered by a blanket surety bond need not be bonded individually for the
purpose of qualifying for office.
Sec. 5.10 Delivery of office.
   Whenever any officer or employee shall cease to hold such office or
employment for any reason whatsoever, he shall within five days, or sooner on
demand, deliver to his successor in office, or to his superior, all the books,
papers, moneys, and effects in his custody as such officer or employee. Any
officer violating this provision may be proceeded against in the same manner as
public officers generally for a like offense under statute.
Sec. 5.11 Pecuniary interest prohibited.
   No officer of the city shall have any financial interest, directly or
indirectly, (other than the common public interest) in the profits of any
contract[,] job, work, or service to be performed for the city; nor shall he
stand as surety or give any bail or sign any bail or appearance bond required
by the ordinances of the city. No officer of the city shall personally, or as
an agent, provide any bond which is subject to approval by the council. Any
officer of the city who violates the provisions of this section shall be guilty
of misconduct in office.
Sec. 5.12 Compensation of officers and employees.
   (a)   The compensation of all officers and employees of the city whose
compensation is not provided for herein shall be fixed by the appointing
officer or body within the limits of budget appropriations and in accordance
with any pay plan adopted by the council.
   (b)   Except as otherwise provided by law, the respective salaries and
compensation of officers and employees as fixed by, or pursuant to, this
charter shall be in full for all services to the city of such officers or
employees and shall be in lieu of all fees, commissions, and other compensation
receivable by such officers or employees for such services. Such fees,
commissions, and compensations shall belong to the city and shall be collected
and accounted for by such officers or employees and be paid into the city
treasury. A statement thereof shall be filed periodically with the city
manager. The provisions of this section shall not apply to fees, commissions,
or other compensation paid by the County of Wayne to any officer or employee
serving as a city representative on the board of supervisors or to the
constable.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the payment of
necessary bona fide expenses actually incurred in or for any service on behalf
of the city.
Sec. 5.13 Employee welfare benefits.
   The council shall have the power to make available to the officers and
employees of the city and of its departments and boards any recognized standard
plan of group life, hospital, health, or accident insurance.
Sec. 5.14 Anti-nepotism.
   The following relatives and their spouses (l) of any elective official or of
his spouse, or (2) of the city manager or of his spouse, are disqualified from
holding any appointive office or employment of the City of Inkster during the
term for which said elective official was elected or during the tenure of
office of the city manager, respectively: child, grandchild, parent,
grandparent, brother, sister, half-brother and half-sister. All relationships
shall include those arising from adoption. This section shall in no way
disqualify such relatives or their spouses who are bona fide appointive
officers or employees of the city at the time of the election of said elective
official or the appointment of said city manager, or in case the relationship
arises after the persons were, in each case, an officer of the city.
Chapter 6 Plan of City Government and Officers Thereof
Sec. 6.1 Plan of government.
   The government of the city shall be a council-manager form of government
elected by district on a non-partisan basis.
Sec. 6.2 Election of council, mayor, municipal judges and constables.
   (a)   Primary election. Councilmen shall be nominated, two from each
district, by the electors respectively voting separately in the city districts
as established by the charter and shall be residents of the district for which
they are nominated. Two candidates for mayor, four candidates for municipal
judges and four constables shall be nominated by the electors of the city at
large.
   (b)   Regular election. The mayor shall be elected at large and one
councilman from each district shall at the regular city election be elected at
large and each shall hold office for four years, the terms of office shall
commence on the Monday next following the date of the election, or at such
earlier date as the board of canvassers shall have met and certified the
results of the election and the new officers shall have taken their oath of
office.
Sec. 6.3 First council and mayor.
   At the election at which this charter shall be submitted there shall be
elected six councilmen and a mayor at large whose terms of office shall begin
upon taking effect of this charter. The candidate for city councilman who
receives the highest number of votes at large shall be elected councilman for
the district for which he has filed his petition. The mayor and councilmen
shall serve until the Monday following the next regular city election, or as
provided in Section 6. 2(b) above.
Sec. 6.4 Election of mayor pro tempore.
   The city council shall, at its first meeting following each regular city
election, elect one of its members to serve as mayor pro tempore for a term
expiring at the first council meeting following the next regular city election.
He shall have all powers and authority vested in the mayor in the event of the
mayor's absence or inability to act.
Sec. 6.5 Duties of mayor of the city.
   Insofar as required by law, and for all ceremonial purposes, the mayor of
the city shall be executive head of the city.
   (a)   He shall have an equal voice and vote in the proceedings of the
council, but shall have no veto power.
   (b)   He shall be a conservator of the peace, and may exercise within the
city the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder, and shall have
the power to command the assistance of all able-bodied citizens to aid in the
enforcement of the ordinances of the city, and to suppress riot and disorderly
conduct.
   (c)   He shall authenticate by his signature such instruments as the
council, this charter, or the laws of the State of Michigan or of the United
States shall require.
   (d)   He shall exercise only such powers as the state law, this charter, or
the council shall specifically confer upon, or require of, him.
   (e)   He shall be the presiding officer of the council.
Sec. 6.6 Compensation of elective officers.
   The mayor shall receive as remuneration for his services to the city one
hundred fifty dollars per month and each councilman shall receive one hundred
twenty-five [dollars] per month; provided that the mayor and councilmen may be
reimbursed for expenses incurred in connection with city business. Provided
further that such expenses shall be approved by resolution of the council, upon
which resolution the person whose account is being considered shall not vote.
Sec. 6.7 Administrative service.
   (a)   The administrative officers of the city shall be the city manager,
city attorney, clerk, treasurer, assessor, police chief, fire chief, and such
additional administrative officers as may be created by ordinance. The council
may[,] by ordinance, create additional administrative officers and may, by
ordinance, combine any administrative offices in any manner it deems necessary
or advisable for the proper and efficient operation of the city; but the
council may not diminish the duties or responsibilities of the office of city
manager. The city manager, city clerk and city attorney shall be appointed by
the council for an indefinite period, shall be responsible to and serve at the
pleasure of the council and shall have their compensation fixed by the council.
   (b)   All other administrative officers of the city, except the city
manager, city clerk and city attorney, shall be appointed by the city manager
for indefinite terms of office. Such officers shall be responsible to the city
manager and shall serve at his pleasure. Their compensation shall be fixed by
the city manager in accordance with budget appropriations and subject to
approval by the council.
   (c)   Except as may be otherwise required by law, the council shall
establish[,] by ordinance, such departments of the city as it deems necessary
or advisable and shall prescribe therein the functions of each department. The
city manager shall prescribe such duties and responsibilities of the officers
of those departments responsible to him which are not inconsistent with this
charter or with any ordinance or resolution adopted concerning such duties and
authorities under authority of this charter.
   (d)   All personnel employed by the city who are not elected officers of the
city or declared to be administrative officers under this charter, shall be
deemed to be employees of the city. The head of each department shall have the
power to hire and discharge the employees of his department under provisions of
the civil service system provided by, and under authority of the provisions of,
Chapter 19 of this charter.
Sec. 6.8 City manager; appointment and qualifications.
   The council shall appoint a city manager within ninety days after any
vacancy exists in such position. The city manager shall hold office at the
pleasure of a majority of the council. He shall be selected solely on the basis
of his executive and administrative qualifications with special reference to
his training and experience. At the time of his appointment, he need not be a
resident of the city or state, but during tenure of office he shall reside
within the city.
Sec. 6.9 City manager; functions and duties.
   The city manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city
government. His functions and duties shall be:
   (a)   To be responsible to the council for the efficient administration of
all administrative departments of the city government, except the department
under the direction of the attorney and clerk;
   (b)   To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (c)   To give to the proper department or officials ample notice of the
expiration or termination of any franchises, contracts, or agreements;
   (d)   To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city or
its inhabitants in any public utility franchise, or in any contract, are
faithfully kept and performed;
   (e)   To recommend an annual budget to the council and to administer the
budget as finally adopted, under policies formulated by the council, and to
keep the council fully advised at all times as to the financial conditions and
needs of the city;
   (f)   To attend council meetings with the right to take part in discussions
but not to vote, and to recommend to the council for adoption such measures as
he may deem necessary or expedient;
   (g)   To exercise and perform all administrative functions of the city that
are not imposed by this charter upon some other official;
   (h)   To be responsible for the maintenance of a system of accounts of the
city; which system of accounts shall be in conformance with any uniform system
required by law;
   (i)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this charter or
as may be required of him by ordinance or by direction of the council.
Sec. 6.10 Acting city manager.
   The council may appoint or designate an acting city manager during the
period of a vacancy in the office or during the absence of the city manager
from the city, or during a period of illness or disability on the part of the
city manager.
Sec. 6.11 Attorney; functions and duties.
   (a)   The council shall appoint and fix the salary of the city attorney who
shall hold office at the pleasure of the council.
   (b)   The attorney shall be duly admitted to practice, and licensed by the
State Bar of the State of Michigan to practice in the State of Michigan.
   (c)   The attorney shall act as legal advisor to and be attorney and counsel
for, and shall be responsible solely to the council. He shall advise any
officer or department head of the city in matters relating to his official
duties when so requested and shall file with the clerk a copy of all written
opinions given by him.
   (d)   The attorney shall prosecute all charter and ordinance violations and
he shall conduct for the city such cases in court and before other legally
constituted tribunals as the council may request. He shall file with the clerk
copies of all records and files relating thereto as the council may direct.
   (e)   The attorney shall prepare or review all ordinances, contracts, bonds,
and other written instruments which are submitted to him by the council and
shall promptly give his opinion as to the legality thereof.
   (f)   The attorney shall call to the attention of the council all matters of
law and changes or developments therein, affecting the city.
   (g)   The attorney shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for
him by this charter or by the council.
   (h)   Upon the recommendation of the attorney, or upon its own initiative,
the council may retain special legal counsel to handle any matter in which the
city has an interest, or to assist and counsel with the attorney therein.
Sec. 6.12 City clerk; functions and duties.
   (a)   The city clerk shall be clerk of the council. He shall attend all
meetings of the council and shall keep a permanent journal in the English
language of its proceedings. He shall keep a record of all ordinances,
resolutions, and regulations of the council.
   (b)   He shall be custodian of the city seal, and shall affix it to all
documents and instruments requiring the seal, and shall attest the same. He
shall also be custodian of all papers, documents, and records pertaining to the
City of Inkster, the custody of which is not otherwise provided for. He shall
give to the proper department or officials ample notice of the expiration or
termination of any franchises, contracts, or agreements.
   (c)   He shall provide and maintain in his office a supply of all forms for
all petitions required to be filed for any purpose by the provisions of this
charter, and shall accept no petitions for any purpose set forth in this
charter which are not on the forms provided by him for such purpose.
   (d)   He shall certify by his signature all ordinances and resolutions
enacted or passed by the council, and perform any other duties required of him
by the state law, this charter, or by the council.
Sec. 6.13 City treasurer; functions and duties.
   (a)   The treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys of the city, the
clerk's bond, and all evidence of value belonging to the city, or held in trust
by the city.
   (b)   The treasurer shall receive and disburse all moneys belonging to the
city and shall keep an accurate, detailed account of all money received and
disbursed by him.
   (c)   He shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and only
in such places as the council may determine. He shall report the same in detail
to the council.
   (d)   He shall have such powers and duties in regard to the collection and
custody of all taxes and moneys as may be conferred upon him by this charter or
by state law.
   (e)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him by
this charter or by the council or city manager.
Chapter 7 The Council: Procedure and Miscellaneous Powers and Duties
Sec. 7.1 Regular meetings.
   The council shall provide by resolution for the place of its regular
meetings and shall hold at least two regular meetings each month which shall be
held on the first and third Monday of each month at 7:30 p.m. If any time set
for holding of a regular meeting of the council shall be a holiday, then such
regular meeting shall be held at the same hour and place on the next secular
day which is not a holiday.
   The council shall have the power to suspend by a majority vote of the entire
council any regular meeting to the next secular day, provided that no more than
three regular meetings shall be suspended in any one fiscal year.
Sec. 7.2 Special meetings.
   Special meetings shall be called by the clerk on the written request of the
mayor, or any two members of the council on at least twenty-four hours written
notice to each member of the council, served personally or left at his usual
place of residence; but a special meeting may be held on shorter notice if all
members of the council are present or have waived notice thereof in writing.
Sec. 7.3 Business at special meetings.
   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the council unless
the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting. However, any business
which may lawfully come before a regular meeting may be transacted at a special
meeting if all the members of the council are present and consent thereto.
Sec. 7.4 Meetings open to the public.
   All regular and special meetings of the council shall be open to the public
and rules of order of the council shall provide that citizens shall have a
reasonable opportunity to be heard. No official action shall be taken by the
council at other than a regular or special meeting.
Sec. 7.5 Quorum.
   A majority of the councilmen or the mayor and any three councilmen shall
constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at all meetings of the
council but in the absence of a quorum a lesser number may adjourn any meeting
to a later date.
Sec. 7.6 Rules of the council.
   The council shall determine its own rules and order of business and shall
keep a journal of all its proceedings in the English language which shall be
signed by the mayor and the clerk. The vote upon the passage of all ordinances
and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be taken by `Yes' and `No' vote
and entered upon the records, except that where the vote is unanimous it shall
only be necessary to so state. No member shall vote on any question in which he
is financially interested (other than the common public interest) or any
question concerning his own official conduct, but on all other questions each
member of the council who shall be recorded as present shall vote on all
questions decided by the council. Any citizen or taxpayer of the city shall
have access to the minutes and records of all regular and special meetings of
the council at all reasonable times during regular office hours of the city
clerk.
Sec. 7.7 Investigations.
   The council, or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office, or
officer of the city and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for
that purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the
production of books, papers, and other evidence. Failure on the part of any
officer of the city to obey such subpoena or to produce books, papers, or other
evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section shall constitute
misconduct in office. If such failure shall be on the part of any employee of
the city, it shall constitute a misdemeanor.
Sec. 7.8 Health and safety.
   The council shall see that provision is made for the public peace and
health, and for the safety of persons and property. Until otherwise provided by
ordinance or resolution, the council shall constitute the board of health of
the city, and it and its officers shall possess all powers, privileges and
immunities granted to boards of health by statute.
Sec. 7.9 Publication of council proceedings.
   An abstract of the proceedings of the council shall be published at least
once within fifteen days after each meeting of the council in a newspaper of
local circulation in the city.
Chapter 8 Legislation
Sec. 8.1 Prior city legislation.
   (a)   All valid ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the
Village of Inkster which are not inconsistent with this charter and which are
in force and effect at the time of the effective date of this charter shall
continue in full force and effect, until repealed or amended.
   (b)   Those provisions of any effective valid ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation which are inconsistent with this charter, are hereby repealed.
Sec. 8.2 Ordinances and resolutions.
   All official action of the council shall be by ordinance or resolution
adopted by the affirmative vote of not less than a quorum of the council,
unless otherwise required by law or this charter. All actions of the council
which do not constitute ordinances shall be deemed to be resolutions. Action by
resolution shall be limited to matters required or permitted to be so done by
law or pertaining to the internal affairs or concerns of the city government.
All other acts of the council and all acts carrying a penalty for the violation
thereof, shall be by ordinance. Each ordinance shall be identified by a short
title and by a number.
Sec. 8.3 Enactment, amendment, repeal and effective date of ordinances.
   (a)   Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed
form. The style of all ordinances shall be: `The City of Inkster ordains:'
   (b)   No ordinance shall be passed at the same meeting at which it is
introduced.
   (c)   An ordinance may be repealed or amended only by an ordinance passed in
the manner provided in this section. An ordinance may be repealed by reference
to its number and title only.
   (d)   If a section of an ordinance is amended, the section shall be re-
enacted and published at length. This requirement shall not apply to sections
which list one-way streets, stop streets and street intersections, and of
parking limitations which are contained in any traffic ordinance.
   (e)   The effective date of all ordinances shall be stated therein but shall
not be earlier than the date of publication. Such publication shall be made in
a newspaper which is circulated in the city, provided the council may by the
affirmative vote of not less than five members thereof provide that such
publication may be made by posting in the office of the clerk and in five other
public places in the city.
Sec. 8.4 Recording of ordinances.
   All ordinances shall be recorded by the clerk in a book to be called `The
Ordinance Book', and it shall be the duty of the mayor and clerk to
authenticate such records by their official signatures thereon, but the failure
to so record and authenticate any such ordinance shall not invalidate it or
suspend its operation.
Sec. 8.5 Penalties for violations of ordinances.
   Any ordinance may provide for the punishment of those who violate its
provisions. The punishment for the violation of any ordinance, including the
costs charged for the prosecution thereof, shall not exceed a fine of five
hundred dollars or imprisonment for 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the
court; said imprisonment may be either in the city or county jail, or in any
work house in the state which is authorized by law to receive prisoners from
the city.
Sec. 8.6 Special requirements for certain council actions.
   Subject to the provisions of law, the council may open, establish, vacate,
discontinue, or abolish any highway, street, lane, alley, or other public place
or part thereof, by resolution. After the introduction of such resolution and
before its final adoption, the council shall hold a public hearing thereon, and
shall post or publish notices of such hearing as required by general law.
Sec. 8.7 Enactment of codes by reference.  
   In accordance with the provisions of law now or hereafter in effect, the
council may enact technical codes or regulations which have been promulgated or
enacted by the State of Michigan or the United States of America, or by any
department, board, or other agency thereof, or by any organization or
association which is organized and conducted for the purpose of developing any
such code or technical regulations, by reference thereto in an adopting
ordinance and without publishing any such code in full: Provided that each
statute or technical code or regulation is clearly identified in the ordinance
adopting the same. The purpose of the code or regulation shall be published
with the adopting ordinance and complete printed copies thereof shall be kept
in the office of the clerk, available for inspection by and distribution to the
public at all times. Such publication shall contain a notice stating that a
complete copy of said code or regulation is available for public use and
inspection at the office of the clerk.
Sec. 8.8 Severability of ordinances.
   Unless an ordinance shall expressly provide to the contrary, if any portion
of an ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstances shall
be found to be invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction, such invalidity
shall not affect the remaining portions or applications of the ordinance, which
can be given effect without the invalid portion or application, if such
remaining portions or applications are not determined by the court to be
inoperable, and, to this end ordinances of the city are declared to be
severable.
Sec. 8.9 Initiative and referendum.
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum on an ordinance
enactment may be had, by petition as hereafter provided.
Sec. 8.10 Initiatory and referendary petitions.
   (a)   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by not less
than ten per cent of the registered electors of the city, as of the date of the
last regular city election, and all signatures on said petition shall be
obtained within sixty days before the date of filing the petition with the
clerk. Any such petition shall be addressed to the council and may be the
aggregate of two or more petition papers which are identical as to content,
except as to signatures, and simultaneously filed by one person. An initiatory
petition shall set forth, in full, the ordinance it proposes to initiate, and
no petition shall propose to initiate more than one ordinance or part thereof.
   (b)   Each signer of a petition shall sign his name, and shall place thereon
after his name, the date, and his place of residence by street and number, or
by other customary residential designation. To each petition paper there shall
be attached a sworn affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of
signers thereof and that each signature thereon is the genuine signature of the
person whose name it purports to be, and that it was made in the presence of
the affiant. Such petition shall be filed with the clerk who shall, within
fifteen days, canvass the signatures thereon. If the petition does not contain
a sufficient number of registered electors of the city, the clerk shall notify
forthwith, by registered or certified mail, the person filing such petition and
fifteen days from such notification shall be allowed for filing of supplemental
petition papers. When a petition with sufficient signatures is filed as
required and allowed by this section, the clerk shall present the petition to
the council at its next regular meeting.
Sec. 8.11 Council procedure on initiatory and referendary petitions.
   Upon the presentation to the council of an initiatory or referendary
petition by the clerk, the council shall, within thirty days, unless otherwise
provided by law, either:
   (a)   Adopt the ordinance as submitted by an initiatory petition;
   (b)   Repeal the ordinance, or part thereof, referred to by a referendary
petition; or
   (c)   Determine to submit the proposal provided for in the petition to the
electors.
Sec. 8.12 Submission of initiatory and referendary ordinances to electors.
   Should the council decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it shall
be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other purpose, or,
if the discretion of the council, at a special election called for that
specific purpose. In the case of an initiatory petition, if no election is to
be held in the city for any other purpose within one hundred fifty days from
the time the petition is presented to the council and the council does not
enact the ordinance[,] then the council shall call for a special election
within ninety days from such date. The results of all elections, held under the
provisions of this section[,] shall be determined by a majority vote of the
electors voting thereon, except in cases where otherwise required by law or the
terms of this charter.
Sec. 8.13 Ordinance suspended; miscellaneous provisions.
   (a)   The presentation to the council by the clerk of a valid and sufficient
referendary petition, containing a number of signatures equal to twenty-five
per cent of the registered electors of the city as of the date of the last
regular city election, which signatures have been obtained within sixty days
before the date of filing the petition with the clerk, shall automatically
suspend the operation of the ordinance in question, pending repeal by the
council or final determination by the electors.
   (b)   An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings
may not be amended or repealed by the council for a period of two years after
the date of the election at which it was adopted, and an ordinance repealed by
the electorate may not be re-enacted by the council for a period of two years
after the date of the election at which it was repealed. Any such ordinance may
be adopted, amended, or repealed at any time by appropriate referendum or
initiatory procedure in accordance with the foregoing provisions of this
chapter or if submitted to the electorate by the council on its own motion.
   (c)   If two or more initiated ordinances, adopted at the same election,
shall have conflicting provisions, the provisions in the ordinance receiving
the highest number of affirmative votes shall govern.
Chapter 9 General Finance ­ Budget, Audit
Sec. 9.1 Fiscal year.
   The fiscal year of the city shall begin on the 1st day of July and end on
the 30th day of June of the following year. Such year shall also constitute the
budget year of the city government.
Sec. 9.2 Budget procedure.
   On or before the fifteenth day of February of each year each city officer,
department head, board, and commission shall submit to the city manager a
proposed budget for the next fiscal year. The city manager shall assemble the
budgets so submitted and present them, with his budget proposal, to the council
at its second regular meeting in April. Such budget proposal shall include:
   (a)   Detailed estimates, with his supporting explanations, of all proposed
expenditures for each department, office and agency of the city, showing the
expenditures for corresponding items for the last preceding fiscal year in
full, and for the current fiscal year to January first and estimated
expenditures for the balance of the current fiscal year;
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorization and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues of the city from
sources other than taxes, with a comparative statement of the amounts received
by the city from each of the same or similar sources for the last preceding
fiscal year in full, and for the current fiscal year to January first, and
estimated revenues for the balance of the current fiscal year;
   (d)    An estimate of the balance or deficit for the end of the current
fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which[,] together
with any available unappropriated surplus and any revenues from other sources,
will be necessary to meet the proposed expenditures;
   (f)   Such other supporting information as the council may request.
Sec. 9.3 Budget document.
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year and shall contain such detail as the council may request or as the
manager believes necessary. It shall include at least:
   (a)   Estimate of all proposed expenditures for each department and office
of the city showing the expenditures for corresponding items for the current
and last preceding fiscal year;
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated income of the city from other
sources other than taxes and borrowing, with comparative statements for
previous years and the current fiscal year;
   (d)   Statements of the estimated balance of surplus or deficit, as the case
may be, for the end of the current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues necessary to meet
the proposed expenditures.
Sec. 9.4 Budget hearings.
   A public hearing on the budget shall be held in the council chambers before
its final adoption at such time and date as the council shall direct, and
notice of such public hearing shall be published at least one week in advance
by the clerk. A copy of the proposed budget shall be on file and available to
the public for inspection during the office hours at the office of the clerk
for a period of not less than one week prior to such public hearing.
Sec. 9.5 Adoption of budget.
   Not later than the second regular monthly meeting in May, the council shall
[,] by resolution, adopt the budget for the next fiscal year, and shall[,] in
such resolution, provide for a levy of the amount necessary to be raised by tax
upon real and personal property for municipal purposes, and provide for the
necessary appropriation needed for municipal purposes in the next fiscal year.
Sec. 9.6 Transfer of appropriations.
   After the budget has been adopted no money shall be drawn from the treasury
of the city, nor shall any obligations for the expenditure of money be incurred
[,] except pursuant to the budget appropriations. The adoption of a budget
shall not be construed as authority to any officer of the city to expend the
amount set forth in such budget unless such expenditure has been authorized by
proper warrant. The council may transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance
or any portion thereof from one department, fund, or agency to another. The
balance of any appropriation which has not been encumbered at the end of the
fiscal year shall revert to the general fund and may be reappropriated during
the next fiscal year.
Sec. 9.7 Budget control.
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the council, the city manager shall submit to the council
data showing the relation between the estimated and actual income and expenses
to date; and if it shall appear that the income is less than anticipated, the
council may reduce appropriations, except amounts required for debt and
interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to keep expenditures
within the cash income.
Sec. 9.8 Depository.
   The council shall designate a depository or depositories for city funds, and
shall provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys. The council shall
provide for such security for city deposits as is authorized or permitted by
the general laws of the state, except that personal surety bonds shall not be
deemed proper security. City funds may be withdrawn from such depository on the
signature of such person or persons as the council shall, by resolution,
determine.
Sec. 9.9 Independent audit.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the city government at
least annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the council. Such
audit shall be made by qualified or certified public accountants experienced in
municipal accounting. An annual report of the city business shall be made
available to the public by the city manager in such form as will disclose
pertinent facts concerning the activities and finances of the city government.
Chapter 10 General Taxation
Sec. 10.1 Power to tax; tax limit.
   The city shall have the power to assess taxes and levy and collect rents,
tolls and excises. The annual ad valorem tax levy shall not exceed two per cent
of the assessed valuation of all real and personal property subject to taxation
in the city.
Sec. 10.2 Subjects of taxation.
   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same
as for state, county, and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by the charter, city taxes shall be levied, collected and
returned in the manner provided by statute.
Sec. 10.3 Exemptions.
   No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed except as expressly required or
permitted by statute.
Sec. 10.4 Tax day.
   Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by statute, the taxable
status of persons and property shall be determined as of the 31st day of
December, which shall be deemed the tax day.
Sec. 10.5 Personal property; jeopardy assessment.
   If the treasurer finds or reasonably believes that any person who is, or may
be, liable for taxes upon personal property, the taxable situs of which was in
the city on tax day, intends to depart from the city; or to remove therefrom
personal property, which is, or may be, liable for taxation; or to conceal
himself or his property; or to do other act tending to prejudice, or to render
wholly or partly ineffectual[,] the proceeding to collect such tax, unless
proceedings therefor be brought without delay, he shall proceed to collect the
same as a jeopardy assessment in the manner provided by law.
Sec. 10.6 Preparation of the assessment roll.
   On or before the first Monday in March of each year the assessor shall
prepare and certify an assessment roll of all property in the city subject to
taxation. Such roll shall be prepared in accordance with statute and this
charter. Values shall be estimated according to recognized methods of
systematic assessment as determined by statute and decisions of the State Tax
Commission. The records of the assessor shall show separate figures for the
value of the land, of the building improvements and of personal property; and
the method of estimating all such values shall be as nearly uniform as
possible.
Sec. 10.7 Board of review.
   The board of review shall consist of three qualified freeholders who are
electors of the city but not city officers or employees and are to be appointed
annually by the city council. The assessor is to be clerk of the board of
review and non-voting. The board shall be entitled to such remuneration as
shall be determined by the council.
Sec. 10.8 Duties and functions of the board of review.
   For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the board of review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are
conferred by state law upon and required of boards of review in townships,
except as otherwise provided in this charter. It shall hear the complaints of
all persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessments, and, if it shall
appear that any person or property has been wrongfully assessed or omitted from
the roll[,] the board shall correct the roll in such manner as it deems just.
In all cases, the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts existing on tax
day and no change in the status of any property after that day shall be
considered by the board in making its decisions. Except as otherwise provided
by law, no person, other than the board of review, shall make or authorize any
change upon, or addition or corrections to, the assessment roll. It shall be
the duty of the assessor to keep a permanent record of all proceedings of the
board and to enter therein all resolutions and decisions of the board. Such
proceedings shall be filed in the office of the clerk not later than the first
day of September following the meeting of the board of review.
Sec. 10.9 Meetings of the board of review.
   The board of review shall convene on the third Monday in March of each year
to review and correct the assessment roll and shall remain in session for not
less than two days and one evening. It shall choose its own chairman and a
majority of its members shall constitute a quorum. On or before the first
Monday in April the board of review shall endorse the assessment roll as
provided hereafter.
Sec. 10.10 Notice of meetings.
   Notice of the time and place of the sessions of the board of review shall be
published by the city clerk at least ten days prior to the third Monday in
March.
Sec. 10.11 Endorsement of roll.
   After the board of review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
its members shall endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that the
same is the assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been
prepared. The omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of
such roll.
Sec. 10.12 Clerk to certify tax levy.
   Within three days after the council has adopted the budget for the ensuing
year, the clerk shall certify to the assessor the total amount which the
council determines shall be raised by general ad valorem tax, He shall also
certify all amounts of current or delinquent special assessments and all other
amounts which the council requires or orders to be assessed, reassessed, or
charged upon the said roll against any property or any person in accordance
with the provisions of this charter or any ordinance of the city.
Sec. 10.13 City tax roll.
   After the board of review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
the assessor shall prepare a copy of the assessment roll, to be known as the
`City Tax Roll'. Upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to be
raised, as provided in Section 10.12, the assessor shall spread upon said tax
roll the several amounts determined by the council to be charged, assessed, or
reassessed against persons or property. He shall also spread thereon the
amounts of the general ad valorem city tax, county tax, and school tax,
according to and in proportion to the several valuations set forth in said
assessment roll. To avoid fractions in computation of any tax roll, the
assessor may add to the amount of the several taxes to be raised not more than
the amount prescribed by law. Any excess created thereby on any tax roll shall
belong to the city.
Sec. 10.14 Tax roll certified for collection.
   After spreading the taxes the assessor shall certify the tax roll, and shall
annex his warrant thereto directing and requiring the treasurer to collect,
prior to March first of the following year, from the several persons named in
said roll the several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective names as
a tax, charge, or assessment, and granting to him, for the purpose of
collecting the taxes, assessments, and charges on such roll, all the statutory
power and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the collection of
taxes. On or before June fifteenth, the roll shall be delivered to the
treasurer for collection.
Sec. 10.15 Tax lien on property.
   On July first the taxes thus assessed shall become a debt due to the city
from the persons to whom they are assessed, and the amounts assessed on any
interest in real property shall become a lien upon such real property for such
amounts and for all interest and charges thereon, and all personal taxes shall
become a debt of, and first lien on[,] all personal property of, such persons
so assessed. Such lien shall take precedence over all other claims,
encumbrances, and liens to the extent provided by law and shall continue until
such taxes, interest, and charges are paid.
Sec. 10.16 Taxes due; notification.
   City taxes shall be due on July first of each year. The treasurer shall not
be required to call upon the persons named in the city tax roll, nor to make
personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he shall (a) publish, between
June fifteenth and July first, notice of the time when said taxes will be due
for collection and the penalties and fees for late payment of same, and (b)
mail a bill to each person named in said roll, but in cases of multiple
ownership of property only one bill need be mailed. Failure on the part of the
treasurer to publish said notice or mail such bills shall not invalidate the
taxes on said tax roll nor release the person or property assessed from the
penalties and fees provided in this chapter in case of late payment or non-
payment of the same.
Sec. 10.17 Collection fees and interest.
   City taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of July of each year.
To all taxes paid after August 31, there shall be added a four per cent
penalty, and to all taxes paid after said date, there shall also be added
interest at the rate of one-half of one per cent for each month or fraction of
a month intervening between valid date and the date of payment, or the first
day of March of next succeeding calendar year, whichever date shall first
occur. The added penalties and interest herein provided shall belong to the
city and shall constitute a charge and shall be a lien against the property to
which the taxes themselves apply, collectible in the same manner as the taxes
to which they are added.
Sec. 10.18 State, county, and school taxes.
   For the purpose of assessing and collecting taxes for state, county, and
school purposes, the city shall be considered safe same as a township, and all
provisions of law relative to the collection of and accounting for such taxes
shall apply. For these purposes the treasurer shall perform the same duties and
have the same powers as are granted and imposed upon township treasurers by
law.
Sec. 10.19 Protection of city lien.
   The city shall have power, insofar as the exercise thereof shall not
conflict with or contravene the provisions of law, to acquire such an interest
in any premises within the city, by purchase at any tax or other public sale,
or by direct purchase from or negotiation with the State of Michigan or the fee
owner, as may be necessary to assure to the city the collection of its taxes,
special assessments or charges which are levied against any lot or parcel of
real property or to protect the lien of the city therefor, and may hold, lease,
sell, or exchange the same. Any such procedure exercised by the city to assure
the collection of its taxes or the protection of its tax or other liens shall
be deemed to be for a public purpose. The council may adopt any ordinance which
may be necessary to make this section effective.
Sec. 10.20 Disposition of real property held by city.
   The council shall pass an ordinance providing for the care, custody, and
disposition of real property, or any interest therein, which it shall hereafter
acquire by reason of any action taken to protect the city's tax lien thereon.
Sec. 10.21 Collection of delinquent taxes.
   All taxes and charges, together with fees, penalties, and interest upon real
property on the tax roll, remaining uncollected by the treasurer on the first
day of March following the date when the roll has received by him shall be
returned to the county treasurer, to the extent and in the same manner and with
like effect as provided by law for return by township treasurers of township
and county taxes. Such returns shall include all the additional assessments,
charges, fees, penalties, and interest hereinbefore provided, which shall be
added to take amount assessed in said tax roll against each property or person.
The taxes, assessments, and charges thus returned shall be collected in the
same manner as other taxes returned to the county treasurer are collected in
accordance with law, and shall be and remain a lien upon the property against
which they are assessed until paid.
Chapter 11 General Finance - Borrowing Power
Sec. 11.1 General borrowing.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of state law and this charter, the
council, by proper ordinance or resolution, may authorize the borrowing of
money for any purpose within the scope of the powers vested in the city and the
issuance of bonds of the city or other evidences of indebtedness therefor, and
may pledge the full faith, credit, and resources of the city for the payment of
the obligation created therefor.
Sec. 11.2 Special assessment bonds.
   The council shall, subject to the applicable provisions of the general laws
of the state, have authority to borrow money in anticipation of the payment of
special assessments made for the purpose of defraying the cost of any public
improvement, or in anticipation of the payment of any combination of such
special assessments, and to issue bonds therefor. Such special assessment bonds
may be solely an obligation of the special assessment district or districts or
may be both an obligation of the special assessment district or districts and a
general obligation of the city. All collections on each special assessment roll
or combination of rolls shall be set apart in a separate fund for the payment
of the principal and interest of the bonds issued in anticipation of the
payment of such special assessments, and shall be used for no other purpose.
Sec. 11.3 Other bonds.
   The city shall have power to issue revenue or other types of bonds in the
manner and for the purpose permitted by the Constitution and general laws of
the State of Michigan.
Sec. 11.4 Preparation and record.
   Each bond or other evidence of indebtedness shall contain on its face a
statement specifying the purpose for which the same is issued and it shall be
unlawful for any officer of the city to use the proceeds thereof for any other
purpose, and any officer who shall violate this provision shall be deemed
guilty of misconduct in office. All bonds and other evidences of indebtedness
issued by the city shall be signed by the mayor and countersigned by the clerk,
under the seal of the city. Interest coupons may be executed with the facsimile
signatures of the mayor and clerk. A complete and detailed record of all bonds
and other evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be kept by the
clerk. Upon payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same
shall be marked `cancelled'.
Sec. 11.5 Unissued bonds.
   No unissued bonds of the city shall be issued or sold to secure funds for
any purpose other than that for which they were specifically authorized.
Sec. 11.6 Limitation on indebtedness.
   The city may not incur indebtedness by the issue of bonds or otherwise, in
any sum which, including existing indebtedness, shall exceed ten per cent of
the assessed valuation of the real and personal property within the city
subject to taxation as shown by the last preceding assessment roll of the city;
provided, however, that in the case of fire, flood or other calamity requiring
an emergency fund for the relief of the inhabitants of the city or for the
repairing or rebuilding of any municipal buildings, works, bridges or streets,
the legislative body of the city may borrow money due in not more than five
years and in the amount not exceeding three-eighths of one per cent of the
assessed valuation of all the real and personal property in the city,
notwithstanding such loan may increase the indebtedness of the city beyond the
limitation fixed in this chapter; provided, further[,] that in computing the
net bonded indebtedness for the purposes hereof, bonds issued in anticipation
of the payment of special assessments, even though they are also a general
obligation of the city, mortgage bonds which are secured only by a mortgage on
the property or franchise of a public utility, and bonds issued to refund
moneys advanced or paid on special assessments for water main extensions, shall
not be included, and the resources of the sinking fund pledged for the
retirement of any outstanding bonds shall also be deducted from the amount of
the bonded indebtedness.
Chapter 12 Special Assessments
Sec. 12.1 Hazards and nuisances.
   (a)   When any lot, building, or structure within the city, because of
accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled growing of noxious weeds, or
age or dilapidation, or because of any other condition or happening becomes, in
the opinion of the council, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous to
the health, safety, or welfare of the inhabitants of the city or of those
residing or habitually going near such lot, building, or structure, the council
may, after investigation, give notice by publication or by registered mail
addressed to the last known address of the owner or owners of the land upon
which such nuisance exists, or to the owner of the building or structure
itself, specifying the nature of the nuisance and requiring such owner to abate
or remove the nuisance promptly and within a time to be specified by the
council, which shall be commensurate with the nature of the nuisance. If at the
expiration of the time limit in said notice, the owner has not complied with
the requirements thereof, or in any case where the owner of the land or of the
building or structure itself is not known, the council may order such hazard or
nuisance abated by the proper department or agency of the city, or may do the
work by contract or by hire, and the cost of such abatement shall be assessed
against the lot, premises, or description of real property upon which such
hazard or nuisance is located by special assessment.
   (b)   The council shall determine what amount or part of each expense shall
be charged, and the person, if known, against whom the charge shall be made,
and the premises upon which the same shall be levied as a special assessment;
and as often as the council shall deem it expedient, it shall require notice of
all of the several amounts so reported and determined to be given by the clerk
either by registered mail sent to their last known address as shown on the
assessment roll of the city, or by publication. Such notice shall state the
basis of the assessment, the cost thereof[,] and shall give a reasonable time,
which shall not be less than thirty days, in which payment shall be made. In
all cases where payment is not made within the time limit, the same shall be
reported by the clerk to the assessor who shall spread such amounts against the
several persons or descriptions of real property chargeable therewith on the
next roll for the collection of city taxes.
Sec. 12.2 Sidewalks.
   The council shall prescribe that sidewalks[,] except crosswalks, shall be
built by the owner of platted land within the city in the public streets
adjacent to and abutting upon such lots and premises in the manner and within
the time to be prescribed by ordinances; provided that, in case of the failure
of any such owner to comply with the provisions of such ordinance[,] the city
may build or cause to be built such sidewalks and assess the cost thereof
against such owner and against the land improved thereby, in a manner
prescribed by the council by ordinance.
Sec. 12.3 Boulevard lighting.  
   The council shall have power to assess the cost of installing a boulevard
lighting system on any street upon the lands abutting thereupon provided the
property owners of a majority of the frontage on such street or part thereof to
be so improved shall petition therefor.
Sec. 12.4 General power relative to special assessment.
   The council shall have the power to determine the necessity of any local or
public improvement with or without a petition therefor and to determine that
the whole or any part of the expense thereof shall be defrayed by special
assessment upon the property especially benefited, provided that all special
assessments levied shall be in proportion to the benefits derived from the
improvement.
Sec. 12.5 Procedure to be fixed by ordinance.
   The council shall prescribe by ordinance the complete special assessment
procedure concerning the initiation of projects, plans and specifications,
estimates of costs, notice of hearings, making and confirming assessment rolls,
and the correction of errors therein, collection of special assessments, and
any other matters concerning the making of improvements by the special
assessments method, subject to the provisions of this chapter.
Sec. 12.6 Objection to improvement.
   If, at or prior to final confirmation of any special assessment, more than
fifty per cent of the number of owners of privately owned real property to be
assessed for any improvement, or in case of paving or similar improvements more
than fifty per cent of the number of owners of frontage to be assessed for any
such improvement, shall object in writing to the proposed improvement, the
improvement shall not be made by proceedings authorized by this charter without
a five-seventh vote of the members of the council, provided that this section
shall not apply to sidewalk construction.
Sec. 12.7 Installment payments of assessments.
   The council may provide for the payment of special assessments in annual
installments, not to exceed thirty in number, the first installment being due
upon confirmation of the roll and the deferred installments being due annually
thereafter or, in the discretion of the council, may be spread upon and made a
part of each annual city tax roll thereafter until all are paid. Interest may
be charged upon deferred installments at a rate not to exceed the maximum
allowed by state law. Under any installment plan adopted, the whole or any
deferred installments with accrued interest to date of payment may be paid in
advance of the due dates established.
Sec. 12.8 Additional assessments.
   When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to meet the costs
of the improvements for which it was made, the council may make an additional
pro rata assessment, but the total amount assessed against any one parcel of
land shall not exceed the benefits received by said lot or parcel of land.
Sec. 12.9 Refunds of assessments.
   The city manager shall within sixty days after the completion of each
special assessment project compile the actual cost thereof and certify same to
the council. Should the assessment prove larger than necessary by five per cent
or less, the council may place the exCess in the city treasury; if more than
five per cent, the excess shall be refunded pro rata according to assessments.
In either case, the council may provide by resolution that the amount of any
such excess may be allowed as a credit on the last installment where such
installment still remains unpaid at the time the final cost of the improvement
is determined.
Sec. 12.10 Special assessment accounts.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, moneys raised by special
assessments to pay the cost of any local improvement shall be held in a special
fund to pay such cost or to repay any money borrowed therefor. Each special
assessment account must be used only for the improvement project for which the
assessment was levied, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
Sec. 12.11 Contested assessments.
   Except and unless notice is given to the council in writing of an intention
to contest or enjoin the collection of any special assessment for the
construction of any pavement, sewer, or other public improvement, the
construction of any sidewalk, or the removal or abatement of any public hazard
or nuisance, within thirty days after the date of the meeting of the council at
which the assessment roll in question is confirmed, which notice shall state
the grounds on which the proceedings are to be contested, no suit or action of
any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the purpose of contesting or
enjoining the collection of such special assessments; and regardless of whether
or not any public improvement is completed in any special district, no owner of
real property located in such district shall be entitled to commence any suit
or action for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any such
special assessments after he has received the benefits from the substantial
completion of that portion of such public improvement for which he is assessed.
Sec. 12.12 Reassessments for benefits.
   Whenever the council shall deem any special assessment invalid or defective
for any reason whatever, or if any court of competent jurisdiction shall have
adjudged such assessment to be illegal for any reason whatever, in whole or in
part, the council shall have power to cause a new assessment to be made for the
same purpose for which the former assessment was made, whether the improvement
or any part thereof has been completed or not, and whether any part of the
assessment has been collected or not. All proceedings on such reassessment and
for the collection thereof shall be made in the same manner as provided for in
an original assessment. If any portion of the original assessment shall have
been collected and not refunded, it shall be applied upon the reassessment and
the reassessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied. If more than the
amount reassessed shall have been collected, the balance shall be refunded to
the persons making such payments.
Sec. 12.13 Delinquent special assessments.
   Special assessments and all interest and charges thereon, from the date of
confirmation of the roll, shall be and remain a lien upon the property assessed
of the same character and effect as the lien created by general law for state
and county taxes, and by this charter for city taxes, until paid. From such
date and after confirmation as shall be fixed by the council, the same
collection fees shall be collected on delinquent special assessments and upon
delinquent installments of such special assessments beginning on the following
September first of each year, as are provided by this charter to be collected
on delinquent city taxes. Such delinquent special assessments shall be subject
to the same penalties, and the lands upon which the same are a lien shall be
subject to sale therefor, the same as are delinquent city taxes and the lands
upon which they constitute a lien.
Sec. 12.14 Lien not destroyed by judgment.
   No judgment or decree, or any act of the council[,] vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the premises
assessed, for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged against
the same, or as by a regular vote or proceeding might have been lawfully
assessed thereon.
Chapter 13 Purchase, Sale and Lease of Property
Sec. 13.1 Purchasing procedure; ordinance required.
   The council shall provide by ordinance for the purchasing procedure to be
followed in all purchases, sales and leases and the letting of contracts
therefor subject to the following restrictions:
   (a)   All purchases and sales and leases shall be evidenced by written
contract or purchase order.
   (b)   No contract shall be made with any person who is in default to the
city.
   (c)   Sealed bids shall be obtained for the purchase, sale or lease of
personal property in amounts over two thousand dollars and for the purchase,
sale or lease of real property in amounts over five thousand dollars, except
where the council shall determine by unanimous resolution of those present at a
regular meeting that the public interest will be best served without the taking
of bids.
   (d)   The council may authorize the making of public improvements or the
performance of any city work by any city agency without competitive bidding.
The council may reject any or all bids or parts of bids. When one or more parts
of a bid are rejected, the council may accept any part or parts which are not
rejected.
   (e)   No public work, or improvement[,] shall be commenced, nor any contract
therefor be let or made, until a valid specific appropriation to pay the cost
thereof shall have been made by the council from funds on hand and legally
available for such purpose, or until a tax or assessment shall have been levied
or bonds authorized and sold to pay the cost and expense thereof.
   (f)   Any agreement or contract for the renting or leasing of public
property to any person for a period longer than three years shall be subject to
the same referendum procedure as is provided in the case of ordinances passed
by the council[,] but any petition for such referendum must be filed within
thirty days after publication of the proceedings of the meeting of the council
at which such agreement or contract is authorized.
   (g)   The transfer or assignment of any agreement or contract for such
renting or leasing of public property may be made only upon approval of the
council[,] but the approval of such transfer shall not be subject to
referendum.
   (h)   Rentals and leases, and renewals thereof, shall be for a fair
consideration as determined by the council.
Chapter 14 Municipal Utilities
Sec. 14.1 Public utility powers.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by statute and constitution to acquire, construct, own, operate,
improve, enlarge, extend, repair and maintain, either within or without its
corporate limits, including but not by the way of limitation, public utilities
for supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment and garbage and
rubbish disposal facilities, or any of them, to the municipality and the
inhabitants thereof; and also to sell and deliver water, light, heat, power,
gas and other public utility services without its corporate limits to an amount
not to exceed the limitations set by statute and constitution.
Sec. 14.2 Management of public utilities.
   All municipally owned or operated utilities shall be administered as a
regular department of the city government under the management and supervision
of the city manager.
Sec. 14.3 Rates.
   The council shall have the power to fix from time to time such just and
reasonable rates and other charges as may be deemed advisable for supplying the
inhabitants of the city and others with such public utility services as the
city may provide. There shall be no discrimination in such rates within any
classification of users thereof, nor shall free service be permitted. Higher
rates may be charged for service outside the corporate limits of the city.
Sec. 14.4 Utility rates and charges; collection.
   The council shall provide by ordinance for the collection of all public
utility rates and charges of the city. Such ordinance shall provide at least:
   (a)   The terms and conditions under which utility services may be
discontinued in case of delinquency in paying such rates or charges.
   (b)   That suit may be instituted by the city before a competent tribunal
for the collection of such rates or charges.
   With respect to the collection of rates charged for water the city shall
have all the powers granted to cities by Act 178 of the Public Acts of 1939, as
now or hereafter amended.
Sec. 14.5 Disposal of utility plants and property.
   Unless approved by the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors
voting thereon at a regular or special election, the city shall not sell,
exchange, lease or in any way dispose of any property, easements, equipment,
privileges, or assets belonging to and appertaining to any municipally owned
public utility which is needed to continue operating such utility. All
contracts, negotiations, licenses, grants, leases, or other forms of transfer
in violation of this section shall be void and of no effect as against the
city. The restrictions of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange
of any articles of machinery or equipment of any city-owned public utility
which are worn out or useless or which have been, or could with advantage to
the service be, replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment, to the
leasing of property not necessary for the operation of the utility, or to the
exchange of property or easements for other needed property or easements. It is
provided, however, that the provisions of this section shall not extend to
vacation or abandonment of streets, as provided by statute.
Sec. 14.6 Utility finances.
   (a)   The rates and charges for any municipal public utility for the
furnishing of water, light, heat, power or gas shall be so fixed as to at least
meet all the costs of such utility.
   (b)   Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation by the city of
each public utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts under an
appropriate fund caption, which accounts shall be classified in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice. Charges for all service
furnished to, or rendered by, other city departments or agencies shall be
recorded. An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of each utility and the result of its operation, which report shall be
available for inspection at the office of the clerk.
Chapter 15 Privately Owned Utilities
Sec. 15.1 Franchise required.
   No person, partnership, association or corporation operating a public
utility shall have the right to the use of the highways, streets, alleys, or
other public places of the city for wires, poles, pipes, tracks or conduits
without the consent of the council; nor may it transact a local business in the
city without first obtaining a franchise therefor from the city.
Sec. 15.2 Regulatory powers.
   The city shall have the right (a) to regulate public utilities; (b) to
regulate the location of poles and other facilities used by public utilities,
and (c) to require that wires in streets and alleys be placed underground.
Sec. 15.3 Permit revocable.
   The council may grant a permit for the operation of a public utility at any
time in or upon any street, alley, or public place; provided, that such permit
shall be revocable by the council at its pleasure at any time, whether such
right to revoke be expressly reserved in said permit or not.
Sec. 15.4 Franchise elections.
   No public utility franchise which is not revocable at the will of the city
shall be granted unless the same shall have received the affirmative vote of
three-fifths of the electors of the city voting thereon at a regular or special
municipal election. No franchise shall be submitted under the provisions of
this charter, to the electors at a special election, unless the cost of holding
the election, as determined by the council, shall be paid to the treasurer in
advance of calling said election by the grantee in such franchise.
Sec. 15.5 Franchise term.
   No franchise shall be granted by the city for a longer period than thirty
years. No exclusive franchise shall ever be granted to any person, firm or
corporation.
Sec. 15.6 Further regulatory powers.
   The grant of every franchise shall be subject to the right of the city[,]
whether in terms reserved to not, to make all regulations which shall be
necessary to secure in the most ample manner the safety, welfare and
accommodation of the public, and the right to make and enforce all such
regulations as shall be reasonably necessary to secure adequate, sufficient and
proper service, extensions and accommodations for the people and insure their
comfort and convenience. Such fight of the city shall include but shall not be
limited to the following, viz:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, or nonuse, or for failure to comply
with the provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require continuous and interrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (c)   To require the public utility to which any franchise is granted to
permit joining use of its property and appurtenances located in the streets,
alleys, and public places of the city, by the city and other utilities,
insofaras such joint use may be reasonably practicable and upon payment of
reasonably rental therefor; provided that, in event of the inability of the
parties to agree, upon application by either party, the council shall provide
for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and the
compensation to be paid therefor;
   (d)   To pay such part of the cost of improvement or maintenance of the
streets, alleys, bridges, and public places of the city as shall arise from its
use thereof[,] and to protect and save the city harmless from all damages
arising from said use.
Sec. 15.7 Franchise conveyed by ordinance.
   All contracts, granting or giving any original franchise, or extending or
renewing or amending any existing franchise, shall be made by ordinance and not
otherwise. Every such ordinance granting a franchise shall be accepted in
writing by the grantee before said ordinance takes effect, and if it is to be
submitted to the electors, it shall be so accepted before its submission. Such
acceptance shall be filed with the clerk. Any noncompliance with this section
shall automatically annul such franchise.
Sec. 15.8 Ordinance regulation.
   The council may by ordinance provide for efficient inspection and regulation
of all public utilities operated in the city. It is the intention of this
section to provide means for securing to the city efficient and safe service
from all public utilities operated in the city and the proper observance of the
conditions imposed by franchise, this charter and ordinances of the city and
laws of the state.
Sec. 15.9 Repeal and termination of franchise; acquisition of utility property.
   All ordinances granting franchises, or extensions or renewals thereof, shall
reserve to the city the right to terminate the same and to purchase all the
property of the utility in the streets and highways in the city and elsewhere,
used in or useful for the operation of the utility, at a price either fixed by
the ordinance or to be fixed in the manner provided by the ordinance granting
the same. Nothing in such ordinance shall prevent the city from acquiring the
property of any such utility by condemnation proceedings or in any other lawful
mode, but all such methods of acquisition shall be alternative to the power to
purchase reserved in the ordinance granting such franchise, extension or
renewal as hereinbefore provided. Upon the acquisition by the city of the
property of any utility by purchase, condemnation or otherwise, all franchises,
extensions and renewals shall at once terminate.
Sec. 15.10 Franchise ordinance requirements.
   No ordinance granting such franchise, or extension or renewal thereof, shall
be valid unless it shall expressly provide therein that the price to be paid by
the city for the property that may be acquired by it from such utility by
purchase, condemnation or otherwise, shall exclude all value of such franchise,
extension or renewal, except that, unless otherwise provided in such ordinance,
the utility shall be entitled to the return of the proportionate amount for the
unused period of any compensation paid to the city for such franchise,
extensions or renewal.
Chapter 16 Supervisors
Sec. 16.1 Number of supervisors.
   The city shall have the maximum number of representatives on the County
Board of Supervisors of Wayne County to which it is entitled by law.
Sec. 16.2 Selection of supervisors.   
   (a)   The representatives of the city on the board of supervisors shall be
appointed by the council for a term expiring the first day of April in even
numbered years and may be removed at the will of the council. Such
representatives shall meet all requirements of Chapter 5 at the time of their
appointment and may hold other elective or appointive city office or
employment. In case any representative of the city on the board of supervisors
shall be unable to perform the duties of the office for any reason, the council
may appoint another qualified person to serve in his stead.
   (b)   In making appointments to the board of supervisors, other than
appointments to serve during the absence or disability of a city
representative, no candidates shall be proposed until one week after the
council shall have determined that an appointment is to be made to such office,
and the names of all candidates shall be presented at least one week prior to
the appointment.
Sec. 16.3 Duties of supervisors.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the representatives of the
city on the board of supervisors shall perform the statutory duties of
supervisors. In the performance of his duties each supervisor shall represent
the city, its government, and its inhabitants to the best of his ability.
Sec. 16.4 Compensation of supervisors.
   Representatives of the city on the board of supervisors shall be entitled to
retain any compensation and expense allowances paid to them by the county as
members of the board of supervisors, but shall receive no extra compensation
from the city for their work as supervisors.
Chapter 17 Judiciary
Sec. 17.1 Creation of municipal court.  
   There shall be a municipal court in and for the City of Inkster which shall
be known as `The Municipal Court for the City of Inkster.' Said court shall
have and exercise the same jurisdiction over all suits and proceedings[,] both
civil and criminal, to the same extent as was heretofore had and exercised by
the justices of the peace of the Townships of Dearborn and Nankin, except as
otherwise provided by Act No. 5 of Public Acts of 1956 of the State of
Michigan, as amended, and such other statutes of the State of Michigan as
pertain and relate to municipal courts and this charter.
Sec. 17.2 Elections of judges and term.
   At the election at which this charter is submitted, there shall be elected
two municipal judges who shall hold office until July 4, 1966; and thereafter
every four years at the regular city election there shall be elected two
municipal judges whose terms of office shall be for four years and shall
commence on the 5th day of July of the same year as their election and
terminate four years thereafter on the 4th day of July.
Sec. 17.3 Qualifications.
   The judges of said court shall be regularly licensed attorneys and
counselors at law, licensed to practice in the State of Michigan and who shall
have been admitted to the practice of law by the State Bar of Michigan prior to
the primary election in which they file and shall possess such other
qualifications as are prescribed in Act No. 5 of the Public Acts [of] 1956 of
the State of Michigan, as amended, and in this charter for elective officers.
Sec. 17.4 Jurisdiction.
   Said court shall have concurrent jurisdiction in all civil matters, causes,
suits and proceedings, ex contractu and ex delicto, where the debt or damage
does not exceed one thousand dollars, and concurrent jurisdiction in all
actions of replevin wherein the value of the property does not exceed the sum
of one thousand dollars, or in such other forms of action at such greater
amount as may from time to time be established by the law of the State of
Michigan.
Sec. 17.5 Act granting authority.
   The provisions of Act No. 5 of the Public Acts of 1956 of the State of
Michigan, as amended, entitled, `An Act to establish and promote a uniform
system of municipal courts in cities; to consolidate justice courts in cities
into a system of municipal courts; to change the name of existing justice
courts and justices of the peace in cities to municipal courts and municipal
judges; to promote uniformity in practice and procedure in such courts; to
prescribe the powers, duties, and functions of such courts; and to provide for
substitute municipal judges in cities in cases of death, absence, disability or
removal of the regularly elected or appointed municipal judges and in cases
where temporary judicial assistance is needed in such courts, are hereby
adopted for the municipal court of the City of Inkster.
Sec. 17.6 Causes may be transferred.
   Any cause pending before the municipal judges may, whenever such municipal
judge is unable to act in said cause at the time the matters come before him,
be transferred upon his order, or in case of his absence, by the clerk to the
other municipal judge and a note of such transfer shall be entered upon the
docket of the case. When the municipal judges shall have acted in any one case
or proceeding, the docket shall be signed in the manner and within the time
provided by law by the municipal judge who shall have given the final judgment.
Sec. 17.7 Ordinance cases to be heard.
   Said municipal judges shall hear, try and determine all suits and
prosecutions for the recovery and enforcing of fines, penalties and forfeitures
imposed by the charter and ordinances of the City of Inkster to punish
offenders for the violation of said charter and ordinances as therein
prescribed and directed.
Sec. 17.8 Right of appeal.
   In all suits and prosecutions arising under the charter and ordinances of
the City of Inkster, the right of appeal or certiorari from said court to the
Circuit Court for the County of Wayne, or to any other court having
jurisdiction, shall be allowed to the parties or any or either of them, and the
same recognizance or bond shall be given as is or may be required by law in
case of appeal or certiorari from justice court in analogous cases.
Sec. 17.9 Dockets.
   Said municipal judges shall enter or cause to be entered in the docket kept
by them, the title of all suits and prosecutions commenced or prosecuted before
them for violation of the charter and ordinances of the city, and all the
proceedings and the judgment rendered in such case, and shall itemize all costs
taxed or allowed therein. They shall also enter or cause to be entered the
amounts and dates of payment of all fines, penalties and forfeitures, moneys
and costs, reviewed by them or the clerk of the court, on account of said suit
or proceedings. Such docket shall be submitted by the municipal judges or the
court clerk at all reasonably times to the examination of any person desiring
to examine the same, and shall be produced by the municipal judges or the court
to the council of the city whenever required. They shall also maintain a civil
docket of all proceedings before them and shall cause all entries to be made
therein in the same manner as herein provided for the criminal docket. Failure
of the presiding officer of the court to make provision for the maintenance of
such dockets shall constitute misconduct in office.
Sec. 17.10 Salary and time of conducting court and court procedure.
   Each of the said municipal judges shall receive such annual compensation as
shall be fixed by ordinance, but such annual compensation shall not be less
than seven thousand dollars per year. The compensation provided shall be in
lieu of fees, costs and charges, both in civil and criminal cases[,] to which
such municipal judges shall be entitled, but for the provisions of this
chapter, except those for performance of marriage ceremonies and for
administering oaths in matters not connected with suits and proceedings in said
city. The judges shall be required to devote such time to the duties of their
office as will at all times keep their dockets current with pending legal
matters, and shall not permit a back-log of cases, either civil or criminal[,]
to accumulate in accordance with proper administration of justice, and shall
prescribe the hours of court, rules of practice and procedures therein, which
are not inconsistent with this charter of statute, and each of the municipal
judges shall file with the council promptly at the end of each year an annual
report of the court's activities, moneys received, expenses and budget for the
next fiscal year. The municipal judges shall be permitted to carry on their
respective legal practices, but shall be prohibited at all times from the
private practice of law in the Municipal Court of the City of Inkster.
Sec. 17.11 Fees, general law applicable.
   All the provisions of the general laws of the State of Michigan in relation
to the fees chargeable in the several proceedings in the justice courts in
townships shall apply to said court, except as such fees may be modified by the
city council, and shall be collected for the use and benefit of the City of
Inkster. The council shall by ordinance establish and fix the fees and costs
which may be taxed by the court in all civil matters and in all cases for the
violations of the charter or city ordinances and in such criminal cases which
are not inconsistent with the general laws of the state. The council shall by
ordinance also fix and determine the fees to be paid the constables for the
service of criminal or civil process. Such ordinance shall be originally
enacted within ninety days after the effective date of this charter.
Sec. 17.12 Disposition of fees, costs and fines.
   (a)   Civil cases. All fees in civil cases shall be collected by the court
and turned over to the city treasurer within thirty days after the receipt
thereof and shall be credited to the general fund of the city.
   (b)   State criminal cases.  
      (1)   All fees and costs in state criminal cases shall be charged and
presented to and audited by the Board of Supervisors of Wayne County, in the
same manner and amounts as provided by law in the cases of justices of the
peace in townships and upon allowance by said Board, shall be paid monthly by
said county to the city treasurer for the use and benefit of the city and shall
be credited to the general fund of the city. The expenses of prosecution before
the court for violations of criminal laws of the state and in punishing the
offenders shall be paid by the County of Wayne;
      (2)   All fees, costs, penalties and forfeitures imposed by the court in
state criminal cases shall be paid over by the court to the county treasurer on
or before the last day of the month following receipt thereof.
   (c)   Character and ordinance violations. All fines, costs, penalties,
forfeitures and moneys collected or receive by the court on account of
violations of any provisions of the charter or ordinances of the city shall be
paid over by the court to the city treasurer on or before the last day of the
month following receipt thereof and shall be credited to the general fund of
the city.
   (d)   Failure to comply. Failure of the presiding officer of the court to
comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute misconduct in
office.
Sec. 17.13 Judges bonds.
   Each municipal judge, in addition to any security required by law to be
given for the performance of his official duties, shall[,] before entering upon
the duties of office, give a bond to the city in the penal sum of not less than
five thousand dollars with such sureties that may be imposed by the city clerk
conditioned for the faithful performance of the duties of the municipal judge
within and for the city, and for payment to the city of all moneys collected or
received by such judge which by the provisions of the general laws of the state
or of this charter, he shall be required to pay into the treasury of said city.
The premium for said bonds shall be paid for from the general fund of the city.
Sec. 17.14 Court clerk and deputies.
   There shall be a court clerk who shall be appointed by the unanimous vote of
the municipal judges of the City of Inkster and shall serve at their pleasure.
The council may by ordinance provide for one or more deputy clerks, all of whom
shall be appointed by the unanimous vote of the municipal judges of the City of
Inkster. The clerk and deputy clerks of the municipal court shall be under the
direction and control of the municipal judges and subject to their orders. Such
clerk and deputy clerks shall also, by virtue of their office, have the
statutory power to administer oaths to persons making affidavits for writs in
civil causes and to issue all process and attest to the same in the name of the
presiding officer of the court and shall be required to collect all fees,
costs, fines and other moneys paid into court and to keep a record of the same
and to pay over all such moneys to the authorities of the city or county or
other persons entitled to the same as directed by this charter, by the proper
authorities, or by the general law of the state, and the council shall cause
such records to be audited annually.
Sec. 17.15 Court officer.
   The police department[,] upon the order of the then presiding municipal
judge, shall provide a court officer who shall have all the duties of court
officers of the circuit courts of the state, and who shall serve in such
capacity under the direction of the municipal judges and subject to their
orders.
Sec. 17.16 Jury trials.
   Each calendar month from and after the effective date of this charter is
hereby designated and established as a term for the trial of jury cases in the
municipal court for this city, and during such term jury cases may be set for
trial upon any day thereof, or as soon thereafter as such trial can be reached
unless otherwise provided by the rules of the court. The council shall as soon
as possible after the effective date of this charter, adopt by ordinance the
provisions of Act 288, Public Acts of Michigan for 1929, as amended, in the
manner as required by the aforesaid act. If any party demands a jury in any
civil action in said municipal court, he shall advance to the clerk the sum of
forty-five dollars as a jury fee and the same shall belong to the City of
Inkster and shall be turned over by said clerk in the same manner as is
required in the case of other moneys received by him.
Sec. 17.17 Place of court and furnishings.  
   The council shall furnish and continue suitable quarters and places for a
municipal courtroom or courtrooms and shall provide for all necessary expenses
in connection with the establishment and maintenance of the municipal court of
said city, and shall furnish the necessary furniture, fixtures, dockets, legal
reference books, stationery for use in the business of the court and a law
library containing[,] but not limited to, the Michigan Reports, the Statutes of
the State of Michigan, and such other law books as may be requested by the
municipal judges and approved by the council.
Sec. 17.18 Probation.
   The council may by ordinance provide for the employment of a chief probation
officer and such assistant probation officers as are recommended by the
municipal judges, said probation officers to be recommended and appointed by
the Michigan Corrections Commission. Such officer or officers shall act as
probation officers within the limits of the territorial jurisdiction of the
Municipal Court of the City of Inkster or within the probation district to
which he or they shall have been appointed. They shall receive such
compensation as the council may provide, and the municipal court shall have
such probationary powers as are provided in Chapter XI of Act 175 of the Public
Acts of 1927, of the State of Michigan (Code of Criminal Procedure), as
amended, and such probation officers may be required to perform such additional
related duties as may be ordered by the municipal judges.
Sec. 17.19 Words `Justice' and `judge' synonymous.
   Whenever the words `justice of the peace' or `justices of the peace' may
appear in other chapters of this charter, they shall be construed to mean
`municipal judge' or `municipal judges' as the case may be.
Sec. 17.20 Pending causes saved.
   All civil and criminal causes pending, and all rights and liabilities
existing, acquired or incurred at the time this charter takes effect, and all
suits and prosecutions for the recovery or enforcing of fines, penalties and
forfeitures imposed by the ordinances of the Village of Inkster to punish
offenders for the violation of the Village of Inkster charter and ordinances
therein prescribed and directed, that are pending before either of the justices
of the peace of the Townships of Dearborn and Nankin when the charter takes
effect, are hereby saved, and such proceedings shall be consummated in the
Municipal Court of the City of Inkster. It is the intention that this charter
shall not be construed to alter, affect or abate any pending prosecutions and
all prosecutions instituted after the effective date of this charter for
offenses committed prior to the effective date of this charter may be continued
or instituted in said court.
Sec. 17.21 Violations bureau.
   The council shall establish by ordinance a violations bureau under the
direction of the municipal court for the handling of such minor ordinance
violations including traffic violations, other than failure to stop in event of
an accident, driving while under the influence of intoxicating liquors or
narcotics, reckless driving, or speeding in excess of a speed indicated by
ordinance as the council may prescribe. Any person who has received notice to
appear in answer to a violation of any of the ordinances of the city as above
referred to, may within the time specified in the notice, answer at the
violations bureau to the charge set forth in such notice by paying a prescribed
fine which cannot be waived by the bureau and, plead guilty to the charge,
waiving a hearing in court and giving power of attorney to the person in charge
of the bureau to make such a plea and pay such fine in court. Acceptance of the
prescribed fine and the power of attorney by the bureau shall be deemed to be
complete satisfaction for the violation and the violator shall be given a
receipt which so states. The creation of such bureau by the council shall not
operate so as to deprive any person of the right to a full and impartial
hearing in court should such person so choose. The employees of the violation
[s] bureau shall be appointed by the municipal judges and shall be subject to
their orders and control and shall receive such compensation as shall be
determined by the council.
Sec. 17.22 Constables.
   [Ordinance No. 402, adopted 12/20/71, has abolished the office of constable,
pursuant to authority contained in Act No. 26 of the Public Acts of 1971.
Accordingly, this section of the original charter has not been reproduced and
may be considered of no further effect.]
Sec. 17.23 Education and rehabilitation commission.
   The council may by ordinance establish an educational and rehabilitation
commission for the Municipal Court of Inkster consisting of not less than three
members. The members shall be inhabitants of the City of Inkster, shall be
nominated by the municipal judges and shall be appointed by the council. Duties
of the members of this commission shall be prescribed by the council and any
member of the commission may be removed by the unanimous vote of the municipal
court judges.
Sec. 17.24 Terms of court.
   The terms of the Municipal Court for the City of Inkster shall commence on
the first calendar day of each month and if the same is a legal holiday, then
on the next secular day and shall end on the last day of each month. One of the
municipal judges of the City of Inkster shall preside during each term and
unless otherwise mutually agreed upon, the municipal judges shall alternate as
presiding judge of each term. The presiding judge shall control the assignment
of cases.
Chapter 18 Policemen and Firemen Retirement System of the City
Sec. 18.1 Name and establishment.
   The City of Inkster Policemen and Firemen Retirement System, hereinafter
called the `retirement system'[,] is hereby established for the purpose of
providing retirement allowances and death benefits for policemen and firemen of
the City of Inkster, and/or their widows and children.
Sec. 18.2 Definitions.
   The following words and phrases used in this chapter, unless a different
meaning is plainly required by the context, shall have the following meaning:
   (a)   `City' shall mean the City of Inkster;
   (b)   `Council' shall mean the council of the City of Inkster;
   (c)   `Board' shall mean the board of trustees provided for in this chapter;
   (d)   `Member' shall mean any person included in the membership of the
retirement system; and `employee member' shall mean a fireman or policeman as
herein defined who is employed by the City of Inkster after the effective date
or who was on retirement under the predecessor Retirement System of the Village
of Inkster for Firemen and Policemen at the effective date;
   (e)   `Service' shall mean service rendered as a policeman or fireman while
a member of the police or fire force of the city, including similar continuous
service immediately preceding the date of incorporation of the city, as a
policeman or a fireman for the Village of Inkster;
   (f)   `Original member' shall mean any person who was a member of the
Retirement System of the Village of Inkster at the date it first became
effective;
   (g)   `New member' shall mean any person who became a member of the
Retirement System of the Village of Inkster after its establishment;
   (h)   `Aggregate contributions' shall mean the sum of all amounts deducted
from the compensation of a member and paid into the firemen's and policemen's
pension fund and not theretofore withdrawn;
   (i)   `Final monthly compensation' wherever used in this chapter shall mean
the average monthly pay of the best 60 consecutive months of pay as an employee
member from the city (and/or Village of Inkster for employee members with less
than 60 months service with the city) during the member's last 120 consecutive
months of service with the city (and/or Village of Inkster for members with
less than 120 months service with the city). In event an employee member has
less than 60 months service with the City and/or Village of Inkster at his date
of disability retirement or death, `final monthly compensation' shall mean his
average monthly pay during his entire period of continuous service;
   (j)   `Policeman' shall mean any employee of the police department holding
the rank of patrolman or higher rank, including dog warden, but it shall not
include (1) privately employed policemen; nor (2) persons temporarily employed
during emergencies; nor (3) civilian employees of the police department;
   (k)   `Fireman' shall mean any employee of the fire department holding the
rank of fire fighter or higher rank, but it shall not include (1) privately
employed firemen; nor (2) persons temporarily employed during emergencies; nor
(3) civilian employees of the fire department;
   (l)   `Widow' shall mean the person to whom a deceased member was married at
the time when total disability was incurred or when his death occurred in the
line of duty, and to whom he is still married at the time of his demise;
   (m)   `Normal retirement' shall mean termination of employment (other than
by death) of any employee member after attainment of age 55 and the minimum
service requirement specified in Section 18.3 hereof;
   (n)   `Duty total disability' shall mean the inability of an employee member
to perform the duties of his position because of accident sustained in or
illness contracted in or arising from the discharge of any duty which said
member officially owed the fire or police force of the City of Inkster (or
predecessor Village of Inkster) whether performed while on duty or leave;
   (o)   `Disability retirement' shall mean termination of employment (other
than by death) of an employee member because of duty total disability;
   (p)   `Duty death' shall mean the death of an employee member on disability
retirement or of an employee member from causes which would have entitled him,
if still living, to disability retirement[,] and `non-duty death' shall mean
the death of an employee member on normal retirement or of an employee member
from causes other than those which result in a duty death;
   (q)   `Actuarial equivalent' means with respect to any regular benefit
otherwise payable under the retirement system any other benefit substituted at
the discretion of the board of trustees with the consent of the member;
provided, however, that such substitute benefit shall have the same monetary
value as the regular benefit on the date of determination, such values to be
determined by use of the actuarial tables last adopted by the board of trustees
with the advice of the actuary for such purposes;
   (r)   `Effective date' shall mean the date of adoption of the charter of the
City of Inkster.
Sec. 18.3 Normal retirement.
   Policemen and firemen of the City of Inkster shall be subject to normal
retirement as hereinafter provided:
   (a)   Original members who are fifty-five years of age and whose services
with either or both the fire and police force shall total twenty years,
provided that the amount of time spent in the United States military, naval or
marine service by any fireman and policeman who left the force of which he was
a member to enter such United States service during World War II, future wars
or military service, and who also returned to either force within six months
after an honorable discharge from said United States service, shall be counted
as a part of the aforesaid twenty years service.
   (b)   New members and employee members who are fifty-five years of age and
whose services with either or both the fire and police force shall total
twenty-five years, provided that the amount of time spent in the United States
military, naval or marine service by any fireman and policeman who leaves the
force of which he is a member to enter such United States service, and who
returns to either force within six months after an honorable discharge from
said United States service, shall be counted as part of the aforesaid twenty-
five years service.
   (c)   An employee member may remain in service only until his sixtieth
birthday unless the head of his department requests that he be allowed to
remain longer, but in no event may a member remain in service beyond his sixty-
fifth birthday.
   (d)   Members on normal retirement under the predecessor Village of Inkster
Retirement System for Policemen and Firemen as of the effective date shall be
continued on said normal retirement benefit in a monthly amount as it exists on
the effective date of this Chapter 18 but subject thereafter to the conditions
and provisions of this Chapter 18; provided, however, that at the death of any
such retired member, benefits to his dependents if living shall be in
accordance with Section 18.9 hereof as though he were a disability retirant or
if no dependent as therein defined be living at his death, then death benefits
shall be in accordance with paragraph (d) of Section 18.6 hereof.
Sec. 18.4 Disability retirement.
   Policemen and firemen of the City of Inkster shall be subject to disability
retirement as hereinafter provided:
   (a)   Members on disability retirement under the predecessor Village of
Inkster Retirement System for Policemen and Firemen as of the effective date
shall be continued on said disability benefit in a monthly amount as it existed
on the effective date of this Chapter 18 but subject thereafter to the
conditions and provisions of this Chapter 18.
   (b)   Employee members who suffer total disability after the effective date
shall be placed on disability retirement as provided in Section 18.6 hereof and
subject to the provisions of paragraphs (c) and (d) immediately following:
   (c)   The extent and continuation of disability shall in all cases of
dispute be referred to a commission consisting of one reputable physician named
by the board and one reputable physician named by the person claiming
disability. The decision of such commission shall be made in writing and filed
with the board. In all cases where there is a disagreement between the two
physicians, they shall appoint a third physician whose decision on such matters
shall be final. In all cases where there is a dispute as to the cause of
disability, such dispute shall be referred to the board whose decision on such
matters shall be final.
   (d)   Any fireman or policeman retired for disability shall at any time upon
the request of himself or any member of the board, be re-examined by a
commission of three, constituted as provided in paragraph (c) immediately
above. If the board, after receiving a report of said commission, shall find
that said disability has ceased, then such fireman or policeman shall be
returned to duty at full pay.
Sec. 18.5 Eligibility for death benefits.
   (a)   Upon the death of an employee member which qualifies as a duty death
but who does not leave a widow or children under eighteen years of age, there
shall be paid to his estate a death benefit as provided in paragraph (d) of
Section 18.6 hereof.
   (b)   Upon the non-duty death of an employee member, there shall be paid to
his widow, if living, and if not living, then to the child or children (share
and share alike) under eighteen years of age at the time of his death, or if
neither widow nor children under eighteen years of age survive him, then to his
estate a death benefit as provided in paragraph (e) of Section 18.6 hereof.
Sec. 18.6 Benefit amounts.  
   (a)   Normal retirement benefits. Any employee member eligible for
retirement under Section 18.3 hereof, shall upon his own application be retired
and shall receive a monthly pension equal to 1/50 of his final monthly
compensation for each year, not to exceed twenty-five years of service. Such
pension shall be suspended only during the time, if any, such retired fireman
or policeman is re-employed full time on either said fire or police force.
   (b)   Disability retirement benefits. Any employee member eligible for
retirement under Section 18.4 hereof shall receive a monthly pension equal to
one-half of his final monthly compensation. Any benefits payable under this
paragraph (b) shall be subject to the provisions of Section 18.10 hereof.
   (c)   No employee member shall be retired (other than as provided in
paragraph (c) of Section 18.3 hereof) except on his own application unless
given a full opportunity to be heard in opposition thereto.
   (d)   Duty death benefits. The amount of the death benefit payable to the
estate of the deceased employee member eligible under paragraph (a) of Section
18.5 hereof shall be equal to the sum of one thousand dollars plus his
aggregate contributions into the pension fund, reduced by the aggregate pension
payments, if any, received by the employee member prior to his death and/or by
his dependents (widow or children below eighteen years of age).
   (e)   Non-duty death benefit. The amount of the non-duty death benefit
payable to the dependents of the deceased employee member (i. e., to his widow
or children below the age of eighteen years eligible under paragraph (b) of
Section 18.5 hereof[,] shall be equal to the sum of eighteen times his final
monthly compensation plus his aggregate contributions into the pension fund;
provided, however, that such benefit shall be paid in monthly installments
(including interest on the unpaid balance at the rate of 3½% per annum) over
such period (but not less than thirty-six months) as in the sole discretion of
the board of trustees is in the best interests of said dependents. In event the
non-duty death benefit is payable to the estate of the deceased employee
member, it shall be paid in a lump sum amount equal to the sum of one thousand
dollars plus his aggregate contributions into the pension fund.
   (f)   Optional forms of retirement benefits. 
      (1)   General provisions relative to options. Subject to the conditions
hereinafter stated, an eligible employee member may, by filing a written
request with the city clerk (as agent for the board of trustees) prior to his
normal retirement date, elect to receive his pension under one of the optional
forms hereinafter set forth in this subsection (f) of Section 18.6. The amount
of payments under an optional form shall be the actuarial equivalent, as of the
date the option becomes effective, of the pension the eligible employee member
would otherwise be entitled to receive.
      (2)   Contingent pension option. The eligible employee member may elect
to receive a reduced monthly pension with the provision that, if his death
should occur after the option becomes effective, the designated spouse or child
or children under the age of eighteen as contingent pensioner shall receive
monthly payments in the same reduced amount (100%), or one-half thereof (50%),
as designated in writing by the employee at the time of his election, so long
as such contingent pensioner shall survive the employee member.
   In order to elect this option, an eligible employee member must file a
written request with the City clerk prior to his retirement date. This option,
if elected, shall become effective at the employee member's normal retirement
date provided he has made such election at least three years prior to his
normal retirement date, or, if made within such three years period, provided he
has, at the time of making such election, submitted evidence satisfactory to
the board of trustees of his then current good health. If an eligible employee
who has elected the option under this subsection within such three year period
is unable or unwilling to submit evidence satisfactory to the board of trustees
of his then current good health, such option may, at the employee member's
election, become effective commencing with the first day of the month following
the third anniversary of the date on which the election of this option is
accepted by the board of trustees even though the employee member may retire
prior to such effective date of the option; provided, however, that both the
employee member and his contingent pensioner are alive on said effective date
of the option.
   If at the time of the employee member's death the option has become
effective, pension payments to the contingent pensioner will commence as of the
first day of the month following the month in which the employee member's death
occurs, if the contingent pensioner is then living.
   The last pension payment under this option if effective will be the monthly
payment due on the first day of the month in which the death of the survivor of
the employee member and his contingent pensioner occurs.
   In the event that (i) either the employee member or his contingent pensioner
dies prior to the date the option becomes effective or (ii) the monthly amount
of pension payment which would become payable to the contingent pensioner is
less than ten dollars, or (iii) the employee member does not, prior to the
effective date of the option, or within three hundred and sixty days after his
election of the option, whichever is earlier, furnish evidence, satisfactory to
the board of trustees[,] of the age of his contingent pensioner, the option
shall not become effective and pension payments, if any, shall be made as
otherwise provided in paragraph (a) of Section 18.6 hereof as if the option had
never been elected.
   After an election of the contingent pensioner option has been made and
accepted by the board of trustees[,] it cannot be modified or rescinded without
the written consent of the board of trustees, which consent will not be given
if it would be detrimental to the pension fund.
      (3)   120 month option. An eligible employee member may, by written
application to the city clerk which is received at least three years prior to
the date of his normal retirement, elect to convert his normal retirement
benefit into an optional form of retirement benefit payable in reduced amount
to himself for life but guaranteed in any event for a minimum of one hundred
twenty months. The three year advance application requirement may be waived by
the board of trustees if it receives satisfactory evidence of the then current
good health of the employee member. If an eligible employee member who has
elected the option under this subsection within such three year period is
unable or unwilling to submit evidence satisfactory to the board of trustees of
his then current good health, such option may, at the employee member's
election become effective commencing with the first day of the month following
the third anniversary of the date on which the election of this option is
accepted by the board of trustees even though the employee member may retire
prior to such effective date of the option. After an election of the option has
been made and accepted by the board of trustees, it cannot be modified or
rescinded without the written consent of the board of trustees which consent
will not be given if it would be detrimental to the pension fund.
      (4)   Additional optional forms. The board of trustees may adopt uniform
rules granting additional optional benefits which are actuarial equivalents of
the benefits normally payable under the plan[,] but such additional options
shall be made available only under terms which safeguard the pension fund and
do not increase the cost of the retirement system to the city as certified by
the actuary under the plan.
Sec. 18.7 Proof of continued disability.
   Any employee member retired for disability shall at any time upon the
request of himself or any member of the board, be re-examined by a commission
of three, constituted as provided in Section 18.4 (c). If the board, after
receiving a report of said commission, shall find that said disability has
ceased, then such fireman or policeman shall be returned to duty at full pay.
Sec. 18.8 Partial disability.
   If any employee member shall be disabled (from causes which would result in
duty total disability) to the extent that he cannot perform in full the
particular duties of his position but shall be able to perform other duties on
his particular force, to which he may be assigned, then such fireman or
policeman shall receive a monthly partial disability benefit of one-half of the
difference between the rate of pay he was entitled to receive at the time his
disability was caused and the rate of pay of the position to which he may be
assigned.
Sec. 18.9 Dependent's benefits.
   Upon the death of an employee member from causes which would entitle him if
still living to disability retirement or of a member on disability retirement
or partial disability retirement there shall be paid to his widow, if living
and not remarried, or to his children under eighteen years of age, a monthly
pension equal in the aggregate to the monthly total disability benefit said
employee member was entitled to receive at the time his disability was caused,
subject to Section 18.10 hereof and to the following conditions:
   (1)   The employee member's widow shall[,] during her lifetime or until she
remarries, receive such pension.
   (2)   Should said employee member so die leaving no widow or upon the
remarriage of his widow, his child or children under the age of eighteen years
shall receive such pension, share and share alike. When any of such children
attain the age of eighteen years or shall die, the share of such child shall be
paid to the remaining child or children under the age of eighteen years, share
and share alike, until the remaining child or children reach the age of
eighteen years respectively whereupon the pension shall cease.
Sec. 18.10 Deductions.
   Any amounts which may be paid or payable under the provisions of any
workmen's compensation act, or pension act, or similar law, to a member, or to
the dependents of a member on account of any disability or death, shall be
offset against and payable in lieu. of any benefits payable out of funds
provided by the city under the provisions of this retirement system on account
of the same disability or death. In case the present value of the total
benefits under said workmen's compensation act, pension act or similar law, is
less than the present value of the pension otherwise payable from the firemen's
and policemen's pension fund, then the present value of the payments shall be
deducted from the present value of the pension and the remaining present value
of the pension so reduced shall be payable in reduced actuarial equivalent
amounts under the provisions of this retirement system.
Sec. 18.11 Termination of service.
   If an employee member terminates his service with the fire or police force
other than by death and is ineligible for retirement benefits under this
Chapter 18, he shall receive a refund in a cash lump sum of his aggregate
contributions held in the pension fund.
Sec. 18.12 Effecting and terminating retirements.
   All retirements of every nature herein provided for shall be effected and
terminated by resolution of the board of trustees.
Sec. 18.13 Applications for pensions.
   Applications for pensions shall be made in writing to the board and shall be
filed with the city clerk. The applicant shall furnish such proofs as shall be
required by the board. Proof of deduction from pay as herein provided shall be
prima facie evidence that the person from whose pay deduction was made, was a
policeman or fireman. Any person who shall make any false statement for the
purpose of securing or to aid any person to secure such pension, shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punishable by a fine not to exceed one
hundred dollars or imprisonment not to exceed ninety days, or both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
Sec. 18.14 Fireman's and policeman's pension list.
   The city clerk shall keep in his office a book to be known as the `Fireman's
and Policeman's Pension List.' This book shall give a full and complete history
and record of the action of the board in granting a pension to any person or
persons. Such record shall give the names of the firemen and policemen to whom
or to whose dependents such pensions have been granted, the date when such
pension was first allowed and the reason therefor. Whenever a pension shall be
allowed to any person or persons by the board as herein provided, it shall be
the duty of the city clerk to transmit the names of all such persons to the
city treasurer who shall register such names in his office as persons entitled
to such pensions.
Sec. 18.15 Fireman's and policeman's pension fund.
   There shall be maintained for the purpose of paying pensions as herein
provided, a fund to be known as the fireman's and policeman's pension fund.
Moneys in such fund shall be used exclusively for the payment of pensions as
provided herein. All rewards and proceeds of gifts from any source, all
emoluments that may be allowed by the council on account of extraordinary
service performed by members of the fire or police force and all fines imposed
for violation of rules, shall be paid into such fund. There shall be deducted
by the city from the pay of each employee member seven [per cent] of his salary
[,] which money shall be paid into said fireman's and policeman's pension fund;
provided, however, that an employee member who has completed the minimum
requirements for normal retirement under Section 18. 3 hereof may elect at any
time thereafter to have such deductions terminate in which case his benefits
(upon his subsequent retirement or death under the retirement system) shall be
based upon his final monthly compensation under the assumption that his final
120 months of service ended with the last date on which a 7% deduction was made
from his pay. The city shall appropriate at the end of such regular intervals
as may be adopted, quarterly, semi-annually or annually, an amount sufficient
to maintain actuarially determined reserves covering pensions payable or which
might be payable on account of services performed and to be performed by active
employee members and pensions being paid retired members and beneficiaries. Any
clerical, legal, actuarial or medical expenses required by the board, or any
other necessary expense for the operation of this retirement system[,] shall be
provided for by the city.
Sec. 18.16 Board of trustees.
   There shall be a board of trustees consisting of five members. Within ninety
days after the effective date of this charter one member shall be appointed by
the mayor for a term expiring on the first Monday in January of 1970; one
member shall be appointed by the council for a term expiring on the first
Monday in January of 1969; one member shall be appointed by the fire force and
one member shall be appointed by the police force, each for a term expiring on
the first Monday in January of 1968. These four members shall appoint a fifth
member for a term expiring on the first Monday in January of 1967. Thereafter
members shall be appointed in like manner for two year terms. All members shall
hold office until their successors are appointed, anything herein to the
contrary notwithstanding. It shall be the duty of the board of trustees to
administer the pension fund. The board of trustees shall have complete
discretion as to the investment of the pension fund; provided, however, that
the board of trustees shall invest only in such securities as are permitted by
the laws of the State of Michigan for investment of trust funds of a city
retirement system (or policemen and firemen retirement system, if more
restrictive).
Sec. 18.17 Corporate trustee or agent.
   The board of trustees shall be empowered:
   (a)   To appoint a bank or banks or trust company or trust companies, or
insurance company or insurance companies, to be designated as `corporate
trustee' and to enter into and execute a trust agreement or agreements with
such `corporate trustee', to provide for the investment and reinvestment of the
assets of the trust fund in any type of investments that are legal for trust
funds in the State of Michigan held for a city retirement system (or policemen
and firemen retirement system, if more restrictive). Said agreement shall
incorporate therein such other provisions (consistent with this Chapter 18) as
may be deemed desirable by the board of trustees for the proper management of
the trust fund and upon execution to convey and transfer to such corporate
trustee any of the assets of the trust fund. The board of trustees shall be
forever released and discharged from any responsibility or liability with
respect to any assets which they may convey to such corporate trustee.
   (b)   To enter into agreements, contracts and other instruments for the
deposit of funds with banks, trust companies or insurance companies or other
institutions which accept and hold money on deposit, and to authorize such
depositary to act as custodian of the funds, whether in cash or securities or
other property, and to authorize such depositary or depositaries to convert,
invest and reinvest funds, entirely or in part, into securities of any kind and
nature whatsoever; to authorize withdrawals of moneys from such account or
accounts, checks for such purposes shall be signed by any two of the officials
authorized to sign the general fund checks, one of whom shall be the treasurer
of the City of Inkster.
Sec. 18.18 Non-alienation of benefits.
   No moneys owed to any disabled or retired fireman or policeman or his widow
or to his children or dependents, shall be held, seized, taken or detained, or
levied on by virtue of attachment, execution, injunction, writ, interlocutory
or other order or decree or any process or proceeding whatever issued out of
any court of this state, for the payment or satisfaction in whole or in part of
any debt, damages, claim, demand or judgment against any such fireman or
policeman or widow, or guardian of any minor child or children. And no
pensioner shall have the right to assign his or her pension or any part
thereof. But said money shall be sacredly kept secured and distributed for the
purpose of pensioning the persons named and for no other purposes whatever.
Sec. 18.19 Monthly list; examination, order for payment.
   At the last meeting of the council in each month, the treasurer shall
present a list of the persons as shown by the record in his office, entitled to
pensions[,] the amount payable to each such person. The council shall examine
such list and if found to be correct, shall order the payment of moneys due all
such persons. A warrant shall be drawn, for the payment to each person entitled
to such moneys ill the same manner as is provided for the payment of all other
claims against the city. Such pensions shall be paid out of the firemen's and
policemen's pension fund.
Sec. 18.20 Applicants for pensions, examination under oath.
   Before issuing any warrant for the payment of a pension, it shall be the
duty of the treasurer to examine under oath all applicants for such pensions
with a view to ascertaining if they are at that time entitled to a pension as
provided for herein. Whenever the said treasurer shall learn that any person
has ceased to be entitled to a pension, he shall record the fact on the roll of
pensioners, and promptly notify the council of such finding and such persons
shall thereupon be dropped from the rolls.
Sec. 18.21 Time of pension payments.
   All pensions shall be payable at the office of the city treasurer on the
first secular day in each month. In all cases where pensions are payable
because of injuries received by any fireman or policeman resulting in the death
of such person, such pension shall be allowed from date of death, or in cases
of disability, such pension shall be allowed from the date when the injury was
received resulting in such disability.
Sec. 18.22 Construction of chapter.
   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to apply to firemen or policemen
appointed at the request and expense of private parties. The terms `fireman'
and, `policeman' herein used, shall be construed to include any woman who shall
be appointed as firewoman or policewoman. In case of the death of a firewoman
or policewoman under conditions which create the right of pensions under the
terms hereof, then the widower shall have the same right to a pension as would
a widow surviving a fireman or policeman.
Sec. 18.23 Pensions represent contractual obligations.
   Pensions granted during the continuance of and under the provisions of this
chapter of the city charter shall represent contractual obligations between the
city and the pensioners and shall not be revoked, repealed or diminished.
Sec. 18.24 Village retirement system, transfer of funds.
   It is the intention that upon the adoption and taking effect of this chapter
of the charter that the action of the people of the Village of Inkster in
heretofore establishing the Retirement System for the Policemen and Firemen of
the Village of Inkster be and the same is hereby rescinded and held for naught,
and the funds which are on deposit with the pension fund under said village
retirement system be transferred over to the pension fund under this Retirement
System of the City of Inkster for Policemen and Firemen.
Sec. 18.25 Integration with federal social security.
   If at any time federal and/or State of Michigan laws shall permit inclusion
of employee members under Title II of the Federal Social Security Act, the city
council may amend the provisions of the retirement system to provide as
follows:
      (1)   Employee members shall be covered under the provisions of the
Federal Social Security Act to the extent permitted by laws of the State of
Michigan and the United States Government.
      (2)   Employee member contributions shall thereupon be reduced by the
amount of any social security tax which must thereafter be deducted from their
pay as policemen or firemen of the city.
      (3)   Retirement benefits, death benefits and beneficiary's or
dependent's benefits of all kinds under the retirement system may be reduced to
the extent that corresponding benefits are payable under the federal social
security program; provided, however, that deductions shall be provided for at
least to the extent that the total cost of the retirement system to the City of
Inkster (including federal social security taxes payable by the city) shall not
be increased above the city cost requirements prior to participation in the
federal social security program.
Chapter 19 Civil Service System
Sec. 19.1 Civil service ordinance.
   The council shall, within ninety days after the effective date of this
charter, adopt an ordinance providing for a civil service system for all the
employees of the City of Inkster except as otherwise provided for in this
charter.
   (a)   The ordinance shall contain a provision providing for unclassified
service and classified service and shall exclude all the following officers and
employees from the provisions of the civil service system, to-wit, all officers
of the city whether elected or appointed, all part-time employees, all board or
commission members appointed directly by the mayor and/or by the council, and
any other head of any other department of the city which are now or may
hereafter be created whether specifically mentioned herein or not. The
classified service shall include all other positions in the city. Such
ordinance, when adopted[,] shall provide a professional and impartial approach
to municipal personnel problems, based solely on the fitness, training, and
experience of employees and expectant employees of the city, with no
discrimination on account of racial, political, or religious backgrounds or
opinions.
   (b)   The ordinance adopted pursuant to this section shall provide for a
civil service commission of three members who shall be qualified and registered
electors in the City of Inkster and who shall, while in office, hold no other
city office or city appointment nor shall they serve on any municipal political
committee or take part in the management of any municipal political campaign.
   (c)   The first member of the civil service commission shall be appointed by
the mayor subject to the approval and consent of the council[,] whose term
shall expire at the expiration of the first term of the mayor; the second
member of the commission shall be appointed by all of the municipal employees
of the city[,] whose term shall expire one year after the expiration of the
term of the first member; the two members so appointed shall at their first
meeting after their appointment[, which shall be held not less than thirty days
thereafter, appoint the third member[,] whose term shall expire
one year after the expiration of the second member's term. Thereafter, upon the
expiration of the respective terms of the commission, the party making the
appointment in the first instance shall continue to appoint for that term and
all reappointments after the expiration of the original terms shall
be for a term of three years each.
   (d)   The ordinance shall include such other regulations, conditions and
provisions that are necessary to implement the intent of this section.
Chapter 20 Schedule
Sec. 20.1 Submission of charter.
   This charter shall be submitted to the electors of the territory
constituting the City of Inkster for their approval or rejection at an election
to be held on the 5th day of October, 1964.
Sec. 20.2 Effective date.
   If this charter be approved at said election[,] then printed copies thereof
with the vote for and against the same, duly certified, shall[,] within thirty
days from the date of said election, be filed with the Secretary of State and
the Clerk of the County of Wayne. This charter shall take effect at 8:00
o'clock p.m. on Monday, the 16th day of November, 1964.
RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION
   At a regular meeting of the charter commission of the City of Inkster held
on the 21st day of July A.D., 1964, the following resolution was offered by
Commissioner Carroll.
   RESOLVED that the Charter Commission of the City of Inkster does hereby
adopt the foregoing proposed Charter for the City of Inkster and the Secretary
of this Commission is directed to transmit a copy of this Charter to the
Governor of the State of Michigan for his approval in accordance with statute
and to cause this proposed Charter to be published in accordance with law.
   Be it further resolved that at the special election called for Monday, the
5th day of October, A.D., 1964, there be elected, not only the first mayor, the
first six councilmen and the first two judges of the Municipal Court of the
City of Inkster, but also the first two constables of the City of Inkster as in
such Charter proposed. Resolution supported by Commissioner Piercecchi and
adopted by the following vote:
   AYE                  NAY                  ABSENT
   Perry                  None                  None
   Carroll
   Hamlin
   Dickson
   Hawthorne
   Holt
   Foster
   Piercecchi
   Wagner
   The Chairman declared the foregoing resolution carried and requested the
members of the Charter Commission to authenticate said resolution and also the
copy of the Charter to be presented to the Governor. All of the Commissioners
thereupon authenticated the Resolution and Charter to be presented to the
Governor by subscribing their names as follows:
/s/ George R. Perry, Chairman
/s/ Leon S. Carroll, Vice-Chairman
/s/ Clyde A. Hamlin, Secretary
/s/ Martha Dickson
/s/ Frank A. Hawthorne
/s/ John G. Holt
/s/ Guy L. Foster
/s/ C. Daniel Piercecchi
/s/ John P. Wagner
   The meeting thereupon adjourned subject to the call of the Chairman.
   I, Clyde A. Hamlin, Secretary of the Charter Commission elected to frame a
Charter for the City of Inkster, Michigan, do hereby certify that the foregoing
Charter was duly adopted by said Charter Commission at a session thereof held
on the 21st day of July A.D., 1964.
DATED: July 21, 1964
                        Clyde A. Hamlin
                        Secretary of the Charter Commission
   I do hereby approve the above and foregoing charter of the City of Inkster.
                        Dated, September 2, 1964
                        /s/ GEORGE W. ROMNEY
                        Governor of the State of Michigan
   Resolution and Certification of Election
   Held on October 5, 1964
   Inkster, Michigan
   At a meeting of the Board of Canvassers appointed by the Charter Commission
for the City of Inkster, held on the 7th day of October, 1964, at 8:00 o'clock
p.m., Eastern Standard Time, for the purpose of certifying the results of the
election for the adoption of the Charter of the City of Inkster, Michigan, the
election of a mayor, six councilmen, two municipal judges and two constables,
which election was held on Monday, the 5th day of October, 1964.
Present: Leon S. Carroll, Martha Dickson and John Holt
Absent: None   
   The meeting was called to order by Chairman Carroll and the Chairman
announced that a Certificate of Election Inspectors from Nankin Township
Precincts Nos. 3, 5, 8, 13, 14, 17, 24, 31 and 33, and Dearborn Township
Precincts Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, showing the results of the votes cast for
adoption of the Charter of the City of Inkster, held on October 5, 1964, it
appears that the total ballots cast were 5,097 and that said votes were cast as
follows:
In favor of the adoption of the Charter               4,304
Against the adoption of the Charter                 793
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, That the Board of Canvassers hereby certifies and
determines that the Charter of the City of Inkster was duly adopted.
   ROLL CALL:
               AYES: Carroll, Dickson, Holt
               NAYS: None
   I, CLYDE A. HAMLIN, Secretary of the Charter Commission, elected to frame a
Charter for the City of Inkster, Michigan, do hereby certify that the foregoing
is a true copy of the canvass and Certificate of Election of the Board of
Canvassers appointed by the Charter Commission for the City of Inkster in
meeting held October 7, 1964.
DATED: October 7, 1964
                        Clyde A. Hamlin,
                        Secretary of Charter Commission
   I hereby certify that the above is a true and exact copy of the Resolution
and Certification of Election held on October 5, 1964.
                        Freda DePlanche,
                        City Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to other sections
   
10.09   Reference to offices
   
10.10   Errors and omissions
   
10.11   Official time
   
10.12   Reasonable time
   
10.13   Ordinances repealed
   
10.14   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.15   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.16   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.17   Ordinances which amend or supplement code
   
10.18   Section histories
   
10.19   Legal age of majority
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the City of Inkster shall be
designated as the Code of Inkster and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Inkster. ('68 Code, § 1-102)
   CITY, MUNICIPAL CORPORATION, MUNICIPALITY, or TOWN. The City of Inkster,
Michigan.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This municipal code as modified
by amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNCIL. The words COUNCIL and CITY COUNCIL mean the Council of the City of
Inkster. ('68 Code, § 1-102)
   COUNTY. Wayne County, Michigan.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   NUMBER. Words in either the singular or plural numbers shall include either
or both numbers and may apply in any instance to a particular person or
persons. ('68 Code, § 1-102)
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this municipality unless the context
clearly requires otherwise.
   OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part-owner, joint-
owner, tenant-in-common, tenant-in- partnership, joint-tenant, or tenant-by-
the-entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land. ('68 Code, §
1-102)
   PERSON. Includes firms, joint adventures, partnerships, corporations, clubs
and all associations or organizations of natural persons, either incorporated
or unincorporated, howsoever operating or named, and whether acting by
themselves or by a servant, agent or fiduciary, and includes all legal
representatives, heirs, successors and assigns thereof. ('68 Code, § 1-102).
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. When used by way of reference to any title, chapter
or section of any ordinance of the city, shall be construed to mean the title,
chapter or section next preceding or next following that in which such
reference is made, unless when some other title, chapter or section is
expressly designated in such reference. ('68 Code, § 1-102)
   PROPERTY. Includes real and personal property.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, cemetery, public building, or any
place of business or assembly open to the public or frequented by the public.
('68 Code, § 1-102)
   SEAL. In all cases in which the seal of any court or public office shall be
required to be affixed to any paper issuing from such court or office, the word
SEAL shall be construed to mean the impression of such seal on such paper
alone, as well as the impression of such seal affixed thereto by means of a
wafer or wax. ('68 Code, § 1-102)
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   WEEK. Seven days. ('68 Code, § 1-102)
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this municipality shall be by the
following rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of
the legislative body or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
"and/or," if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OTHER SECTIONS.
   Whenever in one section reference is made to another section hereof, such
reference shall extend and apply to the section referred to as subsequently
amended, revised, recodified, or renumbered unless the subject matter is
changed or materially altered by the amendment or revision.
§ 10.09 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this municipality exercising the powers,
duties, or functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any
transfer of functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.10 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.11 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this city for the transaction of all municipal
business.
§ 10.12 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.13 ORDINANCES REPEALED.
   This code, from and after its effective date, shall contain all of the
provisions of a general nature pertaining to the subjects herein enumerated and
embraced. All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated by this code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of this code.
§ 10.14 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.15 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the City Council requiring publication shall take
effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise expressly
provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from their
passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.16 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in anywise be effected, released, or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause, or provision
shall by itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.17 ORDINANCES WHICH AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the City Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance which is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.18 SECTION HISTORIES.
   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage date of
the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances, if any,
are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord. 10, passed 5-
13-60; Am. Ord. 15, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 20, passed 1-1-80; Am. Ord. 25,
passed 1-1-85)
§ 10.19 LEGAL AGE OF MAJORITY.
   Whenever in this code of ordinances a reference is made to persons having
attained the age of 21 years, such reference shall be construed as applicable
to persons having attained the age of 18 years, the state having by official
legislative action determined the legal age of majority to be 18 years.
('68 Code, § 1-101.1)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Whenever in this code of the city, any act is prohibited, made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever is this code the doing of
any act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful,
the violation of any such provision of this code by any person shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and the costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court; said imprisonment may be in the
county jail or city prison or in any work house in the state authorized by law
to receive prisoners from the city. ('68 Code, § 1-108)
   (B)   In addition to the penalties whenever provided, any condition caused
or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of any ordinance
shall be deemed a new and separate offense for each day that such condition
continues to exist. ('68 Code, § 1-109)
(Ord. 30, passed - - )
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   CITY COUNCIL
      
31.   CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
      
32.   DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER REGULATORY BODIES
      
33.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
34.   EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
      
35.   ELECTIONS
      
36.   TAXATION
      
37.   PURCHASING; CONTRACTS
      
38.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
      
39.   CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
      
40.   CITY POLICY
      
41.   MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATIVE FEES; USER FEES
CHAPTER 30: CITY COUNCIL
Section
   
30.01   Meetings
§ 30.01 MEETINGS.
   Regular meetings of the City Council shall be held on the first and third
Monday of every month at 7:30 p.m. If Monday is a holiday and city hall is
closed, Council does not have a permanent chamber and the location of the
meeting is subject to change.
Cross-reference:
   Meetings, see Charter, Secs.
7.1,
7.2
CHAPTER 31: CITY OFFICIALS AND EMPLOYEES
Section
Code of Ethics
   
31.01   Short title
   
31.02   Declaration of policy
   
31.03   Definitions
   
31.04   Standards of conduct
   
31.05   Board of ethics; powers and duties
Cross-reference:
   Public Liability Insurance Reserve Fund, see §§
38.01 through
38.07
CODE OF ETHICS
§ 31.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Code of Ethics Subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1501) (Ord. 540, passed 8-6-79)
§ 31.02 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   The proper operation of democratic government requires that public officials
and employees be independent, impartial and responsible to the people; that
government decisions and policy be made in proper channels of the governmental
structure; that public office not be used for personal gain; and that the
public have confidence in the integrity of its government. In recognition of
these goals, a code of ethics for city officials is adopted. The purpose of
this subchapter is to establish guidelines for ethical standards of conduct for
all such officials by setting forth those acts or actions that are incompatible
with the best interests of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1502) (Ord. 540, passed 8-6-79)
§ 31.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS ENTITY. Any business, proprietorship, firm, partnership, person in
representative or fiduciary capacity, association, venture, trust or
corporation.
   CITY OFFICIAL. The Mayor, members of the City Council, the City Manager,
appointed officials and department heads.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person employed by the city or any of its agencies, in any
capacity.
   IMMEDIATE HOUSEHOLD. The city official or city employee, his spouse and all
dependent children of the city official or employee.
   INTEREST. Direct or indirect pecuniary or material benefit accruing to a
city official as a result of a contract or transaction which is or may be the
subject of an official act or action by or with the city. For the purpose of
this subchapter, a city official shall be deemed to have an interest in the
affairs of:
      (1)   Any person in his immediate household as defined in this section;
      (2)   Any business entity in which the city official is an officer or
director; or
      (3)   Any business entity in which the stock of, or legal or beneficial
ownership of, in excess of 5% of the total stock or total legal or beneficial
ownership is controlled or owned directly or indirectly by the city official.
   OFFICIAL ACT or ACTION. Any legislative, administrative, appointive or
discretionary act of any city official.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1503) (Ord. 540, passed 8-6-79; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 31.04 STANDARDS OF CONDUCT.
   All city officials as defined in §
31.03 shall be subject to and abide by the following standards of conduct:
   (A)   Interest in contract or agreement. No city official or employee as
herein defined shall have or thereafter acquire an interest in any contract or
agreement with the city.
   (B)   Use of official position. No city official or employee shall use his
official position or the city’s facilities for his private gain, nor shall he
appear before or represent any private person, group or interest before any
department, agency, commission or board of the city except in matters of purely
civil or public concern.
   (C)   Disclosure of information. No city official or employee shall use or
disclose confidential information gained in the court of or by reason of his
official position for purpose of advancing his financial or personal interest,
a business entity of which he is an owner (in part or in whole), an officer or
a director, or the financial or personnel interest of a member of his immediate
household or that of any other person.
   (D)   Incompatible service. No city official or employee shall engage in or
accept private employment or render service for private interest when such
employment or service is incompatible with the proper discharge of his official
duties or would tend to impair his independence of judgment or action in the
performance of his official duties, unless otherwise permitted by law and
unless disclosure is as provided in this code.
   (E)   Gifts. No city official or employee shall directly or indirectly
solicit any gifts or accept or receive any gift having a value of $25 or more,
whether in the form of money, services, loan, travel, entertainment,
hospitality, thing or promise, or any other form, under circumstances in which
it could reasonably be inferred that the gift was intended to influence him, or
could reasonably be expected to influence him, in the performance of his
official duties, or was intended as a reward for any official action on his
part. Legitimate political contributions shall not be considered as gifts under
the provisions of this division.
   (F)   Special treatment. No city official or employee shall grant any
special consideration, treatment or advantage to any citizen beyond that which
is available to every other citizen.
   (G)   Use of public property. No city official or employee shall request,
use or permit the use of any publicly-owned or publicly-supported property,
vehicle, equipment, material, labor or service for the personal convenience or
the private advantage of himself or any other person. This rule shall not be
deemed to prevent an official or employee from requesting, using or permitting
the use of such publicly- owned or publicly-supplied property, vehicle,
equipment, labor, material or services which is the general practiced to make
available to the public at large or for the use of conducting the official
business of the city.
   (H)   No city official or employee shall request, use or permit the use of
any consideration, treatment, advantage or favor beyond that which is general
practice to grant to make available to the public at large. All city officials
or employees shall threat all citizens of the city with courtesy, impartiality,
fairness and equality under the law.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1504) (Ord. 540, passed 8-6-79)
§ 31.05 BOARD OF ETHICS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   There is hereby established a Board of Ethics. Said Board of Ethics
shall be the Civil Service Commission for the city. The Board of Ethics shall
promulgate its own rules and regulations as to its terms and procedures and
maintain proper records of its opinions and proceedings for which expenses it
shall be reimbursed by the city for actual necessary expenses incurred in the
performance of their duties, acting as the Board of Ethics and as approved by
the City Council prior to expenditure. (‘68 Code, § 2-1505) (Ord. 540, passed
8-6-79; Am. Ord. 559, passed 11-17-80)
   (B)   The powers and duties of the Board of Ethics shall be:
      (1)   To render advisory opinions to city officials and employees in
relation to this subchapter and other codes of ethics as established by the
City Council.
      (2)   To recommend to the City Council from time to time, orders, rules
and regulations, changes in proposed resolutions and ordinances as its deems
necessary.
      (3)   To investigate and render advisory opinions to elected or appointed
officials or employees when requested to do so by said persons and as approved
by the Mayor.
      (4)   To investigate any alleged violations of this subchapter upon the
written request of the City Council or Mayor.
      (5)   The Board of Ethics is not empowered to take any direct
administrative action; however, their function shall be advisory and
investigatory.
      (6)   All requests for investigation must be done in writing.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1506) (Ord. 540, passed 8-6-79; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
Cross-reference:
   Civil Service Commission, see §
34.01
CHAPTER 32: DEPARTMENTS, COMMISSIONS AND OTHER REGULATORY BODIES
Section
Organization of Administrative Functions
   
32.001   Purpose
   
32.002   Administrative departments established
   
32.003   Policy, procedures and functions
Planning Commission
   
32.015   Establishment
   
32.016   Appointment
   
32.017   Members, term of office
   
32.018   Powers and duties
   
32.019   Expenditures; restriction
Housing Commission
   
32.030   Establishment
   
32.031   Appointment of members
   
32.032   Powers and duties
   
32.033   Employees; compensation
   
32.034   Bonds or notes
Parks and Recreation Commission
   
32.045   Composition; appointments; qualifications
   
32.046   Election of officers; adoption of rules and regulations
   
32.047   Meetings; quorum; compensation
   
32.048   Duties and responsibilities
Library and Historical Commission
   
32.060   Membership; appointment; term of office
   
32.061   Meetings; minutes; quorum
   
32.062   Election of officers
   
32.063   Compensation; expenses
   
32.064   Filling vacancies
   
32.065   Library and Historical Commission-removal from commission
   
32.066   Powers and duties
Local Officers Compensation Commission
   
32.075   Title
   
32.076   Establishment; organization
   
32.077   Duties
   
32.078   Meetings; organizations
   
32.079   Implementation
Commission on Aging
   
32.090   Establishment
   
32.091   Members; appointments; terms
   
32.092   Vacancies
   
32.093   Meetings; minutes; quorum
   
32.094   Election of officers
   
32.095   Compensation
   
32.096   Commission on Aging-removal from commission
   
32.097   Purpose and objectives
Cable Television Commission
   
32.110   Short title
   
32.111   Purpose and intent
   
32.112   Establishment of commission
   
32.113   Membership removal
   
32.114   Term of office
   
32.115   Rules of procedure
   
32.116   Powers and duties
   
32.117   Meetings
   
32.118   Budgetary consideration
   
32.119   Revenues
   
32.120   Staff liaison
   
32.121   Civil penalties
   
32.122   Hearing procedure
Office of Emergency Management
   
32.135   Intent and purpose
   
32.136   Definitions
   
32.137   Organization for emergency services
   
32.138   Cooperation of city government
   
32.139   Emergency management coordinator assistants and deputies; powers and
duties
   
32.140   Authority to administer and enforce; powers and duties
   
32.141   Volunteers; appointment; records
   
32.142   Right of city employees
   
32.143   No governmental or private liability
   
32.144   Federal surplus property
Downtown Development Authority
   
32.155   Title
   
32.156   Establishment
   
32.157   Organization
   
32.158   Powers and duties
   
32.159   Financing
   
32.160   Boundaries
   
32.161   Development Plan and Tax Increment Finance Plan
Economic Development Corporation
   
32.170   Corporate name
   
32.171   Organization; purpose
   
32.172   Financing
   
32.173   Board of directors; appointment; composition; officers
   
32.174   Corporate term
   
32.175   Internal affairs regulated
   
32.176   Earnings; compensation; assets
   
32.177   Corporate seal adopted
   
32.178   Meetings; open to public; notice
   
32.179   Books; records; annual report
   
32.180   Bylaws
ORGANIZATION OF ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS
§ 32.001 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to Charter, Section 6.7 to establish an
organization to administer the functions of the city under the Charter.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1101) (Ord. 658, passed 11-2-87)
§ 32.002 ADMINISTRATIVE DEPARTMENTS ESTABLISHED.
   The administrative service of the city shall be administered by the Mayor
and divided into the following departments and offices with the following heads
thereof:
Department or Office                Administrative Officer
Mayor, Office of                    Mayor
Personnel Department                Personnel Director
Administrative Services Department  Director of Administrative Services
City Attorney, Office of            City Attorney
City Clerk, Office of               City Clerk
Finance Department                  City Treasurer
Assessor Department                 City Assessor
Police Department                   Chief of Police
Fire Department                     Fire Chief
Community Development, Planning and Community Development Director
Inspection
Parks and Recreation Department     Parks and Recreation Director
Public Service, Office of           Public Service Director
Public Works Section                 
Water and Sewer Section              
Central Support Section              
Engineering Section                  
Urban Renewal Department            Urban Renewal Coordinator
 
(‘68 Code, § 2-1102) (Ord. 658, passed 11-2-87; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 32.003 POLICY, PROCEDURES AND FUNCTIONS.
   (A)   The Mayor, City Clerk and City Attorney shall be appointed by the City
Council for an indefinite period; each, individually, shall be responsible to
and serve at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   All other administrative officers shall be appointed by the Mayor for
indefinite terms of office. Such officers shall be responsible to the Mayor and
shall serve at his pleasure.
   (C)   Each administrative officer shall:
      (1)   Perform all duties required by the Charter, this subchapter, other
laws and administrative orders, and he shall perform such other duties not in
conflict therewith as may be assigned by the City Council or Mayor.
      (2)   Establish and maintain a system of accounts and reports in
sufficient detail to furnish all information necessary for proper control of
departmental activities.
      (3)   Have authority to delegate to employees coming under his direction
such duties and responsibilities as deemed advisable, but in no case may he
delegate his overall responsibility or any of his accountability.
      (4)   Have authority to appoint and remove, subject to applicable
personnel laws and regulations, all subordinates under him.
      (5)   Be responsible for the proper maintenance and care of all city
property and equipment under in his department.
   (D)   Mayor, Office of.
      (1)   Shall be the chief administrative officer of the city government
and shall perform all the duties and have all the responsibilities enumerated
by the Charter, general law and local ordinances and policies established by
City Council.
      (2)   Shall, in exercising general control over the administrative
affairs, of the general government of the city, deal insofar as it is practical
through the administrative officers designated by this code, and except as
otherwise provided by Charter or general law, shall have the sole power to
appoint, supervise, suspend, remove and discipline all such officers, and to
perform or delegate the duties and responsibilities of such officers.
      (3)   Shall authorize the employment of persons by the city government;
maintain employee personnel records and certify payrolls as to compliance with
personnel rules and procedures; assist administrative officers in the
organization and conduct of training programs; and administer all personnel
functions of the city.
      (4)   Attend all regular and special Council sessions unless officially
excused.
   (E)   City Clerk, Office of. The City Clerk’s Office, under the supervision
of the City Clerk and subject to the provisions of the Charter, general laws
and ordinances, shall:
      (1)   Serve as registrar of voters for the city, maintain all election
records and have custody of all property in connection with elections.
      (2)   Issue such licenses and permits, as directed.
      (3)   Attend all regular and special Council sessions unless officially
excused.
      (4)   Perform other duties as may be required by charter, general laws,
local ordinances or the Council.
   (F)   City Attorney, Office of. The City Attorney’s Office shall consist of
a City Attorney and, when deemed expedient, assistant city attorneys appointed
by the Council. The City Attorney, subject to provisions of the Charter and
general laws, shall:
      (1)   Prepare or review for legal correctness all ordinances,
resolutions, contracts, bonds, franchises and other instruments to which the
city is a party.
      (2)   Attend all regular and special Council sessions unless officially
excused.
      (3)   Advise the Council, Mayor, all administrative officers and all
boards and commissions, as to the legality of any actions or proposed actions.
      (4)   Be responsible for all prosecutions for violations of ordinances,
unless the manager, with Council approval, otherwise provides.
      (5)   Represent the city in all legal proceedings in which the city is a
party or has an interest, before any court or judicial administrative or other
tribunal, unless the manager, with council approval, otherwise provides.
   (G)   Finance Department. The Finance Department, under the supervision of
the City Treasurer, shall perform all the duties prescribed by Charter, Section
6.13 and other sections of the Charter.
      (1)   Accounting. Responsibility for the preparation and maintenance of
all city fund books and records including budget and payroll accounting and
reporting.
      (2)   Collections. Responsibility for the collection and deposit of cash,
tax billing, posting and reconcilement of taxes.
      (3)   Utilities billing. Responsibility for preparing, accounting for,
maintaining and reporting on all necessary records pertaining to utility
billings.
      (4)   The Department shall perform related duties as assigned.
   (H)   Assessor Department. The Assessor Department, under the supervision of
the City Assessor, shall be responsible for:
      (1)   Discovering, listing and appraising all real and person property in
the city for tax purposes.
      (2)   Establishing and keeping current and adequate records system
pertaining to properties, evaluations and assessments.
      (3)   The assessor is to be Clerk of the Board of Review.
      (4)   Performing other functions as assigned.
   (I)   Police Department. The Police Department shall be under the
supervision of a Chief of Police who shall have control of the assignment of
all members of the force and direction of the police work in the city. The
Chief of Police shall possess such powers and authority as are assigned by
Charter, general law, city ordinances and the Mayor. Within the Department
shall be the following functional areas:
      (1)   Patrol and traffic. Responsibility for motor and foot patrol units,
routine investigations not assigned to the detective division, enforcement of
all traffic ordinances and requisition, preservation of peace and order in the
city and other duties as assigned.
      (2)   Detective. With responsibility for the investigation of crimes,
prevention of crimes, youth guidance and juvenile services, the preparation of
evidence for the prosecution of criminal cases, and other duties as assigned.
      (3)   Service. Responsibility for the maintenance of police records,
maintenance of all communications equipment, the central complaint desk,
custody of property, the operation of detention quarters, and other duties as
assigned.
   (J)   Fire Department. The Fire Department, under the supervision of a Fire
Chief, shall consist of such forces and platoons of permanent officers and men,
and volunteer officers and men, as may be recommended by the Fire Chief and the
Mayor and approved by the City Council. The Fire Chief shall have control of
the assignment of all members of the force and direction of fire operations in
the city. The function of the department shall be to:
      (1)   Enforce all laws regarding the inspection for and removal of fire
hazards and the prevention of fires.
      (2)   Extinguish fires and protect life and property against fire.
      (3)   Maintain an emergency rescue operation.
      (4)   Perform other duties as assigned.
   (K)   Community Development Planning and Inspection Department. The
Community Development, Planning and Inspection Department, under the
supervision of the Community Development Director who shall be the coordinating
officer for all sections:
      (1)   Community Development Section.
         (a)   Coordinate and supervise housing rehabilitation programs,
community organizing activities, and the acquisition relocation program.
         (b)   Develop strategies for economic development, housing, and
employment/training projects.
         (c)   Participate in determining approaches to and problems in
upgrading and construction of residential and business buildings, development
programs, and the like.
         (d)   Study and research federal and state funding programs to
determine conditions and criteria for eligibility of city participation.
         (e)   Prepares applications for grants, loan programs, and the like,
in conformity to requirements.
      (2)   Planning Section.
         (a)   Conduct special reports and studies relative to the city
government.
         (b)   Make studies and conduct research relative to the development of
the master plan.
         (c)   Investigate zoning matters and recommend necessary revisions in
the zoning ordinance.
         (d)   Provide administrative services and act in an advisory capacity
to the planning commission.
      (4)   Urban Renewal Section. The urban renewal section, under the
supervision of the community development director, shall be responsible for
administering programs of the city to improve itself through the elimination of
slums and blight and the removal of causes of slum and blighted areas, thereby
preventing their recurrence.
   (L)   Parks and Recreation Department. The Parks and Recreation Department,
under the supervision of the parks and recreation director, shall:
      (1)   Plan, promote, organize and supervise a comprehensive municipal
recreational program.
      (2)   Operate and maintain all city recreation facilities.
      (3)   Operate all city parks and parkways.
      (4)   Provide administrative services and act in an advisory capacity to
the parks and recreation commission.
      (5)   Perform other duties as assigned.
   (M)   Public Service, Office of. The Public Service Office, under the
direction of the Public Service Director, shall be the supervising office for
the following functional areas:
      (1)   Public Works Section. Responsible for:
         (a)   Constructing, maintaining and repairing all roads, streets,
bridges, sidewalks and drains of the city as directed.
         (b)   Street lights, street signs and signals.
         (c)   Planting, maintaining and removing of all trees and brush on or
affecting city property and authorizing the planting and removing of trees on
private property.
      (2)   Water and Sewer Section. Responsible for:
         (a)   Installing, maintaining and operating all water distribution and
service lines and facilities.
         (b)   Installing, maintaining and operating all sewage collection,
pumping and treatment facilities and service lines.
         (c)   Reading, installing and maintaining water meters.
         (d)   Receiving and answering citizen complaints relating to water and
sewer services.
      (3)   Central Support Section. Responsible for:
         (a)   Maintaining, storing, servicing and repairing of all city motor
vehicles.
         (b)   Operating and maintaining all city buildings and grounds
assigned to the department of the Mayor.
         (c)   Monitoring all city contractors in the performance of their
contracts.
         (d)   Supervising the contractor in the collection and disposal of
garbage and trash.
      (4)   Engineering Section. Responsible for:
         (a)   Providing technical engineering advice to all city departments
and offices, reviewing engineering work done by consulting engineers.
         (b)   Performing other functions as assigned.
   (N)    Personnel Department. The Personnel Director shall be responsible
for:
      (1)   Overall management of the Personnel Department.
      (2)   Labor management.
      (3)   Personnel planning.
      (4)   Benefit administration.
      (5)   Establish and maintain a uniform system of job evaluation for
consistent identification of job values within the city in relationship to
management and employee concerns.
      (6)   Perform other duties as assigned by the Mayor.
   (O)    Administrative Services Department. The Department of Administrative
Services, under the supervision of the Director of Administrative Services,
shall:
      (1)   Direct the city’s centralized purchasing division and all its
functions.
      (2)   Identify the need for city-wide policies and procedures in all
areas of city governments. Determine priorities, deadlines and standards for
the implementation of these policies and procedures.
      (3)   Monitor the activities of all city departments to ensure compliance
with relevant laws and uniform, consistent application of policies and
procedures.
      (4)   Analyze and implement legislation relating departmental activities.
      (5)   Assist in the implementation of all city contracts.
      (6)   Participate in strategic and tactical planning.
      (7)   Benefit administration.
      (8)   Perform other duties as assigned by Mayor.
      (9)   Serve as acting Mayor in the absence of the Mayor.
      (10)   Assist in the coordination and application of federal, state and
other grant funds to develop capital improvements and to sponsor community
programs.
      (11)   Assist in formulating and analyzing, and meeting organizational
and operational goals and objectives.
   (P)   Building Inspector, Office of. The Office of the Building Inspector
shall be responsible to and work under the supervision of the Office of the
City Manager; and shall be the supervising and administrative office for the
following section:
      (1)   The Building Section. Performance of the following duties and
functions:
         (a)   Issue and revoke permits for, and inspect the work involved in,
all construction remodeling and other land-use projects for conformation with
the city’s zoning, plumbing, electrical, building and housing codes.
         (b)   Provide administrative services and act in an advisory capacity
to the Board of Zoning Appeals.
         (c)   Enforce such other related codes and issue such other licenses
and permits as may be directed by ordinance of the City Manager.
         (d)   Performs other duties as assigned by the City Manager.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1103) (Ord. 658, passed 11-2-87; Am. Ord. 672, passed 4-3-89;
Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 32.015 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A commission is established pursuant to the powers granted and limitation
imposed by the laws of the state, including statutory authority granted in the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., the Michigan
Zoning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., or other applicable zoning
statutes as may be amended from time to time.
(‘68 Code, § 2-101) (Ord. 33, passed 8-6-40; Am. Ord. 840, passed 8-15-11)
§ 32.016 APPOINTMENT.
   The Planning Commission shall consist of nine members, one whom shall be the
mayor, one of whom shall be one of the administrative officials of the city to
be selected by the Mayor subject to approval by a majority vote of the members
elect of the City Council, and one of whom shall be a member of the Council
selected by a majority vote of the members elect of the Council as members ex
officio and six members who shall be appointed by the Mayor subject to the
approval by a majority vote of the members elect of the Council as is herein
provided.
(‘68 Code, § 2-102) (Ord. 33, passed 8-6-40)
§ 32.017 MEMBERS, TERM OF OFFICE.
   The terms of ex-officio members shall correspond to their official tenures,
except that the term of the administration official selected by the Mayor shall
terminate with the term of the mayor selecting him. The term of each of the six
appointed members shall be three years or until his successor takes office. A
Planning Commission may appoint advisory committees whose members are not
members of the Planning Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-103) (Ord. 33, passed 8-6-40; Am. Ord. 840, passed 8-15-11)
§ 32.018 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall be exempt from the annual preparation of
a capital improvements program of public structures and improvements.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall have the powers and duties as are
specifically enumerated by M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., or other applicable zoning statutes
as may be amended from time to time.
(‘68 Code, § 2-104) (Ord. 33, passed 8-6-40; Am. Ord. 840, passed 8-15-11)
§ 32.019 EXPENDITURES; RESTRICTION.
   The Planning Commission shall operate as specifically enumerated by M.C.L.A.
§§125.3801 et seq., the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et
seq., or other applicable zoning statutes as may be amended from time to time.
(‘68 Code, § 2-105) (Ord. 33, passed 8-6-40; Am. Ord. 840, passed 8-15-11)
§ 32.020 ANNUAL REPORTS REQUIRED.
   The Planning Commission shall make an annual report of its activities to the
City Council and shall make such other reports as the council may from time to
time require.
(‘68 Code, § 2-106) (Ord. 33, passed 8-6-40)
HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 32.030 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to Public Act 18 of the Extra Session of 1933, as amended by Public
Act 80 of 1935, Public Act 265 of 1937, and Public Act 5 of the Extra Session
of 1938, a commission is hereby created in and for the city to be known as the
City Housing Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-107) (Ord. 99, passed 8-2-50)
§ 32.031 APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to appoint the members of the City Housing
and Redevelopment Commission upon the recommendation of the Mayor and City
Council confirmation, and said appointments shall be made pursuant to the
provisions of Act 18 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1933 (Extra Session), as
amended.
(‘68 Code, § 2-108) (Ord. 99, passed 8-2-50; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 32.032 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Housing Commission shall have all the powers and duties vested or
permitted to be vested in housing commissions by said Public Act 18 of the
Extra Session of 1933, as heretofore or hereafter amended, and any laws
heretofore or hereafter enacted which are supplemental thereto, it being the
intention of this subchapter to vest in the Housing Commission all powers and
duties permitted by law.
(‘68 Code, § 2-109) (Ord. 99, passed 8-2-50)
§ 32.033 EMPLOYEES; COMPENSATION.
   The Housing Commission shall select and appoint such employees as it shall
deem necessary for the proper exercise of its powers, functions and duties, and
shall pay them such compensation as it shall, with the approval of the City
Council, fix and determine.
(‘68 Code, § 2-110) (Ord. 99, passed 8-2-50)
§ 32.034 BONDS OR NOTES.
   The Housing Commission is authorized to act as a borrower for the purposes
of issuing bonds or notes in accordance with the provisions of Act 18 of the
Public Acts of 1933, Extra Session, as amended, provided that prior to the
issuance of any bonds or notes by the Housing Commission the City Council shall
approve by resolution the issuance of the bonds or notes.
(Ord. 812, passed 7-2-07)
PARKS AND RECREATION COMMISSION
§ 32.045 COMPOSITION; APPOINTMENTS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall consist of nine members: one
member from each of the six districts as said districts are defined in the City
Charter, one member to be appointed at large and two members to be appointed by
the Mayor. All members shall be subject to confirmation by the City Council.
All members shall be residents of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-111) (Ord. 554, passed 9-15-80; Am. Ord. 800, passed 2-16-04)
§ 32.046 ELECTION OF OFFICERS; ADOPTION OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The members of the Parks and Recreation Commission shall elect their own
Chairperson and Secretary. It shall adopt its own rules and regulations for the
conduct of all business within its jurisdiction.
(‘68 Code, § 2-112) (Ord. 554, passed 9-15-80)
§ 32.047 MEETINGS; QUORUM; COMPENSATION.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall hold meetings at least once each
month, and shall designate a time and place thereof. Five members shall
constitute a quorum. Members shall serve at no compensation. No member shall
miss more than four meetings within a fiscal year.
(‘68 Code, § 2-113) (Ord. 554, passed 9-15-80)
§ 32.048 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Parks and Recreation Commission shall serve as a policy body. Its
responsibilities shall include but not be limited to:
   (A)   Review of fees, as established by administrative staff, for leagues,
individuals, classes, and the like, or any program that requires a fee, for
input on procedures and program administration.
   (B)   Review of departmental budget and providing advice; and making
recommendations on budget for further consideration by the Director of Parks
and Recreation.
   (C)   Serving as an appeals board for disputes involving teams, referees,
scheduling or related items upon the discretion of the Director of Parks and
Recreation.
   (D)   Certifying or approving referees or umpires who officiate within the
recreation program, upon recommendation from administrative staff.
   (E)   Responding to requests by the City Council requiring administrative
staff attention that shall be presented to the Director of Parks and
Recreation.
   (F)   Responsibility for the administration of personnel matters shall be
that of the Parks and Recreation Director. The Commission may provide advisory
input into the decisions of the Director.
(‘68 Code, § 2-114) (Ord. 554, passed 9-15-80)
LIBRARY AND HISTORICAL COMMISSION
§ 32.060 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT; TERM OF OFFICE.
   The Library and Historical Commission shall be composed of seven members,
one member from each of the six districts as said districts are defined in the
City Charter and one member to be appointed at large. All members shall be
residents of the city. All appointees shall serve for a period of two years.
Each member shall continue in office until a successor is appointed. All
appointments shall be made by the Mayor subject to confirmation by the majority
of the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 2-117) (Ord. 196, passed 10-15-62)
§ 32.061 MEETINGS; MINUTES; QUORUM.
   The Library and Historical Commission shall hold regular meetings at least
once each month and shall designate the date and time. Minutes shall be taken
for each meeting in the English language and a copy of said minutes shall be
filed with the City Clerk. Also, copies of said minutes shall be furnished to
all persons designated by the City Council. Special meetings shall be called by
the secretary on the written request of the Chairperson or of any two members
of the Commission on at least 24 hours written notice to each member,
designating the time and purpose of the meeting. Notices shall be served
personally, mailed, or left at his usual place of residence by the Secretary or
someone designated by him. Four members shall constitute a quorum for any
regular or special meeting. All meetings are to be open to the public and held
in the commission room of the administration building, unless otherwise
designated by the Council.
(‘68 Code, § 2-119) (Ord. 196, passed 10-15-62)
§ 32.062 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   At the first meeting of each year, the Library and Historical Commission
shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson, Secretary and any other officers
the Commission deems necessary.
(‘68 Code, § 2-120) (Ord. 196, passed 10-15-62)
§ 32.063 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   The Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their services, but
approved expenses included in the exercise of their duties shall be reimbursed.
(‘68 Code, § 2-121) (Ord. 196, passed 10-15-62)
§ 32.064 FILLING VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring other than expiration of term shall be filled for the
unexpired term by the Mayor in the manner of new appointments within 30 days.
(‘68 Code, § 2-118) (Ord. 196, passed 10-15-62)
§ 32.065 LIBRARY AND HISTORICAL COMMISSION-REMOVAL FROM COMMISSION.
   Members in the Library and Historical Commission shall be removed for the
following reasons: Misses three consecutive meetings or five meetings in any 12
month period, or is removed by majority vote of the City Council when it is
deemed in the best interest of the Library and Historical Commission and the
city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-122) (Ord. 196, passed 10-15-62; Am. Ord. 821, passed 5-4-09)
§ 32.066 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Library and Historical Commission shall have the power to receive
gifts and memorial funds in accordance with Commission policy as approved by
the City Council. It shall have the power to expend money for the purpose of
carrying out an effective library program, in accordance with the City Charter
and ordinance provisions. It shall also have the power to set rules and
regulations for the management of the internal operation of the library in
cooperation with the County Library Board.
   (B)   The Commission shall adopt bylaws and write policies for the property
process of their functions as approved by the Council. It shall provide for the
administration of the library and define the objectives of the library. It
shall create and maintain public interest and conduct and encourage library-
related activities. It shall prepare specific annual reports, and submit
recommendations on library matters coming to its attention or present to it by
the Council or the County Library Board. It shall submit to the Council, in
accordance with charter provisions, an estimate on the budgetary needs of the
library system.
   (C)   The Commission shall not have the power to alter, decorate or modify
the interior or exterior of the building without specific approval of the
Council.
(Ord. 196, passed 10-15-62)
   (D)   In addition to its previously established duties and powers, the
Commission shall have the power to expend money for the purpose of carrying out
an effective historical program. Such expenditures shall be limited to budget
appropriations and ordinance and Charter provisions. The Commission shall
collect, acquire, formulate and exhibit historical data, material, equipment,
and other items of civic interest. (Ord. 268, passed 9-6-66)
(‘68 Code, § 2-123)
LOCAL OFFICERS COMPENSATION COMMISSION
§ 32.075 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be known and cited as Local Officers Compensation
Commission subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 2-141) (Ord. 196, passed 3-6-72)
§ 32.076 ESTABLISHMENT; ORGANIZATION.
   A Local Officers Compensation Commission of the city is created which shall
determine the salaries of all local elected officials. The Commission shall
consist of seven members who are registered electors of the city, appointed by
the Mayor, subject to confirmation by the City Council. The terms of office
shall be seven years. Members shall be appointed before October 1 of the year
of appointment. Vacancies shall be filled for the remainder of the unexpired
term. No member or employee of the legislative, judicial or executive branch of
any level of government or members of the immediate family of such member or
employee shall be eligible to be a member of the Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-142) (Ord. 196, passed 3-6-72)
§ 32.077 DUTIES.
   The Local Officers Compensation Commission shall determine the salaries of
such local elected officials, which determination shall be the salaries unless
the City Council, by resolution adopted by two- thirds of the members elected
to and serving on the City Council, rejects them. The determination of the
Commission shall be effective 30 days following their filing with the City
Clerk unless rejected by the City Council. In case of rejection, the existing
salary shall prevail. Any expense allowance or reimbursement paid to elected
officials in addition to salary shall be for expenses incurred in the course of
city business and accounted for to the city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-143) (Ord. 196, passed 3-6-72)
§ 32.078 MEETINGS; ORGANIZATIONS.
   The Local Officers Compensation Commission shall meet for not more than 15
session days every odd-numbered year and shall make its determination within 45
calendar days of its first meeting. A majority of the members of the Commission
shall constitute a quorum for conducting the business of the Commission. The
Commission shall take no action or make determinations without a concurrence of
the majority of the members appointed and serving on the Commission. The
Commission shall elect a Chairperson from among its members. SESSION DAYS means
any calendar day on which the  Commission meets and a quorum is present. The
members of the Commission shall receive no compensation, but shall be entitled
to their actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their
duties.
(‘68 Code, § 2-144) (Ord. 196, passed 3-6-72)
§ 32.079 IMPLEMENTATION.
   The City Council shall implement this provision by resolution. This
procedure for establishing the compensation of elected officials may be changed
by charter amendment or revision.
(‘68 Code, § 2-145) (Ord. 196, passed 3-6-72)
COMMISSION ON AGING
§ 32.090 ESTABLISHMENT.
   A commission is hereby created to be known as the Commission on Aging of the
city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-147) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72)
§ 32.091 MEMBERS; APPOINTMENTS; TERMS.
   The City Council shall appoint eleven members to the Commission on Aging.
All such appointments shall be subject to approval by a majority vote of the
Mayor and Council. All members shall serve a term of office for a period of two
years and shall continue in office until a successor is appointed. The Housing
Director-Secretary of the city shall be an ex-officio member and shall not be
entitled to voting privileges.
(‘68 Code, § 2-148) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72; Am. Ord. 508, passed 9-7-76; Am.
Ord. 837, passed 3-21-11)
§ 32.092 VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring other than by expiration of term shall be filled for the
unexpired term in the same manner as new appointments within 30 days after the
vacancy occurs.
(‘68 Code, § 2-149) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72)
§ 32.093 MEETINGS; MINUTES; QUORUM.
   The Commission on Aging shall hold regular meetings at least once each a
month and shall designate the date and time for said meetings. Minutes shall be
taken for each meeting in the English language and a copy of said minutes shall
be filed with the City Clerk. Also, copies of said minutes shall be furnished
to all persons designated by the City Council. Special meetings shall be called
by the Secretary on the written request of the Chairperson or of any two
members of the Commission on at least 24 hours written notice to each member,
designating the time and purpose of the meeting. Notices shall be served
personally, mailed, or left at his usual place of residence by the secretary or
someone designated by him. A quorum for any regular or special meeting shall
consist of four voting members. All meetings are to be open to the public.
(‘68 Code, § 2-150) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72)
§ 32.094 ELECTION OF OFFICERS.
   At the first meeting of each year, the Commission shall elect a Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson, Secretary and any other officer the Commission deems
necessary.
(‘68 Code, § 2-151) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72)
§ 32.095 COMPENSATION.
   The Commissioners shall receive no compensation for their services.
(‘68 Code, § 2-152) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72)
§ 32.096 COMMISSION ON AGING-REMOVAL FROM COMMISSION.
   Members in the Commission on Aging shall be removed for the following
reasons: Misses three consecutive meetings or five meetings in any 12 month
period, or is removed by majority vote of the City Council when it is deemed in
the best interest of the Commission on Aging and the city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-153) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72; Am. Ord. 801, passed 2-16-04; Am.
Ord. 822, passed 5-4- 09)
§ 32.097 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   The Commission on Aging has as its purpose to encourage, assist and
enrich independent living of the aged in the city at a residence of their
choice.
   (B)   Among the specific objectives are:
      (1)   The assurance that those aged in need of service and who are either
unable to seek it privately or are eligible and choose to seek publicly-
provided services may receive them without loss of human dignity, undue
invasion of privacy, nor abrogation of their right for respect, courtesy and
attention.
      (2)   The provision of supportive services reinforcing and enabling the
aged to receive needed services.
      (3)   Assist in the creation of a socially rewarding and enriching
community milieu for the aged.
      (4)   Inform and warn the aged of fraudulent, unethical or unfair
practices known to exist and which prey upon the uninformed and gullible.
      (5)   To provide and to enlist the assistance of other community groups
in the provision of creative opportunities for self-expression and personally
rewarding activities for the aged, thereby assisting in the maintenance of
healthy self-concepts of worthiness and providing opportunities for meaningful
contributions to community life and welfare.
      (6)   The augmentation of and enrichment of existing recreational
activities for the aged.
(‘68 Code, § 2-154) (Ord. 414, passed 4-3-72)
CABLE TELEVISION COMMISSION
§ 32.110 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Cable Television
Commission subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1601) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
§ 32.111 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent of this subchapter is to create a commission
and to appoint such Cable Television Commission as the designate of the city
and of the City Council for certain specified purposes only as set forth in the
subchapter, consistent with, or limited to, the authority of the city cable
television ordinance and the relevant written proposals and supplements thereto
submitted by Barden Cablevision of Inkster, Inc., to the city.
   (B)   In addition, the Commission shall stimulate and encourage the
production of local programming and the cable casting of such programs over the
provided access channels by institutions, groups and individuals within the
city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1602) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
§ 32.112 ESTABLISHMENT OF COMMISSION.
   The Cable Television Commission is hereby created, hereinafter referred to
as the Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1603) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
§ 32.113 MEMBERSHIP REMOVAL.
   (A)   Membership.
      (1)   The Cable Television Commission shall consist of nine members who
shall be residents of the city or employed within the jurisdictional limits of
the city: one member shall be appointed by the Mayor, and two members shall be
appointed at large by Mayor and City Council.
      (2)   The Commission may also consist of ex-officio members who may be
appointed from time to time by the Mayor and Council. The cable television
franchise shall serve as an ex-officio member of the Commission. Ex-officio
members of the Commission shall not be entitled to vote or hold any commission
office.
(Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
   (B)   Removal of a member. A member may be removed at any time with or
without cause by a majority vote of the City Council having appointed such
member.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1601) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83)
§ 32.114 TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The members of the Cable Television Commission shall be appointed for
a term of three years.
   (B)   A Commission member whose term of office has expired shall continue to
hold office until a successor has been appointed, as herein provided.
   (C)   Should a vacancy occur on the Commission, a replacement shall be named
by the appropriate City Council to fill the remainder of the unexpired term.
   (D)   No person shall be appointed for more than two full three-year
consecutive terms.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1606) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
§ 32.115 RULES OF PROCEDURE.
   The Cable Television Commission shall adopt bylaws for the conduct of its
business and elect a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson. Elections for a
Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson shall occur annually.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1607) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
§ 32.116 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The city and the City Council hereby appoints the Cable Television
Commission as their designate for the following specific purposes only,
consistent with and limited to those duties, responsibilities, obligations and
powers of the city which may be delegated or conferred, and as set forth in the
agreement, and only if not otherwise prohibited or limited by law; provided,
however, that nothing contained herein shall limit or abridge the inherent
power and authority of the City Council to alter, enlarge or eliminate the
duties and responsibilities of the Commission in the sole discretion of the
Council.
   (A)   Monitor and advise the Council on the grantee’s compliance with the
franchise agreement.
   (B)   Advise the Council on matters which might constitute grounds for
revocation of the franchise under the franchise agreement.
   (C)   The Commission shall determine the use of otherwise unassigned public
channels and set general policy related to the service provided subscribers for
the operation and use of all public channels.
   (D)   Resolve disagreements among franchisees, subscribers, public and
private users of the system.
   (E)   Review, investigate and resolve the complaints of citizens.
   (F)   Advise the Council on the regulation of rates and make recommendations
on requested changes in rates, services or classifications.
   (G)   Advise the Council on cable franchise renewal, extension or
termination.
   (H)   Encourage the use of access channels by institutions, groups and
individuals within the city.
   (I)   Encourage and supervise interconnection of systems.
   (J)   Review and report to the Council concerning records and reports which
the grantee is required to submit under the franchise agreement.
   (K)   The Commission shall submit an annual report to the Mayor during the
annual budget process.
   (L)   In order to monitor the grantee’s performance and adherence to the
franchise agreement, the city, through the Cable Commission, and the grantee,
shall hold a regular review session within 30 days after the second anniversary
date of the effective date of the franchise. Subsequent special review sessions
shall be scheduled by the Cable Commission as deemed necessary thereafter.
      (1)   All such review sessions shall be open to the public and notice
shall be given by advertisement twice in a newspaper of general circulation at
least one week before each session, at the sole expense of the grantee. In
addition, grantee shall announce the date and time of each such session on each
of at least five days immediately preceding each session at a minimum of six
regularly scheduled intervals daily on all line broadcast channels of the cable
system.
      (2)   Topics for discussion and review at both the regular and special
review sessions shall include, but shall not be limited to, services provided,
rate structure, free or discounted services, application of new technologies,
system performance, programming, subscriber complaints, user complaints, rights
of privacy, amendments to this agreement, undergrounding processes and
developments in the laws.
      (3)   Either the city or the grantee may select additional topics for
discussion at any regular or special review session.
   (M)   Consideration of the renewal or termination of the franchise agreement
and any renewals thereof shall be undertaken by the Commission beginning 18
months prior to the expiration of the initial or any renewal term of this
franchise. At that time, the Cable Commission shall review the provisions of
this agreement, and shall evaluate the performance of the grantee under this
agreement and make a recommendation to Council In making this evaluation, the
Cable Commission shall consider several factors including, but not limited to,
the following:
      (1)   Technical development and performance of the grantee’s cable
system;
      (2)   Programming (for example, access channels and local origination);
      (3)   Additional services offered by the grantee;
      (4)   Cost of service;
      (5)   All obligations of grantee as prescribed by this agreement,
including but not limited to, programming, equipment and personnel available to
users for all forms of community communications;
      (6)   Cable industry performance nationwide; and
      (7)   Comments from residents and representatives of community
organizations submitted in a manner to be determined by the Cable Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1608) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88;
Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 32.117 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Cable Television Commission shall meet on a regular basis or
whenever necessary to conduct its business. Minutes of the meetings shall be
taken and filed with the City Clerk.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1604(a)) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 609, passed 10-15-
84; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
   (B)   Meetings of the Cable Television Commission, and meetings of any
committees created thereby, shall be conducted in accordance with the Open
Meetings Act, P.A. 267 of 1976, as may be amended.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1604) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
§ 32.118 BUDGETARY CONSIDERATION.
   In addition to those duties and responsibilities outlined in §
32.116, the Cable Television Commission shall:
   (A)   Submit an interim budget to the Mayor specifying the proposed
allocation of access equipment funds; and
   (B)   Develop and recommend annually thereafter to the Mayor a proposed
budget for the distribution of the allocated cable franchise fee funds for the
encouragement of local access programming and cable casting as part of the
city’s normal budget process.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1609) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88;
Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 32.119 REVENUES.
   All revenues received by the Cable Television Commission as a result of its
fulfillment of the duties assigned or any other activity or as a result of the
cable communications franchise shall be deposited with the city and expended
only with the approval of the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1610) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
§ 32.120 STAFF LIAISON.
   The Mayor, or his deigned, shall serve as staff liaison to the Cable
Television Commission, to provide administrative support to the Commission in
the fulfillment of its duties and responsibilities.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1611) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 609, passed 10-15-84;
Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 32.121 CIVIL PENALTIES.
   If the grantee fails to perform any obligation under the franchise
agreement, the Cable Television Commission or City Council/city staff may
assess a monetary penalty. The following monetary penalties shall apply, and
liability therefor shall accrue from the date of mailing of notice:
   (A)   Failure to render payment of the reimbursement of the city’s expenses
within the specified time, $500 per day from time due until paid.
   (B)   Failure to make timely application, registration or any other filing
with the FCC, $300 per day filing from time due until filed.
   (C)   Failure to deliver timely evidence of company insurance, $100 per day
from time due until delivered.
   (D)   Failure to timely obtain and file with the city the construction bond,
$200 per day from time of lapse until restored.
   (E)   Failure to make timely any payment in respect to the security fund or
to deposit or restore the letter of credit ln a timely fashion, $200 per day
from time due until paid, deposited or restored.
   (F)   Upon termination of the agreement, pursuant to the franchise, with
reference to the balance then remaining in the security fund, full forfeiture.
   (G)   Failure to render timely payment of the franchise fee, $1000 per day
from time due until paid.
   (H)   Failure of the grantee to perform its obligations in the event of a
major public emergency or disaster condition, $10,000 per occurrence.
   (I)   Failure to restore damaged property in a timely fashion, $50 per day
until restored.
   (J)   Failure to apply for utility company agreement within the specified 30
days is made, $500 per day from time due until an application
   (K)   Failure to commence construction in a timely fashion, $500 per day
from time due until begun.
   (L)   Failure to complete construction in a timely fashion, $500 per day
from time due until completed.
   (M)   Failure to respond to a request for repair or adjustment by the next
business day, $20 per day per subscriber until response made.
   (N)   Failure to commence service to a subscriber within the specified time
limits, $20 per day per subscriber until service is begun.
   (O)   Failure to pay timely refund due a subscriber upon termination, $5 per
day per subscriber from time due until paid.
   (P)   Failure to provide a subscriber at least the specified notice prior to
disconnection, $20 per subscriber per occurrence.
   (Q)   Failure to respond in a timely fashion to a billing complaint, $20 per
day per subscriber until response is made.
   (R)   Failure to file in a timely fashion any report required by this
agreement, $100 per day per report from time due until filed.
   (S)   Violation of privacy restrictions, $100 per violation per subscriber.
   (T)   Failure to maintain availability of fixed studio or mobile facility,
and all required equipment for access programming use, $200 per day from 24
hours after interruption of availability, beyond a reasonable period of time
for maintenance or repairs, as determined by custom and usage in the U.S. cable
television industry, until restored to service.
   (U)   Failure to submit a timely original or revised system description, $20
per day from time due until submitted.
   (V)   Failure to submit a timely construction status report, $100 per day
from time due until submitted.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1612) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83)
§ 32.122 HEARING PROCEDURE.
   Before the commencement of proceedings that may result in the imposition of
a penalty, the Cable Television Commission shall give notice, by certified mail
to the grantee of facts or conduct which warrant the intended action. The
grantee shall then be given reasonable opportunity to show compliance with
franchise or previous order of the cable television commission. If upon review
it appears to the Cable Television Commission that the grantee continues to be
in violation of the franchise or previous order of the Commission, the
Commission may assess a penalty.
   (A)   Upon the Cable Television Commission assessing a penalty, written
notice of such assessment shall be sent to the grantee by certified mail,
return receipt requested, with a concise statement of the reasons therefor.
   (B)   Within ten days after mailing of the notice, the grantee may request a
hearing before the Cable Television Commission, and a full public proceeding
affording due process. The pendency of a hearing shall suspend payment of the
penalty until ten days after mailing to the grantee by first class mail of the
decision of the Cable Television Commission confirming said penalty in whole or
in part.
   (C)   The Commission shall make reasonable efforts to notify all interested
parties of the time and place of the hearing.
   (D)   Every decision of the Commission shall be by formal resolution, each
of which shall contain a statement of findings made by the Commission. Each
such resolution shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
   (E)   Except as provided in the franchise, the grantee shall pay the full
amount of any penalty to the city within ten days after mailing of a notice
pursuant to the franchise.
   (F)   Upon failure of the grantee to make timely payment of an assessed
penalty, the city may withdraw the amount of such penalty from the security
fund.
   (G)   Amounts received by the city as penalties assessed against the
grantee, whether directly paid by the grantee to the city or withdrawn from the
security fund by the city, may be used by the city for any purpose it deems
fit.
   (H)   Individual subscriber complaints regarding service or billing shall be
resolved in the following fashion:
      (1)   The subscriber shall advise the company by telephone at the number
shown on the billing. The company will then investigate the circumstances
surrounding the complaint, advise the subscriber of the results within 48
hours, and attempt to reach an informal resolution.
      (2)   If an informal resolution cannot be reached by the company, the
company representative will advise the subscriber of his/her right to seek
assistance through the Cable Television Commission.
      (3)   If a resolution cannot be reached by the city staff person, city
staff will advise the subscriber of his/her right to an informal hearing by the
Commission and will mail the subscriber the proper documents to request a
hearing.
      (4)   Informal hearings shall be before the Commission. The hearing shall
be conducted under rules of procedure and within the time limits adopted by the
Commission. In resolving the dispute, the Commission shall have the authority
to order service or repairs and shall be authorized to order such rebate or
abatement of subscriber fees necessary to reach an equitable resolution of the
dispute.
      (5)   In all cases, the decisions made by the Commission shall be
considered final.
      (6)   If any subscriber complaint concerns the amount of a bill, the
subscriber shall timely pay the undisputed amount of the bill, and the
franchisee shall not terminate service for nonpayment until the dispute is
finally resolved.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1613) (Ord. 593, passed 1-4-83; Am. Ord. 666, passed 11-7-88)
OFFICE OF EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
§ 32.135 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to establish an
organization that will insure the complete and efficient utilization of all of
the city’s resources during periods of emergency.
   (B)   The City Office of Emergency Management will be the coordinating
agency responsible for city- wide emergency procedures; it will provide the
means through which the Mayor and City Council may exercise the authority and
discharge the responsibilities vested in them by this subchapter and Act 390,
Public Acts of 1976, as amended.
   (C)   This subchapter will not relieve any elected officials or city
department of the normal responsibilities or authority given to it by general
law or local ordinance, nor will it affect the work of the American Red Cross
or other volunteer agencies organized for relief in natural disaster.
(‘68 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COORDINATOR. The responsible head of the City Office of Emergency
Management, appointed as prescribed in this subchapter.
   DISASTER. Occurrence or imminent threat of widespread or severe damage,
injury or loss of life or property, resulting from any natural or man-made
cause, including, not limited to, fire, flood, snow, ice or wind storm, wave
action, oil spills, water contamination requiring emergency action to avert
danger or damage, utility failure, epidemic, air contamination, blight,
drought, infestation, explosion, riot, or hostile military or paramilitary
action.
   EMERGENCY PROCLAMATION. A proclamation issued by the governor that a state
of emergency exists under the provisions of Act 302, Public Acts of 1945, as
amended.
   EMERGENCY SERVICES. Preparations for, and relief from, the effects of
natural and man-made disasters as defined herein, and to include civil defense,
as defined in Act 390, Public Acts of 1976, as amended.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT FORCES. The employees, equipment and facilities of all
city departments, boards, institutions and commission suitable for, or
adaptable to, participation in emergency services activities as designated by
the Mayor with the approval of the City Council; and, in addition, it shall
include all volunteer personnel, equipment and facilities contributed by, or
obtained from, volunteer persons and agencies.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT VOLUNTEER. Any person duly registered and appointed by
the Coordinator.
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. Any situation confronting a community requiring
emergency actions of a lesser nature than a disaster, as defined above, to
include, but not limited to, civil disturbances, labor strikes, visits by
national or international dignitaries, and build-up activities prior to an
actual disaster.
(‘68 Code, § 2-202) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.137 ORGANIZATION FOR EMERGENCY SERVICES.
   (A)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, is hereby authorized
and directed to create an organization to prepare for community disasters
utilizing, to the fullest extent, existing agencies within the city. The Mayor,
as executive head of the city government, shall be the Director of Emergency
Management forces of the city and shall be responsible for their organization,
administration and operation, working through the Coordinator.
   (B)   The organization for providing emergency management services shall
consist of the following:
      (1)   An office of emergency management established within the city
government. The office of emergency management shall have an administrative
head appointed who will be employed.
      (2)   The employees, equipment and facilities of all city departments,
boards, institutions and commissions suitable for, or adaptable to, emergency
management activities may be designated as part of the total emergency
management forces. Such designations shall be by the Mayor with the approval of
the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 2-203) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.138 COOPERATION OF CITY GOVERNMENT.
   All officers and employees of departments, commissions, boards, institutions
and other agencies of the city government designated by the Mayor, with the
approval of the City Council, as emergency management forces shall cooperate
with the emergency operations plan, and they shall assist the Coordinator in
all matters pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 2-204) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.139 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR ASSISTANTS AND DEPUTIES; POWERS AND
DUTIES.
   (A)   Emergency Management Coordinator, Assistants and deputies.
      (1)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall appoint an
Emergency Management Coordinator, and with the input of the Emergency
Management Coordinator shall appoint the Deputy Coordinator who shall be
persons with the personal attributes, experience and training needed to
coordinate the activities of the agencies, departments and individuals within
the city to protect the public heath, safety and welfare during emergency
situations and disasters.
      (2)   The Deputy Emergency Management Coordinator shall assume the duties
of the Coordinator whenever he is unavailable during disasters or emergency
situations.
      (3)   Assistant coordinators may be designated to work with the Emergency
Management Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator on emergency planning matters.
Assistant coordinators, if appointed, shall be selected and shall serve as
follows:
         (a)   There may be one assistant coordinator appointed from each city
department designated by the department head, with the approval of the Mayor
and City Council, as part of the emergency management forces.
         (b)   Assistant coordinators shall assume the duties of the
Coordinator and Deputy Coordinator whenever they are unavailable during
disasters or emergency situations in the order of designation by the Mayor,
acting upon the recommendation of the Coordinator.
(‘68 Code, § 2-205) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84; Am. Ord. 618, passed 6-17-85)
   (B)   The duties of the Emergency Management Coordinator shall include but
not be limited to the following:
      (1)   Development of plans for the immediate use of all of the
facilities, equipment, manpower and other resources of the city for the purpose
of minimizing or preventing damage to persons or property; and protecting and
restoring to usefulness governmental services and public utilities necessary
for the public health, safety and general welfare.
      (2)   Coordinating the recruitment and training of volunteer personnel
and agencies to augment the personnel and facilities of the city for emergency
purposes.
      (3)   Through public information programs, educating the civilian
population as to actions necessary and required for the protection of persons
and property in case of disaster.
      (4)   Conducting practice alerts and exercises to insure the efficient
operation of the city’s emergency organization and to familiarize residents of
the city with emergency regulations, procedures and operations.
      (5)   Coordinating the activity of all other public and private agencies
engaged in any emergency or disaster relief programs.
      (6)   Negotiating with owners or persons in control of buildings or other
property for the use of such buildings or other property for emergency or
disaster relief peroses, and designating suitable buildings as public shelters.
      (7)   Establish and maintain administrative control over a local
radiological defense program, to include emergency preparations for both
peacetime radiation incidents and international wartime disasters.
      (8)   Establish property accountability procedures for federal surplus
property acquiring by the city, federal excess property on load to the city or
any other property or equipment loaned to the city for use in disaster or
emergency situations.
(‘68 Code, § 2-207) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.140 AUTHORITY TO ADMINISTER AND ENFORCE; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Mayor may exercise the emergency power and authority as specified
herein. Whenever a situation requires, or is likely to require, that the Mayor
invoke such power and authority, he shall, as soon as reasonably expedient,
convene the City Council to perform its legislative and administrative duties,
and shall report to that body relative to emergency activities. Nothing in this
subchapter shall be construed unless specifically provided herein.
   (A)   Under the following circumstances, the Mayor may assemble and utilize
the emergency management forces, and he may prescribe the manner and conditions
of their use:
      (1)   Whenever, on the basis on information received from authoritative
sources, he feels that a large-scale disaster or emergency situation in the
city or state is imminent.
      (2)   During any period of disaster in the city or state and thereafter
as long as it shall be reasonably necessary.
   (B)   Whenever the Mayor finds that any condition in the city has attained,
or threatens to attain, the proportions of a major disaster, he may assemble
and utilize emergency management forces and he may prescribe the manner and
conditions of their use. The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, is
hereby empowered to enter into mutual aid agreements with other public and
private agencies for reciprocal aid and assistance during disasters which are
beyond local capabilities and resources. He may, when he deems it in the public
interest, send emergency management forces of the city to the aid of other
communities stricken by disaster, as provided by mutual aid agreements;
provided, that after the City Council convenes, the future continuance of any
such disaster relief and the period thereof shall be subject to the action of
the City Council.
      (1)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, may make
regulations permitting the Coordinator to assemble and utilize the emergency
management forces and provide disaster relief aid as prescribed in this
subchapter and by state law.
      (2)   When obtaining formal approvals would result in delay of relief in
emergency situations, the Mayor may, until the City Council convenes, waive
procedures and formalities otherwise required pertaining to the performance of
public works, entering into contracts, the incurring of obligations, the
employment of temporary workers, the rental of equipment, the purchase and
distribution of supplies, materials and facilities and expenditure of existing
funds, and the City Council is also empowered to waive any such procedures and
formalities.
      (3)   The Mayor, with the approval of the City Council, shall establish
procedures for the secession of government during emergencies where officials
are unavailable for exercising the powers and discharging the duties of their
respective offices.
(‘68 Code, § 2-206) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.141 VOLUNTEERS; APPOINTMENT; RECORDS.
   An emergency management volunteer when in an emergency situation as defined
in this subchapter, or when of an official training assignment, may have the
same powers as the regular members of any department of the city, such as the
Police, Fire or Department of Public Services, while performing duties at the
specific direction and control of the head of the department, his designee or a
sworn member of the department, if the head of the department, or his designee
in his absence, has issued a written order requesting that emergency management
volunteers have said powers. A volunteer is not considered on duty 24 hours a
day. A volunteer is only considered on official duty when he has been
specifically assigned a duty either for training purposes or for emergency
situations. When a member is not on official duty he will have no power
whatsoever to act in any official capacity.
(‘68 Code, § 2-208) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.142 RIGHT OF CITY EMPLOYEES.
   City employees assigned to duty as part of the emergency management forces
pursuant to the provisions of this chapter shall retain all of the rights,
privileges and immunities of city employees, and shall receive the compensation
incident to their employment.
(‘68 Code, § 2-209) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.143 NO GOVERNMENTAL OR PRIVATE LIABILITY.
   (A)   This subchapter is an exercise by the city of its governmental
functions for the protection of the public health, safety and general welfare.
As such, neither the city nor agents and representatives of the city, nor any
individual, receiver, firm, partnership, corporation, association, nor trustee,
nor any of the agents thereof, acting in good faith carrying out, complying
with, or attempting to comply with, this subchapter shall be liable for any
damage sustained to persons or property as a result of said activity.
   (B)   Any person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who
voluntarily and without compensation grants the city the right to inspect,
designate and use the whole or any part of such real estate or premises for the
purpose of sheltering persons during a disaster or during an authorized
practice disaster exercise, shall not be civilly liable for the death of, or
injury to, any person on or about such real estate or premises under such
license, privilege or other permission, or for loss of, or damage to, the
property of such person.
(‘68 Code, § 2-210) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
§ 32.144 FEDERAL SURPLUS PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Emergency Management Coordinator is hereby designated as the
person responsible for accepting federal surplus property with the power and
full authority to sign for such surplus property. The Mayor shall provide a
written statement to appropriate federal officials designating the current name
of the Coordinator as responsible for complying with the provisions.
   (B)   The Coordinator is responsible for the accountability and will
maintain the necessary records for all surplus property obtained for emergency
management purposes until relieved from accountability by state and federal
authorities.
   (C)   The Coordinator is further authorized to direct payment of service
charges for surplus property to complete all transactions.
   (D)   Misappropriation or unauthorized private use of such public property
while still accountable is subject to prosecution under federal and state
statutes.
(‘68 Code, § 2-211) (Ord. 612, passed 12-3-84)
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 32.155 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the City Downtown Development
Authority Subchapter.
(Ord. 687, passed 3-19-90)
§ 32.156 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In recognition of the fact that it is in the best interest of the public to
halt property value deterioration in the downtown business district of the
city, to eliminate the causes of such deterioration and to promote economic
growth in the downtown business district, a Downtown Development Authority is
hereby established pursuant to Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975.
(Ord. 687, passed 3-19-90)
§ 32.157 ORGANIZATION.
   The City Downtown Development Authority shall be under the supervision and
control of a Board consisting of the Mayor and not less than eight nor more
than 12 members appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of the City
Council. Not less than a majority of the members shall be persons having an
interest in property located in the downtown district. At least one of the
members shall be a resident of the downtown district, if the downtown district
has 100 or more persons residing within it. An equal number of the members, as
near as practical, shall be appointed for one year; two years; three years; and
four years, respectively. A member shall hold office until the member’s
successor is appointed. Thereafter, members shall serve for a term of four
years. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the Mayor for the
unexpired term only. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but
shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses. A Chairperson shall be
elected by the Board.
(Ord. 687, passed 3-19-90)
§ 32.158 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The City Downtown Development Authority shall have all powers and duties
prescribed by Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975.
(Ord. 687, passed 3-19-90)
§ 32.159 FINANCING.
   The activities of the Downtown Development Authority shall be financed from
one or more of the following sources;
   (A)   Donations to the Authority for the performance of its functions.
   (B)   Proceeds of a tax pursuant to Section 12 of Act 197 of the Public Acts
of 1975.
   (C)   Money borrowed and to be repaid as authorized by Section 13 of Act 197
of the Public Acts of 1975.
   (D)   Revenues from any property, building or facility owned, leased,
licensed or operated by the Authority or under its control, subject to the
limitations imposed upon the Authority by trusts or other agreements.
   (E)   Proceeds of a tax increment financing plan, established under Sections
14 and 16 of Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975.
   (F)   Proceeds from a special assessment district created as provided by
law.
   (G)   Money obtained from other sources approved by the City Council.
   (H)   Money received by the Authority and not covered under division (A)
through (G) shall immediately be deposited to the credit of the Authority,
subject to disbursement pursuant to Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975. Except
as provided in Act 197 of the Public Acts of 1975, the city shall not obligate
itself, nor shall it ever be obligated to pay any sums from public funds, other
than money received by the city pursuant to this section, for or on account of
the activities of the Authority.
(Ord. 687, passed 3-19-90)
§ 32.160 BOUNDARIES.
   The Downtown Development Authority shall exercise its powers within the
following described area:
   “Land located in Section 25, Town 2 South, Range 9 East, and Section 30,
Town 2 South, Range 10 East, City of Inkster, Wayne County, Michigan, being
more particularly described as follows: Beginning at the intersection of the
south right-of-way line of Cherry Avenue (60 feet wide) and the west right-of-
way line of Harrison Avenue (60 feet wide) being a part of “Dearborn Acres
Subdivision No. 2" as recorded in Liber 33, Page 79, of Plats, Wayne County
Records, proceeding thence northerly along said west right- of-way line of
Harrison Avenue, approximately 1,286 feet to the southerly right-of-way line of
Michigan Avenue (204 feet wide); thence southwesterly along said southerly
right-of-way line of Michigan Avenue approximately ten feet; thence northerly
along the west right-of-way line of Harrison Avenue (86 feet wide),
approximately 336 feet to the northerly line of a 20 feet wide vacated alley,
also being the southeast corner of Lot 84, “Sonk Subdivision”, as recorded in
Liber 53, Page 70, of Plats, Wayne County Records; thence northeasterly along
said northerly line of a 20-foot wide vacated alley, also being the southerly
line of Lots 94, 95, 96, 112, 113 and 127, said “Sonk Subdivision”
approximately 1,036 feet to the west right- of-way line of Riverview Drive (60
feet wide), also being the southeast corner of said Lot 127, “Sonk
Subdivision”; thence northerly along said west right-of-way line of Riverview
Drive, approximately 146 feet to the intersection of said west right-of-way
line of Riverview Drive and the south right-of-way line of Alger Avenue (60
feet wide); thence easterly along said south right-of-way line of Alger Avenue,
approximately 167 feet to the east line of said “Sonk Subdivsion”; thence
southerly along said east line of “Sonk Subdivision”, approximately 224 feet to
the northerly right-of-way line of Michigan Avenue (204 feet wide) thence
northeasterly along said northerly right-of-way line of Michigan Avenue,
approximately 634 feet to the west right-of-way line of Leith Avenue (80 feet
wide); thence northerly along said west right-of-way line of Leith Avenue,
approximately 380 feet to the north line of “Dearborn Hills Manor No. 1
Subdivision”, as recorded in Liber 56, Page 33, of Plats, Wayne County Records;
thence easterly along said north line of “Dearborn Hills Manor No. 1
Subdivision”, approximately 353 feet to the west line of Lot 28, “Assessor’s
Inkster Plat No 2", as recorded in Liber 64, Page 64, of Plats, Wayne County
Records; thence northerly along said west line of Lot 28, approximately 44 feet
to the northwest corner of said Lot 28; thence easterly along the north line of
said Lot 28, approximately 81 feet to the northeast corner of said Lot 28;
thence northeasterly along the westerly line of Lot 29a “Assessor’s Inkster
Plat No. 2", approximately 248 feet to the north line of said Lot 29a; thence
easterly along the north line of said Lot 29a, approximately 113 feet to the
northeast corner of said Lot 29a; thence along the east line of said Lot 29a,
approximately 210 feet to the intersection of the east line of said Lot 29a,
“Assessor’s Inkster Plat No. 2" and the north right-of-way of Kurtsell Avenue
(60 feet wide); thence easterly along said north right-of-way line of Kurtsell
Avenue, approximately 272 feet to the west right-of-way line of Inkster Road
(120 feet wide); thence northerly along said west line of Inkster Road,
approximately 385 feet to the intersection of the west right-of-way line of
Inkster Road with the north line of a 60-foot wide vacated street (formerly
known as Park Court, as platted in “Westwood Hills Subdivision”, as recorded in
Liber 54, Page 51, of Plats, Wayne County Records; thence easterly and
southerly along the northerly and easterly right-of-way line of said vacated
street (Park Court), also being the southerly and westerly line of Lower Rouge
Parkway, approximately 648 feet to a point of curvature on the north right-of-
way line of River Park Drive (60 feet wide); thence easterly along the north
right-of-way line of said River Park Drive, approximately 1,191 feet to a point
of curvature, said point being 60 feet north and perpendicular to the northwest
corner of Lot 227, “Westwood Hills Subdivision”; thence along a line 60 feet
north and parallel to the north line of said Lot 227 and 60 feet northeasterly
and parallel to the northeasterly line of Lot 228 to a point on the east right-
of-way line of 60 foot wide vacated street (formerly known as Hill Street, as
platted in “Westwood Hills Subdivision”), said point being approximately 50
feet north of the southwest corner of Lot 229, “Westwood Hills Subdivision”;
thence along the west line of said Lot 229, approximately 50 feet to the
southwest corner of said Lot 229; thence easterly approximately 902 feet along
the south line of Lots 229 through 249, inclusive, said “Westwood Hills
Subdivision”, to the intersection of said south line with the east right-of-way
line of John Daly Road (86 feet wide); thence southerly along said east right-
of-way line of John Daly Road; approximately 325 feet to the southerly right-
of-way line of Michigan Avenue (204 feet wide); thence southwesterly along said
southerly right-of- way line Michigan Avenue, approximately ten feet to the
east right-of-way line of John Daly Road (66 feet wide); thence southerly along
said east right-of-way line of John Daly Road, 1,910 feet to the south right-
of-way line of Princeton Avenue (60 feet wide); thence westerly along said
south right-of-way line of Princeton Avenue, approximately 2,513 feet to a
point on the east line of a vacated 17-foot wide alley, said point also being
the northwest corner of Lot 802, “Westwood Subdivision of Van Alstine Farm”, as
recorded in Liber 40, Pages 29 and 30, of Plats, Wayne County Records; thence
southerly along said east line of vacated 17-foot wide alley and west line of
Lots 802 and 711, said “Westwood Subdivision of Van Alstine Farm”,
approximately 330 feet to a point on the south right-of-way line of Norfolk
Avenue (60 feet wide), said point also being the northwest corner of Lot 710,
“Westwood Subdivision of Van Alstine Farms”; thence easterly along said south
right-of-way line of Norfolk Avenue, approximately 44 feet to the northeast
corner of said Lot 710; thence southerly along the east line of said Lot 710,
approximately 143 feet to a point on the south line of a 16-foot wide vacated
alley, said point also being the northeast corner of Lot 619, “Westwood
Subdivsion of Van Alstine Farms”; thence westerly along the north line of said
Lot 619, approximately 47 feet to the northwest corner of said Lot 619; thence
southerly along the west line of said Lot 619, also being the east line of a
17-foot wide vacated alley, approximately 127 feet to a point on the north
right-of-way line of Yale Avenue (60 feet wide), said point also being the
southwest corner of said Lot 619; thence westerly along the north right-of-way
line of Yale Avenue, approximately 235 feet to a point on the west right-of-way
line of Inkster Road (120 feet wide); thence northerly along said west right-
of-way line of Inkster Road, approximately 249 feet to the northeast corner of
Lot 58, “Wolverine Tractor Subdivision”, as recorded in Liber 38, Page 34, of
Plats, Wayne County Records; thence westerly along the north line of Lots 58
and 59, “Wolverine Tractor Subdivision”, approximately 295 feet to a point on
the west right-of-way line of Allen Avenue, (50 feet wide); thence northerly
along said west right-of- way line of Allen Avenue, approximately 184 feet to a
point on the south right-of-way line of Cherry Avenue (60 feet wide), said
point also being the northeast corner of Lot 551, said “Wolverine Tractor
Subdivision”; thence southwesterly along said south line of Cherry Avenue,
approximately 2,312 feet to the point of beginning, containing 251 acres, more
or less.
(Ord. 687, passed 3-19-90)
§ 32.161 DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCE PLAN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT ROLL. The base year assessment roll prepared by the
City Assessor in accordance with division (D) of this section.
   CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE. The amount in any one year by which the current
assessed value as finally equalized of all taxable property in the downtown
development area exceeds the initial assessed value.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. The area shown in Map 1, Boundaries of Development Area,
more fully described in the development plan.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The City of Inkster Downtown Development Authority
Development Plan and Tax Increment Finance Plan transmitted to the City Council
by the Downtown Development Authority for public hearing, copies of which are
on file in the office of the City Clerk.
   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY. The City of Inkster Downtown Development
Authority.
   INITIAL ASSESSED VALUE. The most recently assessed value as finally
equalized of all the taxable property within the boundaries of the Development
Area at the time of adoption of this ordinance.
   PROJECT FUND. The Downtown Development Authority Project Fund established
pursuant to division (F) of this section.
   TAXING JURISDICTION. Each unit of government levying an ad valorem property
tax on property in the Development Area.
   (B)   Approval and Adoption of Development Plan. The Development Plan is
hereby approved and adopted. The duration of the Development Plan shall be 30
years from the date of issuance of the last series of bonds issued pursuant to
the Development Plan, except as it may be extended by subsequent amendment of
the Development Plan and this ordinance. A copy of the Development Plan and all
amendments thereto shall be maintained on file in the City Clerk’s office and
cross-indexed to this ordinance.
   (C)   Boundaries of Development Area. The boundaries of the Development Area
as set forth in the Development Plan are hereby adopted and confirmed.
   (D)   Preparation of Base Year Assessment Roll.
      (1)   Within 60 days of the effective date of this ordinance, the City
Assessor shall prepare the initial base year assessment roll. The initial base
year assessment roll shall list each taxing jurisdiction in which the
development area is located, the initial assessed value of the development area
on the effective date of this ordinance and the amount of tax revenue derived
by each taxing jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the property in the
development area.
      (2)   The Assessor shall transmit copies of the initial base year
assessment roll to the City Treasurer, County Treasurer, Downtown Development
Authority and each taxing jurisdiction, together with a notice that the
assessment roll has been prepared in accordance with this ordinance and the tax
increment financing plan in the Development Plan approved by this ordinance.
   (E)   Preparation of Annual Base Year Assessment Roll. Each year within 15
days following the final equalization of property in Development Area, the
Assessor shall prepare an updated base year assessment roll. The updated base
year assessment roll shall show the information required in the initial base
year assessment roll and, in addition, the captured assessed value for that
year. Copies of the annual base year assessment roll shall be transmitted by
the Assessor to the same persons as the initial base year assessment roll,
together with a notice that it has been prepared in accordance with this
ordinance and the development plan.
   (F)   Establisbment of Project Fund; Approval of Depositary. The treasurer
of the Downtown Development Authority shall establish a separate fund which
shall be kept in a depositary bank account or accounts in a bank or banks
approved by the City Treasurer, to be designated Downtown Development Authority
Project Fund. All moneys received by the Downtown Development Authority
pursuant to the Development Plan shall be deposited in the Project Fund. All
moneys in that fund and earnings thereon shall be used in accordance with the
Development Plan and this ordinance.
   (G)   Payment of Tax Increments to Downtown Development Authority. The City
and County Treasurer shall, as ad valorem taxes are collected on the property
in the development area, pay that proportion of the taxes, except for penalties
and collection fees, that the captured assessed value bears to the initial
assessed value to the Treasurer of the Downtown Development Authority for
deposit in the Project Fund. The payments shall be made on the date or dates on
which the City and County Treasurers are required to remit taxes to each of the
taxing jurisdictions.
   (H)   (1)   Uses of Moneys in the Project Fund. The money credited to the
Project Fund and on hand therein from time to time shall annually be used in
the following manner and following order of priority:
         (a)   To pay into the debt retirement fund, or funds, for all
outstanding series of bonds issued pursuant to the Development Plan an amount
equal to the interest and principal coming due (in the case of principal
whether by maturity or mandatory redemption) prior to the next collection of
taxes, less any credit for sums on hand in the debt retirement fund.
         (b)   To reimburse the city for funds which may be advanced to make
preliminary plans and improvements necessary for the development area in
accordance with the Development Plan.
         (c)   To pay the administrative and operating costs of the Downtown
Development Authority and city for the development area, including planning and
promotion, to the extent provided in the annual budget of the Downtown
Development Authority.
         (d)   To establish a reserve account for payment of one year’s
principal and interest on debts incurred purusant to the Development Plan.
         (e)   To pay, to the extent determined desirable by the Downtown
Development Authority and approved by the city, the cost of improvements as set
forth in the Development Plan to the extent those costs are not financed from
the proceeds of bonds.
         (f)   To establish a sinking fund or a set aside account to be used to
retire the debt incurred pursuant to the Development Plan at the earliest
possible date.
      (2)   Any tax increment receipts in excess of those needed under the
preceding paragraphs would revert to the taxing jurisdictions or would be used
for future development activities within the Development Area, as defined in
the Development Plan or as expanded pursuant to amendment or modification of
the Development Plan pursuant to applicable provisions of Act No. 197 and other
laws.
   (I)   Annual Report. Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the
Downtown Development Authority shall submit to the City Council, with copies to
each taxing jurisdiction, a report on the status of the Project Fund. The
report shall include the amount and source of revenue in the account, the
amount and purpose of expenditures from the account, the initial assessed value
of the Development Area, the captured assessed value of the development area,
the tax increments received and the amount of any surplus from the prior year,
and any additional information requested by the City Council or deemed
appropriate by the Downtown Development Authority. The Secretary of the
Downtown Development Authority shall cause a copy of the report to be published
once in full in a newspaper of general circulation in the city.
   (J)   Refund of Surplus Tax Increments. Any surplus money in the Project
Fund at the end of a year, as shown by the annual report of the Downtown
Development Authority, shall be paid by the Authority to the City or County
Treasurer, as the case may be, and rebated by them to the appropriate taxing
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 741, passed 11-21-94)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
§ 32.170 CORPORATE NAME.
   The name of the corporation is The Economic Development Corporation of the
city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1401) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.171 ORGANIZATION; PURPOSE.
   The Corporation is organized pursuant to Act 338 of the Public Acts of 1974,
as amended, to perform essential public purposes and functions of the city. Its
purposes will be to alleviate and prevent conditions of unemployment, to assist
and retain local industries and commercial enterprises in order to strengthen
and revitalize the economy of the city and the state; to provide means and
methods for the encouragement and assistance of industrial and commercial
enterprises in locating and expanding in the city, to encourage the location
and expansion of commercial enterprises to provide needed services and
facilities to the city and the residents thereof, said to accomplish the
foregoing to do the following:
   (A)   To construct, acquire by gift or purchase, reconstruct, improve,
maintain, repair, acquire the necessary lands for the site for projects, which
term shall hereinafter mean the following land and existing or planned
improvements suitable for use by any industrial or commercial enterprise or a
replacement housing project incidental thereto, and all necessary buildings or
structures suitable for and intended for or incidental to use as an industrial
or commercial enterprise, including a replacement housing project incidental
thereto, and all necessary machinery, furnishings and equipment necessary,
suitable, intended for or incidental to a commercial, industrial or residential
use in connection with the buildings or structures.
   (B)   To acquire by gift or purchase the necessary machinery, furnishings
and equipment for projects.
   (C)   To borrow money and issue its revenue bonds or revenue notes to
finance part or all of the cost of the acquisition, purchase, construction,
reconstruction or improvement of projects or any part thereof, the cost of the
acquisition and improvement of the necessary sites therefor, the acquisition of
machinery, furnishings and equipment therefor, and the costs necessary or
incidental to the borrowing of money and issuing of bonds or notes for such
purpose.
   (D)   To enter into leases, lease purchase agreements or installment sales
contracts with any person, firm or corporation for the use or sale of projects.
   (E)   To mortgage projects in favor of any lender of money to the
Corporation.
   (F)   To sell and convey projects or any part thereof for a price and at a
time as the Corporation determines.
   (G)   To lend, grant, transfer or convey funds described in Section 27 of
Act 338 of the Public Acts of 1974, as amended, as permitted by law, but
subject to applicable restrictions affecting the use of these funds.
   (H)   In general, and subject to such limitations and conditions as are or
may be prescribed by law, to exercise such other powers which now are or
hereafter may be conferred by law upon a corporation organized by the city
under the above statutes and for the above purposes.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1402) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.172 FINANCING.
   (A)   The Economic Development Corporation is organized upon a non-stock
basis. The amount of assets which said Corporation possesses.
      (1)   Real property: None.
      (2)   Personal property: None.
   (B)   The Corporation will be financed from donations, gifts, grants and
devises, either solicited or unsolicited, obtained from public authorities,
individuals, corporations and other organizations, by earnings from its
activities, borrowings and issuance of revenue bonds.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1405) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.173 BOARD OF DIRECTORS; APPOINTMENT; COMPOSITION; OFFICERS.
   (A)   The Board of Directors of the Economic Development Corporation shall
be appointed by the mayor with the advice and consent of the City Council. The
Board of Directors shall consist of 11 persons, not more than three of whom
shall be an officer or employee of the city. The term of office for directors
shall be in accordance with Section 4 (2) of Act 338 of the Public Acts of 1974
(as amended), provided, the Secretary of the Board of Directors of the
Corporation shall notify in writing to the Mayor of the Corporation’s intention
to commence preparation of a project plan and there shall be promptly
appointed, in the same manner, to the Corporation’s Board of Directors, two
additional Directors representative of neighborhood residents likely to be
affected by each such project proposed by the Corporation and whose term of
office shall be consistent with the provisions of Section 4 (2) of Act 338.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Directors shall designate one of its members as
chairperson, one of its members as Secretary, and a Treasurer who need not be a
member of the Board of Directors, each to be designated for such term for a
period of one year. Such officers may succeed themselves in office.
      (2)   The Chairperson shall preside at meetings of the Board of Directors
and may sign and execute all authorized bonds, contracts, checks and other
obligations and execute interest coupons with his facsimile signature in the
name of the Corporation when so authorized by the Board of Directors. The
Chairperson shall do and perform such other duties as may be fixed by the
bylaws and from time to time assigned to him by the Board of Directors.
      (3)   The Secretary shall keep the minutes of all meetings of the Board
of Directors, and of all committees thereof, in books provided for that
purpose. He shall attend to the giving, serving and receiving of all notices or
process of or against the Corporation. He may sign with the Chairperson in the
name of the Corporation all bonds, contracts and other obligations authorized
by the Board of Directors, and when so ordered, he shall affix the seal of the
Corporation thereto. He shall have charge of all books and records which shall
at all reasonable times be open to inspection and examination of the Board of
Directors or any member thereof, and the City Council, and, in general, perform
all the duties incident to his office. The Secretary shall preside at meetings
of the Board of Directors in the absence of the Chairperson.
      (4)   The Treasurer shall have custody of all the funds and securities of
the Corporation which may come into his hands or possession. When necessary or
proper, he shall endorse in behalf of the Corporation for collection, checks,
notes and other obligations, and shall deposit them to the credit of the
Corporation in a designated bank or depository. He shall sign all receipts and
vouchers for payment made to the Corporation. He shall jointly with such other
officer as may be designated by the Board of Directors sign all checks,
promissory notes and other obligations of the Corporation when so ordered by
the Board of Directors. He shall render a statement of his cash accounts when
required by the Board of Directors. He shall enter regularly in the books of
the Corporation to be kept by him for the purpose full and accurate accounts of
all moneys received and paid by him on account of the Corporation, and shall,
at all reasonable times, exhibit his books and accounts to the Board of
Directors or any member thereof when so required. He shall perform all acts
incidental to the position of Treasurer fixed by the bylaws and as assigned to
him from time to time by the Board of Directors. He shall be bonded for the
faithful discharge of his duties as Treasurer, the bond to be of such
character, form and in such amount as the Board of Directors may require.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1407) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77; Am. ord. 570, passed 4-20-81)
§ 32.174 CORPORATE TERM.
The term of operate existence is perpetual.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1408) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.175 INTERNAL AFFAIRS REGULATED.
   The regulation of the internal affairs of the Economic Development
Corporation, including the distribution of assets on dissolution or final
liquidation, is placed entirely with the Board of Directors or their
successors, as provided in the bylaws of this Corporation, subject, however, to
the provisions of Act 338 of the Public Acts of 1974 as amended.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1409) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.176 EARNINGS; COMPENSATION; ASSETS.
   (A)   No part of the net earnings of the Economic Development Corporation
shall inure to the benefit of any member, trustee, officer or director of the
Corporation, or any private individual (except that in case of private
individuals reasonable compensation may be paid for services rendered to or for
the Corporation affecting one or more of its purposes), and no member, trustee,
officer or director of the Corporation or any private individual shall be
entitled to share in the distribution of any of the corporate assets on
dissolution of the Corporation. Directors of the Corporation shall serve
without salary, but may be reimbursed their actual expenses incurred in the
performance of their official duties, and may receive a per diem in an amount
set by the City Council. No substantial part of the activities of the
Corporation shall be the carrying on of propaganda, or otherwise attempting to
influence legislation, and the Corporation shall not participate in or
intervene in (including the publication or distribution of statements) any
political campaign on behalf of any candidate for public office.
   (B)   Upon the dissolution of the Corporation or the winding up of its
affairs, all property and assets of the Corporation shall be distributed
exclusively to the city or its successor.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1410) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.177 CORPORATE SEAL ADOPTED.
   The Board of Directors shall adopt a corporate seal.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1411) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.178 MEETINGS; OPEN TO PUBLIC; NOTICE.
   All meetings of the Board of Directors shall be public, and notice of such
meetings will be posted in the city offices at least 72 hours prior to the date
of such meeting.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1412) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.179 BOOKS; RECORDS; ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Economic Development Corporation shall at all times be deemed to be an
agency or political subdivision of the city. The books and records of the
Corporation and of the Board of Director’s, officers and agents thereof shall
be open to inspection and audit by the city at all reasonable times. The
Corporation shall submit an annual report of its activities to the City
Council.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1413) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
§ 32.180 BYLAWS.
   Upon their appointment, the Board of Directors shall convene, organize and
by resolution adopt bylaws which may set forth the Economic Development
Corporation’s rules of procedure and regulation of projects. Said bylaws shall
be subject to the approval of the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1415) (Ord. 517, passed 7-18-77)
CHAPTER 33: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers
Stopping and Searching of Suspicious Persons
   
33.15   Authority of police to stop and question suspicious persons
   
33.16   Limited search for dangerous weapons
   
33.17   Obstructing resisting officer prohibited
   
33.18   Police powers; limitation
Disposition of Unclaimed Property
   
33.30   Duty of Police Department
   
33.31   Protection of property; duty
   
33.32   Lost money or goods; notice of findings; restitution
   
33.33   Failure to claim property; abandonment
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 MINIMUM EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS FOR LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICERS.
   The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers are
established and adopted be the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training
Council in accordance with Act 203, Public Acts of 1965, are hereby adopted as
follows:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States.
   (B)   Minimum age of 21 years.
   (C)   Graduation from high school or equivalent. Equivalent defined as
having attained a passing score on the General Education Development tests
indicating high school graduation level.
   (D)   Fingerprinting of applicants with a search of local, state and
national fingerprint files to disclose any criminal record.
   (E)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony offense.
   (F)   Good moral character are determined by a favorable report following a
comprehensive background investigation covering school and employment records,
home environment, personal traits and integrity. Consideration will be given to
any and all law violations, including traffic and conservation law convictions
as indicating lack of good character.
   (G)   Acceptable physical, emotional and mental fitness as established by a
licensed physician following examination to determine the applicant is free
from any physical, emotional or mental condition which might adversely affect
the performance of duty as a police officer.
   (H)   The trainee shall possess normal hearing and normal color vision. He
shall be free from any impediments of the senses. He must possess normal visual
functions and visual acuity in each eye correctable to 20/20. The trainee must
be physically sound; well developed physically, with height and weight in
relation to each other and to age as indicated by accepted medical standards,
and in possession of his extremities. He shall be free from any physical
defects, chronic diseases, organic or functional conditions, or mental
instabilities which may tend to impair efficient performance of duty or which
might endanger the lives of others or himself if he lacks these qualification.
   (I)   A declaration of the applicant’s medical history shall become a part
of the background investigation. The information shall be available to the
examining physician.
   (J)   An oral interview shall be held by the firing authority or his
representative, to determine the applicant’s acceptability for a police officer
position and to assess appearance, background and ability to communicate.
   (K)   Recruitment and employment practices and standards shall be in
compliance with existing state statutes governing this activity.
(‘68 Code, § 2-901) (Ord. 276, passed 5-15-67)
STOPPING AND SEARCHING OF SUSPICIOUS PERSONS
§ 33.15 AUTHORITY OF POLICE TO STOP AND QUESTION SUSPICIOUS PERSONS.
   Whenever a police officer of the city reasonably suspects, or has reasonable
cause to believe that the behavior of an individual warrants further
investigation for criminal activity, such officer may stop, temporarily detain
and question such person. If such police officer shall not be in uniform at the
time, he shall first identify himself as a police officer to the person
detained.
(‘68 Code, § 4-1401) (Ord. 410, passed 3-6-72)
§ 33.16 LIMITED SEARCH FOR DANGEROUS WEAPONS.
   Whenever a police officer has stopped and detained a person for questioning
pursuant to §
33.15, and reasonably suspects, or has reasonable cause to believe, that there
is danger to himself or others, he may conduct a limited search of such person
for dangerous weapons. The police officer may take and keep any such weapon or
other thing found on such person, the possession of which may constitute a
crime or might endanger the police officer or others, until he has completed
the questioning, at which time he shall either return the property so taken, if
lawfully possessed, or arrest such person and dispose of such property
according to law.
(‘68 Code, § 4-1402) (Ord. 410, passed 3-6-72)
§ 33.17 OBSTRUCTING RESISTING OFFICER PROHIBITED.
   Any person who shall refuse to stop and comply with the order of a police
officer given pursuant to the authority of this subchapter, or who shall
obstruct, resist, oppose, assault, or threaten such officer with bodily harm,
or aid, abet or encourage others to do so, or shall flee from such officer, or
attempt to escape his custody, shall be guilty of a violation of this
subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 4-1401) (Ord. 410, passed 3-6-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 33.18 POLICE POWERS; LIMITATION.
   (A)   The Police Department and the individual police officer will take
special care to exercise sound and considered judgment in the enforcement of
this subchapter, not only to honor the rights of citizens as defined by the
United States Constitution and the Constitution of the state, but also to
safeguard the personal dignity of all those affected by it.
   (B)   The driver or occupants of a motor vehicle stopped for a routine
traffic violation, shall not be searched or unduly detained, nor shall the
vehicle be searched, or impounded, if the driver’s license and the vehicle
registration are in order, the vehicle is equipped as required by state law,
and the driver’s ability to drive is not impaired; provided that special and
unusual circumstances which reasonably cause an officer to believe his life or
person is endangered shall justify a limited search for dangerous weapons.
(‘68 Code, § 4-1404) (Ord. 410, passed 3-6-72)
DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED PROPERTY
§ 33.30 DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   All property taken or found by any officer of the Police Department of the
city, in possession of any person arrested or charged with violation of the
law, all property or money taken on suspicion of having been feloniously
obtained or being the proceeds of crime and for which there is no other
complainant other than the person from whom it was taken, and all lost and
unclaimed property, the ownership of which cannot be determined, coming into
possession of the Police Department or any other department of the city, and
all property and money taken from pawnbrokers as the proceeds of crime and
whose lawful ownership cannot be determined shall be deposited and disposed of
as provided in this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 2-601) (Ord. 617, passed 6-17-85)
§ 33.31 PROTECTION OF PROPERTY; DUTY.
   The Police Department shall take into its care and custody the property
described in §
33.30, deposit the same in a safe and suitable place, and such property shall
be handled and disposed of in the manner hereinafter provided.
(‘68 Code, § 2-602) (Ord. 617, passed 6-17-85)
§ 33.32 LOST MONEY OR GOODS; NOTICE OF FINDINGS; RESTITUTION.
   (a)   When any person shall find any lost money or lost goods, if the owner
thereof be known, he shall immediately give notice thereof to such owner; if
the owner thereof be unknown, and such money or goods be of the value of $3 or
more, the finder shall, within two days, cause notice thereof to be posted in
two public places within the city where the same were found, and shall also
within seven days give notice thereof in writing to the City Clerk and pay him
$.25 for making an entry thereof in a book to be kept for that purpose. (‘68
Code, § 2-603)
   (B)   If the money or goods so found have the value of $10 or more and the
owner thereof be unknown, the finder thereof shall also within one month after
such funds cause notice thereof to be advertised in some newspaper in the same
county, if one is published there, and if not, then in some newspaper published
in an adjoining county, and continued therein for six successive weeks. (‘68
Code, § 2-604)
   (C)   If the owner or person entitled to the possession to any such money or
goods, other than stray animals, shall appear at any time within one year after
such entry with the City Clerk, and shall make out his rights thereto, he shall
have restitution of the same, or the value thereof, upon his paying all the
costs and charges aforesaid, together with a reasonable compensation to the
finder for keeping and taking care of the same, and for his necessary travel
and expenses in the case, which charges shall, in the case of disagreement
between the owner and the finder, be determined by the district court judge of
the city who shall certify the same. (‘68 Code, § 2-605)
   (D)   If no owner or person entitled to the possession of the same shall
appear within one year, then such money or goods that remain shall go the
finder, except if the finder is a city employee, in the performance of his
duty, where the finder shall receive the value thereof from the Treasurer of
the city, according to said certification, after deducting from such value all
the fees and charges aforesaid, or as determined and certified by the district
judge as aforesaid. (‘68 Code, § 2-606)
(Ord. 617, passed 6-17-85)
§ 33.33 FAILURE TO CLAIM PROPERTY; ABANDONMENT.
   All property as advertised, the owner of which fails to reclaim such
property within the aforesaid, and which property was found by a city employee
or agent while in the performance of his duty, shall be deemed to be abandoned
and same shall be disposed of as provided in this section. After the expiration
of one year, said property shall be claimed by the city as its own personal
property to be sold, disposed of or liquidated by the Chief of Police in
accordance with the rules and regulations covering such sales as prescribed by
the City Council, and the proceeds of which shall be deposited with the City
Treasurer in the general funds; providing that notice of the proposed sale at
auction on said property, together with the date, time and place of sale, shall
be advertised once each week for three consecutive weeks in the official
newspaper generally circulated in the city, and that no sale shall take place
within less than 30 days from the date of the first advertisement of such sale.
(‘68 Code, § 2-607) (Ord. 617, passed 6-17-85)
CHAPTER 34: EMPLOYMENT POLICIES
Section
Civil Service
   
34.01   Civil Service Commission established
   
34.02   Approval by Council of Commission’s actions
   
34.03   Classified and unclassified services
   
34.04   Certification of eligibles
   
34.05   Status of employees upon adoption of provisions
   
34.06   Filling of vacancies by promotion
   
34.07   Removal procedures and appeals
   
34.08   Soliciting for political purposes
   
34.09   Discrimination prohibited; loyalty oath
Unemployment Compensation System and Benefit Plan
   
34.20   Establishment; administration
   
34.21   Definitions
   
34.22   Benefit rates
   
34.23   Failure to claim property; abandonment
   
34.24   Employees covered and not covered by system
   
34.25   Eligibility for benefits
   
34.26   Disqualifications
   
34.27   Ineligible terminations and separations
   
34.28   Payment and restrictions on benefits
   
34.29   Rules and procedures; suit to recover monies upon fraudulent claim
   
34.30   Determinations; hearing; redetermination
   
34.31   Appeals; Appeal Board
   
34.32   Extension of time
   
34.33   Finances
   
34.34   False statements
CIVIL SERVICE
§ 34.01 CIVIL SERVICE COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   (A)   Organization and administration.
      (1)   The Civil Service Commission shall consist of three members,
appointed in accordance with Charter, Section 19.1(c). The members of the
Commission shall be persons in sympathy with the application of merit
principles to public employment. No member of the Commission shall hold any
other elective or appointive office in the city, nor be employed by the city in
any capacity, except for contractual employees.
      (2)   The civil service system shall become effective upon the adoption
of this subchapter. The members of the Civil Service Commission shall receive
for their services such compensation as shall be determined by the Council. The
Commission shall meet at least monthly in a location designated by the City
Council. Minutes shall be taken for each regular and special meeting in the
English language and a copy of said minutes shall be filed with the City Clerk.
Vacancies shall be filled for unexpired terms by the party making the
appointment. Two members of the Commission shall constitute a quorum for the
conduct of the business of the Commission. The Council may remove any member of
the Commission, but only after serving such member with a statement in writing
of the reasons for such removal and allowing such member to be publicly heard
in his defense before the City Council. The Commissioner, whose term of office
shall next expire, shall serve as Chairperson of the Commission. The personnel
program established under this subchapter shall be administered by the Mayor or
his designated representative. The Mayor or his designated representative shall
attend all meetings of the Civil Service Commission, and maintain minutes and
record of all meetings; administer all the provisions of this subchapter and
the personnel rules and regulations; and prepare and recommend revisions and
amendments to the personnel rules and regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1001)
   (B)   Powers and duties of the Commission. In order to carry out and make
effective the purpose and intent of the provisions of this subchapter in
establishing a civil service system, the Civil Service Commission shall:
      (1)   Establish and administer a position-classification plan, an
examination program, rules and regulations governing the terms and conditions
of employment and service;
      (2)   Establish and administer rules and regulations governing residence
requirements, probation periods, service records, seniority, hours of service,
work-week, vacation leaves, leaves-of-absence, time off, promotions, demotions,
suspensions, removals, reinstatements, resignations, lay-offs and age limits;
      (3)   Make such rules and regulations, not inconsistent with the Charter,
as it deems necessary and advisable for the administration of the civil service
system;
      (4)   Investigate and enforce the provisions of this subchapter and,
through its authorized representatives or its own members, administer oaths and
subpoena and compel attendance of witnesses and the production of records in
connection with any matter property before it;
      (5)   Make annual reports of its activities to the Mayor or City Council
and such special reports as may be requested by the Manager or Council; and
      (6)   May contract, with approval of the Manager, for such technical
services and advice as may be reasonably necessary to the performance of the
foregoing duties.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1002)
(Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 34.02 APPROVAL BY COUNCIL OF COMMISSION’S ACTIONS.
   The actions of the Civil Service Commission in establishing rules and
regulations shall be approved by the City Council before any of such rules and
regulations may become effective. When such rules and regulations have been
approved, amendments thereto shall not become effective until jointly approved
by both the Council and the Civil Service Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1001) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82)
§ 34.03 CLASSIFIED AND UNCLASSIFIED SERVICES.
   (A)   The civil service of the city shall be defined as the classified
service. The unclassified service shall specifically include officers elected
by popular vote, persons appointed to fill vacancies in such elective offices,
the Mayor, all members of boards and commissions required by law or the Charter
to be appointed, and any department heads of the city which are now or may
hereafter be created.
   (B)   The classified service shall comprise all other positions in the city
and those appointed in accordance with Charter,
Section 19.1, including but not limited to all positions now or hereafter
established in all of the departments, divisions and administrative offices of
the city. Any board, commission or department constituted by law a body
corporate shall be included in the classified service unless specifically
excluded by the provisions of the charter or this subchapter.
   (C)   This section shall not preclude or prohibit the establishment of
policies to permit transfer by classified personnel to the unclassified service
on indefinite leave for promotion to administrative office.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1003) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 34.04 CERTIFICATION OF ELIGIBLES.
   Whenever any certification is made by the Civil Service Commission from
eligible lists to fill a vacancy in the service, the Commission will certify
those persons who have passed the examinations and are therefore eligible for
employment. The three persons standing highest on the eligible list may be
considered for appointment by the appointing authority. If overall
qualifications and suitability for the job, city residency, as well as
affirmative action goals are not met by the three persons standing highest on
the list, then the next highest interval of three persons on the list may be
considered for appointment until a suitable person is appointed. Persons
considered but not appointed shall be provided with a valid reason for
rejection in writing to be submitted by the Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1005) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82)
§ 34.05 STATUS OF EMPLOYEES UPON ADOPTION OF PROVISIONS.
   All persons in the employ of the city in the classified service at the time
of adoption of this subchapter shall be deemed to have regular status and shall
hold their positions without examination. All persons entering the classified
service and all employees promoted after the adoption of this subchapter shall
obtain their positions through examinations.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1006) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82)
§ 34.06 FILLING OF VACANCIES BY PROMOTION.
   Whenever possible, vacancies shall be filled by promotion.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1007) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82)
§ 34.07 REMOVAL PROCEDURES AND APPEALS.
   Any employee or officer in the classified civil service may be removed,
suspended or demoted by the appointing authority for cause, as shall be
established by the Civil Service Commission, by an order in writing stating
specifically the reasons therefor. A copy of such order shall be filed with the
Commission. Such employee may, within five days after presentation of such
order to him, appeal from such order to the Civil Service Commission. The
Commission shall, within two weeks from the filing of such appeal, commence the
hearing thereon, all shall thereupon fully hear and determine the matter, and
either affirm, modify or revoke such order. The appellant shall be entitled to
appeal personally, produce evidence, and have counsel. The findings and
decision of the Commission shall be certified to the official from whose order
the appeal is taken, and shall forthwith be enforced and followed by him.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1008) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82)
§ 34.08 SOLICITING FOR POLITICAL PURPOSES.
   No officer or employee in the classified civil service shall directly or
indirectly, make, solicit or receive any assessment, subscription or
contribution for any city political purpose whatsoever. Any employee violating
the provisions of this section may be removed from office by action of the
Civil Service Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1009) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82)
§ 34.09 DISCRIMINATION PROHIBITED; LOYALTY OATH.
   No person in the classified civil service or seeking admission thereto shall
be appointed, removed, promoted, demoted, or in any way favored or
discriminated against because of race, color, sex, age, racial origin,
handicap, religion or political affiliation, except for membership in any
organization which advocates the overthrow of, or disloyalty to, the government
of the United States or any subdivision thereof. For the protection of vital
governmental services, the City Council may authorize the Civil Service
Commission to administer loyalty oath to all employees of the city, and to
remove from the classified civil service any employee who is found to be
disloyal to the government of the United States or any subdivision thereof, or
who shall refuse to take such oath.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1010) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82)
UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION SYSTEM AND BENEFIT PLAN
§ 34.20 ESTABLISHMENT; ADMINISTRATION.
   There is hereby established an Unemployment Compensation System and Benefit
Plan for employees of the city to be administered by the City Treasurer and an
Unemployment Compensation Appeal Board. This plan is established pursuant to
Act 170 of the Public Acts of 1958 as amended.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1001) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.21 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVERAGE WEEKLY WAGE. With respect to a base period of employment, shall be
the amount determined by dividing total wages paid by the city for credit weeks
earned in the employment of the city by the number of such credit weeks
chargeable to the city as employer.
   BASE PERIOD. The period of 52 consecutive calendar weeks ending with the day
immediately proceeding the first day of an individual’s benefit year.
   BENEFIT YEAR. With respect to any individual, means the period of 52
consecutive calendar weeks beginning with the first calendar week with respect
to which the individual, who does not already have a benefit year in effect,
files a claim for benefits under this chapter, provided that the individual has
earned wages of at least $25.01 in 14 or more calendar weeks within the base
period. Each sum week shall be a credit week.
   TREASURER. The appointed Treasurer of the city.
   UNEMPLOYED. An individual shall be deemed unemployed with respect to any
week during which he performs no services and with respect to any week during
which he performs no services and with respect to which no remuneration is
payable to him, or with respect to any week of less than full-time work if the
remuneration payable to him is less than his weekly benefit rate.
   WAGE. Remuneration paid for employment but shall not include any employee
payment for life and health insurance, pension, equipment allowance or similar
payment.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1202) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.22 BENEFIT RATES.
   Benefit payments shall begin with effective date of unemployment and shall
be calculated according to the following rules:
   (A)   The weekly benefit rate and amount of the weekly benefit payment shall
be determined in accordance with all of the relevant provisions as set forth in
Section 27 of the Michigan Employment Security Act (MESA) and as set forth in
MESA weekly benefit rate table in effect at the time an employee is laid off.
   (B)   The dependency class category of a laid-off employee shall be
determined as stipulated and provided by the Michigan Employment Security Act.
A dependent shall be as defined by the Michigan Employment Security Act. Once a
dependency classification is established, it cannot be reduced in the benefit
year unless it is related to a change in the Michigan Employment Security Act.
   (C)   Employees shall be entitled to three weeks of benefits for each four
credit weeks earned working for the city up to a maximum of 26 weeks of
benefits for 35 earned credit weeks, provided that the claimant has worked at
least 35 weeks in the 52 weeks preceding the week in which the claimant applied
for benefits. The minimum duration shall not be less than 10½ weeks if the
claimant worked 14 weeks and earned at least $25.01 in each week. However, if
an employee was employed by only the city in his base period, only 34 credit
weeks will be required in order to receive a maximum of 26 weeks of benefits.
   (D)   Any change in the rate of regular benefits and their duration that
would be mandatory to meet the requirements for equivalency with the Michigan
Employment Security Act shall become effective on the same day to change the
method of determination of amounts of benefit payment as provided in this
section.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1203) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74; Am. Ord. 487, passed 2-3-75)
§ 34.23 AUTHORIZATION OF PAYMENT.
   Payment of unemployment benefits shall be based on a certification from the
treasurer or his designee. Such certification shall contain all information
necessary for payment. A record of the benefits received by each individual
shall be maintained by the City Treasurer.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1204) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.24 EMPLOYEES COVERED AND NOT COVERED BY SYSTEM.
   (A)   Except as provided by division (B) of this section, employees covered
by this unemployment compensation system shall consist exclusively of the
employees in the classified and civil service of the city as defined by the
Charter and by the rules and regulations of the Civil Service Board, and the
full-time unclassified employees. (‘68 Code, § 2-1205)
   (B)   Employees not covered by this unemployment compensation system shall
be:
      (1)   Elected and appointed nonfull-time officials.
      (2)   Persons providing contractual service to the city as specialists,
independent contractors or employees thereof.
      (3)   Employees who are or were at the time of their employment by the
city, students enrolled on a regular basis in high school, college, graduate
school or any other school in which their primary status is clearly that of a
student, or any persons hired as students.
      (4)   Seasonal, temporary and part-time employees.
      (5)   Service performed by an individual where compensation is derived at
least 50% from federal funds received under a specific federal program for
which an application was made and whose employment is terminated due to
discontinuance of the federal funding, unless reimbursement is made to the city
under the federal program for unemployment benefits under this subchapter.
      (6)   Service by a student under the age of 18 years regularly attending
either a public of private school below the college level and the employment
was part-time or within the vacation period of the school, or a part of the
school curriculum.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1206)
(Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.25 ELIGIBILITY FOR BENEFITS.
   A claimant to be eligible for benefits must be unemployed, as defined, and
must make a claim for benefits in the manner prescribed by the City Treasurer,
and further must:
   (A)   Be able and available to perform full-time work which he is qualified
to perform by past experience or training, and of a character generally similar
to work which he has earned wages;
   (B)   Be in compliance with registration and reporting requirements; and
   (C)   Be seeking work.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1207) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.26 DISQUALIFICATIONS.
   A claimant is disqualified from receiving benefits if the City Treasurer
finds that an individual is unemployed due to an ineligible termination or
separation as specified in §
34.27, he left work voluntarily or has accepted permanent full-time work
voluntarily or has accepted permanent full-time work with another employer, has
failed without just cause to apply for available suitable work or has failed to
accept suitable work when offered, or has failed when directed to return to his
customary work.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1208) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.27 INELIGIBLE TERMINATIONS AND SEPARATIONS.
   An employee shall not be eligible for benefits under the unemployment
compensation system established by this subchapter, if the unemployment shall
result from:
   (A)   Retirement under any Charter chapter retirement system or any future
retirement system covering city employees.
   (B)   Discharge or suspension for misconduct connected with one’s work.
   (C)   For intoxication while at work.
   (D)   For absence due to imprisonment.
   (E)   For an act of assault.
   (F)   Theft or sabotage connected with his work.
   (G)   Resignations, including resignations in lieu of discharge.
   (H)   Leaves of absence for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary.
   (I)   Temporary separations made at the request of the employee.
   (J)   Participation or indirect interest in a labor dispute including any
strike, unauthorized work stoppages, or other concerted action.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1209) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.28 PAYMENT AND RESTRICTIONS ON BENEFITS.
   Benefits shall be paid weekly at a time and place fixed by the City
Treasurer. All beneficiaries must report weekly to the Treasurer’s Office or
where directed in writing on designated day for weekly benefit checks and
determination of continuing eligibility, a beneficiary must be actively looking
work, and must be registered with the Michigan Employment Security Commission.
No beneficiary who shall refuse any reasonable bona fide offer of employment
shall receive any benefit after such refusal.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1210) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.29 RULES AND PROCEDURES; SUIT TO RECOVER MONIES UPON FRAUDULENT CLAIM.
   Rules and procedures, including any necessary forms, may be established by
the City Treasurer to administer the unemployment compensation system. The
Treasurer or his designee may bring suit in the name of the city to recover any
monies paid upon a fraudulent or untrue application or claim.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1211) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.30 DETERMINATIONS; HEARING; REDETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Treasurer or his designee shall promptly make a determination
after an application for benefits is filed whether the claimant is a covered
individual eligible and qualified to draw benefits based upon the available
information. The issuance of each benefit check shall be considered a
determination that the claimant receiving the check was a covered individual
eligible and qualified for benefits. Where a claimant refused work or fails to
apply for work or in any other way is or becomes disqualified or ineligible for
benefits, the Treasurer or his designee shall promptly make a written
determination of such disqualification or ineligibility and shall send the
claimant notice thereof.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1212)
   (B)   Upon the written request of any claimant within 15 days following any
determination or decision respecting qualification, eligibility or rate of
benefits, the Treasurer or his designee shall promptly review the prior
determination and, if necessary, may order a hearing thereon. Upon review, with
or without hearing, the Treasurer or his designee shall issue a redetermination
affirming, modifying or reverting the prior determination and stating the
reasons therefor. Such redetermination shall be final unless an appeal is filed
as provided in §
34.31.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1213)
(Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.31 APPEALS; APPEAL BOARD.
   (A)   There is hereby established an Unemployment Compensation Appeal Board,
to consist of three members appointed by the Mayor and City Council to serve
for a period of not more than five years. It shall be the duty of the Board to
review determinations and decisions of the City Treasurer pertaining to this
unemployment compensation system, provided that a claim of appeal is filed
within 15 days of such decision or determination. The time to file a claim of
appeal shall not begin until an employee has been notified in writing of his
right to appeal.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1214)
   (B)   Appeal Board; powers and duties. The Appeal Board may on its own
motion affirm, modify, set aside or reverse any decision or order on the basis
of the evidence previously submitted in such case, or direct the taking of
additional evidence, or may permit any of the parties to such decision or order
to initiate further appeals before it. The Appeal Board shall promptly notify
parties of its findings and decisions and its reasons therefor but may omit the
giving of any reasons if the previous order, decision or determination is
affirmed without any alteration or modification.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1215)
   (C)   Procedure, reports, record of proceedings on appeal; transcripts of
testimony. The manner in which appeals to the Appeal Board shall be presented,
the reports thereon required from the interested party or parties, and the
procedure governing such appeals shall be in accordance with rules prescribed
by the Appeal Board. A full and complete record shall be kept of all
proceedings in connection with an appeal. Staff, space and such clerical
service as is needed shall be provided by the Treasurer to the Appeal Board.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1216)
(Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.32 EXTENSION OF TIME.
   Whenever the last day of the period to apply for redetermination or to
appeal any decision, determination or redetermination, falls on a Saturday,
Sunday or legal holiday, such period shall run until the end of the next day
which is not a Saturday, Sunday or holiday.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1217) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.33 FINANCES.
   Financing shall be accomplished through the Unemployment Compensation System
Fund, herewith established to account for related revenue and expenditures,
including payment of unemployment benefits. The City Treasurer shall recommend
to the City Council annual appropriations to be made for this activity,
provided that no appropriation will be required after a fund balance of $80,000
has been accumulated in the Unemployment Compensation System Fund.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1218) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74)
§ 34.34 FALSE STATEMENTS.
   No person shall, with intent to deceive, make any false or untrue statements
or reports. In lieu of criminal action based on any false or untrue statements
or reports, the Treasurer may recommend disciplinary or other action to the
controlling department, board or commission.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1219) (Ord. 483, passed 12-21-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 35: ELECTIONS
Section
Election Precincts
   
35.01   Establishment of election precincts; boundaries
   
35.02   Electors; precinct designated for voting
Odd-Year Primary Elections
   
35.15   Short title
   
35.16   Regularly scheduled elections; time of holding
ELECTION PRECINCTS
§ 35.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF ELECTION PRECINCTS; BOUNDARIES.
   The City Council does hereby divide the six districts of the city into a
total of 12 election precincts for the convenience of conducting elections in
the city, which said election precincts of which the city shall be constituted,
with the numbers and boundaries thereof, are as follows:
   (A)   First District - Precinct No. 1: Bounded on the north by the center
line of Michigan Avenue, on the east by the center line of Middlebelt Road, on
the south by the center line of Annapolis Avenue, and on the west by the center
line of Henry Ruff Road;
   (B)   First District - Precinct No. 2:  Bounded on the north by the center
line of Michigan Avenue, on the east by the center line of Harrison Road, on
the south by the center line of Annapolis Avenue and on the west by the center
line of Middlebelt Road;
   (C)   Second District - Precinct No. 1: Bounded on the west by Henry Ruff
Road, on the north by Cherry Hill Road, on the east by center line of
Middlebelt Road and on the south by the center line of Michigan Avenue;
   (D)   Second District - Precinct No. 2: Bounded on the north by the center
line of Cherry Hill Road, on the south by the center line of Michigan Avenue,
on the east by the center line of Harrison Road and on the west by the center
line of Middlebelt Road;
   (E)   Third District - Precinct No. 1: Bounded on the north by the center
line of the Michigan Central Railroad right-of-way, on the east by the center
line of Inkster Road, on the south by the center line of Annapolis Avenue and
on the west by the center line of Harrison Road;
   (F)   Third District - Precinct No. 2: Bounded on the north by the center
line of the Michigan Central Railroad right-of-way, on the east by the center
line of John Daly Road, on the south by the center line of Annapolis Avenue and
on the west by the center line of Inkster Road;
   (G)   Fourth District - Precinct No. 1: Bounded on the north by the center
line of Cherry Hill Road, on the east by the center line of John Daly Road, on
the south by the center line of Avondale Road and on the west by the center
line of Harrison Avenue;
   (H)   Fourth District - Precinct No. 2: Bounded on the north by the center
line of Avondale Road, on the east by the center line of John Daly Road, on the
south by the center line of the Michigan Central Railroad right-of-way and on
the west by the center line of Harrison Avenue;
   (I)   Fifth District - Precinct No. 1: Bounded on the north by the center
line of the Michigan Central Railroad right-of-way, on the east by the center
line of Gulley Road, on the south by the center line of Carlysle Avenue and on
the west by the center line of John Daly Road;
   (J)   Fifth District - Precinct No. 2:  Bounded-on the north by the center
line of Carlysle Avenue, on the east by the center line of Gulley Road, on the
south by the center line of Annapolis Avenue and on the west by the center line
of John Daly Road;
   (K)   Sixth District - Precinct No. 1: Bounded on the north by the center
line of Cherry Hill Road, on the east by the center line of Gulley Road, on the
south by the center line of Avondale Road and on the west by the center line of
John Daly Road;
   (L)   Sixth District - Precinct No. 2: Bounded on the north by the center
line of Avondale Road, on the east by the center line of Gulley Road, on the
south by the center line of the Michigan Central Railroad right-of-way and on
the west by the center line of John Daly Road.
(‘68 Code, § 2-501) (Res. passed 1-6-53; Am. Ord. 127, passed 12-3-54)
§ 35.02 ELECTORS; PRECINCT DESIGNATED FOR VOTING.
   All qualified electors in the city shall be required to vote in the precinct
in which they respectively reside at all subsequent city elections from and
after date hereof.
(‘68 Code, § 2-502) (Ord. 127, passed 12-3-54)
ODD-YEAR PRIMARY ELECTIONS
§ 35.15 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Odd Year Primary Election Subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1301) (Ord. 488, passed 3-3-75)
§ 35.16 REGULARLY SCHEDULED ELECTIONS; TIME OF HOLDING.
   All regularly scheduled city odd-year primary elections shall be held on the
Tuesday following the second Monday in September pursuant to Public Acts of
1974, Act 378 (Section 644b of Act 116 of the Public Acts of 1954, being
Section 168.644b of the Compiled Laws of 1970, as amended by Public Acts of
1974, 378).
(‘68 Code, § 2-1302) (Ord. 488, passed 3-3-75)
CHAPTER 36: TAXATION
Section
Property Taxes
   
36.01   Payment of tax
   
36.02   Receipt for taxes
   
36.03   Liability of bank
   
36.04   Deposit to city account
   
36.05   Duplicate bills; list of payments
   
36.06   Compliance by bank
Housing Projects
   
36.20   Tax exemption; application
   
36.21   Cherry Hill Square tax exemption
PROPERTY TAXES
§ 36.01 PAYMENT OF TAX.
   The regular city real and personal property taxes levied for each year may
be paid at the National Bank of Detroit (Inkster office), Manufacturer’s
National Bank, and any other financial institutions that may be added by
resolution of the City Council from time to time, on regular banking days from
July through August.
(‘68 Code, § 2-701) (Ord. 262, passed 6-6-66)
§ 36.02 RECEIPT FOR TAXES.
   Upon payment to the Inkster office of the National Bank of Detroit as set
out in §
36.01, the regular original and duplicate tax bills issued by the City
Treasurer shall be marked “paid” by the bank with a stamp carrying the
signature of the City Treasurer, name of bank and date of payment.
(‘68 Code, § 2-702) (Ord. 262, passed 6-6-66)
§ 36.03 LIABILITY OF BANK.
   The office of the bank shall receive payments for only the full amount of
taxes as stated in the city tax bill issued by the City Treasurer. In the event
payment hereunder is made to the bank otherwise than by a each payment and the
instruments by which payment is made proved to be uncollectible or credit is
otherwise erroneously given, tax payment shall be cancelled by the city and
said bank shall be reimbursed and relieved of liability to the city for the
amount of such tax payment.
(‘68 Code, § 2-703) (Ord. 262, passed 6-6-66)
§ 36.04 DEPOSIT TO CITY ACCOUNT.
   All tax moneys paid hereunder to the bank shall be accepted by the bank as
deposits to the credit of the city, and the bank shall deposit such moneys in
the general fund of the city with the bank.
(‘68 Code, § 2-704) (Ord. 262, passed 6-6-66)
§ 36.05 COMPLIANCE BY BANK.
   The bank shall on the next banking business day after receipt by it of
payment of tax moneys hereunder give to the City Treasurer all duplicate paid
bills for which it has received payment, together with duplicate deposit slip
for the full amount of taxes paid on the preceding banking business day; the
bank shall likewise send to the City Treasurer a list showing the tax bill item
number appearing on each paid tax bill and the amount paid for which such tax
receipt was issued.
(‘68 Code, § 2-705) (Ord. 262, passed 6-6-66)
§ 36.06 COMPLIANCE BY BANK.
   The bank shall receive payment of taxes for the city as set forth in this
subchapter and shall comply with all the terms of this subchapter as though a
formal contract had been entered into between said bank and the city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-706) (Ord. 262, passed 6-6-66)
HOUSING PROJECTS
§ 36.20 TAX EXEMPTION; APPLICATION.
   (A)   The tax exemption established in Section 15a(1) of Act No. 346 of the
Public Acts of Michigan of 1966 as amended (MCL 125.1401 et seq.) shall not
apply to any class of housing projects, including but not limited to any
limited dividend housing corporation, limited dividend housing association, and
rehabilitation housing project which are defined by the above act, which are
located within the municipal boundaries of the city.
   (B)   The foregoing section shall not apply to any housing projects for
which an exemption has been previously granted pursuant to any previously
enacted resolutions for senior citizen housing, physically handicapped housing,
and non-profit public housing authority as created by MCL 125.1401 et seq.
(‘68 Code, § 2-201) (Ord. 327, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 480, passed 11-18-74; Am.
Ord. 742, passed 12-19-94)
§ 36.21 CHERRY HILL SQUARE TAX EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Purpose. This section authorizes and approves an annual service charge
in lieu of taxes for residential housing developments that:
      (1)   Serve low income or moderate income persons (as defined in the
State Housing Development Authority Act, Act 346 of the Public Acts of Michigan
of 1966, as amended, and this section);
      (2)   Are financed or assisted by USDA-RD or the Authority in accordance
with Act 346;
      (3)   Are located within the city; and
      (4)   Comply with this section.
   (B)   Title. The ordinance codified herein shall be known and cited as the
“Cherry Hill Square Tax Exemption Ordinance.”
   (C)   Preamble.
      (1)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the Sate
of Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for low income
citizens and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with Act 346. The city
is authorized by Act 346 and this section to establish or change the annual
service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any and all classes of housing
exempt from taxation under Act 346 at any amount it chooses not to exceed the
taxes that would be paid but for Act 346. It is further acknowledged that
housing for low income persons and families is a public necessity, and as the
city will be benefitted and improved by such housing, the encouragement of the
same by providing ceratin real estate tax exemptions for such housing is a
valid public purpose; further, that the continuance of the provisions of this
section of tax exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the
period contemplated in this section is essential to the determination of
economic feasibility of housing developments which are constructed and financed
in reliance on such tax exemption.
      (2)   The city acknowledges that Cherry Hill Square Limited Dividend
Housing Associated Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited partnership (the
“Sponsor” as defined in division (D) of this section) has committed to own,
rehabilitate, and operate a housing development identified as “Cherry Hill
Square” on certain property located at 213 Henry Ruff within the City of
Inkster, Michigan, which is legally described in division (D)(8) of this
section, to serve low income or moderate income persons, and that the Sponsor
has offered to pay and will pay to the city, on account of the housing
development, an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all taxes.
   (D)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      (1)    ACT. The State Housing Development Authority Act, being Act 346 of
the Public Acts of Michigan of 1966, as amended.
      (2)   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT. The total actual collections during each
calendar year from all occupants of a housing development representing rents or
occupancy charges and commercial rents, which rental amounts shall be exclusive
of charges for gas, electricity, heat, or other utilities furnished to the
occupants.
      (3)   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
      (4)    CLASS. The housing development known as Cherry Hill Square for low
income or moderate income persons.
      (5)   CONTRACT RENTS. As defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to the U.S. Housing At of
1937, as amended.
      (6)   FAMILY. A household where a head of the household is a single or
married person who is an adult and the family is low or moderate income.
      (7)   FEDERALLY-AIDED MORTGAGE. Any of the following:
         (a)   A below market interest rate mortgage insured, purchased, or
held by the Secretary of the Department of Housing and Urban Development
(“HUD”) or United States Department of Agriculture-Rural Development (“USA-
RD”);
         (b)   A mortgage receiving interest reduction payments provided by the
HUD or USA-RD;
         (c)   A housing development to which the Authority allocates low
income housing tax credits under section 22b of the Act; or
         (d)   A mortgage receiving special benefits under other federal law
designated specifically to develop low and moderate-income housing, consistent
with the Act.
      (8)   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant
element of housing for persons of low income and such elements of other
housing, commercial, recreational, industrial, communal, and educational
facilities as the Authority determines to improve the quality of the
development as it relates to housing for persons of low income. For the
purposes of this section, HOUSING DEVELOPMENT means Cherry Hill Square located
on the property legally described as:
   Situated in the City of Inkster, County of Wayne, State of Michigan
   A parcel of land in the Northwest one quarter of the Northeast one quarter
of Section 23, Town 2 South, Range 9 East, Michigan Meridian, Nankin Township
(now City of Inkster), Wayne County, Michigan, described as: Beginning at an
iron rod on the North and South one quarter line of said Section 23, distant
South 00 degrees 18 minutes 00 seconds West, 687.67 feet from the North one
quarter corner of said Section 23; thence South 89 degrees 46 minutes 20
seconds East, 480.00 feet to an iron rod; thence South 00 degrees 18 minutes 00
seconds West, 406.00 feet to an iron rod; thence North 89 degrees 46 minutes 20
seconds West, 480.00 feet to an iron rod on the said North and South one
quarter line; thence along said North and South one quarter line, North 00
degrees 18 minutes 00 seconds East, 406.00 feet to the Point of Beginning;
reserving the Westerly 33.00 feet for Henry Ruff Road.
   Property Address: 213 Henry Ruff Sidwell No.: 44-001-99-0013-000
      (9)   LOW INCOME OR MODERATE INCOME PERSONS. Shall be as defined in the
Act, as
amended.
      (10)   SPONSOR and OWNER. Person(s) or entities which have applied to the
Authority for the tax credits to finance a housing development. For the
purposes of this section, the SPONSOR is Cherry Hill Square Limited Dividend
Housing Association Limited Partnership.
      (11)   TAX CREDITS. The low income housing tax credits made available by
the Authority to the sponsor for rehabilitation of the housing development by
the sponsor in accordance with the low income housing tax credit program
administered by the Authority under I.R.C. § 42 of 1986, as amended.
      (12)   USDA-RD. The United States Department of Agriculture, Rural
Services Division.
      (13)   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical
service, which are paid by the Housing Development or Tenants.
   (E)   Class of housing development. This section shall apply only to the
housing development to the extent that the housing development provides housing
for low income and moderate income persons and is financed or assisted by USDA-
RD or the Authority pursuant to the Act.
   (F)   Declaration of tax exemption; establishment of annual service charge.
      (1)   The city acknowledges that the sponsor and USDA-RD and/or the
Authority have established the economic feasibility of the housing development
in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of this section and the
qualification of the housing development for exemption from all property taxes
and payment of an annual service charge in lieu of taxes in an amount
established in accordance with this section. In consideration of the sponsor’s
offer to rehabilitate, own and operate the housing development, the city agrees
to accept payment of an annual service charge for public services in lieu of
all ad valorem property taxes that would otherwise be assessed to the housing
development under Michigan law. Effective upon the adoption of this section and
subject to the receipt by the city of the “notification of exemption” (or such
other similar notification) by the sponsor and/or the Authority, the annual
service charge shall be equal to 10% of the difference between the rental
income actually collected and the cost of utilities of the housing development.
      (2)   The housing development, and the property on which it shall be
constructed, shall be exempt from all property taxes from and after the
commencement of rehabilitation of the housing development by the sponsor under
the terms of this section.
      (3)   Additionally, sponsor shall cooperate with the city and the State
of Michigan, by immediately submitting all necessary documentation and
applications to enable the city to receive from the Michigan Department of
Treasury payments in lieu of taxes pursuant to MCLA § 2.117d for the housing
development. Should sponsor and city receive approval for such payment in lieu
of taxes pursuant to MCLA § 2.117d, such payments in lieu of taxes will replace
the annual service charge required to be paid by sponsor pursuant to division
(F)(1) of this section and sponsor shall have no further obligation to pay to
city such annual service charge.
   (G)   Limitation on the payment of annual service charge. Omitted.
   (H)   Payment of service charge. The service charge in lieu of taxes shall
be payable to the city in the same manner as ad valorem property taxes are
payable, except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before April 1 of
each year for the previous calendar year.
   (I)   Duration.
      (1)   Subject to division (I)(2) below, this section shall remain in
effect and shall not terminate for a maximum term of 25 years and so long as
the house development remains subject to a federally aided mortgage, and so
long as the housing development submits the required annual notification of
exemption pursuant to MCL 125.1415a(l), as amended.
      (2)   Should the city receive approval and receive payment by the
Michigan Department of Treasury for any other form of payment in lieu of taxes
related to the housing development, this section will be deemed void and
unenforceable for the period of time in which the city receives such payments
in lieu of taxes for the housing development and during such period Cherry Hill
shall have no obligation to pay to city the annual service charge contemplated
hereunder.
   (J)   Filing of annual audit. The sponsor, or its successor, shall file a
copy of any and all annual audits required to be provided to the federal
government, the State of Michigan, and/or the Authority simultaneously with the
city. The audit shall include detail with respect to occupancy of the housing
development, annual rents received from the housing development, and the cost
for utilities during the audit period.
(Ord. 824, passed 7-10-09)
CHAPTER 37: PURCHASING; CONTRACTS
Section
Purchasing Procedure
   
37.01   Authority; policy
   
37.02   Purchasing agent
   
37.03   Opening bids
Equal Opportunity for Local, Minority and Female Business Enterprises
   
37.15   Title
   
37.16   Application of provisions
   
37.17   Definitions
   
37.18   Goals
   
37.19   Contract Compliance Officer; function and duties
   
37.20   Contractor’s requirements
   
37.21   Incorporating LMFBE clause in contracts for eligible projects
   
37.22   LBE/MBE/FBE certification
   
37.23   LBE/MBE/FBE participation
   
37.24   LMFBE advisory committee
PURCHASING PROCEDURE
§ 37.01 AUTHORITY; POLICY.
   Pursuant to Charter, Section 13.1, that “the Council shall provide by
ordinance for the purchasing procedure to be followed in all purchases, sales
and leases and the letting of contracts therefor,” the same shall be the policy
for purchasing by bids for all equipment and supplies in departments in the
city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-301) (Ord. 128.1, passed 11-12-57)
§ 37.02 PURCHASING AGENT.
   All specifications for all items to be purchased are to be drafted by the
Mayor, who shall act as Purchasing Agent with the aid and advice of department
heads. All such specifications are to be in writing and submitted to the City
Clerk and to be advertised in either the official newspaper of the city, a
newspaper of general circulation in the area, or in a publication suitable for
the particular type of bid advertisement, subject to the discretion of the
Mayor. Such advertisement for bids shall specify that all bids are to be opened
in public on the date and time set forth in the advertisement.
(‘68 Code, § 2-302) (Ord. 128.1, passed 11-12-57; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 37.03 OPENING BIDS.
   (A)   The opening of bids shall take place in the presence of any two
administrative officers of the city. It shall be the duty of the Mayor or his
duly authorized representative to report to the City Council, during its
regular session, the tabulation of all bids received and to make
recommendations on same. (‘68 Code, § 2-303)
   (B)   The location for the opening of the bids may be held in any building
used by the city to carry out public business, and said location must be
specifically noted in the advertisement for bids. All bids may be inspected by
any and all persons present at the opening of bids after they have been read
aloud. (‘68 Code, § 2-304)
(Ord. 128.1, passed 11-12-57; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
EQUAL OPPORTUNITY FOR LOCAL, MINORITY AND FEMALE BUSINESS ENTERPRISES
§ 37.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the Local, Minority and Female Business
Enterprise Opportunity Subchapter (LMFBE Subchapter).
(‘68 Code, § 2-1701) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
§ 37.16 APPLICATION OF PROVISIONS.
   This subchapter shall apply to all eligible projects, as herein defined,
whether or not federally assisted, unless the provisions herein conflict with
federal or state law, or rules and regulations promulgated thereunder, or
applicable federal or state grant requirements. In such cases of conflict,
federal or state laws, rules or regulations shall apply.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1710) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
§ 37.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BIDDER. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or joint
venture seeking to be awarded a public contract.
   CONSTRUCTION CONTRACT. Any public contract for the construction,
rehabilitation, alteration, conversion, extension or repair of buildings,
streets or other improvements to real property, exceeding $10,000.
   CONTRACTOR. Any person, firm, partnership, corporation, association or joint
venture which has been awarded a public contract.
   ELIGIBLE PROJECT. Any public contract awarded by the city to perform public
works, community development construction and purchasing contract whereby the
city expended or commits the expenditure of $10,000 or more for the
construction or repair of improvements of real property, or whereby the city
grants concession rights having a value exceeding $10,000 per annum to occupy
or use city property.
   FEMALE BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (FBE). A business entity at least 51% of which is
owned by females and certified as such by the city.
   LOCAL BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (LBE). A business entity at least 51% of which is
owned by residents of the city or which is located within the corporate limits
of the city, and certified as such by the city.
   MINORITY BUSINESS ENTERPRISE (MBE). A business entity at least 51% of which
is owned by minority persons and certified as such by the city.
   MINORITY PERSON. Any American citizen or permanent resident alien of the
United States who is Black, Hispanic, Asian or American Indian.
   PUBLIC CONTRACT. Any contract awarded by the city, other than a contract
between the city and another municipal, county, state or federal governmental
body or agency or division thereof, or a public authority, having a value
exceeding $10,000, whereby the city expended or commits the expenditure of the
funds in return for work, labor, services, supplies, equipment, materials or
any combination of the foregoing; or any lease, lease by way of concession,
concession agreement, permit or permit agreement whereby the city leases,
grants or demises property of the city or otherwise grants a right or privilege
to occupy or use property of the city for monetary consideration other than
payment of a permit fee; or any lease by the city of personal property. This
definition shall include any contract, the value of which, when combined with
all other public contracts awarded within the preceding 12 months to the same
person or entity, exceeds $40,000.
   SOLE SOURCE. A contract which is determined by the Mayor or his designee to
be the only source, by reason of geographical location or specialized
resources, from which labor, services supplies, equipment or materials for a
particular purpose can be obtained.
   SUBCONTRACTOR. Any named person, firm, partnership, corporation, association
or joint venture which supplied work, labor, services, supplies, equipment,
material or any combination of the foregoing for a public contract, under
contract with the contractor. This definition shall not include lower
subcontractors, or those with subcontracts of $10,000 or less on construction
contracts; subcontractors supplying any services other than professional or
construction services for concession-type public contracts; or subcontractors
for lease-type service or permit-type public contracts.
   SUPPLIER. Any contractor who furnishes supplies, material, equipment or
personal property of any type or description to the city.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1702) (Ord. 589, passed 12-6-82; Am. Ord. 693, passed 11-19-90)
§ 37.18 GOALS.
   (A)   The city’s goal is to provide the maximum extent that local business
enterprises (LBEs), minority business enterprises (MBEs), and female business
enterprises (FBEs) participate in each eligible project at a percentage of the
total dollar amount expended equal to or greater than minority and female
representation amounts business entities known to be available for like
projects. Separate goals for LBE, MBE and FBE participation for each fiscal
year shall be set by the City Council or their designee through appropriate
Council resolution, which resolution shall set forth the basis by which each
goal was determined, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   A forecast of all eligible projects to be awarded within the coming
fiscal year, specifying the type and value of contractual services to be
obtained;
      (2)   The anticipated amount of federal funding for eligible projects;
      (3)   The number of LBE, MBE and FBE firms known to be available for the
type and value of contractual services to be obtained;
      (4)   The LBE, MBE and FBE percentages of the total number of business
entities known to be available for the type and value of contractual services
to be obtained;
      (5)   The statistical and data sources by which each goal was calculated.
   (B)   The goals must be approved by resolution of the Council within 30 days
of promulgation and by the Council or its designee, and shall remain effective
until the promulgation of new goals the following year.
   (C)   It is the main objective of the city’s goals to give priority to all
local business enterprises in their participation in all eligible projects to
the maximum extent possible.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1703) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
§ 37.19 CONTRACT COMPLIANCE OFFICER; FUNCTION AND DUTIES.
   The Contract Compliance Officer shall be the Personnel Director of the city,
which office shall have the following duties for the encouragement of local,
minority and female business enterprises:
   (A)   Administration and enforcement of this subchapter.
   (B)   The establishment of written procedures to effectuate this subchapter.
   (C)   The establishment of procedures to meet city goals to insure the
participation of local, minority and female business enterprises in eligible
contracts on the prime level, such procedures to include:
      (1)   The development of a local, minority and female business enterprise
directory to be maintained as a public record;
      (2)   Consultation with the appropriate offices and departments within
the city to determine and implement methods of attracting qualified LBEs, MBEs
and FBEs;
      (3)   Administration of a program to assist LBEs, MBEs and FBEs who need
assistance in meeting the city insurance and bonding requirements;
      (4)   Regular notification, by advertisement and writing, to inform
qualified LBEs, MBEs and FBEs of pending eligible projects to be bid.
   (D)   The determination in writing, with reasons therefor, whether potential
contractors are in compliance with this subchapter, to be made prior to the
award of any bid or the execution of any eligible project.
   (E)   Holding pre-award conferences with potential contractors and
subcontractors for the purpose of insuring that said office has all available
information with which to make a determination of compliance.
   (F)   Investigations of alleged violations of this subchapter, and the
issuance of written determinations following these investigations, stating the
reasons therefor.
   (G)   Provision to all business entities of all necessary forms,
applications, documents and papers necessary to comply with this subchapter.
   (H)   The review of cases where contractors fail to implement previously
made LBE, MBE or FBE commitments to determine whether there should be further
efforts to alternative approaches, including but not limited to contact with
industry or any pertinent federal agency for information concerning the
availability of qualified LBEs, MBEs and FBEs.
   (I)   Certification of contractors as bona fide LBEs, MBEs or FBEs, in
accordance with the standards set forth in this subchapter.
   (J)   Recommendation to the Mayor and City Council of further efforts needed
to insure participation.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1704) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
§ 37.20 CONTRACTOR’S REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding its compliance with any other requirement of city
ordinances, no bidder shall be awarded an eligible project unless the Contract
Compliance Officer/Personnel Director has approved the LBE, MBE and FBE
participation program of the bidder designed by said bidder to meet the
applicable yearly goals set for such projects, which requirements shall be to
be incorporated into its contract with the city and which program shall
include, at a minimum, the following:
      (1)   The listing by the bidder and its response to an invitation for bid
or request for proposal, of the names of LBEs, MBEs and FBEs to whom it intends
to award subcontracts, the dollar value of the subcontracts, and the scope of
the work. Such names of LBEs, MBEs and FBEs shall not be changed after the
submission of bids or proposals without the prior approval of the Contract
Compliance Officer/Personnel Director; such approval shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
      (2)   Bidders who fail to identify the LBEs, MBEs and FBEs by name, scope
of work and dollar value of work in their bids or proposals sufficient to meet
the LBE, MBE and FBE percentage goals shall not be awarded eligible projects;
such proposals or bids to include the following:
         (a)   Copies of written notification of LBEs, MBEs and FBEs that their
interest in the subcontractor solicited;
         (b)   A statement of the efforts made to select portions of the work
proposed to be performed by LBEs, MBEs and FBEs in order to increase the
likelihood of achieving the stated goal;
         (c)   A statement of the efforts made to negotiate with LBEs, MBEs and
FBEs, including, at a minimum: the names, addresses and telephone numbers of
LBEs, MBEs and FBEs who are contacted; a description of the information
provided to LBEs, MBEs and FBEs regarding the plans and specifications for
portions of the work to be performed; and a statement of the reasons why
additional agreements with LBEs, MBEs and FBEs, if needed to meet the stated
goals, were not reached;
         (d)   A statement of efforts made to assist LBEs, MBEs and FBEs
contacted who needed assistance in obtaining bonding and insurance which the
bidder requires; and
         (e)   As to each LBE, MBE and FBE contacted, but which the bidder
considered not to be qualified, a statement of the reasons for the bidder’s
conclusion.
   (B)   The Personnel Director shall consider such application prior to the
award of the eligible project in question and shall grant administrative
waivers where reasonable good-faith efforts are shown.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1705) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
§ 37.21 INCORPORATING LMFBE CLAUSE IN CONTRACTS FOR ELIGIBLE PROJECTS.
   All contracts for eligible contractors hereinafter entered into by the city
shall incorporate a LMFBE clause. This requirement shall be considered to have
been complied with when such quoted LMFBE clause is set forth in an exhibit
attached to the contract and appropriate language incorporating the exhibit
into the contract is set forth in the contract.
   (A)   The LMFBE clause shall read as follows:
   “The contractor agrees to make all good-faith, best efforts to meet the
goals of this agreement by making available opportunities for local, minority
and female business enterprise participation in the work set forth within this
agreement, and shall take the following actions as part of its good-faith, best
efforts:
      1.   Notification to community organizations that the contractor has
subcontractor opportunities available and maintenance of records of the
organization’s response.
      2.   Maintenance by the contractor of a file of the names and addresses
of each local, minority and female business referred to it and action taken
with respect to each such referred business;
      3.   Dissemination of the contractors local, minority and female business
enterprise policy externally by informing and discussing it with all management
and technical assistance sources; by advertising in news media specifically
including minority news media; and by notifying and discussing it with all
subcontractors and appliers.
      4.   Specific and continuing personnel (both written and oral)
recruitment efforts directed at local, minority and female contractor
organizations, local, minority and female recruitment organizations and local,
minority and female business assistance organizations.
      5.   Subdivision of the contract into as many segments as practical to
allow the greatest opportunity for participation by LBEs, MBEs and FBEs.
      6.   Increasing, where possible, the number of aggregate purchase items
so as to eliminate the requirement of front-end purchases of material for as
many LMFBE subcontractors as possible.
      7.   Adoption of the LBE, MBE and FBE participation program submitted
with its response to the invitation for bid or request for proposal obligations
under this agreement.
      8.   Submission of monthly reports on the forms and to the extent
required by the Contract Compliance Officer/Personnel Director, to be due on
the last day of each month following the award of the work set forth in this
agreement.
   (B)   The contractor further agrees that any breach of the LMFBE provisions
contained herein shall subject it to any of the following penalties:
      1.   Refusal of all future bids for any eligible project with the city or
any of its department or divisions until such time as the contractor
demonstrates that their has been established and there shall be carried out all
of the LMFBE provisions contained herein.
      2.   Cancellation of the eligible projects.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1706) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
§ 37.22 LBE/MBE/FBE CERTIFICATION.
   The Contract Compliance Officer/Personnel Director shall determine the
eligibility of LBEs, MBEs and FBEs for participation in city eligible projects
according to the following standards:
   (A)   Bona fide minority group memberships shall be established on the basis
of the individual’s claim that he or she is a member of a minority group and is
so regarded by that particular minority community.
   (B)   An eligible LBE, MBE or FBE under this program shall be an independent
business. The ownership and control by local individuals, minorities or females
shall be real, substantial, and shall be indicated by customary incidence of
ownership, as demonstrated by an examination of the substance rather than the
form of ownership and operating arrangement.
   (C)   The local, minority or female owners must possess the power to direct
or cause the direction of the management and policies of the firm and to make
day-to-day, as well as any, decisions on matters of management, policy and
operations. The firm shall not be subject to any formal or informal
restrictions which limit the customary discretion of the local, minority or
female owners. There shall be no restrictions by partnership agreements,
charter requirements, or other arrangements which prevent the local, minority
or female owners from making a business decision of the firm without the
cooperation or vote of any owner who is not local, minority or female.
   (D)   In such instance, where the actual management of an LMFBE is
contracted out to individuals other than the owner, those persons who have the
ultimate power to hire and fire the managers and, for the purpose of this
chapter, be considered as controlling the business.
   (E)   All securities which constitute ownership or control of an entity for
purposes of establishing it as a LBE, MBE or FBE must be held directly by
local, minority or female individuals. No securities held in trust or by any
guardian for a minor shall be considered held by local individuals, minorities
or females in determining the ownership or control of a corporation.
   (F)   The Contract Compliance Officer/Personnel Director, shall make
investigation of LBE, MBE and FBE ownership arrangement beyond formal documents
submitted by such entities if the firm is newly formed or the firm has local,
minority and/or female ownership of less than 100%; there is a previous or
continuing employer-employee relationship between or among present owners; a
business which is not a LBE, MBE or FBE has an interest in such entity; or the
ownership of the firm has changed since documents have been submitted to the
Contract Compliance Officer/Personnel Director.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1707) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
§ 37.23 LBE/MBE/FBE PARTICIPATION.
   LBE, MBE and FBE participation shall be counted toward the applicable goals
as follows:
   (A)   Once a firm is certified as such, the total dollar value of the
contract awarded to the LBE, MBE or FBE is counted toward the applicable goals.
   (B)   A LBE, MBE,or FBE which is owned and controlled by both minority males
and females is counted toward the minority and female goals in proportion to
the percent of ownership of each group member.
   (C)   LBE, MBE, FBE suppliers shall be credited as follows: 100% of the
contract amount for LBE/MBE/FBE suppliers who manufacture the goods supplied;
and all LBE/MBE/FBE suppliers who are wholesalers warehousing the goods
supplied or who are manufacturers’ representatives will be credited with 100%
of the price of their contract; however, only 25% of the LBE/MBE/FBE goal may
be obtained with non-manufacturing supplier contracts to LBEs/MBEs/FBEs.
   (D)   In those contracts of which an extraordinarily large proportion of the
contract price is for equipment or supplies, the City Council or Mayor may set
a lower project goal than otherwise would be required for increase the 25%
limit for supplier’s, or a combination of the two.
   (E)   The Contract Compliance Officer/Personnel Director shall grant
certification of an approved LBE, MBE or FBE for a period of two years. All
companies must request recertification of their business. If a LBE, MBE or FBE
is denied certification on the basis of information submitted, the company
cannot reapply for certification for a period of one year from the date of the
notice of denial, provided that said company shall have the right to appeal
said denial before the City Council, and to be certified if said appeal is
decided in its favor.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1708) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83; Am. Ord. 760, passed 1-6-97)
§ 37.24 LMFBE ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   (A)   The City Council has the authority to establish an LMFBE Advisory
Committee which, as an advisory group only, shall assist the City Council, the
Mayor, the Personnel Director and any other designee in reviewing the
continuing programs of contractors and subcontractors concerning local,
minority and female business participation, and which shall make
recommendations to the City Council concerning such programs. The Committee
shall consist of seven members, of whom the Mayor shall appoint one and the
Council shall appoint one.
   (B)   Members of the Committee shall serve two-year terms. The membership of
the Committee shall include representatives of the city, contractors, trade
associations, and private nonprofit and profit-making organizations concerned
with local, minority and female business enterprises.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1709) (Ord. 603, passed 8-15-83)
CHAPTER 38: FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
Public Liability Insurance Reserve Fund
   
38.01   Title
   
38.02   Establishment of fund
   
38.03   Excess amounts turned over to general fund; adjustments
   
38.04   Investment of monies in fund
   
38.05   Losses
   
38.06   Covering liability to third parties for loss or damage out of
negligence, tort or contract
   
38.07   Annual report
PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE RESERVE FUND
§ 38.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Public Liability
Insurance Reserve Fund of the city, hereinafter called the Reserved Fund.
(Ord. 690, passed 7-2-90)
§ 38.02 ESTABLISHMENT OF FUND.
   This subchapter shall provide for the establishment of a separate fund
within the General Fund classification of the city. There shall be accumulated
in the Reserve Fund an amount not to exceed the sum of $1,000,000, provided
that the Mayor and City Council may, from time to time, by resolution, vote to
increase or decrease the Reserve Fund balance requirement. The city shall
provide for an initial funding contribution of $250,000 until the fund reaches
a level of $1,000,000. The accumulation shall be retained in the Reserve Fund
from year to year as a permanent insurance fund to be used for the payment on
behalf of the city and its officials of all sums which the city and its
officials shall become legally obligated to pay as damages because of personal
injury, property damage or contract actions arising from those causes of action
defined in §
38.06. The term CITY  as used herein shall include all elected and appointed
officials and all departments of the city.
(Ord. 690, passed 7-2-90)
§ 38.03 EXCESS AMOUNTS TURNED OVER TO GENERAL FUND; ADJUSTMENTS.
   When the accumulation of the Reserve Fund shall reach the sum of $1,000,000,
any excess over the amount shall be returned to the General Fund annually.
Thereafter, as to the respective annual contributions to be made, to the end
that the fund shall remain at $1,000,000 or as near the sum as possible,
provided that in making such adjustments losses of the respective contributors
during the year shall be taken into consideration.
(Ord. 690, passed 7-2-90)
§ 38.04 INVESTMENT OF MONIES IN FUND.
   The City Treasurer, subject to the provisions of Act 20 of the Michigan
Public Acts of 1943, as amended, may from time to time, invest, sell and
reinvest and monies of the Reserve Fund in securities as permitted by law,
which securities shall be held and safely kept by the Treasurer for the use and
benefit of the Reserve Fund. Interest shall be credited to the Reserved Fund
annually.
(Ord. 690, passed 7-2-90)
§ 38.05 LOSSES.
   (A)   Wherever any loss accrues payable from the Reserve Fund, payment shall
be made therefrom, subject to approval of the City Council, from such sum as
may be available to cover the loss involved.
   (B)   Should any loss or losses exceed the accumulation in the Reserve Fund,
then any deficiency in the Fund to pay such loss shall be supplied in such
manner as the City Council may lawfully determine.
(Ord. 690, passed 7-2-90)
§ 38.06 COVERING LIABILITY TO THIRD PARTIES FOR LOSS OR DAMAGE OUT OF
NEGLIGENCE, TORT OR CONTRACT.
   The Reserve Fund shall cover liability to third parties for loss or damage
arising out of negligence, tort or contract. The Reserve Fund shall not be used
to pay any obligation for which the city may be held liable under any worker’s
compensation, unemployment compensation or disability benefits law or under any
similar law, or bodily injury to an employee arising out of an in the course of
his employment with the city.
(Ord. 690, passed 7-2-90)
§ 38.07 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The City Treasurer shall make an annual report to the City Council prior to
the public hearing required before adoption of the budget with a recommendation
thereon as to the appropriations necessary to carry out the provisions of this
subchapter. Such appropriations as may be approved by the Mayor and City
Council shall then be included in the budget for the ensuring fiscal year,
subject to the normal budget process as defined in the City Charter.
(Ord. 690, passed 7-2-90)
CHAPTER 39: CODE ENFORCEMENT PROCEDURE
Section
Issuance of Appearance Tickets
   
39.01   Officers authorized to issue and serve appearance tickets
   
39.02   Ticket specifications
ISSUANCE OF APPEARANCE TICKETS
§ 39.01 OFFICERS AUTHORIZED TO ISSUE AND SERVE APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following sworn individuals are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets to any responsible person who is in violation of the city’s
building, zoning, environmental and other city codes, if there is reasonable
cause to believe that the person has committed an offense: officials of the
Community Development Department, Fire Department, building officials and
inspectors, and code enforcement officers.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1801) (Ord. 639, passed 8-4-86)
§ 39.02 TICKET SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   For the purpose of this section, APPEARANCE TICKET means a
complaint or written notice issued and subscribed by the following sworn
individuals: officials of the Community Development Department, Fire
Department, buildings officials and inspectors and code enforcement officers,
directing a designated person to appear in a designated district court at a
designated future time in connection with the alleged commission of a
designated violation or violations of the city’s building, zoning,
environmental and other related codes for which the maximum penalty does not
exceed 90 days in jail and a fine of $500.
      (2)   Exceptions. The following violations may be written as a civil
infraction as long as the offense has not been committed by the same offender
more than two times. The third offense by same offender shall be escalated to a
misdemeanor as described above.
         (a)   Blight: City Ord. No. 156.02.
         (b)   Encumbering/obstructing streets: City Ord. No. 97.004.
         (c)   Noxious weeds: City Ord. No. 95.15.
         (d)   Political signs: City Ord. No. 153.18, 97.004 and 153.15.
         (e)   Appliances/furniture: City Ord. No. 156.02.
         (f)   Refuse collection requirements: City Ord. No. 50.03.
         (g)   Residential off-street parking: City Ord. No. 155.077(C)(9).
         (h)   Signs: City Ord. No. 155.241(B)(5), 155.234 and 155.235.
         (i)   Snow/ice removal: City Ord. No. 97.081.
         (j)   Tree care: City Ord. No. 98.19.
   (B)   The appearance tickets shall be numbered consecutively and shall
consist of the following parts:
      (1)   The original, which shall be a complaint or notice to appear by
sworn individuals including officials of the Community Development Department,
Fire Department, building officials or inspectors, or code enforcement
officers, and shall be filed with the district court.
      (2)   The first copy, which shall be the abstract of court record.
      (3)   The second copy which shall be delivered to the alleged violator.
      (4)   The third copy, which shall be retained by the city’s code
enforcement agency.
(‘68 Code, § 2-1802) (Ord. 639, passed 8-4-86; Am. Ord. 871, passed 7-18-18)
CHAPTER 40: CITY POLICY
Section
Hazardous Materials Emergencies
   
40.01   Purpose
   
40.02   Definitions
   
40.03   Recovery authorization and procedure
   
40.04   No admission of liability
   
40.05   Action to recover expenses
Negligently Caused Fire Emergencies
   
40.15   Purpose
   
40.16   Definitions
   
40.17   Recovery authorization and procedure
   
40.18   No admission of liability
   
40.19   Action to recover expenses
Charges for Fire/Rescue Response
   
40.25   Purpose
   
40.26   Definitions
   
40.27   Fees
   
40.28   Recovery of costs/other remedies
   
40.29   Multiple party protection
   
40.30   Non-exclusive fees
HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCIES
§ 40.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to provide procedures for recovering costs
incurred by the city for fire protection services rendered with regard to
hazardous materials emergencies.
(Ord. 694, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPENSES. Include, but are not limited to, the actual labor costs of city
full-time and volunteer personnel, administrative costs, costs of equipment and
facilities, including maintenance and operation costs of materials, costs of
disposal and the cost of any item relating to the performance of services in
response to a fire related emergency.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS EMERGENCY. A sudden and unexpected release of any
substance that, because of its quantity, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, presents a direct and immediate threat to public
health or safety or to the environment and requires immediate action to
mitigate the threat.
(Ord. 694, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.03 RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   The city is hereby empowered to recover from any person, corporation,
partnership or other individual or entity whose negligent actions cause the
hazardous material emergency expenses incurred by city agencies directly
associated with a response to a fire emergency pursuant to the following
procedure:
   (A)   the city shall determine responsibility for the emergency and notify
the responsible party by first class mail of the city’s determination of
responsibility and the expenses to be recovered.
   (B)   The notice shall specify that the responsible party may appeal the
city’s decision before a hearing officer appointed by the City Council. The
appeal shall be filed not less than 15 days from the date of mailing on the
notice.
   (C)   In the event the responsible party appeals the city’s decision, the
hearing officer shall hold a public hearing to consider any issues raised by
the appeal, at which hearing the appealing party and the city shall be entitled
to present evidence in support of their respective positions. The appealing
party shall bear the burden of proof.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall, after the hearing, issue a decision
assessing responsibility and expenses.
(Ord. 694, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.04 NO ADMISSION OF LIABILITY.
   The payment of expenses as determined owing under this subchapter does not
constitute an admission of liability or negligence in any other action for
damages.
(Ord. 694, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.05 ACTION TO RECOVER EXPENSES.
   In the event the parties determined to be responsible for the repayment of
hazardous material emergency expenses shall fail to make payment to the city
within 30 days after the date of mailing on the notice or 30 days after a
decision by the hearing officer, the city may initiate legal action to recover
all expenses determined to be owing from the responsible parties.
(Ord. 694, passed 1-7-91)
NEGLIGENTLY CAUSED FIRE EMERGENCIES
§ 40.15 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is adopted to provide procedures for recovering costs
incurred by the city for fire protection services rendered with regard to
negligently caused fire emergencies.
(Ord. 695, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EXPENSES. Include, but are not limited to the actual labor costs of city
full-time and volunteer personnel, administrative costs, costs of equipment and
facilities, including maintenance and operation costs of materials, costs of
disposal and the cost of any item relating to the performance of services in
response to a fire related emergency.
   NEGLIGENTLY CAUSED FIRE EMERGENCY. A fire negligently caused by the owner or
occupant of property and/or structures which presents a direct and immediate
threat to public health and safety an requires immediate action by the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 695, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.17 RECOVERY AUTHORIZATION AND PROCEDURE.
   The city is hereby empowered to recover from any person, corporation,
partnership or other individual or entity whose negligent actions cause fire
related emergency expenses incurred by city agencies directly associated with a
response to a fire emergency pursuant to the following procedure:
   (A)   The city shall determine responsibility for the emergency and notify
the responsible party by first class mail of the city’s determination of
responsibility and the expenses to be recovered.
   (B)   The notice shall specify that the responsible party may appeal the
city’s decision before a hearing officer appointed by the City Council. The
appeal shall be filed not less than 15 days from the date of mailing on the
notice.
   (C)   In the event the responsible party appeals the city’s decision, the
hearing officer shall hold a public hearing to consider any issues raised by
the appeal, at which hearing the appealing party and the city shall be entitled
to present evidence in support of their respective positions. The appealing
party shall bear the burden of proof.
   (D)   The hearing officer shall, after the hearing, issue a decision
assessing responsibility and expenses.
(Ord. 695, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.18 NO ADMISSION OF LIABILITY.
   The payment of expenses as determined owing under this subchapter does not
constitute an admission of liability or negligence in any other action for
damages.
(Ord. 695, passed 1-7-91)
§ 40.19 ACTION TO RECOVER EXPENSES.
   In the event the parties determined to be responsible for the repayment of
negligently caused fire emergency expenses shall fail to make payment to the
city within 30 days after the date of mailing on the notice or 30 days after a
decision by the hearing officer, the city may initiate legal action to recover
all expenses determined to be owing from the responsible parties.
(Ord. 695, passed 1-7-91)
CHARGES FOR FIRE/RESCUE RESPONSE
§ 40.25 PURPOSE.
   In order to continue to protect the public health, safety, and welfare by
providing fire/rescue response, and to protect the Fire Department from
incurring expenses resulting from the use of city Fire Department resources in
responding to incidents, and to require that financial assistance to the Fire
Department from those receiving direct benefits from the availability of fire/
rescue responses be made, the city authorizes the imposition of charges to
recover the reasonable costs incurred by the Fire Department in responding to
fire/rescue calls.
(Ord. 808, passed 1-4-06)
§ 40.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIRE/RESCUE RESPONSE. A response by the Fire Department, any of its
personnel, or any of its equipment arising from a call from any person,
property owner, law enforcement agency, fire or emergency response unit of
another governmental entity, emergency medical response unit (public or
private) or as dispatched by the Fire Department itself. A fire/rescue response
shall include, but not be limited to responses for fire, motor vehicle
accident, hazardous material release or discharge, structure collapse or
explosion.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Include, but are not limited to, a chemical that is a
combustible liquid, a flammable gas, explosive, flammable, an organic peroxide,
an oxidizer, pyrophoric, unstable reactive or water reactive, or any other
material generally recognized by the federal government and listed as a
“hazardous material”.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individuals, firms, corporations, associations,
partnerships, commercial entities, consortiums, joint ventures, government
entities or any other legal entity that is responsible for a release of a
hazardous material, either actual or threatened, or is an owner,  tenant,
occupant or party in control of property onto which or from which hazardous
materials are released into the environment or ignited in an unauthorized
burning.
(Ord. 808, passed 1-4-06)
§ 40.27 FEES.
   A responsible party who receives fire/rescue response charges for services
provided or financed by the Fire Department shall be liable for the full actual
cost to the Fire Department of providing such services, including labor,
equipment, and material, as detailed in the bill. The fee schedule for fire
related services related to this subchapter shall be established by resolution
of the City Council, which resolution shall be enacted contemporaneously with
the passage of this subchapter. The City Council may from time to time amend
such resolution provided for in this subchapter. Current fees are available for
inspection in the City Clerk’s office.
(Ord. 808, passed 1-4-06)
§ 40.28 RECOVERY OF COSTS/OTHER REMEDIES.
   At the conclusion of the fire/rescue response, an invoice shall be sent to
the responsible party for payment of the charges imposed by this subchapter. In
the event that the responsible party is covered by insurance, and the insurance
company is known, the invoice for services may be sent directly to the
insurance company. The invoice shall demand full payment within 30 days of
receipt of the bill subject to a late fee of 1.5 % per month. Any person
receiving a bill for services may appeal to the Mayor or his/her designee,
within the time limits for payment, for a decision concerning whether and to
what extent that individual is responsible for payment. The city may proceed in
court to collect any monies remaining unpaid and shall have any and all other
remedies provided by law for the collection of the fees.
(Ord. 808, passed 1-4-06; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 40.29 MULTIPLE PARTY PROTECTION.
   Where a particular service rendered or financed by the Fire Department
directly benefits more than one person or property, the owner of each property
and/or each person benefitted shall be jointly and severally liable for the
payment of the full fee for such services. For purposes of this subchapter,
only the person to whom a motor vehicle is registered (as opposed to all
occupants) shall be considered the beneficiary of services involving a motor
vehicle. For purposes of this subchapter, the entire family of a single
dwelling, or the owner of any commercial building (as opposed to all tenants or
employees) shall be considered the beneficiary of services, such that
individuals are not separately billed.
(Ord. 808, passed 1-4-06)
§ 40.30 NON-EXCLUSIVE FEES.
   The fees shall be supplemental to other methods of fire financing, such as
general ad valorem taxation, special assessments, general fund appropriations,
subscription programs, pledge drives, or donations, or any other sources as may
be permitted by law.
(Ord. 808, passed 1-4-06)
CHAPTER 41: MUNICIPAL ADMINISTRATIVE FEES; USER FEES
Section
   
41.01   Purpose
   
41.02   Administrative fees; user fees
§ 41.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a municipal fee structure for
the various departments in the city. In this regard, the city offers a variety
of significant services to its residents, businesses and visitors for which it
charges an administrative fee and/or a user fee which would be commensurate
with the cost incurred by the city to perform the requested service. The cost
of performing the services for which administrative fees and/or user fees are
charged has continued to increase over the years without any increase in the
applicable administrative fee and/or user fee to the identified user which as a
unique benefit of the service. Furthermore, the city staff has contacted
numerous municipalities in order to conduct an analysis of the cost of
providing services and recommended fees for services. In this regard, the City
Council finds that amending the city Code of Ordinances by adding this chapter
is in the best interests of the citizens of the city.
(Ord. 807, passed 12-19-05)
§ 41.02 ADMINISTRATIVE FEES; USER FEES.
   The municipal administrative fees and/or user fees shall be established by
resolution of the City Council which shall be enacted contemporaneously with
the passage of this chapter. The City Council may from time to time amend such
resolution provided for in this chapter. The recommended user fees table,
attached to Ordinance No. 807, passed December 19, 2005, is hereby adopted by
reference. The fees will be available for inspection in the City Clerk’s
office.
(Ord. 807, passed 12-19-05)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
      
51.   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
      
52.   WATER
      
53.   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE CONTROL
      
54.   SEWERS
      
55.   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
      
56.   ILLICIT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION PROGRAM
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
General Provisions
   
50.01   Application
   
50.02   Administration; enforcement; responsibility
   
50.03   Preparation of refuse for collection
   
50.04   Collection of refuse
   
50.05   Disposal of refuse
   
50.06   Commercial outdoor trash storage
Solid Waste Haulers
   
50.20   License required
   
50.21   Bond requirements
Garbage Grinders and Incinerators
   
50.35   Authority; purpose
   
50.36   Incinerators; approval of Department of Public Works
   
50.37   New residences and food establishments; application for permits for
garbage grinders
   
50.38   Mechanically operated garbage grinders
   
50.39   Gas, electrically operated incinerators
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Blight violations, see
Chapter 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 50.01 APPLICATION.
   This subchapter shall apply to the storage, collection, transportation and
disposal of all refuse in the area under the jurisdiction of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 4-601) (Ord. 303, passed 4-1-68)
§ 50.02 ADMINISTRATION; ENFORCEMENT; RESPONSIBILITY.
   The Public Service Director shall be responsible for the administration and
enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter. The Director may call upon
the Chief of Police and/or the Health Enforcing Officer for assistance in its
enforcement.
(‘68 Code, § 4-603) (Ord. 303, passed 4-1-68)
§ 50.03 PREPARATION OF REFUSE FOR COLLECTION.
   (A)   Garbage, rubbish and yard waste shall be stored in refuse containers
or commercial containers.
   (B)   Rubbish may be mixed with garbage.
   (C)   Tree branches and heavy brush which will not fit into cans or
containers shall be cut in lengths not exceeding three feet in length, tied in
bundles not to exceed 60 pounds in weight. The city will not collect yard waste
or any other materials resulting from commercial tree trimming operations.
   (D)   The occupant of each residential unit shall place residential unit
refuse containers at the front of the residence at the road curb in plain view,
but not in the public roadway, not before 6:00 p.m. on the day before
collection day, and such refuse containers shall be removed from the road curb
not later than 6:00 p.m. on the day following the collection. Collection
personnel are prohibited from entering fenced enclosures or structures for the
purpose of making collections.
   (E)   Commercial establishment refuse containers shall be placed at
locations at times approved by the Public Service Director for collection. The
city will not collect refuse from commercial establishments unless it is placed
in approved cans or containers properly located and does not exceed six 20-
gallon containers.
   (F)   Before a building permit may be issued for construction of a
commercial establishment, proposed arrangements for storage and collection of
refuse must be approved by the Public Service Director.
   (G)   Paper shopping bags, oil drums, wire baskets and similar types of
containers will not be allowed.
   (H)   Domestic garbage intended for collection shall be drained of all free
liquid. Garbage shall be wrapped in several thicknesses of paper. No garbage or
waste of any kind or description shall be placed or stored in an uncovered
receptacle nor shall garbage be burned in any receptacle or unapproved
incinerator within the corporate limits of the city. Undrained garbage of a
liquid or semi-liquid nature will not be collected and is declared to be a
nuisance when placed on public property, whether in containers or not.
   (I)   It shall be the duty of each person to prevent the continued excess of
and unsightly accumulation of refuse upon the property occupied by such person.
Failure to comply with the provisions of this division shall constitute a
violation of this subchapter.
   (J)   It shall be in violation of this subchapter to place or cause to be
placed in refuse containers for collection any acid, explosive material,
inflammable liquid or dangerous or corrosive material of any kind whatsoever.
   (K)   Cardboard boxes shall be broken into flat squares and tied into
bundles not to exceed 50 pounds. Newspapers shall be securely tied in bundles
and not to exceed 50 pounds. All rags shall be rolled up, tied in the middle
and cut into lengths not exceeding three feet.
(‘68 Code, § 4-604) (Ord. 303, passed 4-1-68; Am. Ord. 416, passed 5-1-72; Am.
Ord. 456, passed 9-17- 73) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.04 COLLECTION OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Refuse may be collected for disposal by the city, by unincorporated
municipalities, or by persons under contractual arrangements, permits or
arrangements with the city.
      (1)   No provisions of this section shall be construed as making it
mandatory on the city to collect or provide for the collection of garbage or
rubbish, and no liability on the part of the city shall result from its failure
or inability for any reason to provide for such collection.
   (B)   The city will collect refuse under the following conditions:
      (1)   Garbage and trash will be collected once each week from residential
units.
      (2)   Refuse will be collected once a week from commercial
establishments, if necessary.
      (3)   Collection service may be discontinued when refuse storage cans or
containers are inadequate or have been condemned as unfit.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to haul, convey, or cause to be
conveyed, any waste, including discarded building material or discarded
furniture, upon or along the public streets and roadways except when the
material transported is adequately secured in such a manner as to prevent the
material from falling or being blown from transporting vehicles.
   (D)   It shall be a violation of the section for any person not having
proper permission from or arrangement with the city to haul any refuse within
any area of the city in which refuse collection service is maintained by the
city. Scavenger licenses or permits may be issued by the City Clerk with the
approval of the Superintendent of Sanitation to qualified applicants on an
annual basis upon payment of a fee of $25.
   (E)   The city shall not be responsible for collecting or hauling discarded
furniture and appliances from private property, nor shall it be responsible for
collecting or hauling trees, bushes or other vegetation cut on private property
incident to construction.
   (F)   Whenever, in the opinion of the Superintendent of Sanitation or his
agents, any person who operates a commercial establishment or other place where
a large quantity of commercial waste is produced as an incident to the conduct
of such establishment or business, produces and accumulates quantities of
garbage, rubbish, yard waste, non-combustible materials, and other such
materials in excess of reasonable quantities ordinarily removed by the city,
which said reasonable quantities are fixed at six 20-gallon containers per
collection, the Superintendent shall require such person to remove the same at
his own expense, in such manner as not to violate any of the provisions of this
section. Excess refuse from commercial establishments may be collected by the
city on a charge basis as determined by the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 4-605) (Ord. 303, passed 4-1-68; Am. Ord. 456, passed 9-17-73)
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.05 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any refuse anywhere in the
city except at the sanitary landfills operated by the city, and then only by
special permission of the Superintendent of Sanitation.
   (B)   Regulations relative to the disposal at city facilities shall be
issued by the Superintendent of Sanitation, subject to the approval of the City
Council.
   (C)   Licensed collectors authorized to make refuse collections in the city
shall be charged a fee for disposal based on weight and character of material.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or bring any refuse on
public or private property unless written permission has been obtained from the
property owner or owners and such disposal has been authorized by the
Superintendent of Sanitation. The provisions of this division (D) do not apply
to dumping on private property with the owner’s permission of sand, dirt,
broken brick, blocks, broken pavement, or other suitable material for use as
fill material to raise the elevation of the land.
(‘68 Code, § 4-606) (Ord. 303, passed 4-1-608) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.06 COMMERCIAL OUTDOOR TRASH STORAGE.
   Any new or altered use which requires site plan review and approval pursuant
to the provisions of this code of ordinances and has an outdoor trash storage
area shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, the definitions contained in §§
50.51 and
94.02 of this code of ordinances shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   (B)   Any outdoor trash storage area shall be limited to the disposal of
refuse which shall be maintained in a neat, orderly, and sanitary condition and
shall be collected on a regular basis.
   (C)   In no instance shall any such refuse be visible above the height of
the required enclosure.
   (D)   Overall, the walls encompassing the storage area shall be six feet in
height and shall be enclosed on three sides. Such walls shall be constructed of
materials approved by the Structural/Safety Department and shall be durable and
weather resistant. Bollards and/or other protective devices shall be installed
at the opening and in the interior to the rear of any storage area to prevent
damage to the screening walls. The bollards shall consist of concrete filled
six-inch diameter metal pipes, with a minimum installed depth of four feet. The
surface under any such storage area shall be constructed of concrete. The
construction of the storage area shall comply with all other ordinance and code
requirements of the city.
   (E)   Any such storage area shall be located in a rear yard and/or shall be
located and arranged as to minimize its visibility from adjacent streets and
uses. The Planning Commission or Director of Community Development or his
designee may require an obscuring gate when the visibility of such a storage
area, from a public street or adjacent use, is deemed to render an adverse
influence. In no instance shall any outdoor trash storage area be located in a
front yard.
(Ord. 764, passed 8-4-97) Penalty, see §
50.99
SOLID WASTE HAULERS
§ 50.20 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   All solid waste haulers operating in the city shall be licensed annually by
the city. The City Council may, from time to time, establish by resolution a
licensing fee and procedure for the licensing of all solid waste haulers.
(Ord. 702, passed 7-1-91)
§ 50.21 BOND REQUIREMENTS.
   Each application for a license shall be accompanied by a bond running to the
city in the penal sum of not less than the amount of one year’s revenue to be
realized by the licensee from the city residents in such form as may be
approved by the City Attorney, which bond shall be signed by an approved surety
duly authorized to do business in Michigan, and which bond shall be conditioned
on the due observance during the time of the license of all the laws of the
state, the ordinances of the city and the approved rules and regulations of the
city pertaining to the collection, removal and transportation of solid waste
and all legal rights of all persons who are served by or injured by the
licensee. Any persons aggrieved by the action of any private collector licensee
shall have a right of action on the bond for the recovery of the damages. Such
bond shall remain in full force and effect for a period of 90 days after the
expiration or cancellation of any such license. Each licensee shall maintain
for each vehicle, the security required by law, and additional security
sufficient to pay $1,000,000 for one person injured in an accident, and
$1,000,000 for all other persons injured in an accident, and shall deposit,
prior to the issuance of the license, certificates of insurance with the City
Clerk indicating such coverage. The solid waste hauler licensee shall obtain
and keep in full force and effect insurance to protect the public against risk
of loss from liability, including damage to property and injury to person, in a
sum of not less than $1,000,000 per occurrence caused by the actions or
operations of the licensee, its officers, employees and agents. Further, the
city may require of private and city contractors other bonds of insurance
including worker’s compensation insurance to insure the city that the
obligations of the contractors will be sufficiently performed and discharged,
and the safety of the city will be protected in the event that they are not.
(Ord. 702, passed 7-1-91)
GARBAGE GRINDERS AND INCINERATORS
§ 50.35 AUTHORITY; PURPOSE.
   For the purpose of promoting the health, safety and general welfare of the
inhabitants of the city, there is hereby created in the city provisions
regulating and providing for garbage, fruit, vegetable, animal or other solid
kitchen waste materials, from individual dwelling units and other food handling
and preparing establishments, resulting from the preparation and handling of
any food and/or drink, which may be admitted to the sanitary sewer if first
passed through a mechanically operated grinder.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1701) (Ord. 112.1, passed 5-22-53)
§ 50.36 INCINERATORS; APPROVAL OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   This subchapter hereby provides that the regulating and providing for the
disposal of garbage, fruit, vegetable, animal or other solid kitchen waste
materials from individual dwelling units and other food handling and preparing
establishments, resulting from the preparation and handling of any food and/or
drink, may also be disposed of by being placed in a gas or electrically
operated incinerator, approved by the Department of Public Works of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1702) (Ord. 112.1, passed 5-22-53)
§ 50.37 NEW RESIDENCES AND FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS; APPLICATION FOR PERMITS FOR
GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   Application for permits for garbage grinders must be applied for in all new
residences and new food establishments in the city, at the City Building
Department. Whenever any person seeks a permit for the remodeling of a kitchen,
it shall be necessary that said permit include the application for a permit for
a garbage grinder to be installed therein.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1703) (Ord. 112.1, passed 5-22-53; Am. Ord. 273, passed 12-5-66)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 50.38 MECHANICALLY OPERATED GARBAGE GRINDERS.
   (A)   A mechanically operated garbage grinder will operate with water
flowing into the grinder and through the sink drain line and will discharge
wastes at a reasonably uniform rate, in fluid form, which will flow readily
through an approved trap, drain line or soil line in a manner which will
prevent clogging or stoppage of drain line.
   (B)   A mechanically operated garbage grinder will be of such construction
and have such operation characteristics that at least 40% of all materials
discharged from it shall pass a No. 8 sieve, at least 65% will pass a No. 3
sieve, and 100% will pass a half-inch screen. A mechanically operated garbage
grinder will be self-scouring, with no fouling surfaces to cause objectionable
odors, and must be free from electrical or mechanical hazards.
   (C)   The sufficiency of the designs of the said mechanically operated
garbage grinder shall meet with the requirements of the City Department of
Public Works, and the entire installation of the mechanically operated garbage
grinder shall comply in all particulars with provisions of the plumbing and
electrical codes of the city, and it shall be connected to the drain in
compliance with the plumbing code and be free from any cross connection.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1704) (Ord. 112.1, passed 5-22-53) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.39 GAS, ELECTRICALLY OPERATED INCINERATORS.
   The gas or electrically operated incinerator hereinbefore mentioned must
also be free from electrical or mechanical hazards. The sufficiency of the
designs of the said gas or electrically operated incinerator shall meet with
the requirements of the City Department of Public Works, as hereinbefore
mentioned. The entire installation of said incinerator shall comply in all
particulars with the provisions of the gas and/or electrical code of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1705) (Ord. 112.1, passed 5-22-53) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate a provision of chapter shall be guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by a fine not to exceed $500, or by imprisonment not
exceeding 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment. Each day that a
violation occurs or continues shall be deemed a separate offense. Three or more
violations of this chapter by a waste hauler shall be cause for suspension or
revocation of a solid waste hauler license.
(Ord. 712, passed 1-4-93)
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
50.06 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 764, passed 8-4-97)
CHAPTER 51: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS
Section
Special Assessment Projects; Procedure
   
51.01   Public improvements; resolution required; contents; costs
   
51.02   Determinations to make improvements
   
51.03   Costs; special assessment; apportionment
   
51.04   Duty of Assessor; procedure
   
51.05   Assessment roll; procedure
   
51.06   Board of review
   
51.07   Confirmation of special assessment roll
   
51.08   Installment payments; restriction; due date; penalties
   
51.09   Lien upon confirmation
   
51.10   Collection of special assessments; Clerk’s warrant; reassessment
   
51.11   Unpaid special assessments; Treasurer; state law
   
51.12   Insufficiency; additional assessment; refund
   
51.13   Court actions; delay; procedure
   
51.14   Proceedings; invalidity; Council authority
   
51.15   Destruction or impairment of lien; limitations
   
51.16   Contracts for improvements; appropriation prerequisite
   
51.17   Division of land after assessment; apportionment authorized
SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROJECTS; PROCEDURE
§ 51.01 PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS; RESOLUTION REQUIRED; CONTENTS; COSTS.
   (A)   Whenever the City Council desires to acquire or provide for a public
improvement, it shall so declare by resolution and in said resolution shall
describe the improvement and, if the improvement be a special assessment, shall
describe the special assessment district to be specifically assessed, either by
description of the boundaries of such district or by a description of each
parcel of land contained in such district, give the number of such district and
state what part of the cost of the improvement shall be paid by the city and
what part by the special assessment district. The Council shall also direct the
City Engineer, or some other competent person employed for that purpose, to
prepare maps, plans and estimates of cost of said improvement, and, if the
improvement be a special assessment improvement, a map of the special
assessment district, showing among other things the boundaries of each parcel
of land therein contained and the names of the owners thereof, if known. The
Council may order several estimates of cost based upon different kinds of
materials or otherwise as it may direct.
(‘68 Code, § 2-401)
   (B)   In making the estimate of the cost of any such improvement, the City
Engineer or other person making same shall make as accurate an estimate thereof
as is possible; and shall add to such estimate an amount not to exceed 15%
thereof to cover contingent expenses. The total estimate so made shall be
considered the final estimate of the cost of such improvement. In making said
estimate of cost, there shall be included anticipated financial costs, if any.
(‘68 Code, § 2-402)
   (C)   The Council may order the Engineer or other person making same to make
changes in his maps, plans and estimates of cost as it may desire.
(‘68 Code, § 2-403)
(Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.02 DETERMINATIONS TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS.
   When the final maps, plans and estimates of cost of special assessment
improvements shall have been completed and presented to the City Council, the
Council shall, if it so elects, pass a resolution adopting them and determining
to make the improvement, specifically describing it, and also, if the
improvement is a special assessment improvement, determining the special
assessment district to be assessed, which district shall be described either by
describing the boundaries thereof or by describing each parcel of land therein
contained, and also what part of the cost of such improvement, if any, shall be
paid by the city and what part by the special assessment district. The
resolution shall also state from what money the city’s part of the cost of the
improvement shall be paid.
(‘68 Code, § 2-404) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.03 COSTS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT; APPORTIONMENT.
   Following the passage of the resolution determining to acquire or construct
any special assessment improvement, the City Council shall direct the Assessor
to assess in the manner herein provided and against all the parcels of land in
the special assessment district, including public land, that portion of the
cost to be paid by the special assessment district and by the city on account
of public lands therein.
(‘68 Code, § 2-405) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.04 DUTY OF ASSESSOR; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Assessor shall, without delay, proceed to assess against the
parcels of land in the special assessment district, including public lands,
that portion of the cost to be paid by the special assessment district and by
the city on account of such public lands. He shall make out an assessment roll
numbered to correspond with the number of the special assessment district, and
shall enter and describe therein all the parcels of land to be assessed, the
assessed valuation of each such parcel, together with the names of the persons,
if known, chargeable with the assessment thereon; and shall levy thereon and
against such persons the amount to be assessed in the manner in this chapter
provided.
   (B)   In all cases where the ownership of any parcel of land is unknown, the
assessor shall, in lieu of the name of owner, insert “Name Unknown”, and if, by
mistake or otherwise, any person shall be improperly designated as the owner of
any parcel of land, or if the same be assessed without the name of the owner,
or in the name of a person other than the owner, such assessment shall not for
any such cause be vitiated, but shall in all respects be as valid upon and
against such parcel of land and against the proper owner thereof as though
assessed in the name of the proper owner in the first instance, and when the
assessment roll shall have been confirmed, each such assessment shall be a lien
upon such parcel of land and collected as in other cases.
   (C)   At the end of such assessment roll the Assessor shall state in dollars
the total amount of the special assessment assessed, what part has been
assessed against privately owned parcels of land and what part, if any, against
public lands.
(‘68 Code, § 2-406) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.05 ASSESSMENT ROLL; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Whenever the Assessor shall have completed such assessment roll, he
shall attach thereto his certificate, in which he shall certify that such roll
contains a description of all the parcels of land constituting the special
assessment district and benefited by such improvement, the assessed valuation
of each of such parcels and the names of the persons, if known, chargeable with
the assessment thereon; that every assessment was made by benefits, and that
such benefits equal that portion of the cost assessed against the parcels of
land in such special assessment district; further, that the Assessor has
complied with all the provisions of this subchapter regulating the making of
such assessments.
(‘68 Code, § 2-407) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53; Am. Ord. 114.2, passed 9-10-57;
Am. Ord. 185, passed 3-5-62)
   (B)   Upon receipt of such special assessment roll, the City Council by
resolution shall order such assessment roll to be filed in the office of the
City Clerk for public examination, and in the same resolution shall fix the
time and place where and when the Council and the Assessor, as a board of
review, will meet to review such special assessment roll and to hear objections
to the special assessments as assessed in said roll. At this meeting all
persons or parties interested are required to present in writing their
objections, if any, to the assessments against them.
(‘68 Code, § 2-408)
   (C)   Meeting to review, notice, form. The notice of the meeting to review
such special assessment roll and to hear objections to such special assessment
shall be in substantially the following form:
“MEETING TO REVIEW SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL NO.         AND TO HEAR OBJECTIONS
TO THE SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS AGAINST SPECIAL ASSESSMENT DISTRICT NO.         IN
THE CITY OF INKSTER, MICHIGAN.
   PLEASE TAKE NOTICE, that the Council and City Assessor, as a Board of
Review, will meet at the Council Room in said City of Inkster on              
the              day of                 19      at        ‘clock     M., for
the purpose of reviewing said Special Assessment Roll No.            and of
hearing any and all objections to the special assessments as assessed in said
Roll No.            made in the matter of constructing the following described
Special Assessment Improvement:
   (Insert specific description of particular improvement.)
The Assessment Roll is on file in the office of the City Clerk for public
examination. The special assessments therein contained have been assessed
according to law against all the parcels of land constituting Special
Assessment District No.          which district is described as follows:
   (Insert description of special assessment district.)
   All objections to assessments must be in writing.
   The above assessments and all proceedings upon which they are based shall be
incontestable, unless suit to contest the validity thereof is instituted within
30 days after the day of the conformation of said Special Assessment Roll No.
        .
   Dated: City of Inkster, Michigan,                   19    .
                                             
   Clerk of the City of Inkster, Michigan”
(‘68 Code, § 2-409)
(Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
   (D)   Review; notice; publication, posting required. The City Clerk shall
give notice of the foregoing meeting of the City Council and Assessor, as a
board of review, by causing a notice, in the form prescribed in division (C) of
this section, to be published in the official newspaper once at least ten days
prior to such meeting, and also by mailing or causing to be mailed (by first
class mail, postage prepaid), at least ten days prior to said meeting, a notice
thereof in said form, or other suitable form, to each person to whom any parcel
of land is assessed, at his address as shown on the special assessment roll.
Unless such address is the same as the postal address of the premises assessed,
then such notice shall also be mailed, addressed to the occupant at the postal
address, if any, of each such premises. Proof of such publication and mailing
shall be made by proper affidavits filed in the office of the City Clerk.
(‘68 Code, § 2-410) (Ord. 186, passed 3-21-62; Am. Ord. 420, passed 7-5-72)
§ 51.06 BOARD OF REVIEW.
   The City Council and Assessor, as a board of review, shall meet at the time
designated for the review of such assessment roll and, at such meeting or
proper adjournment thereof, shall consider all objections thereto submitted in
writing. The Council may correct said roll as to any special assessment or
description of any parcel of land or other error appearing therein or they may,
by resolution, annul such assessment roll and they may (and where such special
assessment was originated by petition, they shall) direct a new special
assessment to be made, in which case the same proceedings shall be had in the
case of an original assessment.
(‘68 Code, § 2-411) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.07 CONFIRMATION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   After hearing all written objections and making any changes or corrections
as provided in §
51.06, which changes and corrections shall be recorded in such special
assessment roll, the City Council shall pass a resolution confirming such roll,
ordering the City Clerk to endorse thereon the date of confirmation thereof,
and to file such roll in the Clerk’s office.
(‘68 Code, § 2-412) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.08 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS; RESTRICTION; DUE DATE; PENALTIES.
   (A)   At the same meeting at which the special assessment roll is confirmed
by the City Council, the Council shall, by resolution, determine the number of
annual installments into which all assessments levied in such assessment roll,
exceeding $15 in amount, shall be levied for collection, not exceeding ten in
number, and shall in such resolution authorize and direct the Assessor to
divide all such assessment equally into the number of annual installments
specified in the resolution.
(‘68 Code, § 2-413)
   (B)   All special assessments not exceeding $15 in amount, and the first
installment of all assessments exceeding $15 in amount divided into two or more
annual installments by authority of the Council, shall be due and payable on
such dates as may be fixed by the City Council. The subsequent installments
shall become due and payable in one or more years consecutively, in the order
of their numbering from the due date of the first installment thereof.
(‘68 Code, § 2-415)
(Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
   (C)   All special assessments not exceeding $15 in amount, and the first
installment of all larger assessments which are divided into two or more annual
installments by authority of the Council, shall be due upon confirmation of the
roll, and deferred installments shall be due annually thereafter, or in the
discretion of the Council may be spread upon and made a part of each annual
city tax roll thereafter until all are paid. The Council may provide that any
assessment or any installments may be paid without interest on or before such
date after confirmation as shall be fixed by the Council. Any assessment not
divided into installments, and the first installment of any assessment so
divided, shall be deemed delinquent if not paid when due or, if the Council
provides a later date on or before which payment may be made without interest,
if not paid on or before such date. Deferred installments shall be deemed
delinquent on their respective due dates or, if the Council so provides, on the
respective anniversaries of the date when the first installment becomes
delinquent. Deferred installments shall bear interest at the rate of .5% for
each month or fraction thereof from such date as shall be fixed by the Council
until they become delinquent. Accrued interest on all unpaid installments,
computed to the annual delinquent date, shall be payable annually with each
deferred installment. All delinquent assessments and all delinquent
installments, with such accrued interest, shall bear interest at the rate of 7/
12 of 1% for each month or fraction thereof until paid. Any assessment or any
deferred installments with accrued interest to the date of payment may be paid
before delinquent.
(‘68 Code, § 2-416) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53; Am. Ord. 114.1, passed 1-18-57;
Am. Ord. 315, passed 5-6-68)
§ 51.09 LIEN UPON CONFIRMATION.
   All special assessments shall, from the date of the confirmation thereof,
constitute a lien upon the respective parcels of land assessed and shall be a
charge against the person to whom assessed, until paid.
(‘68 Code, § 2-414) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.10 COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; CLERK’S WARRANT; REASSESSMENT.
   (A)   At the time of the confirmation of any special assessment roll, the
City Council by resolution shall order the collections of the special
assessments contained in such roll to be made in the manner in this subchapter
provided. Thereupon, and within three days thereafter, the City Clerk shall
attach to said special assessment roll his warrant, therein commanding the City
Treasurer to collect from each of the persons named in said roll in such
installments as shall have been provided the amount of money assessed and set
opposite his name therein, the assessment or first installment thereof to be
collected on the due date of the first installment fixed by the City Council,
and the remaining installments annually thereafter in accordance with their
respective number, and within 60 days following the due date of each
installment to file in the office of the Clerk a report of his doings in
respect to the collection of such special assessment; and said Clerk shall
deliver such roll and warrant to the Treasurer.
(‘68 Code, § 2-417)
   (B)   The Treasurer shall give notice of the time and place and where and
when such assessment and installments thereof are due and payable, and the fact
that if not so paid, they will bear interest, by publishing such notice at
least once in the official newspaper of the city, the first publication thereof
to be at least ten days prior to the due date of such installment, and by
posting or causing to be posted a copy of such notice in five of the most
public and conspicuous places in said special assessment district at least ten
days prior to the due date of such installment. Proof of publication and
posting of such notice shall be made by proper affidavits filed in the office
of the City Clerk.
(‘68 Code, § 2-418) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.11 UNPAID SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; TREASURER; STATE LAW.
   (A)   If any person refuses or neglects to pay any special assessment or
installment of a special assessment or any interest thereon, the City Treasurer
may proceed to collect the same by distress or by an action at law in any court
having jurisdiction in the manner provided by law for the collection of taxes
on personal property.
(‘68 Code, § 2-419)
   (B)   All assessments or installments thereof which shall be unpaid and
delinquent on the first Tuesday in June of each year, and which shall not have
been previously reassessed by the City Council upon the general tax roll, shall
on said first Tuesday in June of each year be reported to the Council by the
City Treasurer as delinquent, and the Council shall thereupon order the amount
due, including penalties and interest to August 1 of each year, to be
reassessed and spread by the Assessor upon the general tax roll for such year
in a column headed “Special Assessments” with such information as may be
necessary to identify the special assessment, the number of installment due and
the description of the property upon which said taxes are a lien with the name
of the owner thereof, if known; and said special assessment shall then be
collected and paid in all respects as provided in collecting city taxes.
(‘68 Code, § 2-420) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.12 INSUFFICIENCY; ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENT; REFUND.
   Should any special assessment prove insufficient to pay for the improvement
or work for which it was levied, and the expenses incident thereto, including
all interest still to accrue upon any and all bonds issued in anticipation of
the collection of such special assessments, the City Council may, in the manner
and within the limitations prescribed herein for such assessments, make an
additional pro rata assessment to supply the deficiency, and in case a larger
amount shall have been collected than was necessary, the excess shall be
refunded ratably to those by whom it was paid.
(‘68 Code, § 2-421) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.13 COURT ACTIONS; DELAY; PROCEDURE.
   Should any of the proceedings authorized to be taken under the provisions of
this subchapter be delayed by reason of any suit or action to contest the
validity thereof, then such proceedings shall be taken as soon as such delay
has ended.
(‘68 Code, § 2-422) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.14 PROCEEDINGS; INVALIDITY; COUNCIL AUTHORITY.
   Whenever any special assessment proceedings or special assessment shall, in
the opinion of the City Council, be invalid by reason of jurisdictional
defects, irregularity or informality therein, or if any court of competent
jurisdiction shall adjudge such proceedings or such assessment to be illegal,
the Council shall, whether such improvement has been made or not, or whether
any part of the assessments have been paid or not, have power to take entirely
new proceedings or to cause a new assessment to be made for the same purpose
for which the former assessment was made. All such proceedings shall be taken
in the manner herein provided, and, in case of only a reassessment, such new
assessment shall be made in the manner provided for making the original
assessment. Whenever any sum, or part thereof, levied upon any parcel of land
in the assessment so set aside has been paid and not refunded, the payment so
made shall be applied on the new assessment on such parcel of land, and the new
assessment shall to that extent be deemed satisfied.
(‘68 Code, § 2-423) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.15 DESTRUCTION OR IMPAIRMENT OF LIEN; LIMITATIONS.
   No judgment or decree of any court, nor any act of the City Council,
vacating any proceedings or assessment in the matter of a special assessment
improvement, shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the parcel of
land originally assessed for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably
charged against the same, or, as by a regular mode of proceedings, might have
been lawfully assessed thereon.
(‘68 Code, § 2-424) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.16 CONTRACTS FOR IMPROVEMENTS; APPROPRIATION PREREQUISITE.
   No contract for the construction of any improvement shall be let nor shall
the construction of any such improvement be begun until money to pay the cost
thereof has been provided for in the manner in this subchapter required; nor
shall any contract be let otherwise than as provided.
(‘68 Code, § 2-425) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
§ 51.17 DIVISION OF LAND AFTER ASSESSMENT; APPORTIONMENT AUTHORIZED.
   Should any lots or land be divided after a special assessment has been
confirmed and divided into installments, the City Council may require the
Assessor to apportion the uncollected amounts upon the several parts of lots
and lands so divided. The report of such apportionment, when confirmed, shall
be conclusive upon all the parties, and all assessments thereafter made upon
such lots or lands shall be according to such division.
(‘68 Code, § 2-426) (Ord. 114, passed 6-19-53)
CHAPTER 52: WATER
Section
Standards of Operation; Service
   
52.01   Application for water service, service connections and meters
   
52.02   Water mains; use of water
   
52.03   Fire hydrants
   
52.04   Cross connections
   
52.05   Manifold service connections
   
52.06   Plumbing specifications; responsibility and expenses
   
52.07   Extension of service lines beyond property limits
   
52.08   Disconnecting unused service lines
   
52.09   Turning water on or off; charges
   
52.10   Shutting off or withholding supply of water
   
52.11   Interruption of service; damage to property
   
52.12   Performance of work requiring experience and specialized equipment
   
52.13   Billing and collection practices for services
   
52.14   Emergency water use restrictions
   
52.15   Temporary emergency sprinkling restrictions
Water Supply Cross Connections
   
52.25   Water supply cross connection rules
   
52.26   Provisions to be supplemental
   
52.27   Inspection of possible cross connections
   
52.28   Right of entry for purpose of inspection; refusal of information
   
52.29   Discontinuance of water service
   
52.30   Labeling of water outlets
   
52.31   Backflow prevention assembly testing
Administration and Enforcement
   
52.40   Authority of Council to control water supply system
   
52.41   Responsibility of Mayor for administration
   
52.42   Authority of department employees; right of entry
 
   
52.99   Penalty
STANDARDS OF OPERATION; SERVICE
§ 52.01 APPLICATION FOR WATER SERVICE; SERVICE CONNECTIONS AND METERS.
   (A)   Tenants residing on streets that may be served by water may apply for
water service, provided that the cost for the installation of service
connection must be paid in full at the time of application.
   (B)   Application for service connections shall be made by a master plumber
only at the main office of the Water Department on a printed from furnished by
the Department.
   (C)   Water meters.
      (1)   Ownership.
         (a)   All meters shall be and remain the property of the Department,
which shall maintain all meters in service, making such periodic tests and
repairs as are necessary to insure correct registration. The customer shall be
charged for only those repairs made necessary by damage caused by willful act,
carelessness or neglect of the occupant, such as failing to protect the meter
from freezing temperatures, or allowing the hot water to back through the line
to the meter.
         (b)   All persons are forbidden to interfere with or remove a water
meter from any service connection without first receiving permission from the
Department.
      (2)   Responsibility.
         (a)   The owner of the property is responsible for the safekeeping of
meters installed on his premises and shall, if the meter is lost or stolen from
the premises, be charged with the actual cost of replacing the missing
equipment.
         (b)   In the event that any meter is found defective or fails to
register, the customer will be charged an estimated sum based upon the amount
of water consumption of the preceding similar quarter.
      (3)   Setting and locating of meters.
         (a)   Meters and their valves will not be allowed in closets or
compartments that are kept locked, in coal bins, in or under toilet room
floors, under buildings, porches, show windows, show boards or where they are
difficult of access.
         (b)   All meters shall be set horizontally in dry, clean, sanitary
places perfectly accessible, with gate valves on both sides, and where a small
leak and the spilling of water will do no damage.
         (c)   The plumber shall install connections ready to receive the meter
in a location to be approved by the Department.
      (4)   Meter wells.
         (a)   Upon special permission being granted by the Department, meters
may be installed in meter wells of a type approved by the Department.
         (b)   Should it be impossible to drain a meter well, the owner or
occupant must, under penalty of having the water shut off, pump out said well
whenever required by the Department.
      (5)   Remote (outside) reading devices for water meters.
         (a)   Any structure hereafter built or moved within the city requiring
the installation of water meters shall be so constructed so that the remote
reading device connected to the water meter shall be located outside of the
building which shall be easily accessible to the personnel of the Water
Department.
         (b)   The Water Department is hereby authorized upon request of
property owner to alter all water meters presently located inside of any
building within the city, so that a remote reading device connected to said
water meter is outside of such building in a location convenient and accessible
to the personnel of the Water Department. The cost of such alteration shall be
initially paid for out of funds of the Water Department.
         (c)   The owner or owners of buildings, wherein inside water meters
are located, and which are to be altered for outside reading devices, in
accordance with division (C)(5)(b) of this section, are to repay to the Water
Department the sum as set from time to time by Council resolution to help
defray the cost of altering said water meter. Said amount shall be repaid in
quarterly installments by adding same to the quarterly water bill of said owner
or owners, and shall be considered a proper water charge.
         (d)   The city, through its Water Department, shall determine type,
location and number of remote reading devices required for any service.
(Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64; Am. Ord. 490, passed 3-17-75)
§ 52.02 WATER MAINS; USE OF WATER.
   No person shall tap or connect any water mains or insert a service
connection therein, nor open or close any valves or hydrants, nor molest or
interfere with any valve or valve box cover, water meter, detector check value
or other part of the system, excepting employees of the Water Department or
except upon written permission from the office of the Department, or in case of
fire.
(‘68 Code, § 7-103(1)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.03 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person shall, save for the purpose of extinguishing fire, open any
fire hydrants on the water supply system or tamper with the same or use the
water therefrom, nor shall any person in any manner obstruct the use of any
fire hydrant in the city or have, or place or allow to be placed any material
or thing in front thereof; and any or all material found as an obstruction as
aforesaid may be forthwith removed by the officers and employees of the Water
Department and at the risk, cost and expense of the owner or claimant.
   (B)   In the discretion of the Department, permits may be issued for opening
fire hydrants and to use water therefrom for construction purposes, provided a
deposit is made with the Department. The City Council shall determine the cost
of this permit by resolution.
(‘68 Code, § 7-103(2)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.04 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   No cross connection between pipes connected with the water supply system and
another source of water supply shall be permitted for any purpose whatsoever.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(10)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.05 MANIFOLD SERVICE CONNECTIONS.
   In all cases where manifold service connections are desired, and all
buildings divided into separate business places, permits may be issued only
after approval of the Water Department. In every case of a manifold connection
there must be a master stop, also a stop for each branch therefrom.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(11)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.06 PLUMBING SPECIFICATIONS; RESPONSIBILITY AND EXPENSES.
   Applicants will be held responsible for the proper execution of the
applications for water service and service connections. All expenses incurred
by reason of incorrect information given shall be charged to and paid for by
the applicant.
   (A)   All service connections under three inches and pipes from the water
mains to the lot lines shall be furnished and installed by the Water
Department. On service connections three inches and over the city will tap the
main and install the valve.
   (B)   No service connection will be installed when the section of the
service line installed by the plumber is in line with a driveway, tree, fire
hydrant, catch basin or other obstruction.
   (C)   The charge for each service connection, as established by the City
Council, must be paid at the time of application.
   (D)   All new service pipes connecting with the distributing mains under
three inches shall be type “K” copper or such other material as is approved by
the Department, and shall have an inside diameter of at least 3/4 inches. All
new service pipes three inches or larger in diameter may be cast iron.
Specifications of such pipe shall be approved by the Department before
installation.
   (E)   All service connections shall be five feet below finished grade and
inspected by the city before being backfilled.
   (F)   All service connections must be installed at least six feet from the
existing gas service. Before installing water connections, the plumber must
check the location of gas service. Service pipes must be uniform in size in
their entirety. Joints between lengths of copper tubing must be of the flange
type and well made.
   (G)   When premises have a cellar or basement, service pipes must be
extended into the same and branches taken therefrom on the outlet side of the
meter.
   (H)   It is expressly forbidden for any plumber to lay a service pipe inside
of a building, along the outside wall, or in any position where there is danger
of frost; also, to make new connections, or to install any new attachments or
fixtures to old connections, that shall require a running stream to prevent
freezing.
   (I)   Unusual conditions not specifically contemplated herein shall be
reported to the Council for disposition, and the ruling of the Council thereon
shall be final.
   (J)   Water lines will not be allowed to cross public streets or alleys
without permission of the Department.
   (K)   When a new service line is required, the owner of the property must
have all unused service connections entering the property disconnected at the
street main. Where a new building is erected upon a property, and an existing
service line is used, all unused lines entering said property must be
disconnected at the street main. Plumbers shall acquaint themselves as to the
existence of old service lines.
   (L)   Charges for disconnecting all services, except those in the same
trench as the new service and of the screw type, shall be borne by the parties
applying for the disconnection.
   (M)   Meters shall be installed with clearance distances in accordance with
requirements of the Department.
   (N)   Bypasses and meter connections the same size as the service lines will
be required on all meters 1-1/2 inches and larger in size. Bypasses will not be
allowed on 1-inch and smaller meters. The bypasses and meter connections shall
be constructed according to drawings furnished by the Department.
   (O)   The Department shall require all private fire lines and sprinkler
systems to be metered. The applicant must purchase the meter.
   (P)   No reciprocating pump shall be attached directly to the city mains
unless the same shall be used exclusively for fire purposes.
(‘68 Code, § 7-107) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64; Am. Ord. 242, passed 4-19-65)
Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.07 EXTENSION OF SERVICE LINES BEYOND PROPERTY LIMITS.
   No extension shall be made to a service line or water pipe for the purpose
of conveying water to a point beyond the limits of the property for which the
water line was installed as recorded on the original application for water
service, except in such cases as may be authorized by the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(7)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.08 DISCONNECTING UNUSED SERVICE LINES.
   The Water Department reserves the right to disconnect from the main any
unused and nonrevenue producing service connection if the cost of maintenance
of such service connection becomes excessive or for such other reasons as are
deemed sufficient by the Department. In case water service is desired at the
same location at some later date, application for water service and for a
service connection will be required. The charge for the installation for the
new service connection will be at the regular rate.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(1)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.09 TURNING WATER ON OR OFF; CHARGES.
   (A)   Water shall be turned off promptly by the Water Department upon
request, or turned on promptly, provided all rules of the Department have been
complied with, except that water will not ordinarily be turned on or off in the
absence of a person responsible for the premises. The Department, however,
shall not shut off a supply of water where such action would involve the City
Council in a controversy between other parties, regarding a matter beyond the
jurisdiction of the Department.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(2))
   (B)   No charge shall be made for turning water on or off except where water
is turned on after it has been turned off for nonpayment of the bill.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(3)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.10 SHUTTING OFF OR WITHHOLDING SUPPLY OF WATER.
   (A)   No owner or occupant of any building or premises shall be allowed to
supply water to another building through a pipe line connected from owner’s or
occupant’s building to another family, firm or corporation building, except by
permission of the City Council, or permit any unnecessary waste of water. If
found doing so, the supply of water may be shut off at the option of the
Department.
   (B)   The supply of water may be withheld from premises when the ordinances
of the city and rules and regulations of the Department have in any manner been
violated. If any person shall, after the water has been shut off from any
premises, cause or suffer such premises to be supplied with water without
permission from the Department, such premises shall be disconnected from the
distribution pipe of the Department and the cost of such disconnection and
reconnection charged to the premises.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(9)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.11 INTERRUPTION OF SERVICE; DAMAGE TO PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Water Department will exercise reasonable diligence and care to
deliver a continuous and sufficient supply of water to the customer as
furnished by the Detroit Water Board or its successor under the supply, but the
Department assumes no liability for any loss or damage occasioned thereby.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(4))
   (B)   Whenever the Department finds it necessary to interrupt water service
to any district or section that it serves, it shall when possible or
practicable give advance notice to the consumers affected.
(‘68 Code, § 7-105(5))
   (C)   The Department will in no case be liable for damage caused by, or in
any way arising out of, running or escape of water from faucets, burst pipes or
faulty fixtures on the premises. Every service line is equipped with a control
valve which may be used by the customer when necessary to shut off the water
supply to the entire premises. Upon request, day or night, the Department will
shut off such control valve for emergency purposes and will turn on after
repairs have been made.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(6)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.12 PERFORMANCE OF WORK REQUIRING EXPERIENCE AND SPECIALIZED EQUIPMENT.
   As an accommodation to the public utilities, or other parties, the Water
Department may move its mains, services or other parts of its distribution
system, or perform such other work as requires the experience and specialized
equipment of the Department. Such work shall be undertaken only upon purchase
order or a cash deposit to cover the estimated cost of the job. When the work
is completed and costs determined, detailed bills shall be rendered.
(‘68 Code, § 7-106(8)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.13 BILLING AND COLLECTION PRACTICES FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   Schedule of rates. The City Council shall from time to time by
resolution set the following rates:
      (1)   Consumption rates.
      (2)   Monthly service charge.
      (3)   Penalty for late payment.
      (4)   Service connection charges.
      (5)   Debt service charges.
   (B)   The schedule for reading of meters, method of billing and delivery of
bills shall be set by resolution of the Council.
   (C)   Payment of bills. Water bills are payable at the office of the Water
Department. Bills paid to any other person, concern or agency are so paid at
the risk of the customer.
   (D)   Collection of delinquent accounts. Whenever the rates fixed by the
Council or charges made by the Department for services rendered are not paid,
the water may be shut off and collection enforced in accordance with the laws
of the state and/or by placing said amounts on the city tax roll.
   (E)   Shut-off notice. Customers whose bills are unpaid 30 days past the due
date will be subject to shut-off without further notice. A statement to this
effect will be placed on the original bill. An additional penalty determined by
Council resolution will then be charged to the customer and shall be paid
together with all unpaid charges before service will be turned on again. If
said bill is not paid within 90 days of the due date, said amount shall be
placed on the next general tax roll and collected as part of the general city
taxes.
   (F)   Temporary service connections.
      (1)   The term temporary service connection is applied to a connection
installed to serve an individual, firm or corporation for a definite temporary
period for such purposes as supplying water to a construction project or to a
temporary structure.
      (2)   The Department reserves the right to refuse to install a temporary
service connection for any reason that it deems sufficient.
(‘68 Code, § 7-105) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64; Am. Ord. 361, passed 6-1-70; Am.
Ord. 848, passed 10-15-14)
§ 52.14 EMERGENCY WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   In the event the water pressure of the city water system is reduced to
such a degree as to create a dangerous shortage and health hazard, the City
Council may by resolution restrict the use of water for various purposes and
for various periods of time. Such resolution shall become effective when
published in the same manner as an ordinance is, and said resolution shall
remain in effect until rescinded by Council resolution.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates the terms and conditions
of such a resolution shall be deemed in violation of this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-108) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64) Penalty, see §
52.99
§ 52.15 TEMPORARY EMERGENCY SPRINKLING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Whenever the Manager or highest ranking operating official of the City
of Inkster receives notification from the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department
in conjunction with the Water and Radiological Protection Division of the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality that the supply or pressure demand
for water cannot be accommodated and general welfare is likely to be
endangered, or conditions within the water system of the City of Inkster are
likely to endanger the general welfare of the City of Inkster, the Manager or
the highest ranking operating official shall determine that a state of
emergency exists and prescribe the following emergency regulations which shall
apply in the City of Inkster for all properties connected to the City of
Inkster water system: Sprinkling of lawns and landscaping and all outdoor water
use shall be allowed for properties with even-numbered addresses on even-
numbered dates within a month and for properties with odd-numbered addresses on
odd-numbered dates within a month.
   (B)   Whenever the Manager or the highest ranking operating official
received notification from the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department in
conjunction with the Drinking Water and Radiological Protection Division of the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality that provisions in division (A) of
this section are not sufficient, or conditions within the water system of the
City of Inkster are likely to endanger the general welfare of the City of
Inkster, the following emergency regulations shall apply in the City of Inkster
for all properties connected to the City of Inkster water system: Sprinkling of
lawns and landscaping and all outdoor water use shall not be allowed.
   (C)   (1)   The City of Inkster and the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department shall, within 24 hours of notification, cause these regulations to
be posted at the City of Inkster office and publicly announced by means of
broadcasts or telecasts by the stations with a normal operating range covering
the City of Inkster, and may cause such announcement to be further declared in
newspapers of general circulation when feasible.
      (2)   The regulations shall become effective immediately after notice of
enforcement of the ordinance as posted at the City of Inkster offices.
      (3)   Upon notification from the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department in
conjunction with the Drinking Water and Radiological Protection Division of the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality that the emergency regulations are
no longer necessary, the city shall cause a public announcement lifting the
water restrictions.
(Ord. 755, passed 7-15-96) Penalty, see §
52.99  
WATER SUPPLY CROSS CONNECTIONS
§ 52.25 WATER SUPPLY CROSS CONNECTION RULES.
   The city adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of the
Michigan Department of Public Health, being R325.11401 to R325.11407 of the
Michigan Administrative Code.
(‘68 Code, § 7-109) (Ord. 505, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
§ 52.26 PROVISIONS TO BE SUPPLEMENTAL.
   This subchapter does not supercede the State Plumbing Code and §§
150.080 through
150.083, but is supplementary to them.
(‘68 Code, § 7-114) (Ord. 505, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
§ 52.27 INSPECTION OF POSSIBLE CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the city to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water supply where cross connections with the
public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the City Water Department and as approved by the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality.
(‘68 Code, § 7-110) (Ord. 505, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
§ 52.28 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR PURPOSE OF INSPECTION; REFUSAL OF INFORMATION.
   The representative of the City Water Department shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply system of the city for the purpose of inspecting the piping system
or systems thereof for cross connections. On request, the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the City Water Department
any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on such
property. The refusal of such information or refusal of access, when requested,
shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(‘68 Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 505, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
§ 52.29 DISCONTINUANCE OF WATER SERVICE.
   The City Water Department is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue
water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this subchapter exists, and to take such other precautionary
measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
public water supply system. Water service to such property shall not be
restored until the cross connection has been eliminated in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-112) (Ord. 505, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
§ 52.30 LABELING OF WATER OUTLETS.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this subchapter and by the state and city plumbing code. Any water outlet
which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as:
                                  
   WATER UNSAFE
   FOR DRINKING
                                   
(‘68 Code, § 7-113) (Ord. 505, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
§ 52.31 BACKFLOW PREVENTION ASSEMBLY TESTING.
   That all testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested initially
upon installation to be sure that the assembly is working properly. Subsequent
testing of assemblies shall be on an annual basis as required by the City of
Inkster and in accordance with Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
requirements. Residential water customers shall receive testing notices every
three years or every five years for non-chemically treated lawn irrigation
systems. Only individuals that are approved by the city and State of Michigan
certified shall be qualified to perform such testing. That individual(s) shall
certify the results of his/her testing.
(Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 52.40 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO CONTROL WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   Pursuant to and as provided by the City Charter, the City Council through
such agents or employees as it shall see fit to employ is invested with and
shall exercise full authority over and control of the water supply system and
extensions thereof, also the maintenance and operation of said water supply
system, and shall have authority to enforce all regulations adopted with
respect thereto.
(‘68 Code, § 7-101) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.41 RESPONSIBILITY OF MAYOR FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Mayor shall be charged with the administration of the Water
Department and from time to time shall employ such administrative assistants
and employees as may be necessary to efficiently operate the Water Department.
   (B)   The rules and regulations hereinafter named shall be considered a part
of the contract with every person, firm or corporation who is supplied with
water through the water supply system of the city.
   (C)   In all cases where any unusual circumstances make it necessary to
deviate from the regular rules, special permission must first be received from
the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 7-102) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 52.42 AUTHORITY OF DEPARTMENT EMPLOYEES; RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The duly constituted authorities of the city shall have the power and
authority at all reasonable hours to enter upon any premises where water
service is established for the purpose of testing, changing or reading water
meters, installing water meters, or for making general inspection of water
usage, wastage, and the like, and making an examination of all pipes and
fixtures connected with said waterworks. They shall have power and authority to
require any pipes and fixtures to be repaired, removed, replaced or changed
where the same are defective or not in compliance with the provisions of the
ordinances of the city or the rules and regulations in relation to the
waterworks of the city; and shall make such alterations and repairs or do other
acts with relation thereto as they shall deem necessary.
(‘68 Code, § 7-103(2)) (Ord. 215, passed 4-20-64)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of
this chapter, or any written order of the City Water Department in pursuance
thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution
or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the court for each violation. Each day upon
which a violation of the provisions of this chapter shall occur shall be deemed
a separate and additional violation for the purpose of this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-115) (Ord. 505, passed 4-5-76; Am. Ord. 859, passed 7-17-17)
CHAPTER 53: WASTEWATER DISCHARGE CONTROL
Section
   
53.01   Delegation of authority
   
53.02   Purpose
   
53.03   Authority
   
53.04   Definitions
   
53.05   Discharge prohibitions
   
53.06   Fees
   
53.07   Wastewater discharge permits
   
53.08   Monitoring facilities
   
53.09   Inspection, sampling and record-keeping
   
53.10   Confidential information
   
53.11   Statutes, laws and regulations
   
53.12   Enforcement
   
53.13   Reconsideration and appeal
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The City of Detroit, through the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, as
the State approved Control Authority, is authorized to administer and enforce
the provisions of this chapter on behalf of the City of Inkster. The City of
Inkster has executed and hereby ratifies its delegation agreement with the City
of Detroit through the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, which sets forth
the terms and conditions of such delegated authority, consistent with this
chapter, and shall allow the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department to perform
the specific responsibilities of control authority pursuant to state and
federal law.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.02 PURPOSE.
   A)   The purpose of this division is the protection of the environment, and
of public health and safety by abating and preventing pollution through the
regulation and control of the quantity and quality of wastes admitted to or
discharged into the wastewater collection and treatment system under the
jurisdiction of the City of Inkster and enabling the City of Inkster to comply
with all applicable state and federal laws required by the Federal Water
Pollution Control Act, being 33 U.S.C. § 1251, et seq.), and the General
Pretreatment Regulations, being 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   (B)   The objectives of this division are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge, or will pose a hazard to the health or welfare of the People
or of employees of the City of Detroit Water and Sewerage Department;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will pass inadequately treated through the system into receiving
waters, the atmosphere or the environment, or otherwise be incompatible with
the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle or reclaim wastewater or
sludge from the system in an economical and advantageous manner; and
      (4)   To provide for the recovery of the costs from users of the
wastewater collection and treatment system sufficient to administer regulatory
activities and meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement or
replacement of the system.
   (C)   This division provides for the regulation of contributors to the
Detroit and City of Inkster wastewater collection and treatment system through
the issuance of wastewater discharge permits to certain users and through the
enforcement of general requirements for all users, authorizes monitoring and
enforcement, and authorizes fees and penalties.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.03 AUTHORITY.
   By virtue of the obligations and authority placed upon the City of Inkster
by the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act,
as amended, being (33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq; the 1963 Constitution of the State
of Michigan; Public Act 245 of 1929, as amended, being M.C.L. 323.1 et seq;
M.S.A. 3.521 et seq.; the 1997 City of Inkster Charter; the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit for the City of Detroit Publicly
Owned Treatment Works (POTW); the consent judgment in U.S. EPA v. City of
Detroit et al. Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan Case
No.77-1100, as amended; and existing or future contracts between the Board of
Water Commissioners and suburban communities or other governmental or private
entities; or by virtue of common law usage of the system, this division shall
apply to every user contributing or causing to be contributed, or discharging,
pollutants or wastewater into the wastewater collection and treatment system of
the City of Detroit POTW.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.04 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For purposes of this chapter and unless the context specifically
indicates otherwise, the following terms and phrases, shall have the meanings
ascribed to them by this section:
      ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as
the Clean Water Act, as amended, being 33 U.S.C. § 1251 et seq.
      AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
         (a)   Responsible corporate officer, where the industrial user
submitting the reports required by this division is a corporation, who is
either (1) the president, vice-president, secretary, or treasurer of a
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
(2) the manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or operation
facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual sales or
expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 in second-quarter 1980 dollars, when
authority to execute documents has been assigned or delegated to said manager
in accordance with corporate procedures; or
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor where the industrial user
submitting the reports required by this division is a partnership or sole
proprietorship respectively. (See §
53.04(N))
      AVAILABLE CYANIDE. The quantity of cyanide that consists of cyanide ion
(CÑ) hydrogen cyanide in water (HCNaq), and the cyano-complexes of zinc,
copper, cadmium, mercury nickel and silver, determined by EPA method OIA-1677,
or other method designated as a Standard Method or approved under 40 CFR 136.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Programs, practices, procedures or other
directed efforts initiated and implemented by the User which can or do lead to
the reduction, conservation or minimization of pollutants being introduced into
the ecosystem, including but are not limited to the Detroit sewer system. BMPs
include, but are not limited to, equipment or technology modifications, process
or procedure modifications, reformulation or redesign of products, substitution
of raw materials, and improvements in housekeeping, maintenance, training, or
inventory control and may include technical and economic considerations.
      BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). means the quality of dissolved oxygen
utilized in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard
laboratory procedure five days at 20°C expressed in terms of mass and
concentration (milligrams per liter (mg/1)) as measured by standard methods.
      BOARD. The Board of Water Commissioners of the City of Detroit.
       BYPASS. The intentional diversion of a wastestream from any portion of
an industrial user’s treatment facility. [See 40 C.F.R. § 403.17.]
      CENTRALIZED WASTE TREATMENT (CWT) FACILITY. Any facility that treats any
hazardous or nonhazardous industrial waste received from off-site by tanker
truck, trailer roll-off bins, drums, barges, or any other forms of shipment
including:
         (a)   A facility that treats industrial waste received exclusively
from off-site; and
         (b)   A facility that treats industrial waste generated on-site as
well as industrial waste received from off-site.
      CITY. The City of Inkster.
      COMPATIBLE INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is produced by an
industrial user which has a pollutant strength or characteristics similar to
those found in domestic wastewater, and which can be efficiently and
effectively transported and treated with domestic wastewater.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Pollutants which can be effectively removed by the
POTW treatment system to within the acceptable levels for the POTW residuals
and the receiving stream.
      COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A collection of individual samples which are obtained
at regular intervals and collected on a time-proportional or flow-proportional
basis over a specified period and which provides a representative sample of the
average stream during the sampling period. A minimum of four aliquot per 24
hours shall be used where the sample is manually collected. [See 40 C.F.R. §
403, Appendix E.]
      CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. The information which would divulge
information, processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade
secrets of the industrial user. (See §
53.10)
      CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Detroit Water and Sewerage Department which has
been officially designated as such by the State of Michigan under the
provisions of 40 C.F.R § 403.12. [See 40 C.F.R.§ 403.12(a).]
      COOLING WATER. The non-contact water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling or refrigeration, and whose only function is the exchange
of heat.
      DAYS. Consecutive calendar days for the purpose of computing a period of
time prescribed or allowed by this division.
      DEPARTMENT. The City of Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, and
authorized employees of the Department.
      DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater
directly to the waters of the State of Michigan.
      DIRECTOR. The Director of the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, or
the Director’s designee.
      DISCHARGER. A person who, directly or indirectly, contributes, causes, or
permits wastewater to be discharged into the POTW.
      DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waste and wastewater from humans or household operations
which is discharged to, or otherwise enters, a treatment works.
      ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or ADMINISTRATOR or EPA ADMINISTRATOR.
The United States Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the
authorized representatives or employees of the EPA.
      FACILITY. A location, which contributes, causes or permits wastewater to
be discharged into the POTW including, but not limited to, a place of business,
endeavor, arts, trade or commerce, whether public or private, commercial or
charitable.
      FATS, OILS OR GREASE (FOG). Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats,
waxes, oils, and any other nonvolatile material of animal, vegetable or mineral
origin that’s extractable by solvent in accordance with standard methods.
      FLOW PROPORTIONAL SAMPLE. A composite sample taken with regard to the
flow rate of the wastestream.
      GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample collected over a period of time not
exceeding 15 minutes, which reasonably reflects the characteristics of the
stream at the time of sampling.
      INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of
pollutants into the POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under 33
U.S.C.§1317(b),(c)or(d).
      INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who contributes, causes or permits wastewater
to be discharged into the POTW, including, but not limited to, a place of
business, endeavor, arts, trade or commerce, whether public or private,
commercial or charitable but excludes single family and multi-family
residential dwellings with discharges consistent with domestic waste
characteristics.
      INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, solid or gaseous waste or form of energy,
or combination thereof, resulting from any processes of industry,
manufacturing, business, trade or research, including the development, recovery
or processing of natural resources.
      INTERFERENCE. means a discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, both:
         (a)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal; and
         (b)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTWs NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent State or local regulations): Section 405 of the
Clean Water Act, as amended, being 33 U.S.C. § 1345, the Solid Waste Disposal
Act (SWDA), as amended, (including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA), and State regulations contained in any State sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to subtitle D of the SWDA), the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection, Research and Sanctuaries
Act.
      MAY. Permissive.
      NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317 (b) and (c) which applies to a specific class or category of industrial
users.
      NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to 33 U.S.C.§ 1342.
      NEW SOURCE.
         (a)   Any building, structure, facility or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which
commenced after the publication of proposed pretreatment standards under 33
U.S.C. § 1317(c) which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided, that: (1) the
building, structure, facility or installation is constructed at a site where no
other source is located; or (2) the building, structure, facility or
installation totally replaces the process or production equipment that causes
the discharge of pollutants at an existing source; or (3) the production or
wastewater generating processes of the building, structure, facility or
installation are substantially independent of an existing source at the same
site. In determining whether these are substantially independent, factors such
as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the existing plant,
and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same general type of
activity as the existing source should be considered; or
         (b)   Construction on a site where an existing source is located
resulting in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does
not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the
criteria of this definition but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing
process or production equipment; or
         (c)   Construction of a new source has commenced where the owner or
operator has: (1) begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on site
construction program: (a) any placement, assembly, or installation of
facilities or equipment; or (b) significant site preparation work including
clearing, excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or
facilities that are necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of
new source facilities or equipment; or (2) entered into a binding contractual
obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment which are intended to be
used in its operation within a reasonable time. Options to purchase or
contracts which can be terminated or modified without substantial loss, and
contracts for feasibility, engineering, and design studies do not constitute a
contractual obligation under this section.
      PASS THROUGH. Discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations, which alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW’s NPDES permit including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
      PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, unit of
government, school district, or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns.
      pH. The intensity of the acid or base condition of a solution, calculated
by taking the negative base-ten logarithm of the hydrogen ion activity.
Activity is deemed to be equal to concentration in moles per liter.
      POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical waste, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt, or industrial, municipal and agricultural waste which is discharged into
water.
      POLLUTION. The introduction of any pollutant that, alone or in
combination with any other substance, can or does result in the degradation or
impairment of the chemical, physical, biological or radiological integrity of
water.
      PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the removal of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction, removal or
alteration may be attained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes by other means, except as prohibited by federal, state or local
law, rules and regulations.
      PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirements
related to pretreatment, other than a national pretreatment standard imposed on
an industrial user. [See 40 C.F.R. § 403.3(r).].
      PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All National Categorical Pretreatment Standards,
the general prohibitions specified in 40 C.F.R. §
53.05 of this Code.
      PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer of any type controlled by a governmental entity.
      PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by 33
U.S.C. § 1292(2)(A) which is owned by a state or municipality, as defined in 33
U.S.C. § 1362, including:
         (a)   Any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment,
recycling, or reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial waste of a liquid
nature;
         (b)   Sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey
wastewater to a POTW treatment plant; or
         (c)   The municipality, as defined in 33 U.S.C. § 1362, which has
jurisdiction over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a
treatment works.
      POTW TREATMENT PLANT. means that portion of the POTW designed to provide
treatment to wastewater, including recycling and reclamation of wastewater.
      QUANTIFICATION LEVEL. The measurement of the concentration of a
contaminant obtained by using a specified laboratory procedure calculated at a
specified concentration above the detection level. It is considered the lowest
concentration at which a particular contaminant can be quantitatively measured
using a specified laboratory procedure for monitoring of the contaminant.
      REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE. Any sample of wastewater, which accurately and
precisely represents the actual quality, character, and condition of one or
more pollutants in the wastestream being sampled. REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLES shall
be collected and analyzed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
      SANITARY WASTEWATER. The portion of wastewater that is not attributable
to industrial activities and is similar to discharges from domestic sources
including, but not limited to, discharges from sanitary facilities and
discharges incident to the preparation of food for on-site non-commercial
consumption.
      SHALL. Mandatory.
      SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Any violation which meets one or more of the
following criteria:
         (a)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined as
those in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six-month
period exceed by any magnitude the daily maximum limit or the average limit for
the same parameter;
         (b)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD,
TSS, Fats, Oil and Grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
         (c)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily
maximum or longer term average) that the Department determines has caused,
alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through
including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
         (d)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent
endangerment to human health or welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted
in the POTW’s exercise of its emergency authority;
         (e)   Failure to meet a compliance schedule milestone contained in a
local control mechanism, or enforcement order for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance within 90 days after the
scheduled date;
         (f)   Failure to provide required reports such as baseline monitoring
reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and
reports on compliance with compliance schedules within 30 days after the due
date;
         (g)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
         (h)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Department
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
      SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS. Any user of the POTW who:
         (a)   Has an average discharge flow of 25,000 gallons per day or more
of process wastewater excluding sanitary, boiler blowdown, and noncontact
cooling water; or
         (b)   Has discharges subject to the national categorical pretreatment
standards; or
         (c)   Requires pretreatment to comply with the specific pollutant
limitations of this division; or
         (d)   Has in its discharge toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to 33
U.S.C. § 1317, or other applicable federal and State laws or regulations, that
are in concentrations and volumes which are subject to regulation under this
division as determined by the Department; or
         (e)   Is required to obtain a permit for the treatment, storage or
disposal of hazardous waste pursuant to regulations adopted by this state or
adopted under the Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended by the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, and may or does contribute
or allow waste or wastewater into the POTW including, but not limited to,
leachate or runoff; or
         (f)   Is found by the City of Detroit or City of Inkster to have a
reasonable potential for adverse effect, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on the POTW operation, the quality of sludge,
the POTW’s effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the POTW.
      SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
      STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to
the Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987, as amended.
      STANDARD METHODS. Methods set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, “Guidelines
for Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants” or the laboratory
procedures set forth in the latest edition, at the time of analysis, of
“Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater” prepared and
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water
Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, or methods set
forth in 40 C.F.R. 136, “Guidelines for Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants.” Where these two references are in disagreement
regarding procedures for the analysis of a specific pollutant, the methods
given in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 shall be followed.
      STATE. The State of Michigan.
      STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TOTAL). The total suspended matter which floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and is
removable by laboratory filtration or as measured by standard methods.
      TOTAL PCB. The sum of the individual analytical results for each of the
PCB aroclors 1016, 1221, 1232, 1242, 1248, 1254, and 1260 during any single
sampling event with any aroclor result less than the quantification level being
treated as zero.
      TOTAL PHENOLIC COMPOUNDS. The sum of the individual analytical results
for each of the phenolic compounds of 2-chlorophenol, 4-chlorophenol, 4-chloro-
3-methylphenol, 2,4-dichlorophenol, 2,4-dinitrophenol, 4-methylphenol, 4-
nitrophenol, and phenol during any single sampling event expressed in mg/1.
      TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants designated as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency under the provisions of the Clean Water Act, being 33 U.S.C.
§ 1317, or included in the Critical Materials Register promulgated by the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or by other federal or state
laws, rules or regulations.
      TRADE SECRET. The whole, or any portion or phase, of any proprietary
manufacturing process or method, not patented, which is secret, is useful in
compounding an article of trade having a commercial value, and whose secrecy
the owner has taken reasonable measures to prevent from becoming available to
persons other than those selected by the owner to have access for limited
purposes but excludes any information regarding the quantum or character of
waste products or their constituents discharged or sought to be discharged into
the Detroit wastewater treatment plant, or into the wastewater system tributary
thereto.
      UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with limits imposed under this division or with
national categorical pretreatment standards due to factors beyond the
reasonable control of the industrial user but excludes noncompliance to the
extent caused by operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities,
inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless
or improper operation.
      USER. Any person who, directly or indirectly, contributes, causes or
permits the discharge of wastewater into the POTW as defined herein.
      WASTEWATER or WASTESTREAM.  The liquid and water-carried industrial or
domestic wastes of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to or
permitted to enter the POTW including infiltration and inflow waters, storm
water, and cooling water.
      WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS. Permits issued by the Department in
accordance with §
53.07 of this code.
      WATERS OF THE STATE. Groundwater, lakes, rivers, streams, all other
watercourses and waters within the confines of this state as well as bordering
this state in the form of the Great Lakes.
   (B)   For purposes of this division, the following acronyms shall have the
meanings designated by this section:
      (1)   BMR - Baseline monitoring report.
      (2)   BOD- Biochemical Oxygen Demand.
      (3)   C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations.
      (4)   EPA - Environmental Protection Agency.
      (5)   FOG - Fats, Oil or Grease.
      (6)   1 - liter.
      (7)   MDEQ - MI. Department of Environment Quality.
      (8)   mg - milligrams.
      (9)   mg/1 - milligrams per liter.
      (10)   NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
      (11)   POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works.
      (12)   RCRA -Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 U.S.C. §
6901 et seq.
      (13)   SIC - Standard Industrial Classification.
      (14)   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C. § 6901 et seq.
      (15)   TSS - Total Suspended Solids.
      (16)   U.S.C. - United States Code.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.05 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General pollutant prohibitions. No user shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which will cause interference or pass through. These general discharge
prohibitions shall apply to all users of the POTW whether or not the user is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or to any other federal,
state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. In addition, it shall
be unlawful for a user to discharge into the POTW:
      (1)   Any liquid, solid or gas, which by reason of its nature or
quantity, is sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances to
create a fire or explosion hazard or to be injurious in any other way to
persons, to the POTW, or to the operations of the POTW. Pollutants, which
create a fire or explosion hazard in a POTW, include, but are not limited to,
wastestreams with a closed cup flash point of less than 140°F or 60°C using the
test methods specified in 40 C.F.R. § 261.21; or
      (2)   Any solid or viscous substance in concentrations or quantities,
which are sufficient to cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other
encumbrances to the operation of the POTW, including, but not limited to,
grease, animal guts or tissues, bones, hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole
blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, cement, spent lime, stone or marble
dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, strings, fibers,
spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastic, tar, asphalt residues,
residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubrication oil, mud or glass
grinding or polishing wastes, or tumbling and deburring stones; or
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 units or greater than
11.5 units; or
      (4)   Any wastewater containing petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting
oil, products of mineral oil origin, or toxic pollutants in sufficient
concentration or quantity either singly or by interaction with other pollutants
to cause interference, or pass through, or constitute a hazard to humans or
animals; or
      (5)   Any liquid, gas, solid or form of energy, which either singly or by
interaction with other waste is sufficient to create toxic gas, vapor, or fume
within the POTW in quantities that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems, or may cause a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient
to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance and repair; or
      (6)   Any substance which is sufficient to cause the POTW’s effluent or
any other product of the POTW, such as residue, sludge, or scum to be
unsuitable for reclamation processing where the POTW is pursuing a reuse and
reclamation program. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause
the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria guidelines
or regulations developed under 33 U.S.C. § 1345, with any criteria, guidelines,
or developed and promulgated regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Federal Clean Air Act,
the Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, or with state criteria applicable to
the sludge management method being used; or
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate either the
consent judgment in U.S. EPA v. City of Detroit et al. Federal District Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan Case No. 77-1100, or the City of Detroit’s
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit; or
      (8)   Any discharge having a color uncharacteristic of the wastewater
being discharged; or
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into a public sewer which
exceeds 150°F or which will cause the influent at the wastewater treatment
plant to rise above 104°F (40°C); or
      (10)   Any pollutant discharge winch constitutes a slug; or
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established in compliance
with applicable federal or state regulations; or
      (12)   Any floating fats, oil or grease which are sufficient to cause
interference with or pass through the POTW; or
      (13)   Any solid materials having a specific gravity greater than 1.2 or
a cross section dimension of one-half inch or greater which are sufficient to
cause interference with the POTW.
   (B)   Specific pollutant prohibitions. No user shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following limitations:
      (1)   Compatible pollutants. See Appendix C.
      (2)   Non-compatible pollutants. No user shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of:
Arsenic (As)              1.0 mg/1
Cadmium (Cd)              See Appendix C mg/1
Chromium (Cr)             25.0 mg/1
Copper (Cu)               2.5 mg/1
Cyanide (CN) (Available)  1.0 mg/1
Iron (Fe)                 1000.0 mg/1
Lead(Pb)                  1.0 mg/1
Nickel (Ni)               5.0 mg/1
Silver (Ag)               1.0 mg/1
Zinc (Zn)                 7.3 mg/1
Total Phenolic Compounds: 1.0 mg/1
or See Appendix B
 
   All limitations are based on samples collected over an operating period
representative of an industrial user’s discharge, and in accordance with 40
C.F.R. part 136.
         (a)   The limitation for total PCB is non-detect. Total PCB shall not
be discharged at detectable levels, based upon U.S. EPA Method 608, and the
quantification level shall not exceed 0.2 ugm/1, unless a higher level is
appropriate because of demonstrated sample matrix interference. Where one or
more samples indicate detectable levels of total PCB, the user shall be
required to demonstrate compliance. For purposes of this section, this
demonstration may be made using analytical data showing that the total PCB
concentration is below the detection level, or submission of a BMP in
accordance with §
53.12(D).
         (b)   The limitation of Mercury (Hg) is Non-detect. Mercury (Hg) shall
not be discharged at detectable levels, based upon U.S. EPA Method 245.1, and
the quantification level shall not exceed 0.2 ugm/1, unless a higher level is
appropriate because of demonstrated sample matrix interference. Where one or
more samples indicate detectable levels of Mercury, the user shall be required
to demonstrate compliance. For the purposes of this section, this demonstration
may be made using analytical data showing that the mercury concentration is
below the detection level, or submission of a BMP in accordance with §
53.12(D).
      (3)   Compliance Period. Within 30 days of the effective date of this
chapter, the Department shall notify all industrial user’s operating under an
effective wastewater discharge permit of the requirement to submit a compliance
report within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter. The compliance
report shall demonstrate the user’s compliance or non-compliance with these
limitations, and, in the event of non-compliance, include the submission of a
plan and schedule for achieving compliance with the stated limitation. In no
event shall a compliance schedule exceed 18 months from the effective date of
this chapter. An industrial user who does not demonstrate compliance may
petition the Department for a second extension as part of an administrative
consent order. The Department shall include appropriate monitoring, reporting,
and penalties into an administrative consent order that relates to a second
extension, and shall enter into such an agreement only upon a good-faith
showing by the industrial user of the actions taken to achieve compliance with
this provision.
   (C)   National categorical pretreatment standards. All users shall comply
with the applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standards and
requirements promulgated pursuant to the act as set forth in 40 C.F.R.
Subchapter N, Effluent Guidelines and Standards, which are hereby incorporated
by reference and with all other applicable standards and requirements,
provided, that where a more stringent standard or requirement is applicable
pursuant to State law or regulation, or to this division, then the more
stringent standard or requirement shall be controlling. Affected dischargers
shall comply with applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R. part 403
and as established by the Department. The National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards which have been promulgated as of the effective date of this section
are delineated in Appendix A.
      (1)   Intake water adjustment. Industrial users seeking adjustment of
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards to reflect the presence of
pollutants in their intake water must comply with the requirements of 40
C.F.R.§ 403.15. Upon notification of approval by the Department, the adjustment
shall be applied by modifying the permit accordingly. Intake water adjustments
are not effective until incorporated into an industrial user’s permit.
      (2)   Modification of national categorical pretreatment standards. The
Department may apply to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or to the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, whichever is appropriate, for
authorization to grant removal credits in accordance with the requirements and
procedures in 40 C.F.R § 403.7. Such authorization may be granted only when the
POTW treatment plant can achieve consistent removal for each pollutant for
which a removal credit is being sought, provided, that any limitation of such
pollutant(s) in the NPDES permit neither are being exceeded nor pose the
prospect of being exceeded as a result of the removal credit being granted.
Where such authorization is given to the Department, any industrial user
desiring to obtain such credit shall make an application to the Department,
consistent with the provisions of 40 C.F.R. § 403.7 and of this division. Any
credits which may be granted under this section may be subject to modification
or revocation as specified in 40 C.F.R. § 403.7, or as determined by the
Department. A requisite to the granting of any removal credit may be that the
industrial user pay a surcharge based upon the amounts of such pollutants
removed by the POTW, such surcharge being based upon fees or rates which the
Board may establish and, when appropriate, revise from time to time. Permits
shall reflect, or be modified to reflect, any credit granted pursuant to this
section.
      (3)   New sources. Industrial users who meet the new sources criteria
shall install, maintain in operating condition, and ‘start-up’ all pollution
control equipment required to meet applicable pretreatment standards before
beginning to discharge. Within the shortest feasible time and not to exceed 90
days, new sources must meet all applicable pretreatment standards.
      (4)   Concentration and mass limits. When limits in a categorical
pretreatment standard are expressed only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit
of production, the Department may convert the limits to equivalent limitations
expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent
concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to
individual industrial users. Equivalent limitations shall be calculated in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c)(3) and/or 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(c)(4) and
shall be deemed pretreatment standards for the purposes of 33 U.S.C. § 1317(d)
and of this division. Industrial users will be required to comply with the
equivalent limitations in lieu of the promulgated categorical standards from
which the equivalent limitations were derived.
      (5)   Reporting requirements for industrial users upon effective date of
categorical pretreatment standards-baseline report. Within 180 days after the
effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the
final administrative decision made upon a category determination submission
under Section 40 C.F.R.§ 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing industrial
users subject to such categorical pretreatment standards and currently
discharging into or scheduled to discharge into the Detroit POTW shall submit
to the Department a report containing the information listed in 40 C.F.R.§
403.12(b)(l-7). Where reports containing this information have already been
submitted to the Director or regional administrator in compliance with the
requirement of 40 C.F.R § 128.140(b), the industrial user will not be required
to resubmit this information. At least 90 days before commencement of any
discharge, each new source and any existing sources that become industrial
users after the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall submit to the Department a report which contains the information listed
in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(l-5). In such report, new sources shall include
information concerning the method of pretreatment the source intends to use to
meet applicable pretreatment standards. New sources shall provide estimates of
the information requested in 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b,)(4) and (5).
   (D)   Dilution prohibited. Except where expressly authorized to do so by an
applicable pretreatment standard or requirement, no user shall increase the use
of process water, or in any way dilute or attempt to dilute a discharge as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the limitations contained in the national categorical pretreatment
standards, or in any other pollutant specific limitation or requirement imposed
by the City of Inkster, the City of Detroit or by the State of Michigan.
   (E)   Hauled in wastewater. Any waste material or wastewater which is hauled
into or within the service region for discharge to the POTW is subject to the
requirements of this division including, but not limited to, permits,
inspection, monitoring and enforcement. Unloading liquid or solid waste from
hauling vehicles, directly or indirectly, into the POTW, with or without the
benefit of pretreatment, is prohibited unless the person proposing to unload
such waste has applied for and received a permit from the department for
unloading such waste in accordance with the Board’s rules pertaining thereto.
The discharger shall be subject to applicable terms and conditions, surcharges,
fees or rates as established by the Board. Hauled in wastewater shall only be
discharged at points designated by the POTW after authorization or approval
issued pursuant to the general permit requirements specified in section §
53.07 of this Code. The Department may establish specific limitations for
sludge from municipally owned or operated POTW treatment plants which are
different than the specific limitations in this division.
   (F)   Centralized waste treatment. It is unlawful for a centralized waste
treatment (CWT) facility to discharge any industrial waste or wastewater into
the POTW without a wastewater discharge permit from the Department. Any
authorization granted, or permit issued, by the Department to a Centralized
Waste Treatment (CWT) facility shall specify the type of wastewater for which
treatment is provided, and discharge approval is sought, from the POTW. Unless
such industrial waste or wastewater is determined by the Department to require
further authorization, a centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility that has
submitted an application to, and received previous approval from, the
Department to discharge wastewater is not required to obtain further
authorization from the Department before discharging such wastewater. An
industrial user, that provides centralized waste treatment services and files
an application for the treatment and discharge of such types of wastewater to
the POTW, shall provide the following minimum information in support thereof:
      (1)   The general nature, source and process(es) generating the type of
wastewater. Any wastewater, which is generated from those processes and is
subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards as delineated in
Appendix A, shall be so designated;
      (2)   The identity of the toxic pollutants known or suspected to be
present in the wastewater;
      (3)   At least one sample report showing the results of an analysis for
the EPA priority pollutants for each type of wastewater for which application
is made in division (F)(1) of this section;
      (4)   A statement, that is certified by a professional engineer, which
addresses the treatability and compatibility of the wastewater, received or
collected by the facility’s treatment process(es);
      (5)   The identity of the materials and/or pollutants whose transport or
treatment are regulated by the EPA, by the state, or by any other governmental
agency. Upon request, the centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility shall
provide a copy of its permit and/or license to the Department; and
      (6)   Other information requested by the Department including, but not
limited to, information required by §
53.07(C)(1) through (18) of this code, or by rules adopted by the Board.
   The discharge from a centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility will be
deemed approved for those specific types of wastewater delineated in a permit
and, upon issuance of such permit in accordance with the procedures contained
in §
53.07 of this code, will be deemed approved for discharge into the POTW. The
centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility shall comply with all applicable
provisions contained in §
53.07 of this code regarding permits. In furtherance of its obligations as
control authority, the Department may include in the permit a requirement to
report at selected intervals the information mandated in subsections (1)
through (6) of this division (F).
   All users granted a permit under this section shall maintain records which,
at a minimum, identify the source, volume, character, and constituents of the
wastewater accepted for treatment and disposal. These records may be reviewed
at any time by the Department.
   (G)   Groundwater discharges. Unless authorization has been granted by the
Department, the discharge of any groundwater into the POTW is prohibited. The
Department may authorize the discharge of groundwater resulting from
maintenance and related activities of gas, steam, or electrical utilities
through the use of general permits. Subject to appropriate reporting
requirements, the general permit shall authorize discharge in accordance with
the terms of the permit. Utilities shall comply with this provision within 180
days after its enactment.
   If a person, who proposes to discharge groundwater resulting from purge,
response activity, or UST projects, has applied for and received a permit from
the Department, the Department may authorize the discharge of such wastewater.
Permits shall be issued in accordance with the procedures contained in §
53.07 of this code, or in accordance with any rules adopted by the Board.
   (H)   City of Inkster right of revision. The City of Detroit and the City of
Inkster reserve the right to establish rules or regulations adopted by the
Board, additional or more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges
to the POTW. These rules and regulations shall be adopted in accordance with
the rule-making procedures section 2-111 of the 1997 Detroit City Charter, if
any. Ninety days after adoption by the Board, industrial users shall comply
with such rules and regulations.
   (I)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   Each industrial user, which does not currently have an approved
spill prevention plan or slug control plan, shall provide protection from
accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by
this division, and all significant industrial users shall submit to the
Department detailed plans which show facilities and operating procedures to be
implemented to provide protection against such accidental discharges.
Facilities and measures to prevent and abate accidental discharges shall be
implemented, provided, and maintained at the owner’s or industrial user’s cost
or expense. Unless the significant industrial user has an approved spill
prevention or slug control plan, all existing significant industrial users
shall complete and submit such a plan within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. New significant industrial users shall submit such a plan prior
to the time they commence discharging.
   For purposes of this section, the information provided shall include the
approximate average and maximum quantities of such prohibited materials or
substances kept on the premises in the form of raw materials, chemicals and/or
waste therefrom and the containment capacity for each. Only substances that are
in a form which could readily be carried into the POTW and constitute a
concentration of 5% or greater in the raw material, chemical solution or waste
material, are required to be reported. Volumes of less than 55 gallons, or the
equivalent thereof, need not be reported unless lesser quantities could cause
pass through or cause interference with the POTW.
   The industrial user shall promptly notify the Department of any significant
changes or modifications to the plan including, but not limited to, a change in
the contact person, or substance inventory.
      (2)   At least once every two years, the Department shall evaluate
whether a significant industrial user needs a plan to control slug discharges,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(2)(v). Unless otherwise provided, all
significant users shall complete, implement, and submit such a plan within 30
days of notification by the Department.
   (J)   Notification requirements. Unless a different notice is provided by
this division or applicable law, within one hour of becoming aware of a
discharge into the POTW which exceeds or does not conform with federal, state
or City of Inkster laws, rules, regulations or permit requirements, or which
could cause problems to the POTW, or which has the potential to cause the
industrial user to implement its plan prepared in accordance with division (I)
(1) of this section, the industrial user shall telephone the Department at its
control center and notify the Department of the discharge. The notification
shall include the name of the caller, the location and time of discharge, the
type of wastewater, the estimated concentration of excessive or prohibited
pollutants and estimated volume, and the measures taken, or being taken, to
abate the discharge into the POTW. Within five calendar days after the
discharge, the industrial user shall submit a detailed written report
describing the cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user
to prevent similar future occurrences and when required by the department, the
industrial user’s wastewater discharge permit may be modified to include
additional measures to prevent such future occurrences. Such notification shall
not relieve the industrial user of any expense, cost of treatment, loss,
damages or other liability which may be incurred as a result of damage to the
POTW, fish kills, or any other environmental impairment or any other damage to
person or property.
   (K)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
industrial user’s bulletin board, or other prominent place, advising employees
whom to contact in the Department in the event of an actual or excessive or
prohibited discharge.
   (L)   Recovery of costs. Any user discharging in violation of any of the
provisions of this division, which produces a deposit or obstruction, or causes
damage to or impairs the Department’s POTW, or causes the Department to violate
its NPDES permit, shall be liable to the Department for any expense, loss,
damage, penalty or fine incurred by the Department because of said violation or
discharge. Prior to assessing such costs, the Department shall notify the user
of its determination that the user’s discharge was the proximate cause of such
damage, obstruction, impairment, or violation of the city’s NPDES permit and
the Department’s intent to assess such costs to the user. Any such notice shall
include written documentation which substantiates the determination of
proximate cause and a breakdown of cost estimates. Failure to pay the assessed
costs shall constitute a violation of this division. Such charge shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any penalties or remedies provided under this
division, or this code, or other statutes and regulations, or at law or in
equity.
   (M)   Hazardous waste notification. All industrial users, who discharge into
the City of Inkster collection system, shall notify the Department in writing
of any discharge of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a
hazardous waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must
comply with the requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p).
   (N)   Authorized representative. The authorized representative, as defined
in Section §
53.04, may designate a duly authorized representative of the individual
designated in §
53.04 where:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual defined in §
53.04;
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility where the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager,
operator of a well or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company; and
      (3)   The written authorization is submitted to the Department.
   (O)   Pollution prevention. The Department shall encourage and support
industrial users to develop and implement pollution prevention programs that
are designed to eliminate or reduce pollutant contributions beyond the levels
required by this division. The Department may require an industrial user to
implement pollution prevention initiatives or BMP, as part of an enforcement
response, or as necessary to comply with its NPDES permit.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.06 FEES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the POTW. The applicable charges or fees established by the Board
shall be sufficient to meet the costs of the operation, maintenance,
improvement or replacement of the system, or as provided by law or by Board
action.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt charges and fees which shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of establishing, operating,
maintaining, or improving the Department’s industrial waste control and
pretreatment programs; and
      (2)   User fees based upon volume of waste and concentration or quantity
of specific pollutants in the discharge, and treatment costs including sludge
handling and disposal; and
      (3)   Reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs for hearings including,
but not limited to, expenses regarding hearings officers, court reporters, and
transcriptions; and
      (4)   Other fees, which the Board may deem necessary, to carry out the
requirements contained herein, or as may be required by law.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am .Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.07 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Required. It shall be unlawful for users to discharge into the POTW
any wastewater which will cause interference or pass through, or otherwise not
comply with the discharge prohibitions of §
53.05 of this code. It shall be unlawful for a significant industrial user to
discharge into the POTW without a wastewater discharge permit from the Detroit
Water and Sewerage Department. Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the
Department through permit, order, rule or regulation, any discharge must be in
accordance with the provisions of this section.
      (1)   All significant industrial users, which are in existence on the
effective date of this section, shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 30 days of the effective date of this section. Significant industrial
users who are currently operating with a valid wastewater discharge permit are
not subject to this provision. These applications are to include all
information specified in §
53.07(C) of this code and, where applicable, any additional information which
may be needed to satisfy the federal baseline monitoring report requirements of
40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b).
      (2)   All new significant users shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit at least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge. The application
must include all information specified in §
53.07(C) of this code and, where applicable, any additional information that
may be needed to satisfy the federal BMR requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b).
Until a permit is issued and finalized by the Department, no discharge shall be
made into the POTW.
      (3)   Any user, who proposes to discharge any wastewater other than
sanitary or noncontact cooling water into the POTW, shall request approval from
the Department for the discharge(s) at least 30 days prior to the commencement
of the discharge.
   (B)   Permit application or reapplication. The Department may require any
user to complete a questionnaire and/or a permit application and to submit the
same to the Department for determining whether the industrial user is a
significant user, or to determine changes in the wastewater discharges from a
user’s facility. Within 30 days of being so notified, a user shall comply with
the Department’s request in the manner and form prescribed by the Department.
Failure of the Department to so notify a user shall not relieve the user of the
duty to obtain a permit as required by this section.
      (1)   A user, which becomes subject to a new or revised National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within 90 days after the promulgation of the applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, unless an earlier date is specified or
required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b). The existing user shall provide a permit
application which includes all the information specified in§
53.07(C) and (G) of this code.
      (2)   A separate permit application shall be required for each separate
facility.
      (3)   Existing permittees shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of
90 days prior to the expiration of existing permits on a form prescribed by the
Department.
   (C)   Application or reapplication information. In support of an application
or reapplication for a wastewater discharge permit, the industrial user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Corporate or individual name, any assumed name(s), federal employer
identification number, address, and location of the discharging facility;
      (2)   Name and title of the authorized representative of the industrial
user who shall have the authority to bind the industrial user financially and
legally;
      (3)   All SIC numbers of all processes at this location according to the
Standard Industrial Classification manual, issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987, as amended;
      (4)   Actual or proposed wastewater constituents and characteristics for
each parameter listed in the permit application form. Such parameters shall
include those applicable pollutants having numeric limitations as enumerated in
§
53.05(A) and (B) of this code, those pollutants limited by national categorical
pretreatment standards regulations for applicable industries and any toxic
pollutants known or suspected to be present in the discharge, regulated in the
previous permit, or specifically requested by the Detroit Water and Sewerage
Department. For each parameter, the expected or experienced maximum and average
concentrations during a one year period shall be provided. For industries
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or requirements, the
data requested herein shall be separately shown for each categorical process
wastestream. Combined wastestreams proposed to be regulated by the combined
wastestream formula shall also be identified. Sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with procedures established by the EPA pursuant to 33
U.S.C. §1314(g) and contained in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended. Where 40
C.F.R. Part 136 does not include sampling or analytical techniques for the
pollutants in question, sampling and analysis shall be performed using
validated analytical methods approved by the administrator.
      (5)   A listing and description of activities, facilities and plant
processes on the premises. Those processes, which are subject to national
categorical pretreatment standards or requirements, shall be so designated. As
pertains to division (C)(4), of this section, identify which pollutants are
associated with each process;
      (6)   Restricted to only those pollutants referred to in division (C)(4)
of this section, a listing of raw materials and chemicals which are either used
in the manufacturing process or could yield the pollutants referred to in
division (C)(4). Any user claiming immunity from having to provide such
information for reasons of national security shall furnish acceptable proof of
such immunity;
      (7)   A description of typical daily and weekly operating cycles for each
process in terms of starting and ending times for each of the seven days of the
week;
      (8)   Denote: (i) The average and maximum 24-hour wastewater flow rates
including, if any, daily, monthly and seasonal variations; (ii) each national
categorical process wastestream flow rate and the cooling water, sanitary water
and storm water flow rates separately for each connection to the POTW; and
(iii) each combined wastestream;
      (9)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by
the size, location, elevation and points or places of discharges into the POTW;
also a flow schematic showing which connections receive each national
categorical process wastestream and which connections receive storm water,
sanitary water or cooling water; also show which lines handle each combined
wastestream. This schematic shall be cross-referenced to the information
furnished in division (C)(8) of this section;
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production as pertains to processes subject to production based limits
under the national categorical pretreatment standards or requirements only;
      (11)   A statement regarding whether or not the requirements of this
division and of the national categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional
operation and maintenance work and/or additional construction is required for
the industrial user to meet the applicable standards and requirements. This
statement shall be reviewed and signed by the authorized representative and, as
appropriate, certified by a qualified professional;
      (12)   Basic information on the program for the prevention of accidental
discharges in accordance with the requirements of §
53.05(I) of this code;
      (13)   Proposed or actual hours of operation of each pretreatment system
for each production process;
      (14)   A schematic and description of each pretreatment facility which
identifies whether each pretreatment facility is of the batch type or
continuous process type;
      (15)   If other than Detroit Water and Sewerage Department potable water,
the industrial user’s source of intake water together with the types of usage
and disposal method of each water source, and the estimated wastewater volumes
from each source;
      (16)   If additional construction and/or operation and maintenance
procedures will be required to meet the requirements of this division and the
national categorical pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional construction and/or implement the required
operation and maintenance procedures;
      (17)   Identify whether the user has conducted a waste minimization
assessment or audit of its operations in order to identify all feasible source
reduction and recycling practices that may be employed to reduce or eliminate
the generation of pollutants and other waste at the facility; and
      (18)   Any other information as may reasonably be required to prepare and
process a wastewater discharge permit.
   (D)   Permit issuance. Upon receipt of an application, the Department shall
review the application, determine, and so notify the industrial user in writing
regarding any of the following:
      (1)   The industrial user does not meet the definition of a significant
industrial user and is not required to have a wastewater discharge permit;
      (2)   The industrial user does meet the definition of a significant
industrial user but is found by the Department to have no reasonable potential
for adversely affecting the POTW operation or for violating any pretreatment
standard or requirement, and is not required to have a wastewater discharge
permit. The Department shall make such determination in accordance with the
requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(6);
      (3)   The application is incomplete or the information only partially
satisfies the information and data required by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12 or by the
Department, and that additional information and data are required which shall
be promptly furnished. Where appropriate, the industrial user is notified
regarding specific information that is missing, or that the application is
unacceptable;
      (4)   The industrial user is required to have a wastewater discharge
permit. The Department shall notify the industrial user of its determination
and the basis of the determination. The Department may withhold issuance of a
permit to a significant user, which has not submitted an adequate or timely
report, or permit application, to the Department as the control authority in
accordance with the reporting requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.12, or whose
discharge is in violation of this division. If the Department determines that
an industrial user is required to have a wastewater discharge permit and has
evaluated and accepted the data furnished, the industrial user will be notified
accordingly by certified mail. The notification shall contain a copy of the
draft permit, so marked, for the industrial user’s review. An industrial user
has 30 days from the date of mailing to file a response to the draft permit
and, in accordance with the procedures contained in 53.13 of this code, 20 days
from the date of mailing to file an appeal regarding a permit issued as final.
Upon disposition by the Department of any contested terms or conditions, a
permit shall be issued as final. Only one facility location shall be included
in each permit.
   (E)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall contain all
requirements of 40 C.F.R. § 403.8(f)(l)(iii) and shall be deemed to incorporate
all provisions of this division, other applicable laws, rules, regulations, and
user charges and fees established by the City of Detroit or City of Inkster
without repetition therein. In addition, permits may contain the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents or
characteristics which are equivalent, more restrictive than, or supplemental to
the numeric limits enumerated in §
53.05 of this code, or the applicable national categorical pretreatment
standards;
      (2)   Limits on average, and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (3)   Requirements for installation, operation, and maintenance of
discharge sampling manholes and monitoring facilities by the industrial user;
      (4)   Restrictions on which of the user’s discharge wastestreams are to
be allowed to be discharged at each point of connection to the POTW;
      (5)   Specifications for industrial user monitoring programs which may
include sampling locations, frequency and type of sampling, number, types and
standards for tests and reporting schedules;
      (6)   Requirements for the prevention of accidental discharges and the
containment of spills or slug discharges;
      (7)   Restrictions based on the information furnished in the application;
      (8)   Additional reporting requirements:
         (a)   All permittees shall submit a report on the form prescribed by
the Department, or on an alternative form approved by the Department,
indicating the status of compliance with all conditions enumerated or referred
to in the wastewater discharge permit, or made applicable to the permit by this
division. Unless required more frequently, the reports shall be submitted at
six-month intervals on a schedule to be established by the Department.
Analytical data generated by the Department may not be submitted in lieu of the
facility’s own monitoring data as required by the wastewater discharge permit.
         (b)   Permittees not subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall submit a report in accordance with the
requirements of §
53.07(E)(8)(d) and (e) of this code. The report shall show the concentration of
each substance for which there is a specific limitation in the permit, or which
may be identified by the Department in accordance with §
53.07(E)(9) and (11) of this code.
         (c)   Permittees subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall submit compliance reports at the times and
intervals specified by federal regulations and by the Department. A compliance
report shall be submitted to the Department no later than 90 days following the
final compliance date for a standard, or in the case of a new source, no later
than 90 days, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
POTW, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(d). A report on continued
compliance shall be submitted at six-month intervals thereafter on the schedule
established by the Department and incorporated into the industrial users
discharge permit and in accordance with §
53.07(E)(8)(d) and (e) of this code. The reports shall be either on a form
prescribed by the Department or on an alternate form approved by the
Department, and shall indicate the nature and concentration of all pollutants
in the discharge from each regulated process which are limited by national
categorical pretreatment standards, or which there is a specific limitation in
the permit, or which may be identified by the Department in accordance with §
53.07(E)(9) and (11) of this code. The report shall include a record of
measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for the reporting period
for the discharges regulated by the permit. The combined wastestream formula
may be used for reporting purposes after the initial information has been
furnished to the Department, provided there have been no changes to the
elements composing the combined wastestream.
         (d)   Reports shall contain the results of representative sampling
performed during the period covered by the report and of the discharge and
analysis of pollutants contained therein, and for significant industrial users
subject to production based standards, shall be cross-referenced to the related
flow or production and mass as required to determine compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be as
prescribed in the applicable general pretreatment regulations, being 40 C.F.R.
§ Part 403, or by the Department, but no less than is necessary to assess and
assure compliance by the industrial user with the most stringent applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. All sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with applicable regulations contained in 40 C.F.R. Part
136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not include sampling
or analytical techniques for the pollutants in question, sampling and analysis
shall be performed using validated analytical methods approved by the
administrator.
            1.   If an industrial user monitors any pollutant more frequently
than required by the Department using the procedures as prescribed in this
section, the results of this monitoring shall be included in such report.
            2.   The report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment
standards are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional
operation and maintenance practices and/or pretreatment system improvements or
changes are necessary to bring the industrial user into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards.
         (e)   This report, and those required under §
53.05(C)(5) and §
53.07(E)(8)(b) and (c) of this code, shall include the following certification
statement: “I certify under penalty of law that this document and all
attachments were prepared under my direction, or supervision, in accordance
with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of a fine and/or imprisonment for knowing violations. The
certification shall be signed by the facility’s authorized representative, as
defined in §
53.04 of this code. If an authorization is no longer accurate because a
different individual or position has responsibility for the overall operation
of the facility, or overall responsibility for environmental matters for the
company, a new authorization satisfying the requirements of the authorized
representative definition must be submitted to the Department prior to, or
together with, any reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
         (f)   If sampling performed by a permittee indicates a violation, the
user shall notify the Department within 24 hours of the time said user becomes,
or should have become, aware of the violation. In addition, the user shall
repeat the sampling and analysis, and submit the results of the repeat analysis
to the Department within 30 days after said user becomes, or should have
become, aware of the violation.
      (9)   In the event the Director determines that an industrial user is
discharging substances in quality, quantity or at locations which may cause
problems to the POTW, or the receiving stream, the Department has the authority
to develop and enforce effluent limits applicable to the user. To the extent
the Department seeks to impose restrictions in a permit which are more
restrictive than established in this division, the Department shall provide
written documentation to explain the greater restriction for protection against
pass through, interference, or violation of the NPDES permit;
      (10)   Requirement for pollution prevention initiatives; and
      (11)   Other requirements reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with
this division.
   (F)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period.
Except as deemed necessary by the Department, or as otherwise provided for
under this division, permits shall be issued for a specified period of not more
than five years nor less than one year. The existing permit for significant
industrial users, who timely submit an application for permit reissuance to the
Department, shall be automatically extended until a permit is issued as final.
   (G)   (1)   Permit modification. The terms and conditions of the permit may
be subject to modification by the Department during the term of the permit as
limitations or pretreatment standards and requirements identified in §
53.05 of this code are amended, or other just cause exists. Just cause for a
permit modification includes, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Material or substantial changes to an industrial user’s facility
or operation, or changes in the characteristics of the industrial user’s
effluent. It shall be the industrial user’s duty to request an application form
and apply for a modification of the permit within 30 calendar days of the
change;
         (b)   Change(s) in the Department’s NPDES permit;
         (c)   Embodiment of the provisions of a legal settlement or of a court
order;
         (d)   Any changes necessary to fulfill the Department’s role as
control authority;
         (e)   An industrial user’s noncompliance with portions of an existing
permit;
         (f)   A change of conditions within the POTW;
         (g)   A finding of interference or pass through attributable to the
industrial user;
         (h)   Amendments to, or promulgation of, national categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements including 40 C.F.R. Part 403 and those
delineated in Appendix A of this division. Permittees shall request an
application form and apply to the Department for a modified permit within 90
days after the promulgation of a new or revised national categorical
pretreatment standard to which the industrial user shall be subject.
Information submitted pursuant to this subsection shall be confined to that
information related to the newly promulgated or amended national categorical
pretreatment standard or requirement. However, information previously submitted
need not be duplicated, insofar as the previously submitted information
continues to be current and applicable. In addition, the Department may
initiate this action;
         (i)   Changes in the monitoring location. (See Section §
53.08 of this code);
         (j)   Typographical errors or omissions in permits;
         (k)   The Department may modify the permit on its own initiative based
on its findings or reasonable belief of the above; or
         (l)   The user may request a modification of the permit.
      (2)   When initiated by the Department, the industrial user shall be
informed of any proposed change in its permit. The Department will issue a
draft permit and an industrial user has 30 days to file a response to the draft
modified permit. Thereafter, the Department will issue a final permit and,
unless appealed in accordance with the procedures contained in §
53.13 of this code, the permit will become effective 20 days after issuance.
   (H)   Permit custody and transfer. Wastewater discharge permits are issued
to a specific person as defined herein for a specific discharge. A wastewater
discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a different
person, new owner, new industrial user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without notice to and written approval of the Department, and
providing a copy of the existing permit to the new owner or operator. It shall
be the permit holder’s duty to notify the Department of any such change at
least 30 days before the date of the change. Wastewater discharge permits,
which do not receive the written approval of the Department prior to the
change, shall be null and void regardless of reassignment, or transfer, or
sale. If it has occurred, the Department may revoke a permit. If a change takes
place, the Department may require the application for a new or modified permit.
Any succeeding person shall comply with the terms and conditions of any
existing permit which the Department allows to be retained.
   (I)   Permit notification requirements. All industrial users shall promptly
notify the Department in advance of any substantial change in the volume or
character of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or
characteristic hazardous waste for which initial notification under 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(p) has been made, request a permit application form, and apply for a
modification of the permit at least 30 calendar days prior to the change.
Failure of the industrial user to so apply shall be considered a violation of
this division.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09) Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.08 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Significant industrial users shall provide, operate and maintain at
their own expense a sampling manhole or special structure to facilitate
monitoring, inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of their discharge by
the Department and the industrial user, and to enable the Department to conduct
such other monitoring and sampling as required for determining compliance with
discharge requirements, limits and standards as provided for in this division.
In the event the Department determines that the monitoring facility identified
in the permit application is inadequate, a new monitoring facility must be
identified, or provided, which shall allow for collection of a representative
sample of the wastewater discharged from the facility. Unless otherwise
determined at the discretion of the Department, the facility shall be provided
within 90 days of receipt of notification by the Department. The industrial
user shall provide the Department with:
      (1)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by
the size, location, elevation, and points or places of discharges into the
POTW;
      (2)   A flow schematic showing: (a) which connections receive each
national categorical process wastestream; (b) which connections receive storm
water, sanitary water or cooling water; and (c) which lines handle each
combined wastestream. This report shall be certified by a professional
engineer. If a significant industrial user fails to install the monitoring
facilities within the prescribed time limits, then the Department may install
such structure or device and the significant user shall reimburse the
Department for any costs incurred therein.
   (B)   The sampling manhole should be situated on the industrial user’s
premises in a location readily accessible to the Department. When such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the industrial user,
the Department may allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area when there is room and the location will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles. It shall be the responsibility of the
industrial user to obtain any necessary approvals which may be required from
other government agencies for the location and construction of monitoring
facilities. There shall be ample room in or near such sampling or monitoring
manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis. The facility and any permanently installed sampling and measuring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the industrial user. Whether constructed upon
public or private property, the sampling and monitoring facilities shall be
provided in accordance with the Department’s requirements and all applicable
local construction standards and specifications. (See §
53.07(G))
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.09 INSPECTION, SAMPLING AND RECORD-KEEPING.
   (A)   For purposes of administering and enforcing this section, any other
applicable provisions of this code or applicable state or federal laws and
regulations, the Department may inspect the establishment, facility or other
premises of the industrial user. The Department’s employees or authorized
representative shall have access to the industrial user’s premises for purposes
of inspection, sampling, compliance monitoring and/or metering activities.
   (B)   Each such inspection or sampling activity shall be commenced and
completed at reasonable times, and in a reasonable manner. Upon arrival at the
industrial user’s premises, the Department shall inform the industrial user, or
the industrial user’s employees, that sampling and/or inspection is commencing,
and that the facility’s authorized representative has the right to observe the
inspection and/or sampling. The Department shall neither refrain from, nor be
prevented or delayed from, carrying-out its inspection or sampling duties due
to the unavailability of the authorized representative of the facility to
observe or participate in the inspection or sampling activity.
   (C)   While performing work on private property, employees or authorized
representatives of the Department shall observe all reasonable safety, security
and other reasonable rules applicable to the premises as established by the
industrial user. Duly authorized employees or representatives of the Department
shall bear proper credentials and identification, and at the industrial user’s
option may be accompanied by a duty authorized representative of the industrial
user. Duly authorized Department representatives shall not be restricted from
viewing any of the facility site. Department employees or representatives may
take photographs of facilities subject to this division which shall be
maintained by the Department as confidential in accordance with §
53.10 of this code.
   (D)   Where an industrial user has security measures in force, the
industrial user shall make prompt and necessary arrangements with the security
personnel so that, upon presentation of appropriate credentials, personnel from
the Department will be permitted to enter for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
   (E)   Significant industrial users shall sample and analyze their discharge
in accordance with the provisions of their permit. The Department may require
such samples to be split with the Department for the Department’s independent
analysis.
   (F)   Industrial users shall maintain records of all information from
monitoring activities required by this division, or by 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(n).
Industrial users shall maintain the records for no less than three years. This
period of record retention shall be extended during the course of any
unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants by the industrial
user, or the operation of the City of Detroit’s Industrial Waste Program, or
when requested by the department, by the state, or by the EPA.
   (G)   Upon the request of the Department, industrial users shall furnish
information and records relating to discharges into the POTW. Industrial users
shall make such records readily accessible to the Department at all reasonable
times, and allow the Department to copy such records.
   (H)   In the event the Department obtains samples, and analyses are made of
such samples, a copy of the results of such analyses shall be promptly
furnished upon written request by the industrial user’s authorized
representative. When requested by the industrial user, the Department employee
or representative shall leave with the user, a portion of any sample of the
user’s discharge taken from any sampling point on or adjacent to the premises
for the user’s independent analysis. In cases of disputes arising over shared
samples, the portion taken and analyzed by the Department shall be controlling
unless proven invalid.
   (I)   In addition to any other violation caused by the discharge described
herein, in the event a single grab sample of the industrial user’s discharge is
obtained by the Department, and then analyzed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part
136, and found to contain concentrations of pollutants which are two or more
times greater than the numeric limitations as listed in §
53.05(B) of this code, or as contained in the facility’s wastewater discharge
permit, the industrial user shall implement its slug control plan, and shall
provide a written report to the Department within 14 days, which describes the
cause of greater concentration and provides a description of the means by which
future discharge concentrations will be held to values of less than two times
the limitation in the future.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.10 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Information and data on an industrial user obtained from written
reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs,
and from inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental
agencies without restriction unless the industrial user specifically requests
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Department that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the industrial user.
      (1)   When submitted to the Department, all information claimed to be
confidential must be clearly marked ‘confidential’. When requested by the
person furnishing the report, the portions of a report determined by the
Department to disclose trade secrets or trade secret processes, and which are
clearly labeled as confidential, shall not be made available for inspection by
the public, but shall be made available upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to this division, to the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, and to the State Disposal System permit and/
or the pretreatment programs, provided, however that information shall be
treated as confidential by the governmental agency, until such time as the
information has been determined to be non-confidential by the governmental
agency. Confidential information on industrial users, which the Department
releases pursuant to a request of another governmental agency, should be
handled by the other governmental agency pursuant to its own confidentiality
procedures. The Department cannot control how another governmental agency
handles such confidential information, and assumes no responsibility for the
disposition of the information released to the governmental agency. The
Department will use sufficient care to inform the other governmental agency of
the existence of the industrial user’s confidentiality claim. The Department
shall determine whether the information requested to be treated as
confidential, in fact, satisfies the requirements of confidential information
as defined herein. The decision of the Department shall be made in writing.
      (2)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized
as confidential information.
   (B)   Except as otherwise determined by the Department or provided for by
applicable law, all information with respect to an industrial user on file with
the city shall be made available upon request by such user or the user’s
authorized representative during normal business hours.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
2011 S-14
§ 53.11 STATUTES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The National Categorical Pretreatment Standards defined in 40 C.F.R. Chapter
I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, shall be and are incorporated by reference
herein and made a part hereof. Unless otherwise provided, any reference in this
division to a code, standard, rule, regulation, or law enacted, adopted,
established, or promulgated by any private organization, or by any element or
organization of government other than the City of Inkster shall be construed to
apply to such code, standard, rule, regulation, or law in effect or as amended
or promulgated, from the date of enactment of this division.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.12 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this division for any user to:
      (1)   Fail to completely and/or accurately report the wastewater
constituents and/or characteristics of the industrial user’s discharge;
      (2)   Fail to report significant changes in the industrial user’s
operations or wastewater constituents and/or characteristics within the time
frames provided in §
53.07(G)(1) of this code;
      (3)   Refuse reasonable access to the industrial user’s premises, waste
discharge, or sample location for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Restrict, lockout or prevent, directly or indirectly, access to any
monitoring facilities constructed on public or private property. The locking or
securing of the monitoring facility shall not constitute a violation pursuant
to this subsection, provided, that upon request reasonable access to the
facility is promptly provided to the Department;
      (5)   Restrict, interfere, tamper with, or render inaccurate any of the
Department’s monitoring devices including, but not limited to, samplers;
      (6)   Fail to comply with any condition or requirement of the industrial
user’s wastewater discharge permit; or
      (7)   Fail to comply with any limitation, prohibition, or requirement of
this division including any rule, regulation, or order issued hereunder.
Industrial users acting in full compliance with wastewater discharge permits
issued prior to the effective date of this division shall be deemed to be in
compliance with the requirements of this division, and such permits shall
remain in effect and be enforceable under this division until a superseding
permit is effective. Industrial users shall comply with applicable national
categorical pretreatment standards and requirements on the date specified in
the federal regulations, regardless of compliance schedules.
   (B)   Upsets. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with national categorical pretreatment standards
where the requirements of subsection (1) of this division are met.
      (1)   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence, that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the cause
(s) of the upset;
         (b)   At the time, the facility was being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
         (c)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to
the Department, orally or in writing, within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
upset and where this information is provided orally, a written submission must
be provided within five days:
            1.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (2)   In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof;
      (3)   The industrial user shall control production of all discharges to
the extent necessary to maintain compliance with this division upon reduction,
loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is restored or an
alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the
situation where, among other things, the primary source of power of the
treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (C)   Bypass. Bypasses are prohibited unless the bypass does not cause a
violation of pretreatment standards or requirements, but only if it is for
essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of the treatment system.
These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of subsections (1) and (2) of
this division (C).
      (1)   Notice of anticipated bypass. Industrial users anticipating a
bypass shall submit notice to the Department at least ten days in advance.
      (2)   Notice of unanticipated bypass. An industrial user shall submit
oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within 24 hours from the time the industrial user becomes or should
have become aware of the bypass. A written submission shall be provided within
five days of the time the industrial user becomes or should have become aware
of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
including exact dates and times, and if the bypass has not been corrected, the
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
      (3)   Prohibition of bypass and enforcement. Bypass is prohibited, and
the Department may take enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
         (c)   The industrial user properly notified the Department as
described in division (C)(2) of this section.
      (4)   Bypass approval, where it meets all conditions in division (C)(3)
of this section, the Department may approve an anticipated bypass.
   (D)   Where one or more of the measurements taken for any pollutant defined
in §
53.05(B) of this code during a six-month period exceed by any magnitude the
daily maximum non-detect limit for the same parameter, the industrial user may
develop and implement pollution prevention initiatives, or a BMP, as part of
its response. The Department may, as part of an administrative order, also
require development of a BMP as a part of the Department’s enforcement
response. Upon approval of the Department, these pollution prevention
initiative, or BMPs shall be made an enforceable part of the wastewater
discharge permit. Industrial users shall provide, at six-month intervals,
analytical results and certifications in support of its implementation of an
approved pollution prevention initiative or BMPs. Upon demonstration of
compliance, the industrial user may request to be relieved of this
implementation requirement.
   (E)   Emergency suspensions and orders. The Department may order suspension
of the sewer or wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater discharge
permit where, in the opinion of the Department, such suspension is necessary to
stop any actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or significant hazard to the health or welfare of persons or to the
environment, interferes or may interfere with the POTW, or causes or may cause
the City of Detroit to violate any condition of its NPDES permit. Any person
notified of a suspension of the sewer or wastewater treatment service and/or
the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event that the Department provides informal notification
under this section, written confirmation and an order shall be provided within
24 hours. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with
any suspension or revocation order, the Department shall take such steps as
deemed necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection or
services, to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or danger to any
individual or the environment. In the event such steps are taken, the Director
shall notify the industrial user within 24 hours in writing of such action and
order, and the specific recourse available. In any event, the Department shall
provide the industrial user with an opportunity for a hearing before the
Director, or his or her designated representative, within ten days of such
action. The industrial user shall submit a detailed written statement to the
Department within 15 days of the occurrence describing the causes of the
harmful contribution and the measures taken to prevent any future occurrence.
Upon proof of elimination of the non-complying discharge, the Department shall
reinstate the wastewater discharge permit and/or the sewer or wastewater
treatment service.
   (F)   Notice of violation. Except in the case of an actual or threatened
discharge as specified in division (E) of this section, whenever the Department
has reason to believe that any industrial user has violated or is violating
this division, the Department shall serve a written notice stating the nature
of the violation upon such industrial user. Where applicable, the Department
shall pursue appropriate escalating enforcement action as defined within its
approved enforcement response plan. The failure of the Department to issue a
notice of violation shall not preclude the Department from escalating its
enforcement response.
   (G)   Administrative actions. Whenever the Department has reasonable grounds
to believe that a user is violating, or has violated, a provision of its
wastewater discharge permit, or a pretreatment standard or requirement or any
prohibition of this division, the Department, may initiate appropriate
administrative enforcement action, except in the case of emergency or flagrant
violation, in order to compel the industrial user to eliminate or to remedy
such violation as soon as possible.
      (1)   (a)   Conferences. The Department may order any person, who
violates this division, to attend a conference wherein the Department may
endeavor to cause the user to eliminate or remedy the violation by establishing
an enforceable compliance schedule. The notice of violation shall be served at
least ten days before the scheduled conference and shall set forth the date,
time, and place thereof. The conference shall be conducted by a representative
of the Department. The industrial user shall present a plan and schedule for
achieving compliance with this division. Nothing contained herein shall require
the Department to accept or agree to any proposed plan or schedule, or to
prevent the Department from proceeding with a show cause hearing as set forth
in subsection (2) of this division (G). If the attendees agree upon a
compliance schedule, the user and the Department’s duly authorized
representative may enter, by consent, into a compliance agreement or an
administrative order setting forth the terms of such agreement. An industrial
user must exhibit good faith and expeditious efforts to comply with this
division and any procedures, requirements, and agreements hereunder.
         (b)   Compliance schedules. The user and the Department may agree upon
a schedule which sets forth the terms and conditions, and time periods or
schedules for completion of actions to remedy or to eliminate the causes of
violation. These schedules may be developed as part of a compliance agreement,
administrative consent order. Schedules developed under this subsection shall
adhere to the following conditions:
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of upgraded or additional pretreatment facilities,
or to the implementation of additional operation and maintenance procedures
required for the industrial user to meet the applicable pretreatment
requirements and standards including, but not limited to, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for
major components, commencing construction, and completing construction;
            2.   No single increment referred to in division (G)(1)(b)1. of
this section shall exceed nine months;
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a progress
report to the Department including, at a minimum, whether it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason(s) for delay, and
the steps being taken by the industrial user to return to the established
schedule; and
            4.   Any deviations from the compliance schedule may result in the
industrial user being found in violation of this division.
         (c)   Administrative orders. The Department may order any industrial
user, who violates or continues to violate this division or a duly issued
permit, to install and to properly operate devices, treatment facilities, or
other related appurtenances. In addition, orders may contain such other
requirements as might reasonably be necessary and appropriate to address the
violation including the installation of pretreatment technology, additional
self-monitoring and management practices, implementation of a waste
minimization assessment to identify and implement feasible source reduction,
and recycling practices to reduce the generation or release of pollutants at
the facility. An order may be either an administrative consent order, which is
the result of an agreement, or a unilateral administrative order.
      (2)   Show cause hearing. The Department may order any industrial user,
who violates this division or allows such violation to occur, to show cause
before the Department why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A
notice shall be served upon the industrial user specifying the time and place
of a hearing before the Department regarding the violation, the reason(s) why
the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the
industrial user to show cause before the Department why any proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be
served personally, or by registered or certified mail with return receipt
requested, at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made upon any
agent or officer of a corporation, or its authorized representative.
         (a)   Hearing proceeding. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance
with the procedures adopted by the Board. A hearings officer shall conduct the
show cause hearing and take the evidence, and may:
            1.   In the name of the Board, issue notices of hearing requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearing;
            2.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Director
for action thereon.
         (b)   Transcript. At any show cause hearing held pursuant to this
division, testimony shall be recorded by a court reporter.
      (3)   Actions. After a show cause hearing has been conducted, the
hearings officer shall issue an order to the industrial user directing any of
the following actions:
         (a)   Immediate compliance with the industrial user’s wastewater
discharge permit or with any applicable limitation, condition, restriction or
requirement of this division, or applicable local, state or federal law or
regulation;
         (b)   Pretreatment of waste by installation of adequate treatment
equipment or proper operation and maintenance of existing treatment equipment
be accomplished within a specified time period;
         (c)   Submission of compliance reports on effluent quality and
quantity as determined by self-monitoring and analysis during a specified time
period;
         (d)   Submission of periodic reports on effluent quality and quantity
determined by self-monitoring analysis throughout the final period set by a
compliance date;
         (e)   Control of discharge quantities;
         (f)   Payment of costs for reasonable and necessary inspection,
monitoring, and administration of the industrial user’s activities by the
Department during compliance efforts; and/or
         (g)   Any such other orders as are appropriate including, but not
limited to, immediate termination of sewer or wastewater treatment services, or
revocation of a wastewater discharge permit, or orders directing that following
a specified time period sewer or wastewater treatment service will be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or operation and
maintenance practices have been employed.
         (h)   A finding the user has demonstrated by a preponderance of the
evidence that a violation either of this division or of a duly issued permit
did not occur.
      (4)   Public notification of significant noncompliance. The Department
shall publish in the largest daily newspaper published in the City of Detroit
and the list of all industrial users which were in significant noncompliance
with applicable pretreatment requirements at any time during the previous 12
months. All industrial users identified in a proposed publication shall be
provided with a copy of the proposed notice at least 30 days before publication
and allowed an opportunity to comment as to its accuracy.
   (H)   Legal actions.
      (1)   Criminal action. Any user, who violates any provision of this
division including the failure to pay any fees, fines, charges or surcharges
imposed hereby, or any condition or limitation of a permit issued pursuant
thereto, or who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this division or wastewater discharge
permit, or who tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring
device required under this division, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 for each violation
per day, or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both. The
Department is hereby authorized, through its counsel, to seek prosecution of
criminal charges against any person violating any provision of this division.
      (2)   Civil action. Whenever the Department has reasonable grounds to
believe that a user is violating, or has violated, a provision of its
wastewater discharge permit, a pretreatment standard or requirement or any
requirement of this division, the Director may commence a civil action to
compel compliance in a court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin the user from
discharging, and/or to obtain appropriate relief to remedy the violations. The
Department or Board may also seek additional legal and/or equitable relief. The
commencement of suit neither constitutes an exclusive election of remedies nor
prohibits the Department, Director, Board, or City of Detroit from commencing
action in Federal Court for discharges believed to be in violation of this
division, State and Federal requirements contained in the Clean Water Act, the
City of Detroit’s NPDES permit, or other applicable laws or requirements. In
addition, the City of Detroit may recover the reasonable attorney fees, court
costs, court reporters’ fees, and other unusual expenses related to enforcement
activities or litigation against the person found to have violated this
division, or the orders, rules, regulations and permits issued hereunder.
      (3)   All fines, costs, and penalties which are imposed by any court of
competent jurisdiction shall be payable to the City of Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
§ 53.13 RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL.
   Through the procedures of reconsideration and appeal, a user may contest
actions, determinations, or decisions of the Department which result from its
construction, application and enforcement of this division. The procedures
contained within this section govern reconsideration and appeal with respect to
construction, application, and enforcement of this division.
   (A)   Selection of reconsideration or of appeal.
      (1)   Except for those actions, determinations, or decisions which are
expressly identified as subject only to appeal, reconsideration may be
requested by any permit applicant, permittee, authorized industrial wastewater
discharger or other discharger, who is adversely affected by any action,
determination, or decision that is made by, or on behalf of, the Department by
the Director, or an authorized representative, and that interprets, implements
or enforces the provisions of this section.
      (2)   An appeal may be requested by any permit applicant, permittee,
authorized industrial wastewater discharge or other discharger, who is
adversely affected (a) by a permit issued as final by the Department, or (b) by
an administrative order entered after a show cause order and hearing, or after
a hearing for reconsideration.
      (3)   Unless otherwise expressly provided for by this division, a request
for reconsideration or appeal must be signed by an authorized representative,
and received at the Department’s general offices within 20 days from the date
of the occurrence of the action, determination, or decision in dispute. A
request for reconsideration shall contain the requester’s name and address, a
brief statement of the reason(s), and the factual basis underlying the request.
      (4)   A request for reconsideration shall be filed in triplicate either
by hand delivery or by certified mail to the general offices of the Department.
Where a request for reconsideration or appeal either is not filed within the
time period provided for in this subsection or is improperly made, the action,
determination or decision of the Director, or the Department’s authorized
representative, is final and any right to reconsideration appeal may be deemed
waived.
   (B)   Reconsideration. Within 15 days after receipt of a timely and proper
request for reconsideration, the Department shall notify the applicant of the
time and place for a hearing.
      (1)   A hearing for reconsideration shall be conducted by a hearings
officer who is designated by the Director and may be an employee of the
Department. The decision of the hearings officer shall be in the form of a
recommendation to the Director and embodied in an administrative order. Except
for an administrative consent order that was negotiated and agreed to by both
parties, an administrative order is appealable in accordance with division (C)
of this section.
      (2)   Where improperly or untimely submitted, the Department may reject a
request for reconsideration. The Department shall notify the requester in
writing that the request has been rejected.
      (3)   Unless the date is mutually extended by both parties, the hearing
shall be conducted neither less than ten days nor more than 30 days after
mailing of the notice. For cause and at the discretion of the hearings officer,
the hearing may be continued for a reasonable time.
      (4)   The hearing for reconsideration shall be an informal consultation
and conference where the requester in person, or by counsel, shall present
their argument, evidence, data, and proof in connection with the issue(s) being
reconsidered. The parties shall not be bound by the Michigan Rules of Evidence.
The hearing shall be transcribed and the requester may obtain a copy of the
hearing transcript, as appropriate, from the Department or from the court
reporter.
      (5)   Within 30 days after the close of the hearing, the hearings officer
shall issue a final decision, which shall contain a recommendation to the
Director. The hearings officer shall send such decision to the requester by
certified mail.
      (6)   Unless such action is necessary to prevent pass-through,
interference or other harm to the POTW, to the public or to the waters of this
state, the filing of a request for reconsideration in accordance with this
section shall stay the action by the Department that is the subject of the
hearing for reconsideration.
   (C)   Appeal. Within 30 days after receipt of a timely and proper request
for an appeal, the Department shall notify the applicant in writing regarding
the time and place for a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance
with procedures set by the Board until rules are promulgated pursuant to
Section 2-111 of the 1997 Detroit City Charter. In addition:
      (1)   Any request for an appeal must be made within 20 days of the
Department’s action, determination or decision regarding the request for
reconsideration or any permit issued in accordance with this division.
      (2)   Where a request either is not filed within the time period
contained in this subsection or is improperly made, the action, determination
or decision of the Director, or the Department’s authorized representative, is
final and any right to appeal may be deemed waived. Where untimely or
improperly submitted, the Department may reject the request for an appeal, and
shall notify the requester in writing that such request has been rejected.
      (3)   The Department shall appoint a hearings officer. The hearings
officer shall review the evidence, and within 15 days after the close of the
hearing shall issue a written recommendation to uphold, modify or reverse the
action, determination, or decision of the Department.
      (4)   The written recommendation of the hearings officer shall be
submitted to the Board which shall render a final decision within 30 days of
its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (5)   In accordance with applicable law, the user or the Department may
appeal any final decision of the Board to a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (6)   Unless such action is necessary to prevent pass through,
interference, or other harm to the POTW, to the public or to the waters of this
state, the filing of a request for appeal in accordance with this section shall
stay the action by the Department that is the subject of the appeal.
(Am. Ord. 825, passed 9-30-09)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution or by imprisonment of
not more than 90 days or both such fine an imprisonment.
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
Appendix A
Aluminum Forming                                  40 C.F.R. Part 467
Asbestos Manufacturing                            40 C.F.R. Part 427
Battery Manufacturing                             40 C.F.R. Part 461
Builder’s Paper and Board Mills                 40 C.F.R. Part 431
Canned and Preserved Fruits/Vegetables            40 C.F.R. Part 407
Canned and Preserved Seafood Proc                 40 C.F.R. Part 408
Carbon Black Manufacturing                        40 C.F.R. Part 458
Cement Manufacturing                              40 C.F.R. Part 411
Centralized Waste Treatment                       40 C.F.R. Part 437
Coal Mining                                       40 C.F.R. Part 434
Coil Coating                                      40 C.F.R. Part 465
Copper Forming                                    40 C.F.R. Part 465
Dairy Products Processing                         40 C.F.R. Part 405
Electrical and Electronic Components I & II       40 C.F.R. Part 469
Electroplating                                    40 C.F.R. Part 413
Explosives Manufacturing                          40 C.F.R. Part 457
Feed Lots                                         40 C.F.R. Part 412
Ferroalloy Manufacturing                          40 C.F.R. Part 424
Fertilizer Manufacturing                          40 C.F.R. Part 418
Glass Manufacturing                               40 C.F.R. Part 426
Grain Mills                                       40 C.F.R. Part 406
Gum and Wood Chemicals Mfg                        40 C.F.R. Part 454
Hospital                                          40 C.F.R. Part 460
Ink Formulating                                   40 C.F.R. Part 447
Inorganic Chemicals Manufacture (I & III)         40 C.F.R. Part 415
Iron and Steel                                    40 C.F.R. Part 420
Landfills                                         40 C.F.R. Part 445
Leather Tanning & Finishing                       40 C.F.R. Part 425
Meat Products                                     40 C.F.R. Part 432
Metal Finishing                                   40 C.F.R. Part 433
Metal Molding and Casting                         40 C.F.R. Part 464
Metal Products and Machinery                      40 C.F.R. Part 438
Mineral Mining and Processing                     40 C.F.R. Part 436
Nonferrous Metals Forming                         40 C.F.R. Part 471
Nonferrous Metals Mfg. 1                          40 C.F.R. Part 421
Nonferrous Metals Mfg. II                         40 C.F.R. Part 421
Ore Mining and Dressing                           40 C.F.R. Part 440
Organic Chemicals, Plastics, and Synthetic Fibers 40 C.F.R. Part 414
Paint Formulating                                 40 C.F.R. Part 446
Paving and Roofing Material                       40 C.F.R. Part 443
Pesticide Chemicals                               40 C.F.R. Part 455
Petroleum Refining                                40 C.F.R. Part 419
Pharmaceutical                                    40 C.F.R. Part 439
Phosphate Manufacturing                           40 C.F.R. Part 422
Photographic                                      40 C.F.R. Part 459
Plastics Molding and Forming                      40 C.F.R. Part 463
Porcelain Enameling                               40 C.F.R. Part 466
Pulp, Paper, and Paperboard                       40 C.F.R. Part 430 & 431
Rubber Manufacturing                              40 C.F.R. Part 428
Soap and Detergent Mfg                            40 C.F.R. Part 417
Steam Electric                                    40 C.F.R. Part 423
Sugar Processing                                  40 C.F.R. Part 409
Textile Mills                                     40 C.F.R. Part 410
Timber Products                                   40 C.F.R. Part 429
Transportation Equipment Cleaning                 40 C.F.R. Part 442
Waste Combusters                                  40 C.F.R. Part 444
 
(Ord. 770, passed 4-16-98; Am. Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed
9-30-09)
Appendix B
   An Industrial User may elect, in lieu of the Total Phenols Limitation
specified in §
53.05(B)(2), to substitute specific limitations for each of the eight
individual phenolic compounds identified under the Total Phenols Limitation.
The following specific limitations, expressed in mg/l, shall be applied in lieu
of the Total Phenols Limitation, upon election;
2-ChlorophenoI          2.0 mg/1
4-ChlorophenoI          2.0 mg/1
4-Chloro-3-methylphenol 1.0 mg/1
2,4-Dichlorophenol      5.5 mg/1
2,4-Dinitrophenol       2.0 mg/1
4-Methylphenol          5.0 mg/1
4-NitrophenoI           15.0 mg/1
Phenol                  14.0 mg/1
 
Following election, the wastewater discharge permit shall be modified to
incorporate these substituted parameters and an Industrial User shall be
responsible for monitoring and reporting compliance with these parameters.
(Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed 9-30-09)
Appendix C. Interim Discharge Limitations
No user shall discharge wastewater containing any of the following pollutants
in excess of the following interim pollutant discharge limitations:
   (1)   Compatible pollutants:
      a.   Any fats, oil or grease (FOG) in concentrations greater than 1,500
mg/1 based on an average of all samples collected within a 24-hour period.
      b.   Any total suspended solids (TSS) in concentrations greater than
7,500 mg/1.
      c.   Any biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) in concentrations greater than
7,500 mg/1.
      d.   Any phosphorus (P) in concentrations greater than 250 mg/1.
Unless otherwise stated, all limitations are based upon samples collected over
an operating period representative of a user’s discharge, and in accordance
with 40 C.F.R. Part 146.
   (2)   Non-compatible pollutants
       Cadmium (Cd)   1.0 mg/1
(Ord. 806, passed 12-19-05; Am. Ord. 825, passed 9-30-09)
CHAPTER 54: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
54.01   Sewer connection required
   
54.02   Same; water permit, restriction
   
54.03   Sewer connections; inspector, authority; regulations
   
54.04   Sewer connections; inspection; charges
   
54.05   Failure to make required connection; penalty
   
54.06   Combined sewerage system; rates, fees, charges
   
54.07   Special connections, charges
   
54.08   “Connection” defined
   
54.09   Charges, billing periods
   
54.10   City property; charges, general fund
   
54.11   Charge constitutes lien; receipts, deposit
   
54.12   Revenue; use, restriction [Repealed]
   
54.13   Rates, charges; enforcement, remedy
   
54.14   Prohibited sewer connections
   
54.15   Finding of necessity; need for drainage
   
54.16   Contiguous buildings; drainage, requirements
   
54.17   Same; subdivisions
Sanitary Sewer System Rules and Regulations
   
54.18   Sewer connections
   
54.19   Building sewer specifications
   
54.20   Installation of building sewer
   
54.21   Unpolluted water
   
54.22   Prohibited uses
   
54.23   Interceptors
   
54.24   Interceptor maintenance
   
54.25   Preliminary treatment facilities
   
54.26   Penalty
Surcharge
   
54.27   Purpose and objective
   
54.28   Authority
   
54.29   Definitions
   
54.30   Computation of industrial waste pollutant strength surcharge; schedule
   
54.31   Standards and regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 54.01 SEWER CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   All dwellings, factories, public service garages, stores or buildings of any
kind or nature in which people continuously live, work or congregate, and which
abut on streets, alleys or easements in which is now located or in which there
may hereafter be located a public sanitary sewer, shall within six months after
the construction of such sewer, or the effective date of this chapter as to
existing sewers, be connected to such sanitary sewer and shall thereafter pay
the regular construction and/or sewage disposal and maintenance charges
applicable to users of said sewer as shall be established by the city council.
(Ord. 64, sec. 1)
§ 54.02 SAME; WATER PERMIT, RESTRICTION.
   All buildings constructed after the effective date of this chapter for
continued use as dwellings, factories, public service garages, stores or
buildings used by the public and abutting on any street, alley, easement, etc.,
on which a sanitary sewer is located, shall at the time of the construction of
such buildings make connections to the sanitary sewer, and no permit for water
connections and service shall be granted by the city until such sewer
connection shall have been made.
(Ord. 64, sec. 2)
§ 54.03 SEWER CONNECTIONS; INSPECTOR, AUTHORITY; REGULATIONS.
   All connections to city sewers shall be made only in the presence or under
the supervision of a duly authorized inspector of the city. (Ord. 64, sec. 3)
   (A)   Branch sewer lines. Branch sewer lines shall not be backfilled until
examined and approved by the duly authorized city inspector. Said lines shall
be of glazed clay pipe ASTM C-200-59T or extra strength unglazed clay pipe,
ASTM C-278-60T specifications. (Ord. 64, sec. 4; Am. Ord. 256, sec. 1)
   (B)   Joints. All joints for the branch sanitary sewer shall be made as
directed by the duly authorized city inspector and shall be of material that
conforms to the following specifications: ASTM C-425-60T Type 3, or ASTM 425-
60T Type 1, or ASTM 425-61T Type 1. (Ord. 64, sec. 5; Am. Ord. 256, sec. 1)
   (C)   Accident and liability. The applicant shall be liable for all damages,
both to property and to persons, resulting from accidents which may occur as a
result of the construction of the sewer connection. (Ord. 64, sec. 6)
   (D)   Cost of making connection to sewer. The cost of permit charges for
connection shall be in amounts as determined from time to time by resolution of
the city council. (Ord. 64, sec. 7)
   (E)   Connection charges. The owner of each premises hereafter making
connection to said sanitary sewer system shall make same at his own expense and
shall first secure a permit from the city. The fee for such permit shall be
determined by resolution of the city council, and shall cover the inspection
and service charge of the city, and shall be payable at the time application is
made therefor. (Ord. 64, sec. 8)
§ 54.04 SEWER CONNECTIONS; INSPECTION; CHARGES.
   At least 24 hours notice must be given to the proper city officer requesting
an inspection. In the event that the proper city official shall be compelled to
visit the property or location in which the sewer connection is to be made more
than once for purposes of inspection and approval, there shall be paid by the
applicant or owner of the premises an additional sum of $1.00 for each of said
visits.
(Ord. 64, sec. 8)
§ 54.05 FAILURE TO MAKE REQUIRED CONNECTION, PENALTY.
   Should any dwelling, factory, garage, store or building not be connected to
the sewerage system as in this subchapter provided, then the water services may
be discontinued to such premises until such connections have been made.
(Ord. 64, sec. 9)
§ 54.06 COMBINED SEWERAGE SYSTEM; RATES, FEES, CHARGES.
   The city council shall from time to time by resolution set the rates, fees
and charges for services furnished by said combined sewerage system, and said
rates, fees and charges shall be based upon the amount of water metered to the
premises connected with such system and shall be charged upon each lot or
parcel of land, building or premises having any sewer connection with said
combined sewerage system.
(Ord. 57, sec. 1; Am. Ord. 59, sec. 2; Am. Ord. 82, sec. Am. Ord. 460, sec. 1,
adopted 10/15/73, effective 11/7/73)
§ 54.07 SPECIAL CONNECTIONS, CHARGES.
   No connection to the city sewerage system shall be allowed or maintained to
any factory or business establishment using more than 1,500 square feet of
space, to any hotel, or to any premises which are not connected with the city
water supply system, excepting as authorized by resolution of the city council,
which resolution shall determine the charges to be made for such service, the
manner of payment thereof, and such reasonable security for the payment of such
charges as may be required by the city council in its discretion.
(Ord. 57, sec. 2; Am. Ord. 59, sec. 3)
§ 54.08 “CONNECTION” DEFINED.
   The term “connection” as used herein shall be construed as being any opening
for public or private use made on any city sewer for the purpose of providing
an outlet for the disposal of sewage.
(Ord. 57, sec. 3)
§ 54.09 CHARGES, BILLING PERIODS.
   (A)   The schedule for reading of meters, method of billing and delivery of
bills for sewerage usage shall be set by resolution of the Council.
   (B)   Payment of bills. Bills for sewerage usage are payable at the office
of the Water Department. Bills paid to any other person, concern or agency are
so paid at the risk of the customer.
   (C)   Collection of delinquent accounts. Whenever the rates fixed by the
Council or charges made by the Department for services rendered are not paid,
the water may be shut off and collection enforced in accordance with the laws
of the state and/or by placing said amounts on the city tax roll.
   (D)   Shut-off notice. Customers whose bills are unpaid 30 days past the due
date will be subject to shut-off without further notice. A statement to this
effect will be placed on the original bill. An additional penalty determined by
Council resolution will then be charged to the customer and shall be paid
together with all unpaid charges before service will be turned on again. If
said bill is not paid within 90 days of the due date, said amount shall be
placed on the next general tax roll and collected as part of the general city
taxes.
(Ord. 57, sec. 4; Am. Ord. 847, passed 10-15-14)
§ 54.10 CITY PROPERTY; CHARGES, GENERAL FUND.
   The city shall pay, out of its appropriate general fund, the reasonable cost
and value of any sewer service to property owned by the city on the foregoing
basis of rates.
(Ord. 57, Sec. 5)
§ 54.11 CHARGE CONSTITUTES LIEN; RECEIPTS, DEPOSIT.
   Charges shall constitute a lien on the property served by such connections,
and if not paid within 90 days shall be placed on the next general tax roll and
collected as a part of the general city taxes, but such part of the collections
of general city taxes as represent a collection of charges, fees and rates
hereinabove fixed and determined shall not be deposited in the general funds of
the city but shall immediately be deposited in the Manufacturers National Bank
in the various funds created for and impressed with a trust for the benefit of
the bondholders and for the operation and maintenance of the sewer system.
(Ord. 57, sec. 6)
§ 54.12 REVENUE; USE, RESTRICTION.
   [This code section, being section 7 of Ord. 57, has been repealed by section
I of Ord. 565, adopted 2/2/81, effective (published) 2/19/81.)
§ 54.13 RATES, CHARGES; ENFORCEMENT, REMEDY.
   Any of the rates and charges provided in this chapter may be collected by
the city by suit in any court of competent jurisdiction or by any other lawful
enforcement methods.
(Ord. 57, sec. 8)
§ 54.14 PROHIBITED SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use, install or procure installation
of drainage facilities which will carry stormwater accumulating from the roofs
of any building by means of downspouts or any other device, or to install or
cause to be installed any opening, catch-basin or other device designed to
carry surface water from public or private property within the city into any
sanitary sewers under the control and jurisdiction of the sewer department of
the city.
(Ord. 90, sec. 9)
§ 54.15 FINDING OF NECESSITY; NEED FOR DRAINAGE.
   The city council has adopted §§
54.16 and
54.17 of this subchapter after extensive study has indicated the need for
elimination of stagnant pockets of standing water at the rear of multiple
housing developments and new subdivisions.
(Ord. 141, sec. 1)
§ 54.16 CONTIGUOUS BUILDINGS; DRAINAGE, REQUIREMENTS.
   Whenever three or more houses are constructed contiguous to one another, the
person building said houses shall be required to provide off-site drainage for
such surface water as may develop at the rear of said building sites.
   (A)   This drainage system shall consist of open joint tile of such size and
placed at such depth in a gravel bed as shall be determined and approved by the
city engineer according to the grade, type of soil and other pertinent features
of the particular land involved.
   (B)   The said tile shall be continuous to a connection with an established
combined sewer or stormwater drain, or to an established drain under the
jurisdiction of the Drain Commissioner of Wayne County.
(Ord. 141, sec. 2)
§ 54.17 SAME; SUBDIVISIONS.
   Any person commencing proceedings to effect a subdivision of land for
himself or for another shall comply with the provisions of this subchapter for
the hereinbefore stated drainage facilities, and the said drainage lines
hereinbefore provided shall be considered part of the improvements of the said
subdivision.
(Ord. 141, sec. 3)
SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 54.18 SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with, or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the department of public service.
(Ord. 542, sec. I; adopted 9/17/79, effec. (publ.)10/4/79)
§ 54.19 BUILDING SEWER SPECIFICATIONS.
   Pipe shall be extra strength clay and shall meet the current requirements of
ASTM Specification C-200-65T and National Clay Pipe Institute, eastern Region
Designation ER4-67. Pipe joints shall be of a resilient material having a
controlled and calculated shape conforming to the current requirements of ASTM
Specification C-425-64, Type I or Type III.
(Ord. 542, sec. II)
§ 54.20 INSTALLATION OF BUILDING SEWER.
   All building sewer construction and the installation of pipes, fittings and
appurtenances shall be done in accordance with the building regulations of the
city and such supplementary rules and regulations as the city may prescribe.
(Ord. 542, sec. III)
§ 54.21 UNPOLLUTED WATER.
   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface
water, ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, condensate, cooling
water or similar liquid wastes into any sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 542, sec. iv)
§ 54.22 PROHIBITED USES.
   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to be
discharged any of the following described waters or wastes into a public sewer,
to-wit:
   (A)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F.
   (B)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per million
of animal or vegetable fat, oil or grease.
   (C)   Any gasoline, benzine, naptha, fuel oil or other inflammable or
explosive liquid, solid or gas.
   (D)   Any grease, oil or other substance that will become solid or viscous
at temperatures between 32° and 150° F.
   (E)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded.
   (F)   Any mineral oil or grease, ashes, cinders, sand, mud, plastics, wood,
paunch manure, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags, feathers, asphalt, tar,
manure, or any other solid or viscous substance capable of causing obstruction
to the flow in sewers or other interference with the proper operation of the
sewage works.
   (G)   Any waters or wastes having a pH lower than 5.5 or higher than 10.0 or
having any other corrosive properties capable of causing damage or hazard to
structure, equipment and personnel of the treatment works.
   (H)   Any waste containing in excess of 4.20 PPM total chromium, 0.25 PPM
hexavalent chromium, 7.50 PPM total metals (copper, nickel, total chromium,
zinc), 1.00 PPM cadmium, 0.64 PPM total cyanide, 0.50 PPM phenols, or any
wastes containing other metallic compounds sufficient to impair the operation
of the waste water treatment processes.
   (I)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure any sewage treatment process, constitute a hazard
to humans or animals, or create any hazard in receiving waters or in the sewage
treatment plant.
   (J)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance.
   (K)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of such character and
quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle such materials
at the sewage treatment plant.
   (L)   Any wastes that contain insoluble solids in excess of 10,000 PPM or
exceeds a daily average of 500 PPM or that contains a combination of soluble
and insoluble material in excess of 20,000 PPM or exceeds a daily average of
2,000 PPM.
   (M)   Any wastes containing any insoluble substance that will not pass four
mesh per inch screen.
(Ord. 542, sec. v)
§ 54.23 INTERCEPTORS.
   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the opinion of
the DPS, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing
grease in excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand and other harmful
ingredients; except that such interceptors shall not be required for private
living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be of a type and
capacity-approved by the DPS, and shall be located so as to be readily and
easily accessible for cleaning and inspection. Grease and oil interceptors
shall be constructed of impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and
extreme changes in temperatures. They shall be of substantial construction,
water-tight, equipped with easily removable covers which, when bolted in place,
shall be gas-tight and water-tight.
(Ord. 542, sec. vi)
§ 54.24 INTERCEPTOR MAINTENANCE.
   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be maintained
by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at all times.
(Ord. 542, sec. vii)
§ 54.25 PRELIMINARY TREATMENT FACILITIES.
   The admission into the public sanitary sewers of any waters or wastes
having: (a) a 5-day biochemical oxygen demand greater than 300 parts per
million, or (b) containing more than 350 parts per million suspended solids, or
(c) having an average daily flow greater than 2 per cent of the average daily
sewage flow of the city, shall be subject to the review and approval of the
DPS. Where necessary, in the opinion of the DPS, the owner shall provide, at
his expense, such preliminary treatment as may be necessary to (a) reduce the
biochemical oxygen demand to 300 parts per million and the suspended solids to
350 parts per million by weight, or (b) control the quantities and rates of
discharge of such water or wastes. Plans, specifications and any other
pertinent information relating to proposed preliminary treatment facilities
shall be submitted for the approval of the DPS and of the appropriate agency of
the State of Michigan and no construction of such facilities shall be commenced
until the said approvals are obtained in writing. Where preliminary treatment
facilities are provided for any wastes or waters, they shall be maintained
continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at his
expense.
(Ord. 542, sec. viii)
§ 545.26 PENALTY.
   Any violation of or failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter
or any rules or regulations adopted pursuant thereto shall be punishable by a
fine not to exceed $500.00 and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment not to
exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and imprisonment at the discretion of the
court.
(Ord. 542, sec. ix; adopted 9/17/79, published (effective) 10/4/79)
SURCHARGE
§ 54.27 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVE.
   This subchapter has as its purpose the protection of public health and
safety and because of the widely varying quality characteristics of the sewage
discharged by different users of the public sewer and the publicly owned
treatment works, it is the objective of the subchapter to impose sewage charges
which reflect the cost of treating sewage strength factors as well as sewage
volume. These charges to commercial and industrial users will be in the form of
a payment called a surcharge and will reflect industries’ equitable costs of
waste water treatment in excess of the strength of domestic sewage. Sewage
charges will be based on a volume rate and surcharge based on volume of
discharge and the strength of BOD, suspended solids and phosphorus or other
pollutants present in the waste water. In the event other pollutants are
required to be surcharged under this subchapter, authorized variances, or by
special arrangement with the owner of the publicly owned treatment works, the
rules and regulations adopted herein will apply, said rules and regulations
being on file with the city clerk (or other appropriate municipal officer).
(Ord. 566, sec. i; adopted 2/2/81, effective (published) 2/19/81)
§ 54.28 AUTHORITY.
   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to and in accordance with the
requirements of Federal Law Public Act 92-500, and applicable Federal
Regulations, the requirements of the Settlement Agreement in United States of
America v City of Detroit, et al, Civil Action #771100.
(Ord. 586, sec. ii)
§ 54.29 DEFINITIONS.
   Unless the context specifically indicates otherwise, the meaning of the
terms used in this subchapter shall be as follows:
   (A)   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure, five days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration
(milligrams per liter (mg/l)), as measured by standard methods.
   (B)   COMMERCIAL USER. Non-domestic sources of indirect discharge other than
industrial users, as defined herein including but not limited to the following:
a publicly or privately owned facility where persons are engaged in the
exchange or sale of goods or services, hospitals, retail establishments,
schools and facilities operated by local and state governments.
   (C)   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants from any source regulated under Section 307 (b) or (c) of the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, P.L. 92-500, as amended, into the public
waste treatment system.
   (D)   INDUSTRIAL USER. A source of indirect discharge under regulations
issued pursuant to Section 402 of the Act (33 USC 1342), which source
originates from, but is not limited to, facilities engaged in industry,
manufacturing, business, trade or research, including the development, recovery
or processing of natural resources.
   (E)   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, solid or gaseous waste or form of energy
or combination thereof resulting from any process of industry, manufacturing,
business, trade or research, including the development, recovery or processing
of natural resources.
   (F)   P. Phosphorous in the waste expressed in terms of milligrams per liter
(P.P.M.).
   (G)   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue,
sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, munitions chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock,
sand, cellar dirt and industrial, municipal and agricultural waste discharged
into water.
   (H)   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility.
   (I)   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, waste water or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtering as measured according to standard methods.
   (J)   WASTE WATER or SEWAGE. Spent water which may be a combination of the
liquid and water-carried wastes from residences, commercial buildings,
industrial plants, institutions, or other land uses, including drainage water
inadvertently present in said waste.
   (K)   WASTE WATER SYSTEM or SEWER SYSTEM. Any part or all of the property,
structures, equipment, sewers, materials and/or appurtenances used in
conjunction with the collection and disposal of waste water, including the
publicly owned treatment work (POTW).
(Ord. 586, sec. iii)
§ 54.30 COMPUTATION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE POLLUTANT STRENGTH SURCHARGE; SCHEDULE.
   It is ordained that the Schedule of Industrial Waste Pollutant Strength
Surcharges is hereby adopted and made effective for users of the waste water
system of the City of Inkster, Michigan. Said surcharges to be computed as
follows:
   COMPUTATION OF INDUSTRIAL WASTE POLLUTANT
   STRENGTH SURCHARGE
   The industrial waste pollutant strength surcharge shall be computed in
accordance with the following formula:
      SC = 0.0624 V a (BOD-250) + b (TSS-300) + c (P-12)
      WHERE:
      SC    =   Pollutant strength surcharge fee in dollars for the billing
period.
      V    =   Volume of waste discharged in the billing period in Mcf (1000
cubic feet).
      `BOD’ =   Five-day biochemical oxygen demand of the waste expressed in
milligrams per liter (ppm).
      `TSS’ =   Total Suspended solids in the waste expressed in milligrams per
liter (ppm).
      `P’    =   Phosphorus in the waste expressed in milligrams per liter
(ppm).
      a, b, c =   Surcharge rates, $/pound for treating BOD, TSS and P
respectively.
      0.0624 =    Factor which converts Mcf to MM lbs
                a = $0.082/pound
               b = 0.083/pound
               c = 1.321/pound
   For purposes of surcharge computation, the values of pollutant strengths
shall not be less than the allowable values; the allowable values are:
               BOD - 250
               TSS - 300
               P - 12
   The total sewerage charge for a particular industry would be the sum of the
base flow charge and the surcharge would be calculated from the following
formula:
         UC = V(R)+SC
WHERE:
      UC   =   Total sewerage charge for the billing period in dollars.
      V   =   Volume of waste discharged in billing period of Mcf
      R   =   Basic flow sewage rate is as established by resolution of the
City Council, the City of Inkster.
      SC   =   Surcharge in dollars as computed above.
(Ord. 586, Sec. iv)
§ 54.31 STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
   In accordance with the basic Service Agreement between the City of Inkster,
the County of Wayne and the Wayne County Board of Public Works or other
properly designated agent of the County of Wayne named pursuant to Public Acts
342 of 1939 and 185 of 1957, this subchapter provides that any person, firm or
corporation discharging waste water into the publicly owned sewer system shall
comply with the standards, rules and regulations controlling the quality or
quantity of discharge of waste water into said system. Said standards, rules
and regulations shall be as established from time to time by the county and/or
its designated agent.
(Ord. 586, sec. V; adopted 2/2/81, effective (published) 2/19/81.)
CHAPTER 55: STORMWATER MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
55.001   Statutory authority
   
55.002   Purpose
   
55.003   Title
   
55.004   Administration
   
55.005   Definitions
   
55.006   Applicability
Stormwater Construction Approvals
   
55.020   General requirements
   
55.021   Application for stormwater construction approval
   
55.022   Financial assurance for regulated construction activity
Design and Construction Requirements for Stormwater Management Systems
   
55.035   General
   
55.036   Requirements for design of stormwater management systems
Fees
   
55.050   Fees for stormwater construction approvals
Long-term Maintenance
   
55.065   Demonstration of long-term maintenance
   
55.066   Scope of long-term maintenance
Authority and Duties of Inspectors
   
55.080   Authority
   
55.081   Duties of inspectors
Compliance and Enforcement
   
55.095   General
   
55.096   Investigations, informal conference and voluntary agreements
   
55.097   Notification of violation
   
55.098   Consent agreement
   
55.099   Administrative compliance orders
   
55.100   Imminent and substantial injury orders
   
55.101   Municipal civil infractions
   
55.102   Civil actions
   
55.103   Criminal penalties; imprisonment
   
55.104   Separate offenses
Appeal
   
55.115   Appeal
   
55.116   Appeal procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 55.001 STATUTORY AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act
of 1972, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., as amended; Part 31 of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act of 1994 (“Part 31"), MCLA §§
324.3101 et seq., as amended; the Voluntary Stormwater General Permit
(MIG619000) issued by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality pursuant
to Part 31; Act 288 of 1967 (Subdivision Control Act), MCLA §§ 560.101 et seq.,
as amended; Act 40 of 1956 (Drain Code), MCLA §§ 280.1 et seq., as amended; and
Act 96 of 1987 (Mobile Home Commission Act), MCLA §§ 125.2301 et seq., as
amended.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.002 PURPOSE.
   The prevention of pollution from stormwater runoff and the protection of the
quality of waters of the State of Michigan are of utmost importance to the
people of the City of Inkster. It is the purpose of this chapter and any rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter:
   (A)   To protect the environment against pollution and other effects from
stormwater runoff, and to protect the public health and safety;
   (B)   To provide for the implementation of a stormwater management program
in the City of Inkster to manage and prevent flooding, stream bank erosion,
pollution, and other effects from stormwater runoff;
   (C)   To establish standards and criteria for the design and construction of
stormwater management systems subject to the requirements of this chapter;
   (D)   To establish best management practices for the design, construction,
maintenance, and operation of stormwater management systems subject to the
requirements of this chapter;
   (E)   To provide for the issuance of stormwater construction approvals for
construction activities subject to the requirements of this chapter;
   (F)   To provide for the long-term preservation and maintenance of
stormwater management systems subject to the requirements of this chapter;
   (G)   To authorize the inspection of stormwater management systems subject
to the requirements of this chapter; and
   (H)   To provide for the administration, implementation and enforcement of
this chapter.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.003 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “City of Inkster
Stormwater Management Ordinance.”
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.004 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered jointly by the City of Inkster Department
of Public Works and the Department of Engineering.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person responsible for regulated construction activity on a
development site who is seeking to obtain stormwater construction approval.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE or BMP.  A practice or combination of practices
that have been determined by the city to be the preferred method of preventing,
minimizing, or reducing pollution and other effects of stormwater runoff.
   CITY. The City of Inkster.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. A human-made activity, including without limitation
clearing, grading, excavating, construction and paving, that results in an
earth change or disturbance in the existing cover or topography of land,
including any modification or alteration of a site or the “footprint” of a
building that results in an earth change or disturbance in the existing cover
or topography of land.
   CONVEYANCE. Any structure or other means of safely conveying stormwater and
stormwater runoff within a stormwater management system, including without
limitation a watercourse, closed conduit, culvert, or bridge.
   COUNTY. The Charter County of Wayne.
   COUNTY DRAINS. Open or closed drains within the jurisdiction of Wayne County
pursuant to Act 40 of 1956 (Drain Code), MCLA §§ 280.1 et seq., as amended.
   DEVELOPMENT SITE. The property on which regulated construction activity will
occur or is occurring or has occurred.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the City of Inkster Department of Public Works.
    ENGINEER. The City Engineer of the City of Inkster or his or her designee.
   PERMIT SECTION. The permit section of the City of Inkster Department of
Public Works, and the City Engineer.
   PERSON. A natural person, trustee, court-appointed representative,
syndicate, association, partnership, firm, club, company, corporation, business
trust, institution, agency, government corporation, municipal corporation,
city, county, municipality, district, or other political subdivision
department, bureau, agency or instrumentality of federal, state, or local
government, or other entity recognized by law as the subject of rights and
duties.
   REGULATED CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. A construction activity that is subject to
the provisions of this chapter or a rule promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   STORMWATER. Water resulting from a period of precipitation, including
without limitation rain, snow, and snowmelt.
   STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL. An approval issued pursuant to this
chapter and rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. Stormwater management program consists of
ordinances, orders, rules, regulations, and other mechanisms that provide for
the management of stormwater to prevent flooding and to ensure the restoration
and/or protection of rivers, lakes, and streams in the City of Inkster. The
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT PROGRAM consists of the requirements of this chapter and
any rules or regulations promulgated under this chapter, and activities
mandated by the certificate of coverage issued by MDEQ to the city pursuant to
the Michigan Voluntary Stormwater General Permit No. MIG619000.
   STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEM. Any structure, feature or appurtenance subject
to this chapter or a rule promulgated pursuant to this chapter that is designed
to collect, retain, treat, or convey stormwater runoff, including without
limitation buffer strips, swales, gutters, catch basins, closed conduits,
detention basins, wetland, pavement, unpaved surfaces, structures,
watercourses, or any surface from which stormwater drains off site or directly
or indirectly drains to the water of the state.
   STORMWATER RUNOFF. The excess portion of precipitation that does not
infiltrate the ground, but “runs off” and reaches a stream, water body, storm
sewer, conveyance, surface water, or watercourse.
   SURFACE WATER. A body of water, including without limitation seasonal and
intermittent waters, in which the surface of the water is exposed to the
atmosphere, including without limitation lakes, open detention basins,
forebays, watercourses, bioretention areas, retention basins, wetlands, and
impoundments.
   WATERCOURSE. An open conduit, either naturally or artificially created, that
periodically or continuously conveys water, including without limitation
rivers, streams, vegetated swales, open channels, and open county drains.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.006 APPLICABILITY.
   General. This chapter and rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter shall
apply to all of the following:
   (A)   Construction activity that impacts stormwater runoff into or around
new or existing road rights-of-way within the jurisdiction of the city;
   (B)   Construction activity that impacts stormwater runoff into or around
city drains;
   (C)   Construction activity that impacts stormwater runoff in projects that
are subject to the requirements of Act 288 of l967 (Subdivision Control Act),
MCL 560.101 et seq., as amended;
   (D)   Construction activity that impacts stormwater runoff from projects
that are subject to Act 96 of 1987 (Mobile Home Commission Act), MCL 125.2301
et seq., as amended;
   (E)   Construction activity that impacts stormwater runoff into, on, or
through property owned by the city;
   (F)   Construction activity that impacts new or existing storm sewer systems
owned, operated or controlled by the city; and
   (G)   Construction activity that occurs within and impacts or may impact
water quality or water resources in watersheds or sub-watersheds included in
the certificate of coverage issued by the Michigan Department of Environmental
Quality to the city pursuant to the general permit “Stormwater Discharges from
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer Systems (MS4s) Subject to Watershed Plan
Requirements” (General Permit No. MIG619000).
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION APPROVALS
§ 55.020 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to engage in regulated construction
activity except in accordance with this chapter and rules promulgated pursuant
to this chapter, and pursuant to a valid stormwater construction approval
issued by the city. Stormwater construction approval shall be issued in a form
and manner approved by the city, and may be incorporated into a construction
permit or other approval issued under or required by another ordinance, statute
or regulation. The stormwater from any development site (new or redevelopment),
after adequate treatment and then required storage (per the city/engineering
standards) shall be discharged to the city’s separated stormwater system having
adequate capacity discharging directly to the river.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.021 APPLICATION FOR STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL.
   (A)   Applicants shall submit a written application for a stormwater
construction approval to the city. The application shall be made in a form and
manner approved by the city, and shall include all information and
documentation required by the city pursuant to this chapter or rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   All proposed modifications to a stormwater management system that has
received a stormwater construction approval issued by the city shall be
submitted to the city in writing, together with all information and all
supporting documentation required by the city pursuant to this chapter or rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter to support the proposed modification. A
person shall not commence regulated construction activity associated with a
proposed modification without the approval of the city.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.022 FINANCIAL ASSURANCE FOR REGULATED CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY.
   (A)   The city may require an applicant to provide financial assurance for
regulated construction activity.
   (B)    Financial assurance provided pursuant to this section shall be in the
form of a performance bond, cash deposit, or unconditional irrevocable letter
of credit. The city may accept, with prior approval, an equivalent instrument
that guarantees that a stormwater management system that has received
stormwater construction approval from the city is constructed in compliance
with the regulated stormwater construction activity.
   (C)   The city may promulgate rules that establish the form and amount of
financial assurance to be provided; the events, circumstances, or occurrences
that will cause the city to release the financial assurance mechanism; and
other requirements for financial assurance to satisfy the purposes of this
chapter.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS FOR STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS
§ 55.035 GENERAL.
   (A)   Stormwater management systems shall be designed in accordance with the
minimum requirements for performance and design that are set forth in this
chapter and in rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   The city encourages the development and use of innovative stormwater
management system designs and construction techniques, including without
limitation the use of nonstructural practices to reduce water quality impact
and/or the generation of stormwater runoff, to achieve the flood control and
water quality objectives of this chapter and the rules promulgated hereunder.
   (C)   Notwithstanding any provision in this chapter or a rule promulgated
pursuant to this chapter, the city may require stormwater management systems to
satisfy performance and/or design standards more stringent than the minimum
requirements for performance and design set forth in this chapter and in rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter when necessary to address unique flood
control or water resources protection issues at a development site, on adjacent
properties, or downstream of a development site.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.036 REQUIREMENTS FOR DESIGN OF STORMWATER MANAGEMENT SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Selecting and designing stormwater management systems to meet the
requirements of this chapter and the rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter
shall be the responsibility of the applicant or its designee, subject to the
approval of the city pursuant to this chapter and rules promulgated pursuant to
this chapter. The city may deny a stormwater construction approval for a system
design that is not in compliance with these requirements.
   (B)   In designing a stormwater management system, the applicant shall
consider all relevant and appropriate factors, including without limitation the
following:
      (1)   The public health, safety, welfare, and the environment;
      (2)   The inconvenience caused by stormwater runoff on the subject
property;
      (3)   The long-term impact of regulated construction activity on
stormwater runoff on, from, and beyond the property;
      (4)   The natural drainage pattern of the land;
      (5)   The impact of the regulated construction activity on the affected
watershed(s);
      (6)   The effect of complete upstream development on the subject property
as determined by applicable master plans and/or stormwater plans; and
      (7)   The extent of downstream improvements necessary for proper
stormwater drainage.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
FEES
§ 55.050 FEES FOR STORMWATER CONSTRUCTION APPROVALS.
   The Mayor or designee(s) may recommend to the City Council a written
schedule to be adopted by the city to establish a fee system for administering
and implementing the stormwater management program. The fee system may include
fees for application submittal and review, project overview, compliance
inspections, appeals, and any other task or service performed by the city to
administer or implement the requirements of this chapter or rules promulgated
hereunder. Fees may be refundable or non-refundable, as determined appropriate
by the city, and may include charges for time, labor and materials utilized by
the city in implementing and administering the requirements of this chapter or
rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter. The schedule of fees and/or permits
shall be incorporated into the Code of Ordinances of the City of Inkster, as
amended and/or pursuant City Council resolution as may be amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE
§ 55.065 DEMONSTRATION OF LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE.
   The applicant for a stormwater construction approval shall demonstrate to
the city in the application or during the application review process, as
determined appropriate by the city, that the stormwater management system shall
be maintained in perpetuity. This demonstration shall be made in the manner
specified in rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.066 SCOPE OF LONG-TERM MAINTENANCE.
   For purposes of this chapter and rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter,
long-term maintenance shall include site monitoring and preventative
maintenance activities necessary to ensure that a stormwater management system
is functioning properly as designed; remedial actions necessary to repair,
modify, or reconstruct the system in the event the system does not function
properly as designed at any time; notification to subsequent owners of
limitations or restrictions on the property; actions necessary to enforce the
terms of restrictive covenants or other instruments applicable to the property
pursuant to this chapter and rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter; and
such other actions as may be set forth in rules promulgated hereto.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
AUTHORITY AND DUTIES OF INSPECTORS
§ 55.080 AUTHORITY.
   Upon presentation of proper credentials and identification, and after
stating the authority and purpose of the inspection, city inspectors shall be
promptly permitted to enter and inspect any property on which regulated
construction activity is in progress or has been completed. The inspection
shall be for the purpose of investigating any development site, stormwater
management systems or their components in order to determine compliance or
noncompliance with this chapter, rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to
this chapter, and/or stormwater construction approvals issued pursuant to this
chapter.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.081 DUTIES OF INSPECTORS.
   While entering and performing an inspection on private property pursuant to
§
55.080 above, a city inspector shall observe and comply with all safely rules
applicable to the premises.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
COMPLIANCE AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 55.095 GENERAL.
   All persons are encouraged to cooperate with the city to ensure that the
requirements of this chapter, rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter, and
stormwater construction approvals issued hereunder are satisfied. Whenever
possible, the city shall attempt to enter into voluntary agreements to resolve
violations of this chapter, rules promulgated pursuant to this chapter, and
stormwater construction approvals issued hereunder.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.096 INVESTIGATIONS, INFORMAL CONFERENCE AND VOLUNTARY AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   If the city believes that a violation of this chapter, a rule
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, or a stormwater construction approval
issued hereunder may have occurred or exists, the city shall make a prompt
investigation. If, after this investigation, the city determines that a
violation has occurred or exists, the city shall attempt to enter into a
voluntary agreement to resolve or correct the violation. An informal conference
may be requested by the city or by any other person to facilitate a voluntary
agreement.
   (B)   If a voluntary agreement cannot be reached, the city shall take
appropriate enforcement action pursuant to this chapter and/or other applicable
provisions of law.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.097 NOTIFICATION OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   If a voluntary agreement pursuant to §
55.096 cannot be reached, the city shall issue written notice of a violation to
the person or persons alleged to have caused or contributed to a violation of
this chapter, a rule promulgated pursuant to this chapter, and/or an approval
issued hereunder. A written notice of violation shall include a statement of
facts upon which the violation is based.
   (B)   Within 14 days of the receipt of a written notice of violation, the
alleged violator shall submit to the city an explanation of the violation and a
plan for correcting the violation to comply with this chapter, rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, and/or approvals issued hereunder.
Submission of this plan in no way relieves the alleged violator of liability
for any previous violation not addressed by the plan or future violation.
   (C)   Within 14 days of the receipt of a written response to a notice of
violation, the city shall determine whether the response resolves and/or
corrects the alleged violation. If the city determines that the response
resolves and/or corrects the violation, then the plan for correcting the
violation shall be incorporated into a consent agreement pursuant to §
55.098.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.098 CONSENT AGREEMENT.
   (A)   A consent agreement may be entered into at any time by and between the
city and the person or persons alleged to have caused or contributed to the
violation. The consent agreement shall be mutually acceptable to both the city
and the recipient(s) and shall reflect the recipient’s agreement to assume
responsibility for and correct violations of this chapter, rules promulgated
pursuant to this chapter, and approvals issued hereunder.
   (B)   The consent agreement shall contain a short statement of facts,
describe the actions necessary to correct the noncompliance, contain a
compliance schedule, and be signed by all parties. The agreement may contain a
monetary or other relief as agreed to by the parties for the noncompliance,
including, without limitation, amounts necessary to compensate the city for
costs incurred investigating, administering and/or enforcing this chapter or
rules promulgated hereto.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.099 ADMINISTRATIVE COMPLIANCE ORDERS.
   (A)   If the city determines that a violation of this chapter, a rule
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, or a stormwater construction approval
issued hereunder has occurred or exists, the city may issue an administrative
compliance order pursuant to this section.
   (B)   Except as provided in §
55.100, the city may issue an administrative compliance order in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   The city determines that a person has violated a consent agreement
entered into with the city; or
      (2)   The city determines that a person has violated or continues to
violate this chapter, a rule promulgated pursuant to this chapter, or a
stormwater construction approval issued hereunder, and the city has attempted
to resolve the violation pursuant to §§
55.096 and
55.097 but no voluntary agreement or consent agreement has been entered into.
   (C)   The administrative compliance order shall contain a statement of facts
upon which the order is based, a description of the actions that must be taken
to correct the noncompliance, a compliance schedule, and other requirements as
might be reasonably necessary to address the noncompliance. Administrative
compliance orders also may contain administrative fines and penalties, and such
other monetary relief as may be necessary to compensate the city for costs
incurred investigating, administering, and enforcing this chapter or rules
promulgated hereto.
   (D)   Within 28 days of being issued an administrative compliance order, the
person or persons receiving the order may appeal the issuance of the order
pursuant to §§
55.115 and
55.116 of this chapter.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.100 IMMINENT AND SUBSTANTIAL INJURY ORDERS.
   (A)   The city may issue an administrative order without attempting to
resolve a violation by using the enforcement procedures described in §§
55.096 and
55.097 if the city finds that a violation of this chapter, a rule promulgated
pursuant to this chapter, or a stormwater construction approval issued
hereunder constitutes or causes, or will constitute or cause, a substantial
injury to the public health, safety, welfare, or the environment, and it is
prejudicial to the interests of the people of the city to delay action.
   (B)   Administrative orders issued pursuant to this section shall contain a
statement of facts upon which the order is based, and notification to the
person that it must immediately take action to discontinue, abate, correct, or
otherwise address the imminent and substantial injury caused or likely to be
caused by the noncompliance.
   (C)   Within seven days, the city shall provide the person an opportunity to
be heard and to present any proof that the noncompliance does not or will not
constitute imminent and substantial injury to the public health, safety,
welfare or the environment.
   (D)   An order issued pursuant to this section is effective on issuance and
shall remain in effect for a period of not more than seven days, unless the
city brings an action to restrain the alleged noncompliance pursuant to §
55.102 or §
55.103 before the expiration of that period. If the city brings such an action
within the seven-day period, the order issued by the city shall remain in
effect for an additional seven days or such other period as is authorized by
the court in which the action is brought.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.101 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Violation; municipal civil infraction. Except as provided by §
55.102, a person who violates any provision of this chapter or rules
promulgated hereunder, including without limitation any notice, order,
stormwater construction approval, agreement, decision, or determination
promulgated, issued, made, or entered by the city under this chapter or rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter, is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $1,000 per day
and not more than $27,500 per day for each infraction, plus costs and other
sanctions.
   (B)   Repeated offenses; increased fines.
      (1)   Increased fines may be imposed for repeat offenses. As used in this
section, “repeat offense” means a second (or any subsequent) municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or provision of this chapter or
rule promulgated hereunder that is committed by a person within any 12-month
period and for which the person admits responsibility or is determined to be
responsible.
      (2)   The increased fine for a repeat offense under this section shall be
as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense that is a first repeat offense shall be
not less than $2,500, plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense that is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be not less than $5,000, plus costs.
   (C)   Amount of fines.
      (1)   Municipal civil infraction citations.
         (a)   Subject to the minimum fine amounts specified in divisions (A)
and (B), the following factors shall be considered in determining the amount of
a municipal civil infraction fine following the issuance of a municipal civil
infraction citation for a violation of this chapter or rules promulgated
pursuant to this chapter:
            1.   The type, nature, gravity, magnitude, severity, frequency,
duration, preventability, potential and actual effect, cause (including whether
negligent or intentional) and economic benefit to the violator (such as delayed
or avoided costs or competitive advantage) of the violation;
            2.   The violator’s recalcitrance, cooperation or efforts to
comply;
            3.   The violator’s compliance history (regardless whether prior
enforcement proceedings were commenced);
            4.   The economic impacts of the fine on the violator; and
            5.   Such other factors as justice may require.
         (b)   A violator shall bear the burden of demonstrating the presence
and degree of any mitigating factors to be considered in determining the amount
of a fine. However, mitigating factors shall not be considered unless it is
determined that the violator has made all good faith efforts to correct and
terminate all violations.
      (2)   Municipal civil infraction notices; schedule of fines.
         (a)   Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to the contrary,
the amount of a municipal civil infraction fine due in response to the issuance
of a municipal civil infraction notice for a violation as provided by division
(A) shall be according to the following schedule:
            1.   First offense: $1,000.
            2.   Second offense: $2,500.
            3.   Third offense (or any subsequent offense): $5,000.
         (b)   For any fine not paid in full within 30 days of the time
specified for appearance in the municipal civil infraction violation notice,
the fine amount due shall automatically be double the amounts listed
immediately above. A copy of this schedule shall be posted at the City of
Inkster City Hall and Department of Public Works.
   (D)   Authorized city officials. The following persons are authorized city
officials for purposes of issuing municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in district court) or municipal civil
infraction violation notices (alleged violators to appear at the Wayne County-
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter: the
Director of Department of Public Works; the City Engineer, or the Director of
Building, and their respective designees and authorized representatives.
   (E)   Procedures. Except as otherwise provided by this section, the
procedures for municipal civil infractions shall be as set forth in the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Inkster.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.102 CIVIL ACTIONS.
   The city, by and through the City Attorney, may bring a civil action in the
name of the city to enforce the provisions of this chapter and rules
promulgated pursuant to this chapter. Nothing in this chapter shall preclude
the city from instituting an action for appropriate legal and/or equitable
relief in Wayne County Circuit Court to restrain, correct, or abate a violation
of this chapter, a rule or regulation promulgated pursuant to this chapter, or
a stormwater construction approval issued hereunder; or to stop an illegal act;
or to abate a nuisance; or to prevent pollution or flooding.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.103 CRIMINAL PENALTIES; IMPRISONMENT.
   Any person who at the time of a violation, knew or should have known that a
violation of this chapter, or any notice, order, stormwater construction
approval, or decision or determination promulgated, issued or made by the city
under this chapter; or intentionally makes a false statement, representation,
or certification in any application for, or form pertaining to, a stormwater
construction approval, or in any other correspondence or communication, written
or oral, with the city regarding matters regulated by this chapter ; or commits
any other act that is punishable under state law by imprisonment for up to 90
days; shall, upon conviction, be guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by a fine
of $500 per violation, per day, or imprisonment for up to 90 days, or both such
fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.104 SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   Each act of violation, and each day or portion of a day that a violation of
this chapter, rules or regulations promulgated pursuant to this chapter,
stormwater construction approval, order, notice, or determination issued, made
or entered into under this chapter is permitted to exist or occur constitutes a
separate offense and shall be punishable as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
APPEAL
§ 55.115 APPEAL.
   (A)   Any person whose legal rights, duties, or privileges are determined by
the city pursuant to this chapter or a rule promulgated pursuant to this
chapter, and who is aggrieved by the city’s determination, may appeal to the
Stormwater Appeals Board for relief of that grievance. An appeal shall be made
according to the procedure set forth in this chapter.
   (B)   The Stormwater Appeals Board shall consist of the Director of the
Department of Public Works; the City Administrator; and the City Engineer; or
their designees. Meetings of the Stormwater Appeals Board shall be in person
and shall be open to all interested parties.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
§ 55.116 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An appeal shall be in writing, shall be addressed to the Stormwater
Appeals Board, to the Department of Public Works, and shall be received within
20 days of the decision or act that is the subject of the appeal. The appeal
shall be made in triplicate, shall set forth the specific act or matter
complained of and in dispute, and shall include all documentation that supports
the appellant’s position. The appellant may be required to post a fee at the
time of filing to cover the cost of processing the appeal.
   (B)   Within 30 days of receipt of a written appeal, the Department of
Public Works shall acknowledge such receipt in writing, and shall set a day and
time for an appellate hearing to be conducted in accordance with division (D)
of this section. If appropriate, the Department of Public Works may schedule a
conciliation meeting with the appellant in accordance with division (C) of this
section.
   (C)   Conciliation meeting.
      (1)   The purpose of a conciliation meeting is to attempt to resolve the
matter before an appeal is forwarded to the Stormwater Appeals Board. If a
conciliation meeting is held, it shall occur as soon as practicable, at the
mutual convenience of the parties. Conciliation meetings shall be open to all
interested parties and their representatives.
      (2)   After a conciliation meeting, if the appellant or the Department of
Public Works determines that an appeal cannot be resolved through a
conciliation meeting, the parties shall so inform the Stormwater Appeals Board
in writing, and an appellate hearing shall be conducted in accordance with
division (D) of this section. Additional conciliation meetings shall not be
necessary.
      (3)   If the Department of Public Works and/or City Engineer and the
appellant determine that the subject of the appeal has been satisfactorily
resolved through the conciliation meeting process or otherwise, the agreement
shall be incorporated into a consent agreement pursuant to §
55.098.
   (D)   Hearing procedure.
      (1)   A notice shall be sent to the appellant at least ten days prior to
the hearing. The notice shall include:
         (a)   A statement of the date, time place, and nature of the hearing;
         (b)   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which
the hearing will be held;
         (c)   A reference to the particular sections of this chapter involved
in the appeal;
         (d)   A short statement of the issues involved.
      (2)   At the hearing, the Stormwater Appeals Board shall receive
testimony and evidence provided by the appellant, the city and/or others as the
Stormwater Appeals Board deems necessary. During the hearing, the Stormwater
Appeals Board shall not be bound strictly by the rules of evidence that would
apply in a court, but shall have the authority to receive such evidence as
deemed relevant and material. The Stormwater Appeals Board may give the
evidence as is received such weight and probative value as, in the Board’s
discretion, is deemed proper.
      (3)   Within 30 days after the hearing, the Stormwater Appeals Board
shall render a decision in writing. This 30-day period may be extended for good
cause. The decision shall include a brief statement of factual matters at
issue, the nature of the testimony and evidence received, and a decision as to
whether the Board affirmed, rescinded, or modified the decision or action at
issue.
      (4)   The decision of the Stormwater Appeals Board shall be final and
enforceable at law. A person aggrieved by a final decision of the Stormwater
Appeals Board may seek judicial review of the decision by the Wayne County
Circuit Court. A petition for judicial review shall be filed not later than 60
days following the receipt of the final decision of the Stormwater Appeals
Board. An aggrieved person shall exhaust all administrative remedies provided
in this chapter before seeking judicial review.
(Ord. 826, passed 11-9-09)
CHAPTER 56: ILLICIT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION PROGRAM
Section
   
56.01   Short title
   
56.02   Statement of purpose
   
56.03   Definitions
   
56.04   Applicability
   
56.05   Enforcement, responsibility for administration
   
56.06   Minimum standards
   
56.07   Discharge prohibitions
   
56.08   Right of entry
   
56.09   Suspension of storm sewer system access
   
56.10   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
56.11   Monitoring of discharges
   
56.12   Requirements to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
56.13   Watercourse protection
   
56.14   Notification of spills
   
56.15   Enforcement
   
56.16   Appeal of notice of violation
   
56.17   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
56.18   Cost of the abatement of the violation
   
56.19   Injunctive relief
   
56.20   Alternative compensatory actions
   
56.21   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
56.22   Criminal prosecution
   
56.23   Remedies not exclusive
§ 56.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Illicit Discharge Elimination
Program Chapter.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the city through the regulation of non-
stormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the maximum extent
practicable as required by federal and state law. This chapter establishes
methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants into the municipal storm
sewer system in order to comply with requirements of the National Pollutant
Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives of this
chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal storm
sewer system by stormwater discharges by any user.
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal storm
sewer system.
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The Director of Public Works and his/her
authorized representatives, which shall specifically include all inspectors and
code enforcement, and any other individual designated by the Mayor to enforce
this chapter. Where applicable the terms may also mean the director of the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality or his/her designated official,
and/or the United States EPA Administrator or his/her designated official.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CITY. The City of Inkster.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   COUNTY. The County of Wayne.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
These include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of five acres
or more requiring an issued permit and small construction activities impacting
one to five acres of land deemed to operate under a national permit. Such
activities include, but are not limited to, clearing and grubbing, grading,
excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect non-stormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
56.07.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. Either of the following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any non-stormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by an authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by an authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, § 122.26(b)(14).
   MS4. A municipal separate storm sewer system.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA),
or by the State of Michigan under authority delegated pursuant to 33 USC § 1342
(b) and codified in the Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Act at MCLA §§ 324.101, et seq., that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States or State of Michigan, whether the permit is
applicable on an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. Pollutants may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
articles, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution;
floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and
wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals;
animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM or STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. A publicly owned facility by
which stormwater is collected and/or conveyed, including, but not limited to,
any roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets,
piped storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural
and human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to stormwater, stormwater conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed or undeveloped lands unless expressly exempted by an
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.05 ENFORCEMENT, RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be enforceable by the Director of Public Works or other
authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.06 MINIMUM STANDARDS.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore, this chapter does not intend or imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.07 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Prohibition of illegal discharges.  No person shall discharge or cause
to be discharged into the storm drain system or watercourses, any materials,
including, but not limited to, pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards,
other than stormwater. The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal
discharge to the storm drain system is prohibited; however, the following
discharges are exempt from prohibition as described:
      (1)   The discharges and flows from firefighting activities if they are
identified as not being a significant source of pollutants to the waters of the
state;
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the Director of Public Works as
being necessary to protect public health and safety;
      (3)   Dye testing, when there has been verbal notification to the
Director of Public Works and State Department of Environmental Quality
Procedures have been followed; or
      (4)   Discharges permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste
discharge order issued to the discharger and administered under the authority
of the Federal Environmental Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is
in full compliance with all requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and
other applicable laws and regulations, and provided that written approval has
been granted for any discharge to the storm drain system.
      (5)   The following discharges or flows if they are identified as not
being a significant contributor to violations of water quality standards: water
line flushing and discharges from potable water sources; landscape irrigation
runoff, lawn watering runoff, and irrigation waters; diverted stream flows and
flows from riparian habitats and wetlands; rising groundwaters and springs;
uncontaminated pumped groundwater, except for groundwater cleanups specifically
authorized by NPDES permits; foundation drains, water from crawl space pumps,
footing drains and basement sump pumps; air conditioning condensation; waters
from noncommercial car washing; street wash water; dechlorinated swimming pool
water from single-, two- or three-family residences. Other swimming pools shall
not be discharged to stormwater or to surface waters of the state without NPDES
permit authorization from the MDEQ.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to a storm drain system or, MS4, or
allows such a connection to continue.
   (C)   Prohibition of direct dumping or disposal of materials into the MS4.
The direct dumping of materials or discharges into the MS4 is prohibited except
for those illicit discharges identified as not being a significant contributor
to violations of water quality standards.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.08 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Director of Public Works or other authorized enforcement agency shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purposes of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling and testing of suspected non-stormwater
discharges in accordance with the provisions of this chapter with permission of
the property owner or operator. Refusal of reasonable access to the Director of
Public Works and/or representatives of the authorized enforcement agency to any
part of the premises is a violation of this chapter and may result in a request
for a warrant for inspection from the court.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.09 SUSPENSION OF STORM SEWER SYSTEM ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations.  The
Director of Public Works or other authorized enforcement agency may, without
prior notice, suspend storm sewer system discharge access to a person when such
suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the environment, or
to the health or welfare of persons, or to the storm sewer system or the waters
of the United States or this state. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the storm
sewer system or waters of the United States or this state, or to minimize
danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the storm sewer system in violation of this chapter may have
their storm sewer system access terminated if such termination would abate or
reduce an illicit discharge. The Director of Public Works will notify a
violator of the proposed termination of its storm sewer system access. The
violator may petition the Director of Public Works for reconsideration and
hearing.
   (C)   Violation.  A person violates this chapter if the person reinstates
storm sewer system access to premises terminated pursuant to this section,
without the prior approval of the Director of Public Works or other authorized
enforcement agency.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.10 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to the
Director of Public Works prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.11 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   The Director of Public Works has the right to require non-residential
dischargers to install monitoring equipment as necessary if a non-stormwater
discharge is suspected. The facility's sampling and monitoring equipment shall
be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition by the
discharger at its own expense. All devices used to measure stormwater flow and
quality shall be calibrated to ensure their accuracy.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.12 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The Director of Public Works or his or her designee will adopt requirements
identifying Best Management Practices for any activity, operation, or facility
which may cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the
storm drain system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial
or industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated
with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance
with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.13 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately-owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.14 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S.,
said person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery,
containment, and cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of
hazardous materials, said person shall immediately notify emergency response
agencies of the occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a
release of non-hazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized
enforcement agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next
business day. Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written
notice addressed and mailed to the Director of Public Works within three
business days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials
emanates from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator
of such establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the
discharge and the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall
be retained for at least three years.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.15 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the Director of Public Works or his or
her designee finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a
requirement of this chapter, the city may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require, without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination of hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   Abatement of a violation. If abatement of a violation and/or
restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a
deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be completed. Said
notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or
restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by the city or
its designee at the violator's expense.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.16 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the city. The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the date of
the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority
or its designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the
notice of appeal. The decision of the city or its designee shall be final.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.17 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days
of the decision of the city upholding its decision, then representatives of the
city or its designees shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property with consent of the property owner or operator. If consent
is not provided, the city may request a warrant from the court to enter the
property to abate and restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any
person, owner, agent or person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow
the city or its designee to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.18 COST OF THE ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within ten days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely
manner as determined by the decision of the city or by the expiration of the
time in which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment
against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount
of the assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability
shall be paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 5%
per annum shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following
discovery of the violation.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.19 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the city may petition
for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.20 ALTERNATIVE COMPENSATORY ACTIONS.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the city may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
actions; including, but not limited to storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, and creek cleanup.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.21 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense. The city may also simultaneously or alternatively initiate
a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such
nuisance.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.22 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person who violates this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor
and subject to the penalties set forth in
Chapter 39 of this code.
   (B)   The city may recover all attorney's fees; court costs; and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
§ 56.23 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 874, passed 4-18-19)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   TRAFFIC RULES
      
72.   STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
      
73.   BICYCLES AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.01   Adoption by reference
   
70.02   References in code
   
70.03   Additions, deletions and amendments
Motor Carrier Safety Act
   
70.15   Adoption by reference
   
70.16   Purpose
   
70.17   Jurisdiction
   
70.18   Additions, deletions and amendments
   
70.19   Notice to be published; copy on file
Michigan Vehicle Code
   
70.25   Adoption by reference
   
70.26   References in code
 
   
70.99   Penalty
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE
§ 70.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages promulgated by
the Director of State Police and published in the 1979 edition of the Michigan
Administrative Code and amendments published in the Quarterly Supplement No. 5
to the 1979 edition of the Michigan Administrative Code, and as may be amended
by the State of Michigan from time to time, in accordance with Public Act 62 of
1956, State of Michigan, is hereby adopted by reference as in this chapter
modified. (Copies of the Uniform Traffic Code adopted hereby, are available for
public inspection and distribution in the office of the City Clerk.)
('68 Code, § 5-101) (Ord. 580, passed 7-6-82)
§ 70.02 REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Michigan Cities, Townships and
Villages to GOVERNMENTAL UNIT shall mean the City of Inkster.
('68 Code, § 5-102) (Ord. 580, passed 7-6-82)
§ 70.03 ADDITIONS, DELETIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections and sub-sections of the Uniform Traffic Code are
hereby amended or deleted as set forth in this section, and additional sections
and sub-sections are added as indicated. Subsequent section numbers used in
this section shall refer to the like numbered sections of the Uniform Traffic
Code.
   On page 2, delete the entire first paragraph and replace with the following:
   "The following Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages is
authorized by Act No. 62 of the Public Acts of 1956, being sections 257.951 to
257.954 of the Compiled Laws of 1970. It was promulgated by publication
February 14, 1958 in Supplement No. 13 to the 1954 Michigan Administrative
Code. Amendments were promulgated, effective February 14, 1961 and published in
Supplement No. 25, and effective February 26, 1968 and published in Supplement
No. 54, to the 1954 Michigan Administrative Code; and effective August 4, 1976
and published in Supplement No. 88 to the 1954 Michigan Administrative Code."
(Errata, 2/10/77)
   Sec. 5.10a. After Section 5.10, add Section 5.10a as follows:
   "Sec. 5.10a. Speed zones.
   It shall be prima facie lawful for the driver of a vehicle to drive the same
on the following streets at a rate of speed not to exceed the following;
provided, that in any case when such speeds would be unsafe, a vehicle shall be
driven at a prudent speed as provided in Section 5.9, such speed zones to be
appropriately marked:
Street Between Permitted Miles per Hour
Street           Between                             Permitted Miles per Hour
Beech Daly       Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street 30
John Daly        Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street 30
Inkster Road     Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street 30
Middlebelt Road  Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street 25
John Daly        Michigan Avenue to Avondale Street  30
Harrison Avenue  Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street 25
Michigan Avenue  East-bound Traffic
                 Henry Ruff Road to Wiethoff Court   40
Michigan Avenue  West-bound Traffic                  40
                 Beech Daly Road to West Street
Michigan Avenue  West Street to Henry Ruff Road      40
Inkster Road     Both lanes of traffic
                 Michigan Avenue to Cherry Hill Road 35
Middlebelt Road  Michigan Avenue to Cherry Hill Road 45
Cherry Hill Road East-bound traffic
                 Henry Ruff to Inkster Road          40
Cherry Hill Road West-bound traffic
                 Inkster Road to Beech Daly          35
Annapolis Street Beech Daly to Middlebelt Road       30
 
   All other streets and highways, except as hereinbefore provided, 25 miles;
provided the council may by resolution change the speed limits herein provided
as it may deem advisable." (Ord. 69, passed - - )
Section 5.15 of the Code of Ordinances of the City of Inkster is hereby amended
to provide as follows:
Sec. 5.15. Driving while under influence of Intoxicating liquor or controlled
substance or with certain blood alcohol percentage; accident; arrest, without
warrant.
   A.   OUIL, UBAL, OUICS and Attempts.
      (1)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this city if either of the following applies:
         (a)   The person is under the influence of intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance.
         (b)   The person has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
      (2)   The owner of a vehicle or a person in charge or in control of a
vehicle shall not authorize or knowingly permit the vehicle to be operated upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of motor vehicles,
within this city by a person who is under the influence of intoxicating liquor,
a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance, who has an alcohol content of 0.10 grams or more per 100
milliliters of blood per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine,
or whose ability to operate the motor vehicle is visibly impaired due to the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, a controlled substance, or a combination of
intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance.
      (3)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle upon
a highway or other place open to the general public or generally accessible to
motor vehicles, including an area designated for the parking of vehicles,
within this city when, due to the consumption of an intoxicating liquor, a
controlled substance, or a combination of an intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance, the person's ability to operate the vehicle is visibly
impaired. If a person is charged with violating subsection (1), a finding of
guilty under this subsection may be rendered.
      (4)   If a person is convicted of violating subsection (1), the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor, and may be punished by one or more of the following:
         (a)   Service to the community for a period of not more than 45 days.
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
         (c)   A fine of not less than $100 or more than $500.
         (d)   In the judgment of sentence under this section, the court may
order vehicle immobilization as provided in section K, MCL 257.904d.
         (e)   A person sentenced to perform service to the community under
this subsection shall not receive compensation, and shall reimburse the state
or appropriate local unit of government for the cost of supervision incurred by
the state or local unit of government as a result of the person's activities in
that service.
      (5)   In addition to imposing the sanctions prescribed under subsection
(4), the court may, pursuant to the code of criminal procedure, Act No. 175 of
the Public Acts of Michigan of 1927 (MCL 760.1 et seq., MSA 28.841 et seq.), as
amended, order the person to pay the costs of the prosecution.
      (6)   The secretary of state shall impose license sanctions pursuant to
section C hereof, and MCL 257.625b; MSA 9.2325(2)
      (7)   A person who is convicted of violating subsection (2) is guilty of
a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days, or a fine
of not less than $100 or more than $500, or both.
      (8)   If a person is convicted of violating subsection (3), the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or more of the following:
         (a)   Service to the community for a period of not more than 45 days.
         (b)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
         (c)   A fine of not more than $500.
         (d)   In addition to imposing the sanctions prescribed in this
section, the court may, pursuant to the code of criminal procedure, Act No. 175
of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1927 (MCL 760.1 et seq., MSA 28.841 et seq.),
as amended, order the person to pay the costs of the prosecution.
         (e)   The secretary of state shall impose license sanctions pursuant
to section C hereof and MCL 257.625b, MSA 9.2325(2).
         (f)   A person sentenced to perform service to the community under
this subsection shall not receive compensation, and shall reimburse the state
or appropriate local unit of government for the cost of supervision incurred by
the state or local unit of government as a result of the person's activities in
that service.
         (g)   In the judgment of sentence under this section, the court may
order vehicle immobilization as provided in section K, MCL 257.904d.
      (9)   A person who is less than 21 years of age, whether licensed or not,
shall not operate a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles, within this city if the person has any bodily
alcohol content. As used in this subsection, the term “any bodily alcohol
content” means either of the following:
         (a)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.02 grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
         (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from
the consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
      (10)   If a person is convicted of violating subsection (9), the
following shall apply:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (b), the person is
guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by one or both of the following:
            (i)   Service to the community for not more than 45 days.
            (ii)   A fine of not more than $500.
         (b)   If the violation occurs within seven years of one or mote prior
convictions, the person may be sentenced to one or both of the following:
            (i)   Community service for not more than 60 days.
            (ii)   A fine of not more than $500.
            (iii)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
            (iv)   As used in subsection (b), the term “prior conviction” means
a conviction for a violation or attempted violation of MCL 257.625(1), (3),(4),
(5) (6) or (7), MSA 9.2325(1), (3), (4), (5) (6) or (7), MCL 257.625m, or
former MCL 257.625 (1) or (2), MSA 9.2325(1) or (2), or former MCL 257.625(b),
MSA 9.2325(2), or a local ordinance substantially corresponding to such
statutes, or a law of another State substantially corresponding to such
statutes. Or negligent homicide, manslaughter, or murder resulting from the
operation of a vehicle or an attempt to commit any of those crimes.
      (11)   A person, whether licensed or not, shall not operate a vehicle in
violation of subsection (9), while another person who is less than 16 years of
age is occupying the vehicle. A person who violates this subdivision is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable as follows:
         (a)   A person who violates this subdivision is guilty of a
misdemeanor and may be sentenced to 1 or more of the following:
            (i)   Service to the community for not more than 60 days.
            (ii)   A fine of not more than $500.
            (iii)   Imprisonment for not more than 93 days.
            (iv)   In the judgment of sentence, the court may, unless the
vehicle is ordered forfeited under section 3, MCL 257.625n, order vehicle
immobilization as provided in section K, MCL 257.904d.
      (12)   If the violation of section (11) occurs within 7 years of a prior
conviction or within 10 years of 2 or more prior convictions, the court shall,
unless the vehicle is ordered forfeited under section 3, MCL 257.625n, order
vehicle immobilization as provided in section K, MCL 257.904d in the judgment
of sentence.
      (13)   A violation of section (11) does not prohibit a person from being
charged with, convicted of, or punished for a violation of section (1) or (3)
that is committed by the person while violating section (11). However, points
shall not be assessed under MCL 257.320a for both a violation of section (1),
or (3) and a violation of this section for conduct arising out of the same
transaction.
      (14)   A person sentenced to perform community service under this section
shall not receive any compensation and shall reimburse the state or appropriate
local unit of government for the cost of supervision incurred by the state or
local unit of government as a result of the person's activities in that
service.
      (15)   If a person is charged with a violation of subsection (1), (3), or
(11), the court shall not permit the defendant to enter a plea of guilty or
nolo contendere to a charge of violating subsection (9) in exchange for
dismissal of the original charge. This subsection does not prohibit the court
from dismissing the charge upon the motion of the prosecuting attorney.
      (16)   A prior conviction shall be established at sentencing by one or
more of the following:
         (a)   An abstract of conviction.
         (b)   A copy of the defendant's driving record.
         (c)   An admission by the defendant.
      (17)   A person who is convicted of an attempted violation of subsection
(1) or (3) shall be punished as if the offense had been completed.
      (18)   When assessing points and taking licensing action under this act,
the secretary of state shall treat a conviction of an attempted violation of
subsection (1), (3) or (9), or a law of another state substantially
corresponding to subsection (1), (3) or (9) the same as if the offense had been
completed.
      (19)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (21), if a person is
charged with operating a vehicle while under the influence of a controlled
substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in
violation of subsection (1), the court shall require the jury to return a
special verdict in the form of a written finding or, if the court convicts the
person without injury or accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court
shall make a finding as to whether the person was under the influence of a
controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled
substance at the time of the violation.
      (20)   Except as otherwise provided in subsection (21), if a person is
charged with operating a vehicle while his ability to operate the vehicle was
visibly impaired due to his consumption of a controlled substance or a
combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance in violation of
subsection (3) or a local ordinance substantially corresponding to subsection
(3), the court shall require the jury to return: a special verdict in the form
of a written finding or, if the court convicts the person without injury or
accepts a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, the court shall make a finding as
to whether due to the consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of
intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance, the person's ability to operate
a motor vehicle was visibly impaired at the time of the violation.
      (21)   A special verdict described in subsections (19) and (20) is not
required if injury is instructed to make a finding solely as to either of the
following:
         (a)   Whether the defendant was under the influence of a controlled
substance or of a combination of intoxicating liquor and a controlled substance
at the time of the violation.
         (b)   Whether the defendant was visibly impaired due to his
consumption of a controlled substance or a combination of intoxicating liquor
and a controlled substance at the time of the violation.
      (22)   If injury or court makes a finding under subsection (19), (20) or
(21) that the defendant operated a motor vehicle under the influence of or
while impaired due to the consumption of a controlled substance, or combination
of a controlled substance and an intoxicating liquor, the court shall do both
of the following:
         (a)   Report the finding to the secretary of state.
         (b)   Forward to the department of state police, on forms prescribed
by the state court administrator, a record that specifies the penalties imposed
by the court, including any term of imprisonment and any sanction imposed under
section 3, MCL 257.625n, and section K, MCL 257.904d.
      (23)   Except as otherwise provided by law, a record described in
subsection (22)(b) is a public record, and the department of state police shall
retain the information contained on that record for a period of not less than
seven years.
      (24)   In a prosecution for a violation of subsection (9), the defendant
shall bear the burden of proving that the consumption of intoxicating liquor
was a part of a generally recognized religious service of ceremony by a
preponderance of the evidence.
   B.   Warrantless arrest at accident; preliminary chemical breath analysts;
chemical tests; arrest; and evidence.
      (1)   A peace officer, without a warrant, may arrest a person when the
peace officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person was, at the time
of an accident, the operator of a vehicle involved in the accident in this city
and was operating the vehicle in violation of this ordinance.
      (2)   A peace officer, without a warrant, may arrest a person if that
person is found in the driver's seat of a vehicle parked or stopped on a
highway or street within this city if any part of the vehicle intrudes into the
roadway and the peace officer has reasonable cause to believe the person was
operating the vehicle in violation of this ordinance.
      (3)   A peace officer who has reasonable cause to believe that a person
was operating a vehicle upon a public highway or other place open to the public
or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated for the
parking of vehicles, within this city, and that the person by the consumption
of intoxicating liquor may have affected his ability to operate a vehicle, or
reasonable cause to believe that a person was operating a commercial motor
vehicle within the state while the person's blood, breath, or urine contained
any measurable amount of alcohol or while the person had any detectable
presence of intoxicating liquor, or reasonable cause to believe that a person
who is less than 21 years of age was operating a vehicle upon a public highway
or other place open to the public or generally accessible to motor vehicles,
including an area designated for the parking of vehicles, within this city,
while the person had any bodily alcohol content as that term is defined in
section A(9), may require the person to submit to a preliminary chemical breath
analysis. The following provisions apply with respect to a preliminary chemical
breath analysis administered pursuant to this subsection:
         (a)   A peace officer may arrest a person based in whole or in part
upon the results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis.
         (b)   The results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis are
admissible in a criminal prosecution for a crime enumerated in section D(1) or
in an administrative hearing for one or more of the following purposes:
            (i)   To assist the court or hearing officer in determining a
challenge to the validity of an arrest. This subparagraph does not limit the
introduction of other competent evidence to establish the validity of an
arrest.
            (ii)   As evidence of the defendant's breath alcohol content, if
offered by the defendant to rebut testimony elicited on cross-examination of a
defense witness that the defendant's breath alcohol content was higher at the
time of the charged offense than when a chemical test was administered under
subsection (4).
            (iii)   As evidence of the defendant's breath alcohol content, if
offered by the prosecution to rebut testimony elicited on cross-examination of
a prosecution witness that the defendant's breath alcohol content was lower at
the time of the charged offense than when a chemical test was administered
under subsection (4).
         (c)   A person who submits to a preliminary chemical breath analysis
shall remain subject to the requirements of sections D, E, F, and G for the
purposes of chemical tests described in those sections.
         (d)   A person who refuses to submit to a preliminary chemical breath
analysis upon a lawful request by a peace officer is responsible for a civil
infraction.
         (e)   A peace officer shall use the results of a preliminary chemical
breath analysis conducted pursuant to this section to determine whether to
order a person out-of-service under MCL 257.319d, MSA 9.2019(4). A peace
officer shall order out-of-service as required under MCL 257.319d, MSA 9.2019
(4), a person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle and who refuses to
submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis as provided in this section.
This section does not limit use of other competent evidence by the peace
officer to determine whether to order a person out-of-service under MCL 257.3
19d, MSA 9.2019(4).
         (f)   A person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle and who is
requested to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis under this
section shall be advised that refusing a peace officer's request to take a test
described in this section is a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not
more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $500.00, or both, and will result
in the issuance of a 24-hour out-of-service order.
         (g)   A person who was operating a commercial motor vehicle and who
refuses to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis upon a peace
officer's lawful request is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment
for not more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $500.00, or both
      (4)   The following provisions apply with respect to chemical tests and
analysis of a person's blood, urine, or breath; other than preliminary chemical
breath analysis:
         (a)   The amount of alcohol or presence of a controlled substance or
both in a driver's blood at the time alleged as shown by chemical analysis of
the person's blood, urine, or breath is admissible into evidence in any civil
or criminal proceeding.
         (b)   A person arrested for a crime described in section D(1) shall be
advised of all of the following:
            (i)   That if he takes a chemical test of his blood, urine, or
breath administered at the request of a peace officer, he has the right to
demand that a person of his own choosing administer one of the chemical tests;
that the results of the test are admissible in judicial proceedings as provided
under this act and will be considered with other admissible evidence in
determining the innocence or guilt of the defendant; and that he is responsible
for obtaining a chemical analysis of, a test sample obtained pursuant to his
own request.
            (ii)   That if he refuses the request of a peace officer to take a
test described in subparagraph (i), a test shall not be given without a court
order, but the peace officer may seek to obtain a court order.
            (iii)   That his refusal of the request of a peace officer to take
a test described in subparagraph (i) will result in the suspension of his
operator's or chauffeur's license and vehicle group designation, or operating
privilege, and in the addition of six points to his driving record.
         (c)   Sample or specimen of urine or breath shall be taken and
collected in a reasonable manner. Only a licensed physician, or an individual
operating under the delegation of a licensed physician under MCL 333.16215
qualified to withdraw blood and acting in a medical environment, at the request
of a peace officer, may withdraw blood to determine the amount of alcohol or
presence of a controlled substance or both in the person's blood, as provided
in this subsection. Liability for a crime or civil damages predicated on the
act of withdrawing or analyzing blood and related procedures shall not attach
to a licensed physician or individual operating under the delegation of
licensed physician who withdraws or analyzes blood or assists in the withdrawal
or analysis in accordance with this act unless the withdrawal or analysis is
performed in a negligent manner.
         (d)   A chemical test described in this subsection shall be
administered at the request of a peace officer having reasonable grounds to
believe the person has committed a crime described in section D(1). A person
who takes a chemical test administered at the request of a peace officer, as
provided in this section, shall be given a reasonable opportunity to have a
person of his own choosing administer one of the chemical tests described in
this subsection within a reasonable time after his detention, and the results
of the test shall be admissible and shall be considered with other admissible
evidence in determining the innocence or guilt of the defendant. If the person
charged is administered a chemical test by a person of his own choosing, the
person charged shall be responsible for obtaining a chemical analysis of the
test sample.
         (e)   If, after an accident, the driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident is transported to a medical facility and a sample of the driver's
blood is withdrawn at that time for the purpose of medical treatment, the
results of a chemical analysis of that sample shall be admissible in any civil
or criminal proceeding to show the amount of alcohol or presence of a
controlled substance or both in the person's blood at the time alleged,
regardless of whether the person had been offered or had refused a chemical
test. The medical facility or person performing the chemical analysis shall
disclose the results of the analysis to a prosecuting attorney who requests the
results for use in a criminal prosecution as provided in this subdivision. A
medical facility or person disclosing information in compliance with this
subsection shall not be civilly or criminally liable for making the disclosure.
         (f)   If, after an accident, the driver of a vehicle involved in the
accident is deceased, a sample of the decedent's blood shall be withdrawn in a
manner directed by the medical examiner for the purpose of determining the
amount of alcohol or the presence of a controlled substance, or both, in the
decedent's blood. The medical examiner shall give the results: of the chemical
analysis of the sample to the law enforcement agency investigating the
accident, and that agency shall forward the results to the department of state
police.
         (g)   The department of state police shall promulgate uniform rules in
compliance with the administrative procedure act of 1969, MCL 24.201 to 24.328
for the administration of chemical tests for the purposes of this section. An
instrument used for a preliminary chemical breath analysis may be used for a
chemical test described in this subsection if approved pursuant to rules
promulgated by the department of state police.
      (5)   The provisions of subsection (3) relating to chemical testing do
not limit the introduction of any other admissible evidence bearing upon the
question of whether a person was impaired by, or under the influence of,
intoxicating liquor or a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating
liquor and a controlled substance, or whether the person had an alcohol content
of 0.10 grams or more per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath,
or per 67 milliliters of urine, or if the person is less than 21 years of age,
whether the person had any bodily alcohol content within his body. As used in
this section, the term "any bodily alcohol content" means either of the
following:
         (a)   An alcohol content of not less than 0.2. grams or more than 0.07
grams per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67
milliliters of urine.
         (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from
the consumption of intoxicating liquor, other than consumption of intoxicating
liquor as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
      (6)   If a chemical test described in subsection (4) is administered, the
results of the test shall be made available to the person charged or the
person's attorney upon written request to the prosecution, with a copy of the
request filed with the court. The prosecution shall furnish the results at
least two days before the date of the trial. The results of the test shall be
offered as evidence by the prosecution in that trial. Failure to fully comply
with the request shall bar the admission of the results into evidence by the
prosecution.
      (7)   Except in a prosecution relating solely to a violation of section A
(3) or A(9), the amount of alcohol in the driver's blood, breath, or urine at
the time alleged as shown by chemical analysis of the person's blood, breath,
or urine shall give rise to the following presumptions:
         (a)   If there were at the time 0.07 grams or less of alcohol per 100
milliliters of the defendant's blood, per 210 liters of the defendant's breath,
or per 67 milliliters of the defendant's urine, it is presumed that the
defendant's ability to operate a motor vehicle was not impaired due to the
consumption of intoxicating liquor, and that the defendant was not under the
influence of intoxicating liquor.
         (b)   If there were at the time more than 0.07 grams but less than
0.10 grams of alcohol per 100 milliliters of the defendant's blood, per 216
liters of the defendant's breath, or per 67 milliliters of the defendant's
urine, it is presumed that the defendant's ability to operate a vehicle was
impaired within the provisions of subsection A(3) due to the consumption of
intoxicating liquor.
         (c)   If there were at the time 0.10 grams or more of alcohol per 100
milliliters of the defendant's blood, per 210 liters of the defendant's breath,
or per 67 milliliters of the defendant's urine, it is presumed that the
defendant was under the influence of intoxicating liquor.
   C.   Misdemeanor violation; arraignment; pretrial conference; advising
accused before accepting plea of guilty or nolo contendere; screening,
assessment, and rehabilitative services; licensing sanctions; surrender of
license or permit; stay.
      (1)   A person arrested for a misdemeanor violation of sections A(1), A
(3) or A(9) shall be arraigned on the citation complaint or warrant not more
than 14 days after the date of arrest, or if an arrest warrant is reissued, not
more than 14 days after the reissued arrest warrant is served, whichever is
later the court shall not dismiss a case or impose any other sanction for a
failure to comply with this time limit.
      (2)   The court shall schedule a pretrial conference between the
prosecuting attorney, the defendant, and the defendant's attorney in each case
in which the defendant is charged with a misdemeanor violation of sections A
(1), A(3) or A(9). The pretrial conference shall be held not more than 35 days
after the date of the person's arrest for the violation or, if an arrest
warrant is reissued not more than 35 days after the date the reissued warrant
is served. The court shall order the defendant to attend the pretrial
conference and may accept a plea by the defendant at the conclusion of the
pretrial conference. The court may adjourn the pretrial conference upon the
motion of a party for good cause shown. Not more than one adjournment shall be
granted to the party, and the length of an adjournment shall not exceed 14
days. The court shall, except for delay attributable to the unavailability of
the defendant, a witness, or material evidence, or due to an interlocutory
appeal or exceptional circumstances, but not a delay caused by docket
congestion, finally adjudicate by a plea of guilty or nolo contendere, or the
entry of a verdict, or by other final disposition, a case in which the
defendant is charged with a misdemeanor violation of sections A(1), A(3) or A
(9) within 77 days after the person is arrested for the violation or if an
arrest warrant is reissued not more than 77 days after the date the reissued
arrest warrant is served. The court shall not dismiss a case or impose any
other sanction for a failure to comply with the applicable time limit.
      (3)   Before accepting a plea of guilty or nolo contendere under section
A, the court shall advise the accused of the maximum possible term of
imprisonment and the maximum possible fine that may be imposed for the
violation, and shall advise the defendant that the maximum possible license
sanctions that may be imposed will be based upon the master driving record
maintained by the secretary of state under MCL 257.204a, MSA 9.1904.
      (4)   Before imposing sentence for a violation of section A(l), A(3) or A
(9), the court shall order the person to undergo screening and assessment by a
person or agency designated by the office of substance abuse services, to
determine whether the person is likely to benefit from rehabilitative services,
including alcohol or drug education and alcohol or drug treatment programs.
Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the court may order the person
to participate in and successfully complete one or more appropriate
rehabilitative programs as part of the sentence. The person shall pay for the
costs of the screening, assessment, and rehabilitative services. If the person
has 1 or more prior convictions, the court shall order the person to
participate in and successfully complete 1 or more appropriate rehabilitative
programs as part of the sentence. The person shall pay for the costs of the
screening, assessment, and rehabilitative services.
      (5)   If the judgment and the sentence are appealed to the circuit court,
the court may, ex parte, order the secretary of state to stay the suspension,
revocation, or restricted license issued by the secretary of state pending the
outcome of the appeal.
   D.   Consent to chemical tests; certain persons not considered to have given
consent to withdrawal of blood; administration of tests.
      (1)   A person who operates a vehicle upon a public highway or other
place open to the general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles,
including an area designated for the parking of vehicles, within this city is
considered to have given consent to chemical tests of his blood, breath, or
urine for the purpose of determining the amount of alcohol or presence of a
controlled substance or both in his blood or urine or the amount of alcohol in
his breath if the person is arrested for a violation of subsection A(l), A(3)
or A(9).
      (2)   A person who is afflicted with hemophilia, diabetes, or a condition
requiring the use of an anticoagulant under the direction of a physician shall
not be considered to have given consent to the withdrawal of blood.
      (3)   The tests shall be administered as provided in subsection B(3).
   E.   Refusal to submit to chemical test; court order; report to secretary of
state; form.
      (1)   If a person refuses the request of a peace officer to submit to a
chemical test offered pursuant to subsection B(3), a test shall not be given
without a court order, but the officer may seek to obtain the court order.
      (2)   A written report shall immediately be forwarded to the secretary of
state by the peace officer. The report shall state that the officer had
reasonable grounds to believe that the person had committed a crime described
in subsection D(1), and that the person had refused to submit to the test upon
the request of the peace officer and had been advised of the consequence of the
refusal. The form of the report shall be prescribed and furnished by the
secretary of state.
   F.   Refusal to submit to chemical tests; notice of report; request for a
hearing; counsel.
      (1)   If a person refuses to submit to a chemical test pursuant to
subsection B(3), the peace officer shall immediately notify the person, in
writing, that within 14 days of the date of the notice the person may request a
hearing as provided in section G. The form of the notice shall be prescribed
and furnished by the secretary of state.
      (2)   The notice shall specifically state that failure to request a
hearing within 14 days will result in the suspension of the person's license or
permit to drive. The notice shall also state that there is not a requirement
that the person retain counsel for the hearing, though counsel would be
permitted to represent the person at the hearing.
   G.   Effect of failure to request hearing; hearing procedure; notice;
authority of hearing officer; scope of hearing; record; transmittal of record
to reviewing court; suspension or denial of license or permit; judicial review;
notice to motor vehicle administrator of another state.
      (1)   If a person who refuses to submit to a chemical test pursuant to
section E does not request a hearing within 14 days after the date of notice
pursuant to section F, the secretary of state shall impose the following;
license sanctions:
         (a)   If the person was operating a vehicle other than a commercial
motor vehicle, suspend or deny the person's operator's or chauffeur's license
or permit to drive, or nonresident operating privilege for six months or, for a
second or subsequent refusal within seven years, for one year. If the person is
a resident without a license or permit to operate a vehicle in the state, the
secretary of state shall not issue the person a license or permit for six
months or, for a second or subsequent refusal within seven years, for one year.
         (b)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, for the
first refusal, suspend all vehicle group designations on the person's
operator's or chauff'eur's license or permit or nonresident privilege to
operate a commercial motor vehicle or, if the person is a resident without a
license or permit to operate a commercial motor vehicle in the state, not issue
the person an operator's or chauffeur's license with vehicle group designation,
for one year.
         (c)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle, for a
second or subsequent refusal that occurred in a separate incident from and
within ten years of a prior refusal, revoke all vehicle group designations on
the person's operator's or chauffeur's license or permit or nonresident
privilege to operate a commercial motor vehicle or, if the person is a resident
without a license or permit to operate a commercial motor vehicle in the state,
not issue the person an operator's or chauffeur's license with vehicle group
designations, for not less than ten years and until the person is approved for
the issuance of a vehicle group designation.
         (d)   If the person was operating a commercial motor vehicle and was
arrested for an offense enumerated in section D other than a variation of
section B(2)(g) or 1, impose the license sanction described in subdivision (a)
and the license sanction described in subdivision (b) or (c), if applicable.
      (2)   If a hearing is requested, the secretary of state shall hold the
hearing in the same manner and under the same conditions as provided in MCL
257.322, MSA 9.2022. A person shall not order a hearing officer to make a
particular finding on any issue enumerated under subdivisions (a) to (d). Not
less than five days' notice of the hearing shall be mailed to the person
requesting the hearing, to the peace officer who filed the report under section
B, and if the prosecuting attorney requests receipt of the notice, to the
prosecuting attorney of the city where the arrest was made. The hearing officer
may administer oaths, issue subpoenas for the attendance of necessary
witnesses, and grant a reasonable request for an adjournment. Not more than one
adjournment shall be granted to a party and the length of an adjournment shall
not exceed 14 days. A hearing under this subsection shall be scheduled to be
held within 45 days after the date of arrest and shall, except for delay
attributable to the unavailability of the defendant, a witness, or material
evidence, or due to an interlocutory appeal or exceptional circumstances, but
not a delay caused by docket congestion, be finally adjudicated within 77 days
after the date of arrest. The hearing shall cover only the following issues:
         (a)   Whether the peace officer had reasonable grounds to believe that
the person had committed a crime described in subsection D(1).
         (b)   Whether the person was placed under arrest for a crime described
in subsection D(1).
         (c)   If the person refused to submit to the test upon the request of
the officer, whether the refusal was reasonable.
         (d)   Whether the person was advised of the rights under subsection B
(3).
      (3)   The hearing officer shall not impose any sanction for a failure to
comply with any time limit in subdivision (2). The hearing officer shall make a
record of proceedings held pursuant to subsection (2). The record shall be
prepared and transcribed in accordance with section 86 of the administrative
procedures act of 1969, Act No. 306 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1969 (MCL
24.286, MSA 3.560(186), as amended. Upon notification of the filing of a
petition for judicial review pursuant to Act No. 300 of the Public Acts of
Michigan of 1949 (MCL 257.323, MSA 9.2023), the hearing officer shall transmit
to the court in which the petition was filed, not less than ten days before the
matter is set for review, the original or a certified copy of the official
record of the proceedings. Proceedings at which evidence was presented need not
be transcribed and transmitted if the sole reason for review is to determine
whether or not the court will order the issuance of a restricted license. The
parties to the proceedings for judicial review may stipulate that the record be
shortened. A party unreasonably refusing to stipulate to a shortened record may
be taxed by the court in which the petition is filed for the additional costs.
The court may permit subsequent corrections to the record.
      (4)   After a hearing, if the person who requested the hearing does not
prevail, the secretary of state shall suspend or deny issuance of a license or
driving permit or a nonresident operating privilege of the person for a period
of six months, or, for a second or subsequent refusal within seven years, for
one year. If the person is a resident without a license or permit to operate a
vehicle in the state, the secretary of state shall deny to the person the
issuance of a license or permit for a period of six months, or, for a second or
subsequent refusal within seven years, for one year. The person may file a
petition in the circuit court of the county in which the arrest was made to
review the suspension or denial as provided in MCL 257.323, MSA 9.2023. If
after the hearing the person who requested the hearing prevails, the peace
officer who filed the report may, with the consent of the prosecuting attorney,
file a petition in the circuit court of the county in which the arrest was made
to review the determination of the hearing officer as provided in Act No. 300
of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1949 (MCL 257.323, MSA 9.2023), as amended.
      (5)   When it has been finally determined that a nonresident's privilege
to operate a vehicle in the state has been suspended or denied, the department
shall give notice in writing of the action taken to the motor vehicle
administrator of the state of the person's residence and of each state in which
he has a license to operate a motor vehicle.
   H.   Duties of peace officer if person refuses chemical test or if test
reveals blood alcohol content of 0.10 percent or more.
      (1)   If a person refuses a chemical test offered pursuant to subsection
B(3), or submits to the chemical test, or a chemical test that is performed
pursuant to a court order, and the test reveals an unlawful alcohol content,
the peace officer who requested the person to submit to the test shall do all
of the following:
         (a)   On behalf of the secretary of state, immediately confiscate the
person's license or permit to operate a motor vehicle, and, if the person is
otherwise eligible for a license or permit, issue a temporary license or permit
to the person. The temporary license or permit shall be on a form provided by
the secretary of state.
         (b)   Except as provided in subsection (2), immediately do all of the
following:
            (i)   Forward a copy of the written report of the person's refusal
to submit to a chemical test to the secretary of state.
            (ii)   Notice the secretary of state by means of the law
enforcement information network that a temporary license or permit was issued
to the person.
            (iii)   Destroy the person's driver's license or permit.
      (2)   If a person submits to a chemical test offered pursuant to
subsection B(3) that requires an analysis of blood or urine and a report of the
results of that chemical test is not immediately available, the peace officer
who requested the person to submit to the test shall comply with subsection (1)
(a) pending receipt of the test report. If the report reveals an unlawful
alcohol content, the peace officer who requested the person to submit to the
test shall immediately comply with subsection (1 )(b). If the report does not
reveal an unlawful alcohol content, the peace officer who requested the person
to submit to the test shall immediately notify the person of the test results,
and immediately return the person's license or permit by first class mail to
the address given at the time of arrest.
      (3)   A temporary license or permit issued under this section is valid
for one of the following time periods:
         (a)   If the case is not prosecuted, for 90 days after issuance or
until the person's license or permit is suspended, pursuant to section G,
whichever occurs earlier. The prosecuting attorney shall notify the secretary
of state if a case referred to the prosecuting attorney is not prosecuted. The
arresting law enforcement agency shall notify the secretary of state if a case
is not referred to the prosecuting attorney for prosecution.
         (b)   If the case is prosecuted, until the criminal charges against
the person are dismissed, the person is acquitted of those charges, or the
person's license or permit is suspended, restricted, or revoked.
      (4)   As used in this section, the term "unlawful alcohol content" means
any of the following, as applicable:
         (a)   If the person tested is less than 21 years of age, 0.02 grams or
more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210 liters of breath or per
67 milliliters of urine.
         (b)   If the person tested was operating a commercial motor vehicle
within this city, 0.04 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood,
per 210 liters of breath, or 67 milliliters of urine.
         (c)   If the person tested is not a person described in subdivision
(a) or (b), 0.10 grams or more of alcohol per 100 milliliters of blood, per 210
liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
   I.   Commercial motor vehicle drivers; operation of vehicle while
intoxicated, blood alcohol limits; warrantless arrest; violation, penalty.
      (1)   A person, whether licensed or not, who has an alcohol content of
0.04 grams or more but not more than 0.07 grams per 100 milliliters of blood,
per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine shall not operate a
commercial motor vehicle within this city.
      (2)   A peace officer may arrest a person without a warrant if the peace
officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person was, at the time of an
accident, the driver of a commercial motor vehicle involved in the accident and
was operating the vehicle in violation of this section; or, the person is found
in the driver's seat of a commercial vehicle parked or stopped on a highway or
street within this city if any part of the vehicle intrudes into the roadway
and the peace officer has reasonable cause to believe the person was operating
the vehicle in violation of this section.
      (3)   A person who is convicted of a violation of this section is guilty
of a misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine
of not more than $500, or both, together with costs of the prosecution.
   J.   Vehicle Forfeitures; Distribution of Proceeds.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in this section and in addition to any
other penalty provided for in this ordinance, the judgment of sentence for a
conviction for a violation of Section A(1), may require one of the following
with regard to the vehicle used in the offense if the defendant owns the
vehicle in whole or in part or leases the vehicle:
         (a)   Forfeiture of the vehicle if the defendant owns the vehicle in
whole or in part.
         (b)   Return of the vehicle to the lessor if the defendant leases the
vehicle.
      (2)   The vehicle may be seized pursuant to an order of seizure issued by
the court having jurisdiction upon a showing of probable cause that the vehicle
is subject to forfeiture or return to the lessor.
      (3)   The forfeiture of a vehicle is subject to the interest of the
holder of a security interest who did not have prior knowledge of or consent to
the violation.
      (4)   Within fourteen days after the defendant's conviction for a
violation described in subsection A(l), the prosecuting attorney may file a
petition with the court for the forfeiture of the vehicle or to have the court
order return of a leased vehicle to the lessor. The prosecuting attorney shall
give notice by first-class mail or other process to the defendant and his or
her attorney, to all owners of the vehicle and any person holding a security
interest in the vehicle that the court may require forfeiture or return of the
vehicle.
      (5)   If a vehicle is seized before disposition of the criminal
proceedings, a defendant who is an owner or lessee of the vehicle may move the
court having jurisdiction over the proceedings to require the seizing agency to
file a lien against the vehicle and to return the vehicle to the owner or
lessee pending disposition of the criminal proceedings. The court shall hear
the motion within 7 days after the motion is filed. If the defendant
establishes at the hearing that he or she holds the legal title to the vehicle
or that he or she has a leasehold interest and that it is necessary for him or
her or a member of his or her family to use the vehicle pending the outcome of
the forfeiture action, the court may order the seizing agency to return the
vehicle to the owner or lessee. If the court orders the return of the vehicle
to the owner or lessee, the court shall order the defendant to post a bond in
an amount equal to the retail value of the vehicle and shall also order the
seizing agency to file a lien against the vehicle.
      (6)   Within 14 days after notice by the prosecuting attorney is given
under subsection (4), the defendant, an owner, lessee, or holder of a security
interest may file a claim of interest in the vehicle with the court. Within 21
days after the expiration of the period for filing claims, but before
sentencing, the court shall hold a hearing to determine the legitimacy of any
claim, the extent of any co-owner's equity interest, the liability of the
defendant to any co-lessee, and whether to order the vehicle forfeited or
returned to the lessor. In considering whether to order forfeiture, the court
shall review the defendant's driving record to determine whether the defendant
has multiple convictions under MCL 257.625 or a local ordinance substantially
corresponding to MCL 257.625, or multiple suspensions, restrictions, or denials
under MCL 257.904, or both. If the defendant has multiple convictions under MCL
257.625, or multiple suspensions, restrictions, or denials under MCL 257.904,
or both, that factor shall weigh heavily in favor of forfeiture.
      (7)   If a vehicle is forfeited under this section, the unit of
government that seized the vehicle shall sell the vehicle and dispose of the
proceeds in the following order of priority:
         (a)   Pay any outstanding security interest of a secured party who did
not have prior knowledge of or consent to the commission of the violation.
         (b)   Pay the equity interest of a co-owner who did not have prior
knowledge of or consent to the commission of the violation.
         (c)   Satisfy any order of restitution entered in the prosecution for
the violation.
         (d)   Pay the claim of each person who shows that he or she is a
victim of the violation to the extent that the claim is not covered by an order
of restitution.
         (e)   Pay any outstanding lien against the property that has been
imposed by a governmental unit .
         (f)   Pay the proper expenses of the proceedings for forfeiture and
sale, including, but not limited to, expenses incurred during the seizure
process and expenses for maintaining custody of the property, advertising and
court costs.
         (g)   The balance remaining after the payment of items (a) through (f)
shall be distributed by the court having jurisdiction over the forfeiture
proceedings to the unit or units of government substantially involved in
effecting the forfeiture. Seventy-five percent of the money received by a unit
of government under this subdivision shall be used to enhance enforcement of
the criminal laws and 25% of the money shall be used to implement the crime
victim's rights act. Act No. 87 of the Public Acts of 1985, being sections
780.751 to 780.834 of the Michigan Compiled Laws. A unit of government
receiving money under this subdivision shall report annually to the department
of management and budget the amount of money received under this subdivision
that was used to enhance enforcement of the criminal laws and the amount that
was used to implement the crime victim's rights act.
      (8)   The court may order the defendant to pay to a co-lessee any
liability determined under subsection (6). The order may be enforced in the
same manner as a civil judgment.
      (9)   The return of a vehicle to the lessor under this section does not
affect or impair the lessor's rights or the defendant's obligations under the
lease.
      (10)   If the prosecuting attorney intends to seek a sanction under this
section based upon the defendant having 1 or more prior convictions the
prosecuting attorney shall include on the complaint and information, or an
amended complaint and information, filed in the district court, a statement
listing the defendant's prior convictions.
      (11)   The failure of the court or prosecutor to comply with any time
limit specified in this section does not preclude the court from ordering
forfeiture of a vehicle or its return to a lessor, unless the court finds that
the owner or claimant suffered substantial prejudice as a result of that
failure.
      (12)   The forfeiture provisions of this section do not preclude the
prosecuting attorney from pursuing a forfeiture proceeding under any other law
of this state or any other provision under this section.
   K.   Vehicle immobilization
      (1)   Vehicle immobilization applies as follows:
         (a)   For a conviction under section A(1), A(3) or A(11) with no prior
convictions, the court may order vehicle immobilization for not more than 180
days.
         (b)   For a conviction under section A(1), A(3) or A(11) within seven
years after a prior conviction, the court shall order vehicle immobilization
for not less than 90 days or more than 180 days.
         (c)   For a conviction under section A(1), A(3) or A(11) within ten
years after two or more prior convictions, the court shall order vehicle
immobilization for not less than one year or more than three years.
      (2)   The defendant shall provide the court the vehicle identification
number and registration plate number of the vehicle involved in the violation.
      (3)   The court may order vehicle immobilization under this section under
either of the following circumstances:
         (a)   The defendant is the owner, co-owner, lessee, or co-lessee of
the vehicle operated during the violation.
         (b)   The owner, co-owner, lessee, or co-lessee knowingly permitted
the vehicle to be operated in violation of section A(2) regardless of whether a
conviction resulted.
      (4)   An order required to be issued under this section shall not be
suspended.
      (5)   If a defendant is ordered imprisoned for the violation for which
immobilization is ordered, the period of immobilization shall begin at the end
of the period of imprisonment.
      (6)   As used in this section:
         (a)   Subject to subsection (7), “prior conviction” means a conviction
for any of the following, whether under a law of this state, a local ordinance
substantially corresponding to a law of this state, or a law of-another state
substantially corresponding to a law of this state:
            (i)   Except as otherwise provided in this subparagraph, a
violation or attempted violation of section 625(1), (3), (4), (5), (6), or (7),
section 625m, former section 625(1) or (2), or former section 625b. However,
only 1 violation or attempted violation of section 625(6), a local ordinance
substantially corresponding to section  625(6), or a law of another state
substantially corresponding to section  625(6) may be used as a prior
conviction.
            (ii)   Negligent homicide, manslaughter, or murder resulting from
the operation of a vehicle or an attempt to commit any of those crimes.
         (b)   “vehicle immobilization” means requiring the motor vehicle
involved in the violation immobilized in a manner provided in subsection (10)
of this ordinance.
      (7)   If 2 or more convictions described in subsection (6)(A) are
convictions for violations arising out of the same incident, only 1 conviction
shall be used to determine whether the person has a prior conviction.
      (8)   When a peace officer detains the driver of a motor vehicle for a
violation of this ordinance, the peace officer shall do all of the following:
         (a)   Immediately confiscate the vehicle's registration plate and
destroy it.
         (b)   Issue temporary vehicle registration plate for the vehicle in
the same form prescribed by the secretary of state for temporary registration
plates issued under MCL 257.226a or MCL 257.226b.
         (c)   Place the temporary vehicle registration plate on the vehicle in
the manner required by the secretary of state.
         (d)   Notify the secretary of state through the law enforcement
information network on a form prescribed by the secretary of state that the
registration plate was confiscated and destroyed, and a temporary plate was
issued.
      (9)   A temporary vehicle registration plate issued under this section is
valid until the charges against the person are dismissed, the person pleads
guilty or nolo contendere to those charges, or the person is found guilty of or
is acquitted of those charges.
      (10)   A court shall order a vehicle immobilized under this ordinance by
the use of any available technology approved by the court that locks the
ignition, wheels, or steering of the vehicle or otherwise prevents any person
from operating the vehicle or that prevents the defendant from operating the
vehicle. If a vehicle is immobilized under this section, the court may order
the vehicle stored at a location and in a manner considered appropriate by the
court. The court may order the person convicted of violating this ordinance to
pay the cost of immobilizing and storing the vehicle.
      (11)   A vehicle subject to immobilization under this section may be sold
during the period of immobilization under this section, but shall not be sold
to a person who is exempt from paying a use tax under section 3 (3)(a) of the
use tax act, 1937 PA 94, MCL 205.93, without a court order.
      (12)   A defendant who is prohibited from operating a motor vehicle by
vehicle immobilization shall not purchase, lease, or otherwise obtain a motor
vehicle during the immobilization period.
      (13)   A person shall not remove, tamper with, or bypass or attempt to
remove, tamper with, or by-pass a device that he or she knows or has reason to
know has been installed on a vehicle by court order for vehicle immobilization
or operate or attempt to operate a vehicle that he or she knows or has reason
to know has been ordered immobilized.
      (14)   A person who violates sections (12) or (13) is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not more than $500, or both.
      (15)   If a peace officer stops a vehicle that is being operated in
violation of an immobilization order, the vehicle shall be impounded pending an
order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (16)   The court shall require the defendant or a person who provides
immobilization services to the court under this section to certify that a
vehicle ordered immobilized by the court is immobilized as required.
      (17)   If the prosecuting attorney, intends to seek a sanction under this
section based upon the defendant having 1 or more prior convictions, the
prosecuting attorney shall include on the complaint and information, or an
amended complaint and information, filed in the district court, a statement
listing the defendant's prior convictions.
(Ord. 598, passed 4-4-83; Am. Ord. 787, passed 12-20-99)
   Sec. 5.16a. Consumption of liquor on highways or on property open to public.
   Delete section entirely. [Rescinded by Errata, 2/10/77] This section shall
be replaced with the following:
   "Sec. 5.16b. Consumption of liquor on any place open to the general public
or within the passenger compartment of a moving vehicle upon a highway, or
within the passenger compartment of a moving vehicle in any place open to the
general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area
designated for the parking of vehicles.
      (1)   Except as provided in subsection (2), a person shall not transport
or possess alcoholic liquor in a container that is open or uncapped or upon
which the seal is broken within the passenger compartment of a vehicle upon a
highway, or within the passenger compartment of a moving vehicle in any place
open to the general public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including
an area designated for the parking of vehicles, in this state.
      (2)   A person may transport or possess alcoholic liquor in a container
that is open or uncapped or upon which the seal is broken within the passenger
compartment of a vehicle upon a highway or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for the parking of vehicles in this state, if the vehicle does not have a trunk
or compartment separate from the passenger compartment, the container is
enclosed or encased, and the container is not readily accessible to the
occupants of the vehicle.
      (3)   This section does not apply to a passenger in a chartered vehicle
authorized to operate by the Michigan Department of Transportation.
      (4)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of subsection
(1) or (3) as aforesaid shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction
thereof shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of
prosecution or by imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment."
(Am. Ord. 707, passed 2-17-92)
   Sec. 5.95a. After Section 5.95, add Section 5.95a, as follows:
   "Sec. 5.95a. Streets designated as truck routes; restrictions.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful for any truck, except recreation vehicles,
whether loaded or unloaded, weighing more than 5,500 pounds and/or over 22 feet
in length to be operated or parked on any street in the city except those
streets hereinafter designated as 'truck routes'. Further, it shall be unlawful
to park or store any truck or trailer, including any other type of commercial
vehicle, except recreational vehicles, weighing more than 5,500 pounds and/or
over 22 feet in length on any portion of any property zoned residential, except
that for good cause shown the Chief of Police may grant a special parking
permit. It shall be further provided that the provisions of this subsection
shall not apply to the operation of trucks in excess of the weight and length
limitations herein specified when the operation of such truck is necessary for
the purpose of making one or more deliveries or pickups of materials,
manufactured products, goods, wares or merchandise on streets other than those
designated "truck routes" in the city; provided, further, that such operation
shall be permitted only for the shortest possible distance when necessary to
effect such delivery or pickup; provided, further, that trucks operated by the
city in connection with the rendering of necessary service to the residents of
the city may be operated on any or all streets in the city; provided, further,
that all trucks permitted to operate on streets other than the streets
designated as "truck routes" shall not be driven at a speed in excess of 15
miles per hour when operating on streets other than truck routes. (Ord. 235,
passed 2-1-65; Am. Ord. 697, passed 1-7-91)
      (b)   The streets hereinabove referred to as 'truck routes' will be as
follows:
Middle Belt Road  Annapolis to Cherry Hill
Inkster           Annapolis to Cherry Hill
Henry Ruff        Annapolis to Cherry Hill
Michigan Avenue   Henry Ruff to Beech Daly
Carlysle Avenue   Middle Belt to Inkster
S. River Park Dr. Inkster to Hill
Hill              Michigan Ave. to S. River Park Drive
West              Michigan Ave. to S. River Park Drive
Princeton         Inkster Road to John Daly Road
John Daly         Michigan to Annapolis
Beech Daly        Michigan to Annapolis
Trowbridge        Sylvia to Beech Daly
Kean              Sylvia to Bayhan
Bayhan            Michigan Ave. to Trowbridge
Sylvia            Michigan Ave. to New York Central R.R.
Princess          Michigan Ave. to Trowbridge
Cherry Hill       Henry Ruff to Beech Daly
Annapolis         Middlebelt to Beech Daly
Harrison          Michigan Ave. to Annapolis
Reynolds          Harrison to Springhill
Beech             Middlebelt to Northland
Northland         Beech to Cherry
Cherry St.        Northland to Alfred
Alfred            Cherry to Chestnut
Chestnut          Alfred to Inkster
Dunning           John Daly to Bayhan
Bayhan            Dunning to Oxford
 
(Ord. 235, passed 2-1-65; Am. Ord. 239, passed 3-15-65)
      (c)   The streets designated in subsection (b) of this section as 'truck
routes' shall be posted, in a conspicuous place upon or at the entrance to the
street or highway or part thereof affected, with a suitable sign indicating the
words 'truck route'." (Ord. 235, passed 2-1-65)
   Sec. 5.95b is repealed by Ord. 709, passed 5-18-92.
   Sec. 5.95c. After Section 5.95b, add Section 5.95c, as follows:
   "Sec. 5.95c. Towing mobile homes; length, width, height.
   Notwithstanding any other provisions of this chapter, no person shall
operate a towing vehicle having attached a mobile home having a body length in
excess of 45 feet and having a combined length of over 60 feet, a realistic
body width of over 100 inches at base rail and a height of over 12-1/2 feet on
the highways of this city. The distance between mobile home axle centers shall
not be less than 34 inches as of January 1, 1965.
   The term 'mobile home' as used in this section shall be construed to mean a
home which is designed to be transported by any motor vehicle upon a public
highway and designed, equipped and used for sleeping, eating and living
quarters, or is intended to be used." (Ord. 235, passed 2-1-65)
   Sec. 5.95d is repealed by Ord. 709, passed 5-18-92.
   The following new sections are hereby added:
   "Section 1: Weight of axle loads, restrictions, violations.
   (a)   The maximum axle load shall not exceed the number of pounds designated
in the following provisions which prescribe the distance between axles:
      (1)   When the axle spacing is nine (9) feet or more between axles, the
maximum axle load shall not exceed 18,000 pounds for vehicles equipped with
high pressure pneumatic or balloon tires.
      (2)   When the axle spacing is less than nine (9) feet between two (2)
axles but more than three and one-half (3½) feet, the maximum axle load shall
not exceed 13,000 pounds for high pressure pneumatic or balloon tires.
      (3)   When axles are spaced less than three and one-half (3½) feet apart,
the maximum axle load shall not exceed 9,000 pounds per axle.
      (4)   Subdivisions (l), (2) and (3) shall be known as the normal loading
maximum.
   (b)   When normal loading is in effect the state transportation department
and the local authority with respect to highways under its jurisdiction may
designate certain highways, or sections of those highways, where bridges and
road surfaces are adequate for heavier loading, which designation may be
revised as needed, on which the maximum tandem axle assembly loading shall not
exceed 16,000 pounds for any axle of the assembly, if there is no other axle
within nine (9) feet of any axle of the assembly.
   (c)   Except as provided in subsection (h) on a legal combination of
vehicles, only one (1) tandem axle assembly shall be permitted on the
designated highways at the gross permissible weight of 16,000 pounds per axle,
if there is no other axle within nine (9) feet of any axle of the assembly, and
if no other tandem axle assembly in the combination of vehicles exceed a gross
weight of 13,000 pounds per axle. When the maximum gross weight of a
combination of vehicles with load does not exceed 73,280 pounds, two (2) tandem
axle assemblies shall be permitted on the designated highways at a gross
permissible weight of 16,000 pounds per axle, if there is no other axle within
nine (9) feet of any axle of the assembly.
   (d)   The normal size of tires shall be the rated size as published by the
manufacturers and the maximum wheel load permissible for any wheel shall not
exceed 700 pounds per inch of width of tire.
   (e)   During the months of March, April and May in each year, the maximum
axle load allowable on concrete pavements, or pavements with a concrete base,
shall be reduced by 25% from the axle load as specified in this chapter, and
the maximum axle loads allowable on all other types of roads during these
months shall be reduced by 35% from the maximum axle loads as specified. The
maximum wheel load shall not exceed 525 pounds per inch of tire width on
concrete and concrete base or 45O pounds per inch of tire width on all other
roads during the period the seasonal road restrictions are in effect.
   (f)   The state transportation department or a local authority with respect
to highways under its jurisdiction may suspend the restrictions imposed by this
section when and where, in its discretion, conditions of the highways or the
public health, safety and welfare so warrant, and may impose the restricted
loading requirements of this section on designated highways at any other time
that conditions of the highway may require.
   (g)   For the purpose of enforcement of this act, the gross vehicle weight
of a single vehicle and load or a combination of vehicles and loads, shall be
determined by weighing individual axles or groups of axles, and the total
weight on all axles shall be the gross vehicle weight. In addition, the gross
axle weight shall be determined by weighing individual axles or by weighing a
group of axles and dividing the gross weight of the group of axles by the
number of axles in the group. Pursuant to Section (h), the overall gross weight
on a group of two (2) or more axles shall be determined by weighing individual
axles or several axles, and the total weight of all of the axles in the group
shall be the overall gross weight of the group.
   (h)   The loading maximum in this subsection shall apply to interstate
highways, and the state transportation department, or a local authority with
respect to highways under its jurisdiction, may
designate a highway, or a section of a highway, for the operation of vehicles
having a gross vehicle weight of not more than 80,00O pounds which are subject
to the following load maximums:
      (1)   Twenty Thousand (20,000) pounds on any one (1) axle, including all
enforcement tolerances.
      (2)   A tandem axle weight of 34,000 pounds including all enforcement
tolerances.
      (3)   An overall gross weight on a group of two (2) or more consecutive
axles equaling:
(LN )
W = 500 (                   + 12N + 36 )
(N - 1 )
where W = overall gross weight on a group of two (2) or more consecutive axles
to the nearest 500 pounds, L = distance in feet between the extreme of a group
of two (2) or more consecutive axles , and N = number of axles in the group
under consideration; except that two (2) consecutive sets of tandem axles may
carry a gross load of 34,000 pounds each if the first and last axles of the
consecutive sets of tandem axles are not less than 36 feet apart. The gross
vehicle weight shall not exceed 80,000 pounds including all enforcement
tolerances. Except for five (5) axle truck tractor, semitrailer combinations
having two (2) consecutive sets of tandem axles, vehicles having a gross weight
in excess of 80,000 pounds or in excess of the vehicle gross weight determined
by application of the formula in this subsection shall be subject to the
maximum axle loads of subsections (a), (b) and (c). As used in this subsection,
"tandem axle weight" means the total weight transmitted to the road by two (2)
or more consecutive axles, the centers of which may be included between
parallel transverse vertical planes spaced more than 40 inches, but not more
than 96 inches, apart, extending across the full width of the vehicle.
   Section 2: Restrictions on Transportation of Flammable Liquids.
   (a)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a truck tractor
pulling a semitrailer and trailer combination or a truck tractor pulling two
(2) semitrailers shall not transport, except between the hours of midnight to
6:00 a.m. on routes and at times designated by the state fire safety board, a
flammable liquid, in bulk, which has a flash point at or below 70 degrees
Fahrenheit, in a quantity of more than 9,000 gallons within a county having a
population of 600,000 or more. In addition, a truck pulling a trailer or a
truck tractor pulling a semitrailer shall not transport, except between the
hours of midnight to 6:00 a.m. on routes and at times designated by the state
fire safety board, a flammable liquid, in bulk, which has a flash point at or
below 70 degrees Fahrenheit, in a quantity of more than 9,000 gallons within a
county having a population of 600,000 or more. The exceptions provided by this
subsection for transport on routes designated by the state fire safety board
shall be construed to permit that transport only for the purpose of picking up
or delivering a flammable liquid at a supply depot.
   (b)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a truck, truck
pulling a trailer, truck tractor pulling a semitrailer, a truck tractor pulling
a semitrailer and trailer combination, or a truck tractor pulling two (2)
semitrailers shall not transport a flammable liquid, in bulk, which has a flash
point at or below 70 degrees Fahrenheit within this city, unless the truck,
truck and trailer combination, truck tractor and semitrailer combination, truck
trailer, semitrailer, and trailer combination or truck tractor and two (2)
semitrailer combinations meet safety standards as determined by the state fire
safety board.
   (c)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a truck, a truck
tractor pulling a semitrailer and trailer combination, or a truck tractor
pulling two (2) semitrailers shall not transport a flammable liquid, in bulk,
which has a flash point at or below 70 degrees Fahrenheit within this city.
This subsection took effect November l, 1990.
   (d)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section other than
sections (c) and (e), a truck with a water capacity of more than 9,500 gallons,
a truck tractor pulling a semitrailer with a water capacity of more than 9,500
gallons, a truck pulling a trailer, a truck tractor pulling a semitrailer and
trailer combination or a truck tractor pulling two (2) semitrailers shall not
transport a flammable liquid, in bulk, which has a flash point at or below 70
degrees Fahrenheit in this city, unless the existing manhole or inspection
ports of each truck, semitrailer, or trailer in the vehicle combination has
been equipped with devices which are capable of withstanding the forces caused
by an internal pressure of 50 pounds per square inch, applied and held at least
50 milliseconds, and then released to two (2) pounds per square inch, without
having any residual venting of flammable liquid during the subsequent two (2)
pounds per square inch condition.
   (e)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a truck or a
truck tractor pulling a semitrailer, a semitrailer and trailer combination or
two (2) semitrailers shall not transport a flammable liquid, in bulk, which has
a flash point at or below 70 degrees Fahrenheit in this city, if the truck or
semitrailer, a semitrailer and trailer combination, or two (2) semitrailers are
manufactured after July l, 1982, or was manufactured before July 1, 1982 but
was not a vehicle registered in this state by the secretary of state at any
time between January l, 1985 and October 1, l985, unless the truck or the
semitrailer, a semitrailer and trailer combination, or two (2) semitrailers
have a water capacity of less than 13,800 gallons.
   (f)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a truck or truck
tractor pulling a semitrailer shall not transport a flammable liquid, in bulk,
which has a flash point at or below 70 degrees Fahrenheit in a quantity of more
than 13,400 gallons. This section took effect on November 1, 199O.
   (g)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, a truck or a
truck tractor pulling a trailer or semitrailer, a semitrailer or trailer
combination, or two (2) semitrailers shall not transport a flammable liquid, in
bulk, which has a flash point at or below 70 degrees Fahrenheit in this city,
in a quantity of more than 13,400 gallons unless the owner of the truck or
truck tractor pulling a trailer or semitrailer, combination semitrailer or
trailer, or two (2) semitrailers files with the department of state police
within 60 days after the effective date of this act a notarized statement that
the truck or truck tractor pulling the trailer or semitrailer, semitrailer or
trailer combination, or two (2) semitrailers did transport a flammable liquid,
in bulk, having a flash point at or below 70 degrees Fahrenheit, at any time
between March l, 1985 and October l, 1985. Attached to the notarized statement
shall be one (1) of the following:
      (1)   A copy of the bill of lading containing the date the flammable
liquid was transported and the permanent identification number of the trailer
or semitrailer in which the flammable liquid was transported.
      (2)   A copy of the daily log prepared by the driver of the vehicle
transporting the flammable liquid which contains the date the flammable liquid
was transported and the permanent identification number of the trailer or
semitrailer.
   (h)   The owner or driver of a vehicle which transports a flammable liquid
in violation of sections (a), (b), (c), (d), (e), (f) or (g) is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $5OO.OO or imprisonment for
not more than 90 days or both.
   (i)   Except as provided in section (h), a person who violates this section
is responsible for a civil infraction.
   (j)   This section shall be enforced only by a police officer.
   Section 3: Information to be Painted or Permanently Attached on Certain
Trucks and Vehicles; Removable Devices.
   (a)   All motor trucks or tractors, except as provided in subsection (d), of
more than 5,OOO pounds registered weight and all towing or platform bed wrecker
road service vehicles in operation upon the public highways of this state shall
have the name, city and state or the registered logo or emblem of the
registered owner of the vehicle, and lessee of the vehicle if the vehicle is
being operated under lease, painted or permanently attached on each side of the
cab on a motor truck or truck track tractor in letters of not less than three
(3) inches in height, not lower than the bottom edge of the door, except that
motor trucks with closed van bodies may place the information on each side of
the van body not lower than the bottom edge of the cab door. This information
shall be in sharp color contrast to the background.
   (b)   Except for towing or platform bed wrecker road service vehicles, the
identification requirements of subsection (a) may be met through the use of
removable devices which meet the requirements of subsection (a). These devices
shall be of durable construction and securely attached to each side of the
motor truck or truck tractor. The removable devices shall be attached so that
the identification is in a horizontal position.
   (c)   Motor vehicles subject to this section shall have two (2) years after
the effective date of this subsection to be in compliance with the marking
location as required in subsection (a).
   (d)   This section shall not apply to trucks eligible for and equipped with
farm license plates.
   (e)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
   Section 4: Stopping Vehicles for Weighing.
   (a)   A police officer or a duly authorized agent of the state
transportation department or a county road commission having reason to believe
that the weight of a vehicle and load is unlawful may require the driver to
stop and submit to a weighing of the vehicle by means of either a portable or
stationary scales approved and sealed by state department of agriculture as a
legal weighing device and may require that the vehicle be driven to the nearest
weighing station of the state transportation department for the purpose of
allowing an officer or agent of the state transportation department or county
road commission to determine whether the conveyance is loaded in conformity
with this chapter.
   (b)   When the officer or inspector, upon weighing a vehicle and load,
determines that the weight is unlawful, the officer or inspector may require
the driver to stop the vehicle in a suitable place and remain standing until
that portion of the load is shifted or removed as necessary to reduce the gross
axle load weight of the vehicle to the limit permitted under this chapter. All
material unloaded as provided under this subsection shall be cared for by the
owner or operator of the vehicle at the risk of the owner or operator. A judge
or magistrate imposing a civil fine and costs under this section which are not
paid in full immediately or for which a bond is not immediately posted in
double the amount of the civil fine and costs, shall order the driver or owner
to move the vehicle at the driver's own risk to a place of safekeeping within
the jurisdiction of the judge or magistrate, inform the judge or magistrate in
writing of the place of safekeeping, and there keep the vehicle until the fine
or costs are paid or sufficient bond furnished or until the judge or magistrate
is satisfied that the fine and cost will be paid. The officer or inspector who
has determined, after weighing a vehicle and load, that the weight is unlawful,
may require the driver to proceed to a judge or magistrate within the county.
If the judge or magistrate is satisfied that the probable civil fine and costs
will be paid by the owner or lessee, the judge or magistrate may allow the
driver to proceed, after the load is made legal. If the judge or magistrate is
not satisfied that the owner or lessee, after a notice and a right to be heard
on the merits is given, will pay the amount of the probable civil fine and
costs, the judge or magistrate may order the vehicle to be impounded until
trial on the merits is completed under conditions set forth in this section for
the impounding of vehicles after the civil fine and costs have been imposed.
Removal of the vehicle, and forwarding, care, or preservation of the load shall
be under the control of and at the risk of the owner or driver. Vehicles
impounded shall be subject to a lien, subject to a prior valid bonafide lien of
prior record, in the amount of the civil fine and costs and if the civil fine
and costs are not paid within 90 days after the seizure, the judge or
magistrate shall certify the unpaid judgment to the prosecuting attorney of the
county in which the violation occurred, who shall proceed to enforce the lien
by foreclosure sale in accordance with procedure authorized in the case of
chattel mortgage foreclosure. When the duly authorized agent of the state
transportation department or county road commission is performing duties under
this chapter, the agent shall have all the powers conferred upon peace officers
by the general laws of this state.
   (c)   An owner of a vehicle or a lessee of the vehicle of an owner-operator,
or other person, who causes or allows a vehicle to be loaded and driven or
moved on highway, when the weight of that vehicle violates Section 1 is
responsible for a civil infraction and shall be assessed a civil fine in an
amount equal to three (3) cents per pound for each pound of excess load over
1,000 pounds when the excess is 2,OOO pounds or less; six (6) cents per pound
of excess load when the excess is over 2,OOO pounds but not over 3,000 pounds;
nine (9) cents per pound of excess load when the excess is over 3,000 pounds
but not over 4,000 pounds; twelve (l2) cents per pound of excess load when the
excess is over 4,000 pounds but not over 5,OOO pounds; fifteen (15) cents per
pound of excess load when the excess is over 5,OOO pounds but not over 10,000
pounds and twenty (20) cents per pound for each pound of excess load when the
excess is over 10,000 pounds. However, the court shall have discretionary power
as to the amount of the civil fine within the schedule provided by this
subsection and may impose the civil fine for a civil infraction where at the
time of the violation either the motor vehicle, motor vehicle and semitrailer
or trailer did not exceed the total weight which would be lawful for each unit
by a proper distribution of the load upon the various axles supporting each
unit.
   (d)   A driver or owner of a vehicle, truck or truck tractor, truck or truck
tractor with other vehicles in combination, or special mobile equipment who
knowingly fails to stop at or who knowingly bypasses any scales or weighing
station is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (e)   An agent or authorized representative of the state transportation
department or a county road commission shall not stop a truck or vehicle in
movement upon a road or highway within the state for any purpose, unless the
agent or authorized representative is driving a duly marked vehicle, clearly
showing and denoting the branch of government represented.
   (f)   A driver or owner of a vehicle who knowingly fails to stop when
requested or ordered to do so by a police officer, or a duly authorized agent
of the state transportation department, or a representative or agent of a
county road commission, authorized to require the driver to stop and submit to
a weighing of the vehicle and load by means of a portable scale, is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
   Section 5: Special Permits for Nonconforming Vehicles; Concrete Pipe;
Telephone, Telegraph and Electric Poles.
   (a)   The state transportation department with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction and the county road commissions and local authorities with respect
to highways under their jurisdiction, upon application in writing and good
cause being shown, may issue a special permit in writing authorizing the
applicant to operate or remove a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size
or weight of vehicle or load exceeding the maximum specified in this chapter or
otherwise not in conformity with this chapter under the jurisdiction of the
City of Inkster and for the maintenance of which the City of Inkster is
responsible.
   (b)   The application for a special permit shall be on a form prescribed by
the City of Inkster and shall specifically describe the vehicle or vehicles and
load to be operated or moved and the particular highways upon which permit to
operate is requested.
   (c)   The state transportation department with respect to highways under its
jurisdiction and the county road commissions and local authorities with respect
to highways under their jurisdiction may issue special permits authorizing the
operation upon the highway of traction engines or tractors having movable
tracks with transverse corrugation upon the periphery of those movable tracks
on farm tractors or other farm machinery, the operation of which upon a highway
would otherwise be prohibited under this chapter.
   (d)   A permit shall specify the trip or trips and date or dates for which
it is to be valid and the authority granting the permit may restrict or
prescribe conditions of operation of the vehicle or vehicles, if necessary to
protect the safety of the public or to insure against undue damage to the road
foundations, surfaces, structures, or installations, and may require a
reasonable inspection fee and other security as may be considered necessary to
compensate for damages caused by the movement. A permit may be issued on an
annual basis.
   (e)   A person may transport telephone, telegraph, or electric poles of a
greater length than otherwise authorized over the highways in the construction,
maintenance, or repair of telephone, telegraph, or electric lines, if a permit
is first secured from the state transportation department, the county road
commission, or local authority having jurisdiction of the highways.
   (f)   A person may transport concrete pipe of a greater width than otherwise
over highways, if a permit for each project is first secured from the state
transportation department, the county road commission, or local authority
having jurisdiction of the highways.
   (g)   A permit issued under this section shall be carried in the vehicle or
combination of vehicles to which it refers and shall be open to inspection by a
police officer or authorized agent of an authority granting the permit. A
person shall not violate any of the terms or conditions of the special permit.
   (h)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction."
   Sec. 8.6a. After Section 8.6, add Section 8.6a, as follows:
   "Sec. 8.6a. Through streets, enumeration; stops required.
   All vehicles of every description must come to a complete stop before
entering or crossing the following streets or portion thereof, which are hereby
designated 'through streets', unless traffic for the intersection is being
directed by a traffic officer or a mechanical signal device, and such streets
shall be appropriately marked as stop streets:
      Michigan Avenue from Henry Ruff Road to Gulley Road.
      Inkster Road from Michigan Avenue to Cherry Hill Road.
      Middlebelt Road from Michigan Avenue to Cherry Hill Road.
      Cherry Hill Road from Henry Ruff Road to Gulley Road.
      Annapolis Street from Gulley Road to Middlebelt Road.
      John Daly Road from Michigan Avenue to Avondale Street.
      Jim Daly Road from Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street.
      John Daly Road from Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street.
      Inkster Road from Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street.
      Middlebelt Road from Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street.
      Harrison Avenue from Michigan Avenue to Annapolis Street.
      All street and road intersections in city parks."
(Ord. 69, passed 11-6-45)
   Sec. 8.10 Stopping, standing and parking, prohibited places and manner.
   After sub-section (r), add sub-section (s), as follows:
   "(s) At any place on Michigan Avenue within the city."
(Ord. 224, passed 11-2-64)
   Sec. 8.10a. After Section 8.10, add Section 8.10a, as follows:
   "Sec. 8.10a. Parking of commercial vehicles.
   It shall be unlawful to park any commercial vehicle on any public street,
highway, alley or parkway in the city for a period longer than two hours
between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. Parking of commercial vehicles is
further prohibited on said streets, highways, alleys or parkways between the
hours of 6:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., of the next day, provided however, that the
Chief of Police for good cause shown, may grant special parking permits. Signs
pertaining to the parking of commercial vehicles shall be posted at the
corporate limits of the City.
   For the purpose of this section, the term 'commercial vehicle' shall exclude
taxicabs, passenger vehicles used for commercial purposes other than
limousines, and pick-up trucks that do not display or exhibit any signage,
advertising, logos, or any other evidence of commercial usage or applicability.
Provided, however, those taxicabs, passenger cars and pick-up trucks which have
been excluded from the provisions of this section shall be limited to the
parking of one such vehicle per 'dwelling unit'."
(Ord. 360, passed 6-1-70; Am. Ord. 677, passed 7-3-89)
   Sec. 8.10b. After Section 8.10a, add Section 8.10b, as follows:
   "Sec. 8.10b. Parking between sidewalk and curb, restriction.
   No motor vehicle shall be parked between the sidewalk and the curb in
residential districts unless said vehicle is parked on a designated driveway
and does not encroach upon the sidewalk or the traveled portion of the street."
(Ord. 417, passed 5-1-72)
   Sec. 8.10c. After Section 8.10b, add Section 8.10c, as follows:
   "Sec. 8.10c. No-parking zones on private property.
   With the consent of the owner or owners or the person or persons in charge
of private property which is open to the general public for travel, the police
department is hereby authorized to determine and designate no-parking zones on
such property and shall place and maintain appropriate signs indicating the
same. No person shall park, stop or stand in disobedience to such sign. The
provisions of this section shall become effective and be enforced so far as
applicable with the same force and effect as though such private property were
a public street or highway." (Ord. 299,
passed 3-18-68)
   Sec. 8.10d. After Section 8.10c, add Section 8.10d, as follows:
   "Sec. 8.10d. Trailer parking; restrictions.
      (a)   It shall be unlawful to park any trailer, whether loaded or
unloaded and/or whether unattached or attached to the rear of a motor vehicle,
on any street in the city in any manner other than by parking the same parallel
to the curb; provided, however, that no such trailer shall be parked on any
street in the city during dark hours. It shall further be unlawful to park or
store any trailer on any portion of any property zoned residential, except that
for good cause shown, the Chief of Police may grant a special parking permit.
(Ord. 438, passed 12-18-72 ; Am. Ord. 696, passed 1-7-91)
      (b)   For the purposes of this section, the word 'trailer' shall be
defined to mean any vehicle, except recreational vehicles, designed to be used
for the purpose of being pulled by a motor vehicle weighing more than 5,500
pounds and/or over 22 feet in length, on the public streets."
(Ord. 438, passed 12-18-72; Am. Ord. 696, passed 1-7-91)
   Sec. 8.25. After Section 8.24, add Section 8.25, as follows:
   "Sec. 8.25. Placement of official signs, determination; chief of police,
authority.
   The chief of police or his duly authorized representative is hereby
designated as the official person of the city to determine the placement of
official signs prohibiting or restricting parking, stopping or standing."
(Ord. 290, passed 10-16-67)
   Sec. 8.26. After Section 8.25, add Section 8.26, as follows:
   "Sec. 8.26. Parking on lawn extension.
   No person shall drive upon, park or stand any vehicle between the curb or
curb line and the lot line nearest the street, said area being commonly known
as lawn extension, whether or not any sidewalk or curb is actually in place on
said street."
(Ord. 513, passed 4-18-77)
   Appendix II
   Sec. 1. CODE ADOPTED. Section amended to read:
   "The Uniform Traffic Code for cities, townships and villages promulgated by
the Commissioner of
State Police on February 14, 1958 and published in Supplement No. 13, and as
amended both on February 14, 1961 and published in Supplement No. 25, and on
February 26, 1968 and published in Supplement No. 54, and on August 4, 1976 and
published in Supplement No. 88, to the 1954 Michigan Administrative Code, in
accordance with Public Act 62 of 1956, State of Michigan is hereby adopted by
reference as in this chapter modified." (Errata, 2/10/77)
   Appendix V
   Sec. 1. AMENDMENTS TO CODE ADOPTED. Section amended to read:
   "Amendments to sections (here list section numbers) of the Uniform Traffic
Code for cities, townships and villages, and the amendment of such Uniform
Traffic Code by the addition of sections (here list sections added), all of
which were promulgated by the Director of the Department of State Police,
effective August 4, 1976 and published in Supplement No. 88 to the 1954
Michigan Administrative Code, in accordance with Act No. 62 of the Michigan
Public Acts of 1956, are hereby adopted by reference amending and adding
similarly numbered sections of ordinance          adopted on
                  ." (Errata, 2 /10/77)
Penalty, see §
70.99
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT
§ 70.15 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Motor Carrier Safety Act and Rules and Laws Concerning Driver
Qualifications, Operation and Maintenance of Commercial Motor Vehicles on the
Streets and Highways, Act 181 of Public Acts of 1963, as amended by Public Act
1984 No. 12, as amended by Public Act 1988 Nos. 353 and 360, as amended by
Public Act 1990 No. 339, being MCL 480.11 to 480.21, is hereby adopted by
reference.
(Ord. 708, passed 2-17-92)
§ 70.16 PURPOSE.
   The act adopted in this subchapter is an act to promote safety upon the
public highways by regulating the operation of motor trucks, tractors, and
trailers; to provide the number of persons necessary to the operation of such
motor trucks and tractors; to limit the hours of service of persons engaged in
operating such vehicles; to require the keeping of records of such operations;
to provide for the assessment of fees; to provide penalties for the violations
of this act; and to repeal certain acts and parts of acts.
(Ord. 708, passed 2-17-92)
§ 70.17 JURISDICTION.
   References in the Motor Carrier Safety Act and Rules to "Jurisdiction" shall
mean the City of Inkster.
(Ord. 708, passed 2-17-92)
§ 70.18 ADDITIONS, DELETIONS AND AMENDMENTS.
   The following sections of the Motor Carrier Safety Act and Rules are hereby
amended or deleted as set forth herein:
      On page iii, Section 11 delete the entire section and replace with the
following: "All money received under this Act shall be paid to the general fund
of the City of Inkster."
§ 70.19 NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED; COPY ON FILE.
   The City Clerk shall publish this subchapter in a manner required by law
setting forth the purpose of the Motor Carrier Safety Act and Rules and Laws
Concerning Driver Qualifications, Operation and Maintenance of Commercial Motor
Vehicles on the Streets and Highways, and the fact that a complete copy of the
Act is available at the Office of the Clerk for inspection by the public at all
times.
(Ord. 708, passed 2-17-92) Penalty, see §
70.99
MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE
§ 70.25 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   The Michigan Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, is hereby
adopted by reference.
(Ord. 797, passed 1-6-03) Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.26 REFERENCES IN CODE.
   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to LOCAL UNIT OF GOVERNMENT shall
mean the City of Inkster, and references in the Michigan Vehicle Code to LOCAL
AUTHORITIES shall mean the City Council of the City of Inkster.
(Ord. 797, passed 1-6-03)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   This section shall be referred to as the Civil Infraction and Civil
Fine Section.
('68 Code, § 5-1101)
   (B)   Any provision of the city ordinances which describes an act or
admission which constitutes a civil infraction under the terms of the Michigan
Vehicle Code, being Public Act 300 of 1949, as amended, shall be processed as a
civil infraction and any person found to have committed a civil infraction may
be ordered to pay a civil fine of not more than $100 and costs in accordance
with Section 907 of the Michigan Vehicle Code. Violation of any other provision
of the ordinances not constituting a civil infraction as herein provided shall
be punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment of not more than
90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
('68 Code, § 5-1102)
(Ord. 541, passed 8-6-79)
   (C)   The penalties for violating Section 8.10d shall specifically include,
without limitation, the right to impound any trailer in violation of the
provisions of said section, and/or fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 696, passed 1-7-91)
   (D)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
70.15 through
70.19 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $300 and costs of prosecution or by
imprisonment not more than 90 days or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (E)   Any provision in §§
70.25 or
70.26 which describes an act or omission as constituting a civil infraction as
defined in the Michigan Vehicle Code shall be processed as a civil infraction.
Any person found to have committed a civil infraction may be ordered to pay a
civil fine and costs in accordance with the provisions and terms of the
Michigan Vehicle Code.
   (F)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
70.25 or
70.26 which describes any act or omission as constituting a misdemeanor as
defined in the Michigan Vehicle Code, shall be processed as a misdemeanor and
upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and
costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment for not more than 93 days, or both
such fine and imprisonment.
   (G)   In the event the Michigan Vehicle Code shall provide a penalty or
sentence for a violation thereof that exceeds the maximum allowable penalty or
sentence that a city may impose, the penalty or sentence imposed for a
violation shall not thereby be invalid or void, but the penalty or sentence
shall only be enforceable up to the maximum penalty or sentence a city is
allowed to impose by law.
(Ord. 797, passed 1-6-03)
CHAPTER 71: TRAFFIC RULES
Section
General Provisions
   
71.01   Speed limit of trains within city
Vehicle Loads
   
71.15   Load to be secured to prevent spillage; exemption
   
71.16   Proof of actual spillage not required to prove violation
   
71.17   Commercial vehicles carrying loads
   
71.18   Vehicles carrying logs or tubular products
   
71.19   Persons causing violations; liability
   
71.20   Exemptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 71.01 SPEED LIMIT OF TRAINS WITHIN CITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a railroad train within the
city at a speed greater than is permitted by state or federal law.
Penalty, see §
70.99
VEHICLE LOADS
§ 71.15 LOAD TO BE SECURED TO PREVENT SPILLAGE; EXEMPTION.
   A vehicle shall not be driven or moved on a highway unless the vehicle is so
constructed or loaded as to prevent its contents from dropping, shifting,
leaking, blowing off or otherwise escaping therefrom. The tailgate, faucets and
taps shall be securely closed to prevent spillage during transportation,
whether loaded or empty, and the body of the vehicle shall not have any holes
or cracks through which material can escape. Any highway maintenance vehicle
engaged in either ice or snow removal shall be exempt from this chapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1501) (Ord. 568, passed 3-16-81) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.16 PROOF OF ACTUAL SPILLAGE NOT REQUIRED TO PROVE VIOLATION.
   Actual spillage of material on the highway or proof of that spillage is not
necessary to prove a violation of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1502) (Ord. 568, passed 3-16-81)
§ 71.17 COMMERCIAL VEHICLES CARRYING LOADS.
   A commercial vehicle carrying a load, other than logs or tubular products,
which is not completely enclosed, shall either:
   (A)   Be loaded so that no part of the load making contact with any
sideboard or side panel or rear part of the enclosure shall be within six
inches of the top of the part of the enclosure contacted, unless the load is
covered with firmly secured canvas or similar type covering.
   (B)   Have the load securely fastened to the body or the frame of the
vehicle with binders of adequate number and of adequate breaking strength to
prevent the dropping off or shifting of the load.
('68 Code, § 5-1503) (Ord. 568, passed 3-16-81) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.18 VEHICLES CARRYING LOGS OR TUBULAR PRODUCTS.
   A person shall not operate a motor vehicle carrying logs or tubular products
on a highway unless the following conditions are complied with:
   (A)   If the logs or tubular products are loaded crosswise or at right
angles to the side of the vehicle, the logs or tubular products shall be
securely fastened to the body or frame of the vehicle with not less than two
binders which are secured to the frame at each end of the load and pass over
the load so that the frame and binders completely encircle the load.
   (B)   If the logs or tubular products are loaded lengthwise of the vehicle,
obliquely or parallel to the sides, the logs or tubular products shall be
securely fastened to the body or frame of the vehicle with not less than two
toggle binders which are secured to the frame at each end of the load and one
wrapping binder which completely encircle the load.
   (C)   The toggle and wrapping binders shall be made of steel chain or a
combination of steel chain and wire rope, which shall not be less than 3/8 of
an inch in diameter and have a breaking strength of not less than 12,000
pounds.
('68 Code, § 5-1505) (Ord. 568, passed 3-16-81) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 71.19 PERSONS CAUSING VIOLATIONS; LIABILITY.
   A company or individual who loads or unloads a vehicle or causes it to be
loaded or unloaded, in a manner as to cause a violation of §
71.15, shall be prima facie liable for a violation of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1504) (Ord. 568, passed 3-16-81)
§ 71.20 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   This subchapter shall not apply to a person operating a vehicle to
transport seasonal agricultural commodities at the time of harvest or in the
normal operations of the farm.
('68 Code, § 5-1506)
   (B)   Section
71.18(C) shall not apply to a motor vehicle transporting items of a load which,
because of their weight, will not fall off the moving vehicle and which have
their centers of gravity located at least six inches below the top of the
enclosure.
('68 Code, § 5-1507) (Ord. 568, passed 3-16-81)
CHAPTER 72: STOPPING, STANDING AND PARKING
Section
General Provisions
   
72.01   Parking of vehicles on front property yards
Handicapped Parking
   
72.15   Title
   
72.16   Definitions
   
72.17   Spaces for physically limited persons
Parking Meters
   
72.30   Installation of parking meters
   
72.31   Deposit required in meter upon use of space; time; restriction
   
72.32   Certain acts prohibited while using parking meters
   
72.33   Violations; impoundment of vehicle; fines
   
72.34   Receipt of funds; disposition
Open Storage or Parking of Recreational Vehicles in Residentially Zoned
Districts
   
72.45   Definitions
   
72.46   Parking or outside storage prohibited; exception
   
72.47   Special permits
   
72.48   Exceptions to prohibited storage or parking
Snow Emergencies
   
72.60   Title
   
72.61   Definitions
   
72.62   Declaration of emergency; announcement
   
72.63   Snow emergency routes designated
   
72.64   Signs to mark snow emergency routes
   
72.65   Advancement of quitting-time traffic regulations
   
72.66   Parking on snow emergency routes
   
72.67   Parking on secondary streets
   
72.68   Condition of motor vehicles operated on snow emergency routes
   
72.69   Stalled vehicle on snow emergency route
   
72.70   Removal, impounding and return of vehicles
   
72.71   Citation on vehicle parked or left in violation
   
72.72   Failure to comply with traffic citation attached to vehicle
   
72.73   Evidence with respect to vehicles parked or left in violation of
provisions
   
72.74   Termination of parking prohibition
   
72.75   Provisions temporarily effective to take precedence
Enforcement
   
72.85   Issuance of appearance citations for parking or standing of motor
vehicles
 
   
72.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Wrecked, abandoned and illegally parked motor vehicles, see §§
90.01 through
90.07
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 72.01 PARKING OF VEHICLES ON FRONT PROPERTY YARDS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, MOTOR VEHICLE shall mean any
automobile, truck, motorcycle or other vehicle designed to transport persons or
property.
('68 Code, § 5-1302)
   (B)   No person shall stop, stand or park a motor vehicle or cause or permit
a motor vehicle to stop, stand or park on any portion of a front property yard,
except a driveway that has been approved as part of the site plan of that
particular property.
('68 Code, § 5-1301) (Ord. 550, passed 6-2-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
HANDICAPPED PARKING
§ 72.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Handicapper's Parking
Subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1601) (Ord. 571, passed 7-20-81)
§ 72.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PARKING AREA. An area used by the public as a means of access to and egress
from, and for the parking of motor vehicles by patrons of, a shopping center.
   PHYSICALLY LIMITED. A temporary or permanent impairment or condition which
causes a person to use a wheelchair; causes a person to walk with difficulty or
insecurity; affects sight or hearing to the extent that a person is insecure or
exposed to danger; or causes faulty coordination or reduces mobility,
flexibility, coordination or perceptiveness, and means persons who are limited
in ambulation.
   SHOPPING CENTER. A minimum area of two acres of land on which there is
located one or more stores or business establishments, and where there is
provided a parking area.
('68 Code, § 5-1602) (Ord. 571, passed 7-20-81)
§ 72.17 SPACES FOR PHYSICALLY LIMITED PERSONS.
   (A)   No individual, copartnership, association or corporation, or their
lessees, trustees, agents or assigns, shall operate or maintain a shopping
center parking area unless said parking area provides spaces specifically
designated for physically limited persons in compliance with the State
Construction Code promulgated pursuant to Act 230 of the Public Acts of 1972
being MCLA § 125.1501 et seq., as required by Section 2 of Act 1 of the Public
Acts of 1966, as amended, being MCLA § 125.1352. This subchapter is adopted
pursuant to Act 235 of the Public Acts of 1969, as amended, being MCLA §
275.942(a).
   (B)   Any existing parking area which does not conform to the requirements
of this section shall be brought into compliance with this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1603) (Ord. 571, passed 7-20-81)
PARKING METERS
§ 72.30 INSTALLATION OF PARKING METERS.
   Whenever because of traffic congestion or other cause the public safety is
imperiled, the public convenience can be better served, and traffic regulations
can be more adequately enforced with the assistance secured through the
installation and maintenance of parking meters, such parking meters may be
installed under and in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-301) (Ord. 111, passed 4-15-68)
§ 72.31 DEPOSIT REQUIRED IN METER UPON USE OF SPACE; TIME; RESTRICTION.
   (A)   Except in a period of emergency determined by an officer of the Fire
or Police Department, or in compliance with the directions of a police officer,
when any vehicle shall be parked in any parking space alongside or next to
which a parking meter is located, the operator of such vehicle shall, upon
entering the said parking meter space, immediately deposit or cause to be
deposited in said meter such proper coin of the United States as is required
for such parking meter and as is designated by proper directions on the meter,
and failure to deposit such coin shall constitute a violation of this
subchapter. Upon deposit of such coin the parking meter space may be lawfully
occupied by such vehicle during the period of time which has been prescribed
for the zone in which said parking space is located; provided that any person
placing a vehicle in a parking meter space adjacent to a meter which indicates
that unused time has been left in the meter by the previous occupant of the
space, shall not be required to deposit a coin so long as his occupancy of said
space does not exceed the indicated unused parking time. If said vehicle shall
remain parked in any such parking space beyond the parking time limit set for
such parking space, and if the meter shall indicate by its dial and pointer
that such time has elapsed and that such parking is illegal, then and in that
event such vehicle shall be considered as parking overtime and beyond the
period of legal parking time, and such parking shall be deemed a violation of
this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-302)
   (B)   Parking vehicle in designated space in a parking meter zone shall be
lawful for a period of time specified for that zone, as shown by a sign on the
meter or by one or more signs posted along the street in sufficient number and
of sufficient size to apprise the ordinarily observant person of the existence
of the limited period within which lawful parking can be had along and upon
such street. Parking of a vehicle in any parking meter space for a period
longer than that allowed by such sign shall be deemed to be illegal and a
violation of this subchapter; provided, however, that lawful parking may be had
in said space during any hours when the parking meter regulations are not in
effect, and on Sundays and holidays; provided, further, holidays as herein used
shall be deemed to mean and include only the following days: January 1, May 30,
the Fourth of July, the first Monday in September, December 25, and the day
designated and set aside by the President of the United States as a day of
Thanksgiving.
('68 Code, § 5-303) (Ord. 111, passed 4-15-68) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.32 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED WHILE USING PARKING METERS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of the provisions of this subchapter
for any person:
   (A)   To cause, allow, permit or suffer any vehicle registered in the name
of or operated by such person to be parked overtime or beyond the period of
legal parking time established for any parking meter zone as herein described.
   (B)   To deposit in any parking meter any coin for the purpose of parking
beyond the maximum legal parking time for the particular parking meter zone and
space.
   (C)   To permit any vehicle to remain in any parking space adjacent to any
parking meter while said meter is displaying a signal indicating that the
vehicle occupying such parking space has already been parked beyond the period
prescribed for such parking space.
   (D)   To park any vehicle across any line or marking of a parking meter
space or in such position that the vehicle shall not be entirely within the
area designated by such lines or markings.
   (E)   To deface, injure, tamper with, open or wilfully break, destroy or
impair the usefulness of any parking meter installed under the provisions of
this chapter, except persons legally authorized to open said meter.
   (F)   To deposit or cause to be deposited in any parking meter any slug,
device or metal substance or other substitute for lawful coins.
   (G)   To park any commercial vehicle in meter spaces located in city-
operated parking lots.
('68 Code, § 5-304) (Ord. 111, passed 4-15-68) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.33 VIOLATIONS; IMPOUNDMENT OF VEHICLE; FINES.
   (A)   (1)   Whenever any vehicle shall be found parked in any parking meter
space overtime and beyond the period of legal parking time established for such
space, or shall be found parked in violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter, such vehicle may be removed by or under the direction of any
persons authorized to enforce this subchapter, by means of towing the same, to
the automobile and vehicle pound; and such removal shall be at the risk of the
owner.
      (2)   Before the owner or person in charge of such vehicle shall be
permitted to remove the same from such pound, he shall furnish evidence of his
identity and ownership or right to possession; shall sign a receipt for said
vehicle; and for a first violation shall pay a towage fee of $3 plus storage
charges of $.50 per day; and for each subsequent violation he shall pay a fee
of $5 plus storage and towage charges as aforesaid; however, such enforcing
officer may, in lieu of towing such vehicle to said pound, serve upon the owner
or operator of such vehicle or attach or fasten to such vehicle a notice
directing the owner or operator thereof to appear at the municipal court within
the time specified in such notice.
   (B)   The Police Department shall take charge of and collect all moneys on
parking meter violations.
      (1)   If parking violation is paid within one hour from issuance of
summons, a fee of $.25 shall be paid.
      (2)   If parking violation is paid within 72 hours following its
issuance, a fee of $1 shall be paid.
      (3)   If summons is not paid as above, it becomes a violation and goes to
the municipal court to be processed.
   (C)   In the event any person fails to comply with a notice from the court
to which said traffic violation notice was assigned, or fails to make an
appearance pursuant to a summons directing an appearance in court, the Chief of
Police shall forthwith request a complaint to be entered against such person
and a warrant for his or her arrest.
   (D)   All sums collected by the court under the provisions of this
subchapter, and all fines or penalties imposed arising out of parking meter
violations, shall be paid to the City Treasurer.
('68 Code, § 5-305) (Ord. 111, passed 4-15-68)
§ 72.34 RECEIPT OF FUNDS; DISPOSITION.
   The moneys collected in the meter coin boxes shall be delivered to and
received by the City Treasurer and accounted for and deposited by him, which
moneys shall be used to defray the expense of proper regulation of traffic upon
the public streets of the city; to provide for the cost of supervision,
regulation and control of parking of vehicles in parking meter zones; and to
cover the cost of purchase, supervision, protection, inspection, installation,
operation, maintenance, control and use of parking meters and facilities, the
acquisition of suitable lands off streets which can be used for vehicular
parking purposes and on which parking meters can be installed.
('68 Code, § 5-306) (Ord. 111, passed 4-15-68)
OPEN STORAGE OR PARKING OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES IN RESIDENTIALLY ZONED
DISTRICTS
§ 72.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LICENSED PRIVATE PASSENGER CAR OR VEHICLE. Any vehicle for which the
principal purpose is transportation of people on streets and highways. Such
classification shall not include recreational vehicles as defined in this
section, nor shall it include any conveyance, equipment or vehicle the primary
purpose of which is other than the transportation of people on streets and
highways.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES. Boats, boat trailers and any vehicle equipped for
camping, sleeping or living purposes or any part thereof. The classification
further includes mobile homes, campers, truck campers, camper trailers and
motor homes.
('68 Code, § 5-1201) (Ord. 549, passed 5-19-80)
§ 72.46 PARKING OR OUTSIDE STORAGE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   The parking and/or outside storage of any conveyance for use on land, in the
air or on the water, other than operable and licensed private passenger
vehicles, shall be prohibited in all residentially zoned districts, except as
permitted in this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1202) (Ord. 549, passed 5-19-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.47 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Upon special permit first obtained from the Building Inspector, a
residential vehicle undergoing repair or a residential vehicle offered for sale
without advertisement or sign on vehicle or recreational vehicle owned by a
nonoccupant of the dwelling may be parked in the front yard not exceeding one
week.
('68 Code, § 5-1204) (Ord. 549, passed 5-19-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.48 EXCEPTIONS TO PROHIBITED STORAGE OR PARKING.
   Recreational vehicles, except those licensed as commercial vehicles, may be
stored or parked on any lot or parcel in all residentially zoned districts,
subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   Recreational vehicles stored or parked shall not have fixed
connections to electricity, water, gas or a sanitary sewer, and at no time
shall such equipment be used for living, sleeping or housekeeping purposes.
   (B)   Any recreational vehicle bearing a current license plate and owned by
and titled to an occupant of a residential dwelling may be parked and/or stored
in the rear open space of such residence not less than ten feet from the rear
lot line when abutting a residential dwelling and not less than five feet from
any side lot line which abuts a residential dwelling and not less than 25 feet
or the equivalent of the side setback of the principal building, whichever is
least, when abutting an adjacent side street.
   (C)   Any recreational vehicle as defined in this subchapter may be parked
on a driveway for purposes of loading and/or unloading for a total of not more
than six days (144 hours) during any one calendar month; provided, however,
that each loading and/or unloading period shall not exceed three consecutive
days (72 hours).
   (D)   The storage of recreational vehicles on a residential lot or parcel
shall be limited to two such vehicles and only those vehicles owned by and
licensed or registered to the occupant of the residential lot or parcel on
which the vehicle is stored.
('68 Code, § 5-1203) (Ord. 549, passed 5-19-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
SNOW EMERGENCIES
§ 72.60 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Snow Emergency
Chapter of the city.
('68 Code, § 5-1401) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Service, or, in his
absence, his duly designated and acting representative.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed, or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SECONDARY STREETS. Any streets which are not marked snow emergency routes.
   SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES. Those streets marked as such in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
   SNOW TIRES. Any tires mounted on drive wheels of motor vehicles which are
especially designed to give effective traction on snow, mud or ice-covered
streets by means of extra-heavy-duty treads with special high-traction
patterns, except that no tire so defined shall be construed to be a snow tire
if it is damaged or worn to the extent that its performance would be
substantially impaired.
   STREET  or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
   TIRE CHAINS. Any metal chains mounted on drive wheels of motor vehicles
which cross the tread of each such tire laterally in at least three different
places.
('68 Code, § 5-1402) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.62 DECLARATION OF EMERGENCY; ANNOUNCEMENT.
   The Director of the Department of Public Service at the direction of the
Mayor shall cause each declaration made by him pursuant to this subchapter to
be publicly announced by means of broadcasts or telecasts from stations with a
normal operating range covering the city, and he may cause such declaration to
be further announced in newspapers of general circulation when feasible. Each
announcement shall describe the action taken by the Director, including the
time it became or will become effective, and shall specify the streets or areas
affected. A parking prohibition or advancement of quitting-time traffic
regulations declared by the Director shall not go into effect until at least
two hours after it has been announced at least two times between 6:00 a.m. and
11:00 p.m., in accordance with this section.
('68 Code, § 5-1408) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.63 SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES DESIGNATED.
   The following streets or portions of streets within the city are hereby
designated as snow emergency routes:
      Avondale, Henry Ruff to Beech Daly
      Annapolis, Henry Ruff to Middlebelt and John Daly to Beech Daly
      Andover, Henry Ruff to Fox
      Carlysle, Beech Daly to Henry Ruff
      Cherry Hill, Inkster Road to Beech Daly
      Harrison, Annapolis to Cherry Hill
      John Daly, Cherry Hill to Annapolis
      Princeton, John Daly to Sylvia
('68 Code, § 5-1416) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.64 SIGNS TO MARK SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   On each street designated by this subchapter as a snow emergency route, the
Director of the Department of Public Service shall post special signs at the
intersection of every block designated on the snow emergency route at intervals
not exceeding 50 feet with wording: "SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.  NO PARKING DURING
EMERGENCY.  TOW AWAY ZONE." These signs shall be distinctive and uniform in
appearance and shall be plainly readable to persons traveling on the street or
highway.
('68 Code, § 5-1411) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.65 ADVANCEMENT OF QUITTING-TIME TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   Whenever the Director of the Department of Public Service finds, on the
basis of falling snow, sleet or freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast by
the U.S. Weather Bureau or other weather service of snow, sleet or freezing
rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic
be expedited, and whenever he finds additionally that large numbers of
employees within the city are to be dismissed from duty in advance of their
normal quitting time because of weather conditions and that such dismissal will
advance the beginning of heavy quitting-time traffic, he shall, by making a
declaration in a manner prescribed by this subchapter, appropriately advance
the effective time of those traffic regulations which normally go into effect
just before quitting time for the working day, such as, for example (and not by
way of limitation), those relating to standing, parking, one-way streets,
unbalanced lanes and left turns. The regulations as so advanced in their
operation shall remain in effect until their normal termination at 12:00 p.m.
or otherwise, as may be indicated at specific locations. However, nothing in
this section shall be construed to permit parking at any time or place where it
is forbidden by any other section of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1405) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.66 PARKING ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   Whenever the Director of the Department of Public Service finds, on
the basis of a forecast by the U.S. Weather Bureau or other weather service, of
snow, sleet or freezing rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary
that motor vehicle traffic be expedited and that parking on city streets be
prohibited or restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the Director
shall put into effect a parking prohibition on parts of or all snow emergency
routes as necessary by declaring it in a manner prescribed in this subchapter.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (A) hereof, a parking
prohibition shall automatically go into effect on any part of any snow
emergency route on which there has been an accumulation of snow and ice of four
inches or more for one hour or more between 6:00 a.m. and 11:00 p.m. of any
day.
   (C)   Once in effect, a prohibition under this section shall remain until
terminated by announcement of the Director in accordance with this subchapter,
except that any street area which has become substantially clear of snow and
ice from curb to curb for the length of the entire block shall be automatically
excluded therefrom. While the prohibition is in effect, no person shall park or
allow to remain parked any vehicle on any portion of a snow emergency route to
which it applies. However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit
parking at any time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of
law.
('68 Code, § 5-1403) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.67 PARKING ON SECONDARY STREETS.
   (A)   Whenever the Director of the Department of Public Service finds, on
the basis of falling snow, sleet, freezing rain, or on the basis of a forecast
by the U.S. Weather Bureau or other weather service of snow, sleet or freezing
rain, that weather conditions will make it necessary that motor vehicle traffic
be expedited or restricted for snow plowing and other purposes, the Director
shall put into effect a parking prohibition on parts of or all secondary
streets as necessary by declaring it in a manner prescribed by this subchapter.
The prohibition shall remain in effect until terminated by announcement of the
Director in accordance with this subchapter, except that any street area which
has become substantially clear of snow and ice from curb to median line for the
length of the entire block on any street which it applies during the time from
12:01 a.m. until 8:00 p.m. of any day, except as permitted below:
      (1)   Vehicles may be parked on the uneven-street-numbers side of the
street on days with names that have the letter "U" in their spelling; for
example, Sunday, Tuesday, Thursday and Saturday.
      (2)   Vehicles may be parked on the even-street-numbers side of the
street on days with names that do not have the letter "U" in their spelling;
for example, Monday, Wednesday and Friday.
   (B)   However, nothing in this section shall be construed to permit parking
at any time or place where it is forbidden by any other provision of law.
('68 Code, § 5-1404) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.68 CONDITION OF MOTOR VEHICLES OPERATED ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTES.
   (A)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice shall allow such vehicle to become
stalled wholly or partly because the drive wheels thereof are not equipped with
effective tire chains or snow tires.
   (B)   No person operating a motor vehicle on a part of a snow emergency
route on which there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a
parking prohibition in effect shall allow such vehicle to become stalled
because the motor fuel supply is exhausted or the battery has become
inoperative.
('68 Code, § 5-1406) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.69 STALLED VEHICLE ON SNOW EMERGENCY ROUTE.
   Whenever a vehicle becomes stalled for any reason, whether or not in
violation of this subchapter, on any part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect, the person operating such vehicle shall take immediate
action to have the vehicle towed or pushed off the roadway of such snow
emergency route, either onto the first cross street which is not a snow
emergency route, or onto the public space portion of a nearby driveway. No
person shall abandon or leave his vehicle in the roadway of a snow emergency
route (regardless of whether he indicates, by raising the hood or otherwise,
that the vehicle is stalled), except for the purpose of securing assistance
during the actual time necessary to go to a nearby telephone or to a nearby
garage, gasoline station or other place of assistance and return without delay.
('68 Code, § 5-1407) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
72.99
§ 72.70 REMOVAL, IMPOUNDING AND RETURN OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   Members of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove or
have removed a vehicle from a street to the nearest garage or other place of
safety (including another place on a street), or to a garage designated or
maintained by the Police Department, or otherwise maintained by this city,
when:
      (1)   The vehicle is parked on a part of a snow emergency route on which
a parking prohibition is in effect.
      (2)   The vehicle is stalled on a part of a snow emergency route on which
there is a covering of snow, sleet or ice or on which there is a parking
prohibition in effect and the person who was operating such vehicle does not
appear to be removing it in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (3)   The vehicle is parked in violation of any parking ordinance or
provision of law and is interfering or about to interfere with snow removal
operations.
   (B)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street as
authorized in this section and the officer knows or is able to ascertain from
the registration records in the vehicle the name and address of the owner
thereof, such officer shall immediately give or cause to be given notice in
writing to such owner of the fact of such removal and the reasons therefor and
of the place to which such vehicle has been removed. In the event any such
vehicle is stored in a public garage, a copy of such notice shall be given to
the proprietor of such garage.
   (C)   Whenever an officer removes or has removed a vehicle from a street
under this section and does not know and is not able to ascertain the name of
the owner, or for any other reason is unable to give the notice to the owner as
hereinbefore provided, and in the event the vehicle is not returned to the
owner within a period of three days, then and in that event the officer shall
immediately send or cause to be sent a written report of such removal by mail
to the State Department whose duty it is to register motor vehicles, and shall
file a copy of such notice with the proprietor of any public garage in which
the vehicle may be stored. Such notice shall include a complete description of
the vehicle, the date, time and place from which removed, the reasons for such
removal, and name of the garage or place where the vehicle is stored.
   (D)   No person shall recover any vehicle removed in accordance with this
section except as provided herein. Before the owner or person in charge of such
vehicle shall be allowed to recover it from the place where it has been placed
or impounded, he shall present to a member of the Police Department evidence of
his identity and right to possession of the vehicle, shall sign a receipt for
its return, shall pay the cost of removal, not to exceed $75, and shall pay any
cost of storage accrued, not to exceed $5 for the first day or portion thereof
and $5 for each additional day or portion thereof thereafter. Until paid, these
charges constitute a lien on the vehicle which may be enforced in the same
manner as a garage keeper's lien in accordance with provisions of law.
   (E)   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to keep a record of each
vehicle removed in accordance with this section. The record shall include a
description of the vehicle, its license number, the date and time of its
removal, where it was removed from, its location, the name and address of its
owner and last operator, if known, its final disposition, and the parking
violation involved.
   (F)   This section shall be supplemental to any other provisions of law
granting members of the Police Department authority to remove vehicles.
('68 Code, § 5-1412) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.71 CITATION ON VEHICLE PARKED OR LEFT IN VIOLATION.
   Whenever any motor vehicle without a driver is found parked or left in
violation of any provision of this subchapter, and is not removed and impounded
as provided for in this subchapter, the officer finding such vehicle shall take
its registration number and any other information displayed on the vehicle
which may identify its user, and shall conspicuously affix to such vehicle a
traffic citation, on a form provided by the city, for the driver to answer to
the charge against him within time prescribed by law during the hours and at a
place specified in the citation.
('68 Code, § 5-1413) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.72 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH TRAFFIC CITATION ATTACHED TO VEHICLE.
   If a violator of this subchapter does not appear in response to a traffic
citation affixed to such motor vehicle in accordance with this subchapter
within a period of two days, the city shall send the owner of the motor vehicle
to which the traffic citation was affixed a letter informing him of the
violation and warning him that in the event such letter is disregarded for a
period of four days a warrant of arrest will be issued.
('68 Code, § 5-1414) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.73 EVIDENCE WITH RESPECT TO VEHICLES PARKED OR LEFT IN VIOLATION OF
PROVISIONS.
   In any prosecution with regard to a vehicle parked or left in a place or in
a condition in violation of any provision of this subchapter, proof that the
particular vehicle described in the complaint was parked or left in violation
of a provision of this subchapter, together with proof that the defendant named
in the complaint was at the time the registered owner of such vehicle, shall
constitute prima facie evidence that the defendant was the person who parked or
left the vehicle in violation of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1415) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.74 TERMINATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION.
   Whenever the Director of the Department of Public Service shall find that
some or all of the conditions which give rise to a parking prohibition in
effect pursuant to this subchapter no longer exist, he may declare the
prohibition terminated, in whole or in part, in a manner prescribed by this
subchapter, effective immediately upon announcement.
('68 Code, § 5-1409) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
§ 72.75 PROVISIONS TEMPORARILY EFFECTIVE TO TAKE PRECEDENCE.
   Any provision of this subchapter which becomes effective by declaration of
the Director of the Department of Public Service or upon the occurrence of
certain weather conditions shall, while temporarily in effect, take precedence
over other conflicting provisions of law normally in effect, except that it
shall not take precedence over provisions of law relating to traffic accidents,
emergency travel of authorized vehicles or emergency traffic directions by a
police officer.
('68 Code, § 5-1410) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 72.85 ISSUANCE OF APPEARANCE CITATIONS FOR PARKING OR STANDING OF MOTOR
VEHICLES.
   (A)   The following sworn personnel are hereby authorized to issue
appearance citations to any responsible individual that is in violation of the
city's ordinances regarding the parking or standing of motor vehicles: sworn
members of the Auxiliary Police, Code Enforcement Officers and sworn officers
of the Police Department.
   (B)   An appearance citation means a complaint or notice upon which the
aforestated sworn personnel shall record an occurrence involving one or more
violations regarding the parking or standing of motor vehicles by the person
cited. Each citation shall be numbered consecutively, be in a form as
determined by the Secretary of State, the Attorney General, the State Court
Administrator and the Director of the Department of State Police and shall
consist of the following parts:
      (1)   The original which shall be a complaint or notice to appear by one
of the aforestated personnel and shall be filed with the court in which the
appearance is to be made.
      (2)   The first copy shall be retained by the local traffic enforcement
agency.
      (3)   The second copy shall be delivered to the alleged violator if the
violation is a civil infraction.
   (C)   In a civil infraction action involving the parking or standing of a
motor vehicle, a copy of the citation need not be served personally upon the
defendant but may be served upon the registered owner by attaching the copy to
the vehicle.
(Ord. 678, passed 7-17-89)
§ 72.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any provision of this chapter which describes an act or admission
which constitutes a civil infraction under the terms of the Michigan Vehicle
Code, being 1949 Public Act 300, as amended, shall be processed as a civil
infraction and any person found to have committed a civil infraction may be
ordered to pay a civil fine of not more than $100 and costs in accordance with
Section 907 of the Michigan Vehicle Code. Violation of any other provision of
this chapter for which another penalty has been provided, not constituting a
civil infraction as herein provided, shall be punishable by a fine of not more
than $500 or imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment.
   (B)   (1)   Any vehicle found to be in violation of §§
72.45 through
72.48 shall be issued a warning citation ordering that said vehicle be removed
within a 48-hour period. Such notice shall be served personally upon the owner
or occupant of the property, if occupied, or may be posted in a conspicuous
place upon vacant or unoccupied property or upon the vehicle itself.
      (2)   If said vehicle is not removed within the said 48-hour period, the
vehicle may be towed at the owner's expense.
      (3)   Any person whose vehicle is found to be in violation of §§
72.45 through
72.48 shall, upon conviction, be fined up to $25 for the first offense. Any
subsequent convictions in violation of this chapter shall result in a fine of
not more than $50 and/or by imprisonment of not more than 30 days, or both such
fine and/or imprisonment at the discretion of the court.
('68 Code, § 5-1205) (Ord. 549, passed 5-19-80)
   (C)   Every person convicted of a violation of any provision of §§
72.60 through
72.75 shall be punished by a fine of not more than $75 or less than $500, or by
imprisonment for not more than ten days, or by both such fine and imprisonment.
('68 Code, § 5-1417) (Ord. 563, passed 12-15-80)
CHAPTER 73: BICYCLES AND OTHER TOY VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
73.01   Registration required
   
73.02   Registering department; designation
   
73.03   Application; registration card; license
   
73.04   Sale, transfer of ownership; report required
   
73.05   Removal, damage of serial numbers; registration card
   
73.06   Registration and transfer fee
Skateboards, Roller Skates and Street Skates
   
73.20   Definitions
   
73.21   Compliance with provisions
   
73.22   Skating or riding on sidewalks
   
73.23   Skating or riding on certain devices or structures
   
73.24   Skating or riding prohibiting where posted
   
73.25   Reckless or dangerous skating or riding prohibited
 
   
73.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 73.01 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or use a bicycle, propelled
wholly or in part by muscular power, upon any of the streets, alleys or public
highways of the city, the ownership of which has not been registered with the
designated department of the city.
('68 Code, § 5-401) (Ord. 313, passed 4-15-68)
§ 73.02 REGISTERING DEPARTMENT; DESIGNATION.
   The Mayor is hereby authorized to designate a city department to register
the ownership of bicycles, which registration when made shall allow the use of
the same, after securing a registration card and license as hereafter provided,
upon all of the streets, alleys and public highways exclusive hereon in the
city.
('68 Code, § 5-402) (Ord. 313, passed 4-15-68; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 73.03 APPLICATION; REGISTRATION CARD; LICENSE.
   Applicants for registration shall apply to the designated department for
issuance of registration card and license for their respective bicycles. The
registration card and license shall be furnished by the city and shall have
numbers stamped thereon in numerical order beginning with number one, and shall
show the year in which same was issued. Licenses will be issued for the life of
the bike or term of ownership of the bike. The registration cards shall be
executed in duplicate, one copy to be given to the registrant and one copy to
be retained by the designated department as a part of its records. The
registration cards shall state the date of issuance, the name and address of
the registrant, the date of purchase of the bicycle, the name and address of
the person from whom purchased, and the name and serial number of the bicycle,
if any. It shall be the duty of the owner to attach the license to the bicycle
in accordance with directions of the designated department, and the license
shall remain permanently attached to the bicycle.
('68 Code, § 5-403) (Ord. 313, passed 4-15-68) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.04 SALE, TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP; REPORT REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of every person who sells or transfers ownership of any
bicycle registered as herein provided to report such sale or transfer to the
designated department together with the name and address of the person to whom
the bicycle was sold or transferred, and such report shall be made within seven
days from the date of the sale or transfer. It shall also be the duty of the
purchaser or transferee of the bicycle, providing the bicycle is to be used
within the city, to register his ownership thereof as herein provided, within
seven days after such sale or transfer.
('68 Code, § 5-404) (Ord. 313, passed 4-15-68) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.05 REMOVAL, DAMAGE OF SERIAL NUMBERS; REGISTRATION CARD.
   It shall be unlawful for any secondhand dealer or any other person to
willfully or maliciously remove, destroy, mutilate or alter the number of any
bicycle frame registered pursuant to this chapter. It shall be unlawful for any
person to remove, destroy, mutilate or alter any license, seal or registration
card during the time in which such license, seal or registration card is
operative. However, nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the designated
department from stamping numbers on the frames of bicycles on which no serial
number can be found or on which said number is illegible or insufficient for
identification purposes.
('68 Code, § 5-405) (Ord. 313, passed 4-15-68) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.06 REGISTRATION AND TRANSFER FEE.
   The registration and transfer fee to be set by City Council resolution shall
be paid to the designated department at the time of registration. All fees
collected under this chapter shall periodically be paid by the designated
department to the City Treasurer, to be credited to the General Fund of the
city.
('68 Code, § 5-406) (Ord. 313, passed 4-15-68)
SKATEBOARDS, ROLLER SKATES AND STREET SKATES
§ 73.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ROLLER SKATES and STREET SKATES. Small wheels near the toe and near the heel
of a shoe or frame that would attach to a shoe which are used for gliding on a
hard surface such as a floor, sidewalk and the like.
   SKATEBOARDS. An item consisting of a short, oblong board with small wheels
at each end, ridden on a hard surface such as a floor or sidewalk.
   TO ROLLER SKATE. To skate on any type of roller skates or street skates.
(Ord. 692, passed 11-5-90)
§ 73.21 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard within the city without
complying with the terms of this subchapter.
(Ord. 692, passed 11-5-90) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.22 SKATING OR RIDING ON SIDEWALKS.
   Whenever any person is roller skating or riding a skateboard upon a sidewalk
or other paved surface intended for use by pedestrians, such person shall yield
the right-of-way to any pedestrian and shall not approach, overtake or pass
such pedestrian in a reckless or careless manner, and shall not pass such
pedestrian except in single file if such person is roller skating or riding a
skateboard with other such skaters or riders.
(Ord. 692, passed 11-5-90) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.23 SKATING OR RIDING ON CERTAIN DEVICES OR STRUCTURES.
   It shall be unlawful to roller skate or ride on a skateboard on any bench,
table planter wall, retaining wall, porch, steps or other device or structure
which is located on public property, or to jump or step on or off such devices
or structures in the process or roller skating or riding a skateboard.
(Ord. 692, passed 11-5-90) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.24 SKATING OR RIDING PROHIBITING WHERE POSTED.
   The City Council may in its discretion by resolution authorize the Mayor to
erect signs on any city-owned property prohibiting roller skating or the riding
of skateboards thereon. It shall be unlawful to roller skate or ride a
skateboard on any such city-owned property which is posted.
(Ord. 692, passed 11-5-90; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.25 RECKLESS OR DANGEROUS SKATING OR RIDING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall roller skate or ride a skateboard on any sidewalk or other
paved surface intended for pedestrians in a reckless or careless manner, or in
a manner which is likely to result in injury or harm to any person or property.
(Ord. 692, passed 11-5-90) Penalty, see §
73.99
§ 73.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty has not been provided shall upon conviction be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for a period of not more than 90
days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   The penalties for violating §
73.24 shall specifically include, without limitation, the right to eject any
person from the posted area who is using a skateboard or roller skates. The
penalties for §§
73.21 through
73.25 shall include the right to impound as evidence any skates or skateboard
which is used contrary to their provisions, pending the prosecution of such an
alleged violation of these sections, and/or a fine of not more than $500.
(Ord. 692, passed 11-5-90)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
      
93.   HEALTH SAFETY AND SANITATION
      
94.   LITTERING
      
95.   NUISANCES; WEEDS
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
98.   TREES
      
99.   UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES
      
100.   BASIC CABLE T.V. RATE REGULATIONS
      
101.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS’ USE OF RIGHTS-OF- WAY
      
102.   COLLECTION BINS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED AND INOPERABLE VEHICLES
Section
Wrecked, Abandoned and Illegally Parked Motor Vehicles
   
90.01   Findings of necessity
   
90.02   Authority to impound vehicles
   
90.03   Unattended vehicles obstructing traffic; authority to remove
   
90.04   Impounded vehicles; redemption procedure
   
90.05   Towing charges
   
90.06   Reports to secretary of state; disposition of vehicles
   
90.07   Removal from or placement of vehicles in pound restricted
Inoperable Motor Vehicles
   
90.20   Definition
   
90.21   Permit required to park inoperable vehicle upon property, application
   
90.22   Issuance of permit; posting
   
90.23   Permit fees
   
90.24   Conditions of permit
   
90.25   Revocation of permit; notice; order to cease storing
   
90.26   Removal of vehicle by city; notice
Cross-reference:
   Parking abandoned, junked, or partially disabled vehicles in parking lots,
see §
121.23
   Blight violations, see
Chapter 156
WRECKED, ABANDONED AND ILLEGALLY PARKED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 90.01 FINDINGS OF NECESSITY.
   The City Council has adopted this subchapter after extensive study has
indicated the need for removal of wrecked, abandoned and illegally parked motor
vehicles to a city motor vehicle pound.
(‘68 Code, § 5-201) (Ord. 152, passed 8-26-58)
§ 90.02 AUTHORITY TO IMPOUND VEHICLES.
   Whenever any police officer finds a motor vehicle standing upon a highway in
violation of any city regulation or the State Motor Vehicle Code or is
obstructing traffic, such officer is hereby authorized to remove or to cause to
be removed such vehicle or to require the driver or other person in charge of
the vehicle to move it to a position off the pavement or improved or main-
traveled part of such highway or roadway.
(‘68 Code, § 5-202) (Ord. 152, passed 8-26-58))
§ 90.03 UNATTENDED VEHICLES OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC; AUTHORITY TO REMOVE.
   Whenever such police officer finds a vehicle unattended upon any highway
where such vehicle constitutes obstruction to traffic, such officer is hereby
authorized to provide for the removal of such vehicle to the city motor vehicle
pound or to the nearest garage or other place of safety.
(‘68 Code, § 5-203) (Ord. 152, passed 8-26-58))
§ 90.04 IMPOUNDED VEHICLES; REDEMPTION PROCEDURE.
   If any motor vehicle is towed to the city motor vehicle pound, such towing
and removal shall be at the risk of the owner. Before the owner or any person
in charge of such vehicle shall be permitted to move same from such pound, he
shall furnish evidence of his identity and ownership or right to possession, he
shall sign a receipt for said vehicle, and shall pay to the police department
the towage fee as set forth in §
90.05, plus storage charges of $.50 per day or fraction thereof.
(‘68 Code, § 5-204) (Ord. 152, passed 8-26-58); Am. Ord. 152.1, passed 11-12-
58)
§ 90.05 TOWING CHARGES.
   Whenever any garage and/or filling station tows a motor vehicle to the city
motor vehicle pound at the request or approval of the City Police Department,
the said garage and/or filling station operator shall be entitled to receive a
minimum sum of $5 from the city for each towed vehicle. It shall be within the
discretion of the Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative to
approve a higher towage fee where the vehicle to be towed is other than an
automobile or where the prevailing circumstances require extensive towing
services.
(‘68 Code, § 5-205) (Ord. 152, passed 8-26-58); Am. Ord. 152.1, passed 11-12-
58)
§ 90.06 REPORTS TO SECRETARY OF STATE; DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be the duty of the Chief of Police or his duly authorized
representative to report to the Secretary of State all cars found abandoned on
a highway or other place and same shall be taken in custody in the city motor
vehicle pound and held by the Chief of Police or his duly authorized
representative for a period of 45 days after personal notice by registered mail
to the registered owner of the motor vehicle to taken in custody, after which
the said vehicle may be sold at public auction in the same manner and after
same notice required in sales of property seized on chattel mortgage. Any
surplus received at said sale shall, after all charges incurred by the Chief of
Police or his duly authorized representative have been paid and satisfied and
all costs of sale have been deducted, be returned to the owner of said motor
vehicle.
(‘68 Code, § 5-206) (Ord. 152, passed - - )
§ 90.07 REMOVAL FROM OR PLACEMENT OF VEHICLES IN POUND RESTRICTED.
   Any person, firm, association, syndicate, co-partnership, corporation, trust
or any other legal entity who attempts to remove or does remove a motor vehicle
from the city motor vehicle pound, contrary to the provisions of this
subchapter, or attempts to place or does place a motor vehicle in the city
vehicle pound contrary to the provisions of this code, shall be in violation of
this subchapter and code.
(‘68 Code, § 5- 207) (Ord. 152, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 90.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. A motor vehicle which has remained on public property or
any other public place open to travel by the public without the consent of the
city for a period of 48 hours after the city has affixed a written notice to
the vehicle advising that the vehicle must be removed from the location.
   INOPERABLE VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle which is currently not capable of
being started and/or safely and properly operated on the street or which does
not bear a valid and/or current license plate or tab.
(‘68 Code, § 5-801) (Ord. 266, passed 7-18-66; Am. Ord. 789, passed 3-19-01)
§ 90.21 PERMIT REQUIRED TO PARK INOPERABLE VEHICLE UPON PROPERTY, APPLICATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, tenant, occupant or the owner of
property to park or permit to be parked any inoperable vehicle on any property
in the city without a permit as provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Application shall be made to the City Clerk within 48 hours after any
inoperable vehicle has been parked in any zoning district as herein set forth
and by filing on a form furnished by the City Clerk a statement of the
following:
      (1)   Address of the premises where the vehicle is to be parked;
      (2)   Name and address of the owner or person in control of the premises,
and a statement attesting to his permission for such vehicle to be parked and
the date of such permission;
      (3)   Name and address of the registered owner of the inoperable vehicle
for which the permit is sought; the registration or title shall be presented to
the officer issuing the permit;
      (4)   Description of the inoperable vehicle for which a permit is sought,
as to make, model, year of manufacture, last license issued and condition which
rendered it inoperable;
      (5)   Estimated length of time, not to exceed 60 days, for which the
permit is being requested in order to restore the vehicle to operating
condition;
      (6)    The signature of the applicant.
(‘68 Code, § 5-802) (Ord. 266, passed 7-18-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.22 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; POSTING.
   The City Clerk, upon recommendation of the Police Department, may issue a
permit based on a proper application. Such permit shall be valid for a period
not to exceed 30 days from date of application. A copy of such permit shall be
posted inside the vehicle for which it was issued by affixing to the windshield
or window so as to be readily visible at all times.
(‘68 Code, § 5-803) (Ord. 266, passed 7-18-66; Am. Ord. 713, passed 2-15-93)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.23 PERMIT FEES.
   The City Clerk shall collect a permit fee at the time of issuance of such
permit for storage of an inoperable vehicle. The City Council may from time to
time establish by resolution the amount of such permit fee.
(‘68 Code, § 5-806) (Ord. 266, passed 7-18-66; Am. Ord. 713, passed 2-15-93)
§ 90.24 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   Every permit for storage of an inoperable vehicle on private property shall
be subject to the conditions that:
   (A)   No nuisance or safety hazard shall be created or maintained;
   (B)   All broken glass or partially detached parts shall be either removed
and disposed of as rubbish or secured in a manner to prevent hazard;
   (C)   Trunk or storage compartment shall be kept locked or otherwise secured
adequately to prevent possible entrapment of a child;
   (D)   Wheels or tires shall not be removed from the vehicle except for
repairs;
   (E)   The last issued license plates shall be kept on the vehicle;
   (F)   The vehicle shall not be elevated or blocked in any unsafe manner;
   (G)   All parts or components removed from the vehicle shall not be stored
in the open;
   (H)   No waste oil or other fluid shall be allowed to flow on the ground or
pavement;
   (I)   The vehicle may be parked only in the rear yard of residential
property;
   (J)   No violation of the zoning code shall be created;
   (K)   All information furnished by the applicant as required by Section 5-
802 is essentially correct, and any false statement will be a violation of this
subchapter;
   (L)   Repair of vehicles of others is prohibited; and
   (M)   No more than one inoperable vehicle shall be permitted on any
premises.
(‘68 Code, § 5-804) (Ord. 266, passed 7-18-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.25 REVOCATION OF PERMIT; NOTICE; ORDER TO CEASE STORING.
   Any permit issued under authority of this subchapter may be revoked at the
discretion of the City Clerk when in his opinion a violation of this subchapter
exists. Notice of such revocation shall be delivered to the permittee or posted
conspicuously on the vehicle, along with a notice to cease storing said vehicle
and to remove it to a proper storage or disposal location. The permittee shall
remove the vehicle within ten days after receiving said notice, or after the
notice is posted.
(‘68 Code, § 5-805) (Ord. 266, passed 7-18-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.26 REMOVAL OF VEHICLE BY CITY; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Mayor or his duly authorized representative may remove or cause to
be removed any inoperable vehicle as defined in §
90.20 or parts of such vehicle from any unenclosed private property where the
owner of said vehicle or person in charge thereof has not secured the proper
permit under the terms of this subchapter, after having notified, in writing,
the owner or occupant of such property the intention to do so at least 48 hours
prior to such removal. Such notice shall be served personally upon the owner or
occupant of the property, if occupied, or may be posted in a conspicuous place
upon vacant or unoccupied property or upon the vehicle itself.
   (B)   In addition to the foregoing, if a motor vehicle has remained on
public property or any other place open to travel by the public for a period of
time so that it appears to the city to be abandoned, the city shall do the
following:
      (1)   Determine if the vehicle has been reported stolen.
      (2)   Affix a written notice to the vehicle. The written notice shall
contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The date and time the notice was affixed.
         (b)   The name and address of the city agency taking the action.
         (c)   The name and badge number of the officer or employee of the city
affixing the notice.
         (d)   The date and time the vehicle may be taken into custody and
stored at the owner’s expense if the vehicle is not removed.
         (e)   The year, make and vehicle identification number of the vehicle.
   (C)   The Mayor or his duly authorized representative may remove or cause to
be removed any abandoned vehicle, as defined in §
90.20, or parts of such motor vehicle which has remained on public property or
any other place open to travel by the public for a period of 48 hours after the
city has affixed a written notice to the vehicle. If the vehicle is not removed
within 48 hours after the notice was affixed to the vehicle, the vehicle shall
be deemed abandoned.
(‘68 Code, § 5-807) (Ord. 266, passed 7-18-66; Am. Ord. 789, passed 3-19-01;
Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Cruelty to animals
   
91.02   Hunting prohibited
   
91.03   Sale or coloring of baby chicks, rabbits and the like prohibited;
exception
Dogs, Licensing
   
91.15   Dogs running at large; collar and tags
   
91.16   License required
   
91.17   Application; fee; expiration; tags
   
91.18   Immunization required; certificate
   
91.19   License tags; nontransference; fee
   
91.20   Exemption from licensing provisions
   
91.22   Barking dogs
   
91.23   Rabies control; dog bites; notification
   
91.24   Impoundment procedure
   
91.25   Disposition of dead dogs
Kennels
   
91.35   Definition
   
91.36   License required
   
91.37   Application for license
   
91.38   Issuance of license
   
91.39   License fee; proration
   
91.40   Buildings, kennels and yards to be kept clean; humane treatment
   
91.41   Maximum number of dogs to be determined; inspection.
   
91.42   Location of kennels restricted
   
91.43   Existing kennels
   
91.44   Individual license for dogs in kennel not required; exception
Administration and Enforcement
   
91.55   Dog pound; supervision
   
91.56   Seizure or disposal of dogs on violation of provisions
Cats
   
91.65   Possession, sheltering or harboring of cats
   
91.66   Vaccination required; certificate
   
91.67   Nuisance
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   (A)   This section may be cited as the Cruelty to Animals Regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 4-418)
   (B)   Whoever overdrives, overloads, drives when overloaded, overworks,
tortures, torments, deprives of necessary sustenance, cruelly beats, mutilates
or cruelly kills or causes or produces to be so overdriven, overloaded, driven
when overloaded, overworked, tortured, tormented, deprived of necessary
sustenance, cruelly beaten, mutilated or cruelly killed, any animal or whoever
having the charge or custody of any animal, either as owner or otherwise
inflicts unnecessary cruelty upon the same, or willfully fails to provide same
with proper food, drink, shelter or protection from the weather, shall be
guilty of this offense.
(‘68 Code, § 5-491)
   (C)   The cropping of dogs’ ears and tails shall be considered a mutilation
or cruelty to an animal within the meaning of this section unless the cropping
is performed by a registered veterinarian surgeon while the dog is under
anesthetic.
(‘68 Code, § 4-420) (Ord. 498, passed 12-12-75) Penalty, see §
91.99
Cross-reference:
   Molesting Wildlife Prohibited, see §
96.17
§ 91.02 HUNTING PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in any manner to carry any gun, weapon
or firearm for the purpose of hunting any wild game or fowl at any time within
the city limits.
(‘68 Code, § 8-105) (Ord. 51, passed 10-9-42) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 SALE OR COLORING OF BABY CHICKS, RABBITS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED;
EXCEPTION.
   It shall be unlawful to sell, or offer for sale, barter or give away baby
chicks, rabbits, ducklings or other fowls as pets or novelties, whether or not
dyed, colored or otherwise artificially treated. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit the display or sale of natural chicks or ducklings in
proper facilities by hatcheries or stores engaged in the business of selling
the same to be raised for commercial purposes.
(‘68 Code, § 5-417) (Ord. 202, passed 3-4-63) Penalty, see §
91.99
DOGS, LICENSING
§ 91.15 DOGS RUNNING AT LARGE; COLLAR AND TAGS.
   No person owning, possessing or harboring any dog shall permit the same to
run off his premises unless such dog is on a leash held by the owner or some
other competent person. Every dog so allowed off the premises of his owner
shall wear a substantial collar of leather, iron, copper, brass or some other
durable material to which shall be securely attached the tag herein provided
for. Duplicate tags, in case of loss, may be issued by the City Clerk upon
payment by the applicant of the sum of $.25. No tag shall be used on the collar
of any dog other than the dog for which license has been issued. No person
shall remove the collar or tag from any dog without the consent of the owner or
party to whom the license is issued.
(‘68 Code, § 4-406) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 214, passed 3-16-64)
Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.16 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor a dog in the
city without first having obtained a license therefor from the City clerk in
compliance with the provisions hereinafter provided.
(‘68 Code, § 4-401) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.17 APPLICATION; FEE; EXPIRATION; TAGS.
   (A)   Upon application being made to the city, giving the full name and
residence of the applicant and a full description of the dog to be licensed,
the issuing department shall issue to such applicant a license to own or harbor
a dog for the term commencing at the date of such license and terminating the
following June 30.
   (B)   At the time of issuing the license, the issuing department shall issue
to such applicant a tag of durable material, containing the number of the
license, duly stamped or engraved thereon, the year when issued, together with
the words “Dog License, City of Inkster, Michigan”, however, before the issuing
department shall deliver such license and tag, the applicant therefor shall pay
the City Treasurer a fee to be set by City Council resolution, with the
exception of any dogs acting in assistance to a person physically afflicted,
such as blindness, and the like, such exemption to be granted at the discretion
of the Mayor.
   (C)   Such license shall entitle the applicant to keep or harbor such dog
for the term commencing from the date of said license and terminating at
midnight on June 30 following its issuance. When issued for a period less than
six calendar months next prior to July 1, the City Treasurer shall collect a
total of one-half of the license fee hereinbefore provided. The shape and style
of the tag shall be changed each year beginning July 1.
(‘68 Code, § 4-402) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 314, passed 4-15-68;
Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.18 IMMUNIZATION REQUIRED; CERTIFICATE.
   At the time of issuing such license the City Clerk shall require from each
applicant a statement as to whether or not the dog sought to be licensed has
been immunized against rabies, within one year preceding the date of the
application, and if immunized to produce a certificate from a duly licensed and
registered veterinarian. Said certificate is to be filed with the Chief of
Police at the time the license is issued. When the dog is vaccinated with
modified live rabies virus of chick embryo origin, proof of vaccination within
two years preceding the date of the application for license shall be deemed
compliance with he sections of this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 4-403) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 151.1, passed 1-11-60;
Am. Ord. 293, passed 2-5-68)
Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.19 LICENSE TAGS; NONTRANSFERENCE; FEE.
   No license or license tag issued for one dog shall be transferable to
another dog. Whenever the ownership or possession is permanently transferred
from one person to another, the license of such dog may be likewise transferred
upon notification given to the City Clerk, who shall note such transfer upon is
records, and a charge of $.50 shall be collected by the City Clerk from the new
owner to cover the cost of making such transfer.
(‘68 Code, § 4-405) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.20 EXEMPTION FROM LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   Any person owning a pup shall have six months after birth of said pup in
which to make application for license, and any person importing a dog into the
city shall have ten days to make application for a license.
(‘68 Code, § 4-404) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.21 VICIOUS DOGS.
   (A)   No owner or person may harbor or keep a fierce or vicious dog at any
time within the limits of the city, and must report such dog to the Police
Department immediately upon discovering such condition.
      (1)   Any person owning, keeping or harboring a dog that has bitten any
person shall immediately thereafter surrender such dog to the custody of the
Police Department and if, in the opinion of the Chief of Police or his duly
authorized representative, it a necessary to impound such dog, said dog will be
impounded in the city dog pound for a period of ten days at a charge to the
owner at the rate set forth in §
91.23(B) so that such dog may be placed under observation for a period of ten
days. The word dog used in this chapter shall mean both male and female.
      (2)   Any person allowing a dog to habitually remain and be lodged within
his or her house, store, building, enclosure or premises shall be considered as
harboring or keeping the same within the meaning of this chapter.
   (B)   Whenever a dog is brought to the pound for having bitten a person, the
Mayor or his duly authorized agent, may, if deemed necessary and advisable, and
after holding such dog for a sufficient length of time to meet the other
requirements of this section, cause such dog to be destroyed as a vicious dog;
however, the Mayor, or his duly authorized agent must notify the owner of such
dog, if known, of his intent to destroy such dog. Such notice must be
delivered, in writing, either in person or by certified mail, to the owner of
the dog. Upon receipt of such notice, the owner shall have 120 hours in which
to seek a review by the district court of the city of the order of the Mayor or
his duly authorized agent for the destruction of such dog.
   (C)   All persons shall be liable for damage for any and all injuries to
persons or property that may be caused by any dog owned by them, which damages
may be determined and collected in appropriate civil proceedings therefor, in
which proceedings the proof of the failure or refusal by such owner to comply
with the provisions of this section shall constitute prima facie evidence of
negligence on the part of such owners.
   (D)   In all cases where a person has been charged with a violation under
this chapter and the dog has bitten a person, or where a person charged with a
violation under this chapter has pleaded guilty or has been convicted of a
previous offense under this chapter within two years, a court appearance shall
be mandatory.
(‘68 Code, § 4-407) (Ord. 452, passed 5-22-73; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.22 BARKING DOGS.
   No person shall keep or harbor any dog which by loud, frequent or habitual
barking, yelping or howling shall cause serious annoyance to the neighborhood
or to people passing to and from upon the streets.
(‘68 Code, § 4-407) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.23 RABIES CONTROL; DOG BITES; NOTIFICATION.
   (A)   Any person who shall have in his or her possession a dog which has
contracted rabies shall, upon demand of a police officer, Mayor or their duly
authorized representative, produce and surrender said dog to the aforesaid
official for observation for a period of ten days.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every person owning or harboring a dog which
has been attacked or bitten by another dog or other animal showing the symptoms
of rabies to immediately notify the Police Department or the Mayor or his duly
authorized representative that he has such a dog in his possession. Whenever
said dog is brought to the pound for having bitten a person and when it shall
appear after observation for ten days by the Police Department, the Mayor or
his duly authorized representative, that such a dog is fierce, vicious or
dangerous, the Police Department, the Mayor or his duly authorized
representative shall cause such dog to be destroyed as a vicious dog; further;
and that whenever any dog suffering from rabies is held by the Police
Department, Mayor or his duly authorized representative for a period of ten
days and it has not recovered from such rabies, it shall be destroyed.
(‘68 Code, § 4-409) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
Penalty, see §
91.99 
§ 91.24 IMPOUNDMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Upon receiving a dog, the Police Department, Mayor or his duly
authorized representative shall issue to the party delivering said dog a
receipt for said dog, carefully describing the same, stating the hour and date
of such delivery.
(‘68 Code, § 4-410) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 308, passed 4-1-68)
   (B)   The City Council shall by resolution determine the amount to be
charged the owner or person entitled to demand the return of a dog from the
city dog pound; said sum shall be for the care and custody of said dog. It
shall be necessary to procure a license for said dog in the event such dog
shall not have been duly licensed. No dog shall be released from the pound
unless the owner or person entitled to demand the same shall exhibit to the
officer in charge of the dog pound satisfactory evidence that the dog has been
immunized against rabies. The person in charge of said dog pound shall keep a
record of all dogs received by him with the description thereof and disposition
of the same. He shall immediately pay into the city treasury all moneys
received by him for the release or sale of dogs.
(‘68 Code, § 4-411) (Ord. 151, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 378, passed 2-15-71)
   (C)   All dogs not timed within 72 hours after having been impounded or
within 72 hours after the ten-day period has expired, as set forth in §
91.21(A)(1), shall be destroyed, or if the animal is worthy or valuable, it
shall be sold or given away at the discretion of the Mayor or his duly
authorized representative. However, it is provided that any dog having been
exposed to rabies or any dog that has attacked a person shall be kept until
such time and under such conditions required by this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 4-412) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 308, passed 4-1-68; Am.
Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 91.25 DISPOSITION OF DEAD DOGS.
   The bodies of all dogs that have been killed shall be disposed of by the
person in charge of the pound in such manner as shall be designated by the
Mayor or his duly authorized representative.
(‘68 Code, § 4-413) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord.308, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
KENNELS
§ 91.35 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   KENNEL. An establishment wherein or whereon three or more dogs of six months
or older are confined and kept for sale, boarding, breeding or training
purposes for remuneration.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58)
§ 91.36 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person owning, possessing, harboring or boarding four or more dogs of
six months or older, without remuneration, must obtain a kennel license.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.37 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Any person deemed to require a kennel license as set forth in §
91.36 shall make application to the City Clerk for a kennel license entitling
him to keep or operate such a kennel. Proof of vaccination of dogs against
rabies is not required with such application.
   (B)   Before approving the application, the Chief Building Inspector shall
determine that the request of the proposed new kennel does not violate this
subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58)
§ 91.38 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Such license shall be issued by the City Clerk and shall entitle the
licensee to keep any number of dogs six months old or older, not at any time
exceeding a certain number to be specified on the license.
   (B)   The clerk shall not issue a kennel license under the provisions of
this subchapter unless the applicant therefor shall receive the approval for
the issuance of the said license from the Chief of Police or his duly
authorized representative, who shall determine whether or not a license for a
kennel shall be issued to any applicant by an inspection of the kennel to be
covered by the license to determine that said kennel is of such construction as
will adequately and comfortably house any dogs kept therein at any season of
the year.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall not issue a kennel license under the provisions
of this subchapter unless the applicant therefor shall receive the approval
from the chief inspector of the city or his duly authorized representative.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58)
§ 91.39 LICENSE FEE; PRORATION.
   The fee for each kennel license shall be $20 annually, for the term
commencing at the date of such licensing and terminating July 1. When such
license is issued less than six calendar months prior to July 1, the city
treasurer shall collect a total of one-half of the said license fee.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58)
§ 91.40 BUILDINGS, KENNELS AND YARDS TO BE KEPT CLEAN; HUMANE TREATMENT.
   The buildings, including walls and floors, shall be of such construction as
to be readily cleaned, and kennels and yards connected therewith used to
confine kennel dogs shall be kept clean and free from accumulation of filth,
mud and debris. All dogs kept or maintained in connection with such kennels
shall be furnished with a clean, fresh water supply and adequate and proper
food to maintain such animals in a normal condition of health.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.41 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS TO BE DETERMINED; INSPECTION.
   The Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative shall determine
the maximum number of dogs the said kennel can properly house and the license
will so specify said number. The inspection shall be made not more than 30 days
before filing the application for license.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58)
§ 91.42 LOCATION OF KENNELS RESTRICTED.
   No kennel shall be established within 50 feet of any dwelling, house, or in
an area zoned R-1A, R- 1AA, R-1B, R-1C, R-2 or R-M, as defined in the Zoning
Code.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.43 EXISTING KENNELS.
   The operation of a kennel existing at the time of adoption of this chapter
shall not be affected by the provisions of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 4-414) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58)
§ 91.44 INDIVIDUAL LICENSE FOR DOGS IN KENNEL NOT REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   Any person who shall have applied for and received a kennel license as
provided for in this subchapter shall not be required to obtain individual
licenses for the dogs kept in said kennel as specified in this chapter,
provided that such person shall not be exempt from the other provisions of this
chapter. No person holding such kennel license shall allow or permit any dog
kept in his kennel to stray or be taken anywhere outside the limits of the
kennel unless such person shall first pay the individual license fee for such
dog or dogs as provided in this chapter. It is further provided that the owner
of the kennel license may take dogs from the kennel outside the limits of the
kennel temporarily and on a leash for the purpose of hunting, breeding, trial
or show. All kennel licensees shall receive five individual tags for
identification purposes without additional cost.
(‘68 Code, § 4-415) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58) Penalty, see §
91.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 91.55 DOG POUND; SUPERVISION.
   There shall be a public pound in the city to be located at such place as may
be designated by the City Council. Such public pound shall be ordered and
established by the Council and shall be known as a dog pound; such dog pound
shall be under the supervision of the Mayor or his duly authorized
representative or such society, organization or association as he shall appoint
who shall be responsible for and who shall have full custody of its maintenance
and operation in the interest of the general wel fare and health of the dogs
entrusted to the custody and care of such public pound.
(‘68 Code, § 4-408) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 308, passed 4-1-68; Am.
Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.56 SEIZURE OR DISPOSAL OF DOGS IN VIOLATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The Mayor or his duly authorized representative may seize, kill or dispose
of any dog kept in violation of the provisions of this chapter; the refusal of
any person to deliver up to the Mayor or his duly authorized representative, or
any other officer designated by the Mayor or Chief of Police to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, any dog kept or harbored in violation of the
provisions hereof shall be deemed a violation of this chapter and code.
(‘68 Code, § 4-416) (Ord. 151, passed 8-12-58; Am. Ord. 308, passed 4-1-68; Am.
Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
CATS
§ 91.65 POSSESSION, SHELTERING OR HARBORING OF CATS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to possess, harbor, shelter
or keep more than three cats, other than cats under six months of age born to a
female cat under the care, custody or control of such person. The foregoing
provision excludes kennels, veterinary hospitals, clinics and pet shops in
properly zoned areas.
(Ord. 802, passed 6-7-04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.66 VACCINATION REQUIRED; CERTIFICATE.
   Any person possessing, harboring, sheltering or keeping a cat in the city
shall have such cat immunized for rabies and shall produce a certificate from a
duly licensed and registered veterinarian.
(Ord. 802, passed 6-7-04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.67 NUISANCE.
   Any person possessing, harboring, sheltering or keeping a cat in the city
shall not permit such cat to create a nuisance by way of noise, order, or any
other manner.
(Ord. 802, passed 6-7-04) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon
conviction thereof be punished by fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment
for a period of not more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(‘68 Code, § 4-421) (Ord. 498, passed 12-15-75) Penalty, see §
91.99
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION; FIREWORKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Adoption of fire prevention code by reference
   
92.011   Additions, insertions, and changes
   
92.02   Fees
   
92.03   Smoking in publicly-owned buildings; signposting
Flammable Liquids
   
92.15   Adoption of flammable liquids regulations by reference
   
92.16   Storage tanks; installation; license required; fees
Fireworks
   
92.30   Sale of fireworks
   
92.31   Definitions
   
92.32   Prohibited fireworks
   
92.33   Minors
   
92.34   Public property
   
92.35   General restrictions including holidays
   
92.36   Applicability of general ordinances
   
92.37   Penalties
   
92.38   Seizure and cost recovery
   
92.39   Display fireworks
Smoke Detectors
   
92.45   Definitions
   
92.46   Newly constructed dwellings; smoke detectors required
   
92.47   Existing structures; requirement
Open Burn
   
92.60   Open burn
 
   
92.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Smoking in bed in hotels prohibited, see §
93.32
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 ADOPTION OF FIRE PREVENTION CODE BY REFERENCE.
   A certain document, a copy of which is on file in the Office of the City
Clerk, being marked and designated as: “The BOCA National Fire Prevention Code,
Tenth Edition, 1996,” as published by the Building Officials and Code
Administrators (BOCA) International, Inc., is hereby adopted as the Fire
Prevention Code of the City of Inkster in the State of Michigan; for the
control of buildings, structures, and premises as herein provided; and each and
all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions, and terms of the
BOCA National Fire Prevention Code are hereby referred to, adopted, and made a
part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the additions,
insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in this section.
(‘68 Code, § 4-102) (Ord. 664, passed 6-6-88; Am. Ord. 722, passed 5-17-93; Am.
Ord. 735, passed 1-4- 94; Am. Ord. 766, passed 10-20-97)
§ 92.011 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS, AND CHANGES.
   The following sections are hereby added, deleted, or revised as follows:
   4.1 Section F-101.1: TITLE.
   “Regulations shall be known as the Fire Prevention Code of the City of
Inkster, hereinafter referred to as `this code’ or `this ordinance.’”
   4.2 Section F-105.2 is hereby amended to read as follows:
   “F-105.2 APPOINTMENT.
   The Department of Fire Prevention is hereby created, and the Executive
Official in charge thereof shall be known as the Fire Code Official. The Fire
Official of the City of Inkster shall be the Mayor and any duly authorized
representative.”
   4.2 Chapter 31 FIREWORKS is hereby amended by deleting therefrom Sections F-
3101.0 through F-3103.6 and by adding as new Chapter 31 Fireworks to read as
follows:
   “REGULATIONS REGARDING THE SALE OF FIREWORKS:
   A.   Any person selling, displaying, or discharging any type of fireworks
that are lawful for sale must have a valid permit issued by the Chief of the
City of Inkster Fire Department. Fees for said permits shall be established,
from time to time, by resolution of the City Council.
   B.   All fireworks shall be allowed for sale only in the Business and
Industrial Zoning Districts and shall be sold only from an approved permanent
building structure. Said building structure shall be inspected by the City’s
Structural/Safety, Police, and Fire Departments to determine compliance with
all ordinance, code, and state law requirements. The selling of fireworks from
automobiles, vans, campers, or other vehicles, trailers, tents, road side
stands, temporary structures or facilities, etc., is strictly prohibited.
   C.   All individuals selling, displaying, or producing fireworks shall be at
least 18 years old to sell, display or possess fireworks.
   D.   Permits for the sale of fireworks shall not be issued to any person
and/or business establishments which are located within 500 feet of any school
district property.
   E.   Application for permits for the sale, display, or discharge of
fireworks shall be made at least 21 days prior to the dates of any sale,
display, or discharge.
   F.   All fireworks requested to be sold, displayed, or discharged shall be
approved by the Chief of the City of Inkster Fire Department at the time of
application of permit. Only those items approved may be sold, displayed, and/or
discharged at the location for which said permit has been issued.
   G.   No permit shall be issued to any persons requesting to sell, display,
and/or discharge any fireworks unless the person making application therefor
shall furnish proof of financial responsibility as evidenced by a bond or
insurance policy in the amount of Three Hundred Thousand ($300,000.00) Dollars
to satisfy damages to property and Five Hundred Thousand ($500,000.00) Dollars
to satisfy damages for personal injured. The City of Inkster shall be named as
an additional insured party on said bond or insurance policy. No permit shall
be issued until the said bond or insurance policy is approved by the City
Attorney.
   H.   Any unfired fireworks, trash, and debris that remain after the display
or discharge of fireworks is concluded shall be immediately disposed of in an
approved and safe manner.
   I.   The City of Inkster shall seize, take, confiscate, remove, or cause to
be removed at the expense of the owner, seller, operator, or person in charge
of possession of all stocks of fireworks that are offered for sale, stored upon
the premises, displayed or discharged, or are stored, held upon the premises,
or possessed in any manner in violation of the provisions of this ordinance
and/or the requirements of state law.”
4.4 Add new Sections F-316.0 Key Boxes - Rapid Entry System, F-316.1 General,
F-316.2 Additional Rapid Entry Occupancies, and F-316.3 Type, Contents,
Installation, which sections read as follows:
Editor’s note:
   Enacting Ordinance No. 766 did not contain provisions for F-316.0 Key Boxes
- Rapid Entry System, as above stated, and added an additional F-316.4,
although not above stated.
   F-316.1 GENERAL
   “The Fire Official may require a box (vault) to be installed in an
accessible location where immediate access is necessary to verify the existence
of a fire or other emergency in those buildings equipped with, or required to
be equipped with, fire detection or fire suppression systems or equipment. The
key box (vault) shall contain keys for elevator return and door opening,
elevator rooms, fire alarm box, fire alarm box room, electric rooms, and any
other key necessary for access to occupied floors within the structure for
emergency fire and rescue purposes.”
   F-316.2 ADDITIONAL RAPID ENTRY OCCUPANCIES
   “When access to or within a structure or an area is unduly difficult because
of secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for lifesaving or
firefighting purposes. In all residential occupancies that are locked for
security reasons and that have common corridors to living units. In any
commercial occupancy of 10,000 square feet or larger. In any commercial
structure, without windows, and any structure over forty (40) feet in depth.
Windows that are covered to the extent that quick access and visibility to the
inside of the structure are blocked will not be considered as windows. Windows
that are of such size, shape, or in a location that does not provide quick
access and visibility to the inside of the structure will not be considered as
windows.”
   F-316.3 TYPE, CONTENTS, INSTALLATION
   “The key box (vault) shall be a type approved by the Fire Official; shall
contain keys to gain necessary access as required by the Fire Official; and
shall be installed in a manner approved by the Fire Official.”
   F-316.4
   “At the request of the owner or lessee, the Fire Official shall permit him
to install a key box (vault) tamper switch connected to the building’s fire
alarm system.”
4.5 Add new Sections F-317.0 False Alarms of Fire:
   “F-317.1 GENERAL
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit any one or more of the
following actions:
   (a)   Raise a false alarm of fire at any gathering or in any public place;
   (b)   Ring any bell or operate any mechanical apparatus, electrical
apparatus, or combination thereof for the purpose of creating a false alarm of
fire;
   (c)   Raise a false alarm of fire orally, by telephone, electronically, or
in person.”
   F-317.2 CIVIL SANCTIONS
   Any person who shall commit any one or more of the aforesaid actions
involving the commission of a false alarm of fire shall pay the actual costs
incurred by the City in responding to the alarm.”
(Ord. 735, passed 1-4-94; Am. Ord. 766, passed 10-20-97; Am. Ord. 857, passed
4-17-17)
§ 92.02 FEES.
   Any fees necessary for the implementation of this subchapter may be set,
from time to time, by resolution at the discretion of the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 4-104) (Ord. 664, passed 6-6-88; Am. Ord. 722, passed 5-17-93; Am.
Ord. 735, passed 1-4-94; Am. Ord. 766, passed 10-20-97)
§ 92.03 SMOKING IN PUBLICLY-OWNED BUILDINGS; SIGNPOSTING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to smoke or burn tobacco in any publicly-owned
building in the city, except in areas specifically designated for smoking or
burning of tobacco. (‘68 Code, § 4-1501)
   (B)   A sign or signs indicating that smoking is prohibited except in
designated areas shall be posted at the entrance and exit of each publicly-
owned building and each designated smoking area shall be posted by sign or
signs indicating same. (‘68 Code, § 4-1502)
(Ord. 544, passed 1-7-80)
FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS
§ 92.15 ADOPTION OF FLAMMABLE LIQUIDS REGULATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   The Michigan State Police Fire Marshal Division Flammable Liquids
Regulations, effective February 15, 1956, and approved by the Commissioner of
Michigan State Police, are hereby enacted and adopted by reference. Copies of
such code of regulations are on file in the office of the City Clerk and are
available for inspection by and distribution to the public. The Michigan State
Police Fire Marshal Division Flammable Liquids Regulations are hereby adopted
with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein and all persons,
firms, co-partnerships, corporations and voluntary associations transporting,
storing, handling, selling, using or processing flammable liquids shall conform
to such provisions and regulations; provided, that the provisions and
regulations of such code are not in conflict with any of the provisions of
state law or this code and any other applicable ordinance or resolution of the
city.
(‘68 Code, § 4-201) (Ord. 166, passed 6-6-88)
§ 92.16 STORAGE TANKS; INSTALLATION; LICENSE REQUIRED; FEES.
   No person shall be permitted to install storage tanks in the city involving
either underground or overground storage of flammable liquids unless such
person shall first have obtained an installer’s license therefor, which license
will expire at midnight, December 31, of each year, and shall pay an
installer’s license fee or annual renewal fee as hereinafter provided. The
grace period for renewing all licenses shall be considered 60 days from
expiration date. This section shall not apply to fuel oil tanks up to 275
gallons individual capacity, or 550 gallons aggregate capacity, used for
heating purposes.
   (A)   Installer’s license, $25
   (B)   Annual renewal fee, $15
(‘68 Code, § 4-202) (Ord. 166, passed 6-6-88) Penalty, see §
92.99
FIREWORKS
§ 92.30 SALE OF FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Any person selling, displaying or discharging any type of fireworks
that are lawful for sale must have a valid permit issued by the Chief of the
City Fire Department. Fees for said permits shall be established, from time to
time, by resolution of the City Council.
   (B)   All fireworks shall be allowed for sale only in the business and/or
industrial zoning districts and shall be sold only from an approved permanent
building structure. That building structure shall be inspected by the City’s
Building, Police and Fire Departments to determine compliance with all
ordinance, code and state law requirements. The selling of fireworks from
automobiles, vans, campers, other motor vehicles, trailers, tents, road side
stands, temporary structures or facilities and the like, is strictly
prohibited.
   (C)   All individuals selling, displaying or purchasing fireworks shall be
at least 18 years old to sell, display or possess fireworks.
   (D)   Permits for the sale of fireworks shall not be issued to any person
and/or business establishment which is located within 500 feet of any school
district property.
   (E)   Application for permits for the sale, display or discharge of
fireworks shall be made at least 15 days prior to the dates of any sale,
display or discharge.
   (F)   All fireworks requested to be sold, displayed or discharged shall be
approved by the Chief of the City of Inkster Fire Department at the time of
application for permit. Only those items approved may be sold, displayed and/or
discharged at the location for which said permit has been issued.
   (G)   No permit shall be issued to any person requesting to sell, display
and/or discharge any fireworks unless the person making application therefore
shall furnish proof of financial responsibility as evidenced by a bond or
insurance policy in the amount of $300,000 to satisfy damages to property and
$500,000 to satisfy damages for personal injuries. The city shall be named as
an additional insured party on that bond or insurance policy.
   (H)   Any unfired fireworks, trash, and debris that remains after the
display or discharge of fireworks is concluded, shall be immediately disposed
of in an approved and safe manner.
   (I)   The city shall seize, take, confiscate, remove, or cause to be removed
at the expense of the owner, seller, operator, or person in charge or
possession of all stocks of fireworks that are offered or exposed for sale,
display or discharge, or are stored, held, or possessed in violation of the
provisions of this chapter, and/or the requirements of state law.
(‘68 Code, § 4-103) (Ord. 664, passed 6-6-88; Am. Ord. 722, passed 5-17-93)
Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.31 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, Act 256 of 2011, and any
amendments to the Act which may be from time to time adopted.
      APA STANDARD 87-1. Means 2001 American Pyrotechnic Association standard
87-1, standard for construction and approval for transportation of fireworks,
novelties, and theatrical pyrotechnics, published by the American Pyrotechnics
Association of Bethesda, Maryland.
      ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC. The pyrotechnic devices for professional use that
are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical composition and construction but
not intended for consumer use, that meet the weight limits for consumer
fireworks, but are not labeled as such, and that are classified as UN0431 or
UN0432 under 49 C.F.R.172.101.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce
visible effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the
construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the
United States Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 C.F.R. Parts 1500 and
1507, and that are listed in the APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5.
CONSUMER FIREWORKS does not include low impact fireworks.
      DISPLAY FIREWORKS.  Large fireworks devices that are explosive materials
intended for use in fireworks displays and designed to produce visible or
audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or detonation. Fireworks consist
of consumer fireworks, low impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic, display
fireworks and special effects.
      FIREWORK or FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting
pistol, a flare gun, or a flare, of non-toxic or non-explosive emissions,
designed for the purpose of producing a visible or audible effect by
combustion, deflagration, or detonation. FIREWORKS, as used in this subchapter,
shall include consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles pyrotechnic,
display fireworks, and special effects.
      LOW IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground sparkling devices as that phrase is defined
under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.18, and 3.5., except as provided
below.
      MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
      NATIONAL HOLIDAY. Shall mean: New Year's Day, January 1; Birthday of
Martin Luther King, Jr., the third Monday in January; George Washington's
Birthday, the third Monday in February; Memorial Day, the last Monday in May;
Independence Day, July 4; Labor Day, the first Monday in September; Columbus
Day, the second Monday in October; Veteran's Day, November 11; Thanksgiving
Day, the fourth Thursday in November; and Christmas Day, December 25. Holidays
may be added, removed or changed from time to time.
      NOVELTIES. The term defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.2, 3.2.1, 3.2.2,
3.2.3, 3.2.4, and 3.2.5 and all of the following:
         (a)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips,
rolls, or individual caps containing not more than 0.25 of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cap;
         (b)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and
toy guns in which toy caps as described in division (a) are used, that are
constructed so that the hand can not come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion;
         (c)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding 1/8 inch in
diameter;
         (d)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer's
name and quantity contained in each box are printed on the box;
         (e)   Toy smoke devices; and
         (f)   Handheld sparklers.
      PERSON. Any individual, agent, legal representative, association,
charitable organization, church, non-profit organization, unincorporated
organization, labor organization, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation, or any legal entity or commercial organization. An individual
shall include a minor as defined in this section.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, other terms used in this subchapter
shall have the meaning ascribed to them in the Act, or, if not defined in the
Act, under the APA standards.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.32 PROHIBITED FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Consumer fireworks. A person shall not use, ignite, or discharge
consumer fireworks within the geographical boundaries of the city, except on
the day of, the day preceding or the day after a national holiday, provided
that on these days, a person shall not discharge consumer fireworks in
violation of the Act, this subchapter, or any other ordinance.
   (B)   Low impact. Low impact fireworks may not be discharged during the
hours of 10:30 p.m. and 11:00 a.m., and may not otherwise be discharged in
violation of this subchapter or the Act, or any other ordinance.
   (C)   Illegal fireworks. Any use, possession or discharge of any fireworks
that is prohibited and/or not approved by the state or the State Fire Marshal,
or that which contains a prohibited chemical, component, compound or
composition under the APA 87-1 Standard, or any federal or state law or
regulation, is prohibited at all times and places, regardless of how it is
labeled.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.33 MINORS.
   (A)   A minor shall not use, discharge, ignite or possess any consumer
fireworks, at any time, nor on any day, including national holidays, and the
day before and day after a national holiday.
   (B)   A minor shall not use, discharge, ignite, or possess any low impact
fireworks or novelty fireworks, unless under supervision of a parent or
guardian, and the use, discharge and ignition is within permitted hours, and
does not violate the provisions of this subchapter and the Act.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.34 PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall at any time or on any day, use, discharge or ignite
any fireworks, including consumer fireworks, low impact fireworks and
novelties, in public parks.
   (B)   No fireworks, including consumer fireworks, low impact fireworks or
novelty fireworks shall be discharged, used, or ignited on any public property,
including public streets, schools, sidewalks, easements and rights-of-way.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.35 GENERAL RESTRICTIONS INCLUDING HOLIDAYS.
   (A)   Fireworks, including consumer fireworks, shall not be ignited within
20 feet of an open flame, a burner, gasoline, ignited gas or electric grill, or
any combustible or flammable item or compound, or in any enclosed structure,
garage, tent, or shed, or under any canopy or overhanging cover, of any nature.
   (B)   Any use of fireworks that disrupts the peace of the public, which may
include, deposits of litter or debris caused by fireworks, is prohibited,
notwithstanding anything to the contrary in the Act.
   (C)   No person shall, either individually or in concert with another
person, cause damage to any private or public property by the use, discharge or
ignition of any fireworks. Any violation of this provision is subject to any
penalty imposed under the Act, except that damage to public property under
control of the city or damage to any private property not protected under the
Act is a misdemeanor, if a higher offense is not available under state law.
   (D)   No consumer fireworks may be ignited, launched, or discharged within
30 feet of any house, structure, building, vehicle, or landscaping. Landscaping
may include, without limitation, any tree, bush, flowers, vegetable garden, or
gazebo.
   (E)   No person shall at any time discharge or ignite any low impact
fireworks within 15 feet of another person's property, without the owner's
permission. Any violation is a municipal civil infraction.
   (F)   No individual shall use, ignite or discharge consumer fireworks or low
impact fireworks while under the influence of alcohol, a controlled substance
and/or a synthetic marijuana or other illegal substance. Alcoholic liquor means
that term as defined in § 1d of the Michigan Vehicle Code, M.C.L.A. § 257.1d,
or any subsequent provision amending or replacing that provision. Controlled
substance means that term as defined in § 8b of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
M.C.L.A. § 257.1d, or any subsequent provision amending or replacing that
definition. Synthetic marijuana or other illegal substances are as determined
under the Public Act 180-183 of 2012, and the Public Health Code, M.C.L.A. §
333.2451. A violation of this provision shall be a misdemeanor, and shall
result in the seizure, removal and storage of the fireworks, at the expense of
the responsible person.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.36 APPLICABILITY OF GENERAL ORDINANCES.
   (A)   Nothing in this subchapter or in the Act shall preclude the
enforcement of ordinances or laws of general applicability at any time or on
any day regardless of whether the conduct or offense is secondary or incidental
to the use, discharge or ignition of fireworks.
   (B)   Any person selling, distributing or transporting fireworks shall
otherwise comply with the Act, and is required to obtain the approvals that are
necessary under the applicable provisions of the Code of Ordinances of the
city. Failure to secure applicable approvals is subject to penalty as provided
in this subchapter and/or Code of Ordinances of the city.
   (C)   Any fireworks that are possessed, sold, distributed or displayed in
violation of the Act or the Code of Ordinances of the city are subject to
seizure and removal by the Police Department or Fire Department, at the expense
of the responsible person, in addition to other penalties as provided in this
subchapter or by other ordinance.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the Act, any use, discharge or ignition of fireworks
that is presenting an imminent danger or threat to the public health, safety or
welfare, as deemed by a police officer or the Fire Marshal, or his or her
designee, shall be prohibited, and the fireworks may be immediately seized.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.37 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided, a violation of this subchapter is a
misdemeanor and a person responsible may be ordered to pay a fine up to $500,
and/or subject to up to 90 days in jail, plus costs.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, for any violation of this subchapter
that is a municipal civil infraction, a person responsible may be ordered to
pay a civil fine of $200 for each violation.
   (C)   Any penalty for a violation of the Act shall be subject to the penalty
imposed under the Act.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.38 SEIZURE AND COST RECOVERY.
   (A)   All fireworks used, discharged and ignited and possessed in violation
of the Act and this subchapter are subject to seizure. Any costs incurred by
the city to seize and store the fireworks shall be paid by the responsible
person.
   (B)   Any costs the city incurs to respond and remediate any damage to
private or public property or injury to another person shall be paid by any
person responsible for the damage or injury. The city may pursue any legal
remedies to collect the costs.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
§ 92.39 DISPLAY FIREWORKS.
   No display fireworks shall be ignited, used or displayed at any time unless
approved in advance by the City Council, upon application made to the City
Clerk on a form provided by the Michigan Department of Licensing and
Regulation. At a minimum, the applicant be adequately insured and bonded, the
applicant has submitted a security plan, safety compliance plans, and pay the
application fee in an amount to be determined by the City Council. A permit for
display fireworks is supplemental to any other requirement for the display
under the ordinances, including a permit under §
92.30. In addition to other penalties, a violation of this act is a misdemeanor
punishable by up to 90 days in jail and/or a fine up to $500. An exemption is
allowed for fireworks displayed at a city event that is sponsored and approved
by the city or one of its commissions or boards, acting within the scope of its
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 842, passed 8-20-11)
SMOKE DETECTORS
§ 92.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MULTIPLE DWELLING UNITS. Apartment buildings of two or more units, hotels,
boarding houses, convalescent homes, motels, and like establishments. (‘68
Code, § 6-2204)
   SMOKE DETECTOR. A device capable of sensing visible or invisible products of
combustion. Such smoke detectors shall be approved or listed by a recognized
independent testing laboratory, and when actuated shall provide an alarm
suitable to warn the occupants within the individual dwelling unit. (‘68 Code,
§ 6-2201) (Ord. 515, passed 6-20-77)
§ 92.46 NEWLY CONSTRUCTED DWELLINGS; SMOKE DETECTORS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Every newly constructed single or multiple dwelling unit shall be
provided with smoke detectors capable of sensing visible or invisible products
of combustion. A minimum of one smoke detector shall be located in each of the
following areas:
      (1)   In each apartment, suite or sleeping area;
      (2)   In the basement at the head of the landing leading to the ground
level floor; and
      (3)   Any other areas of the dwelling which, by reason of the dwelling
layout, would not be protected by detectors located in division (A)(1) or (2)
of this section.
   (B)   Detectors shall be controlled either electrically or by battery. The
electrical type of detector shall be electronically wired and connected to any
lighting circuit.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2202) (Ord. 515, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.47 EXISTING STRUCTURES; REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Every existing multiple dwelling unit shall be provided with smoke
detectors capable of sensing visible or invisible products of combustion. A
minimum of one smoke detector shall be located in each of the following areas:
      (1)   In each apartment, suite or sleeping area;
      (2)   In the basement at the head of the landing leading to the ground
level floor; and
      (3)   Any other areas of the dwelling which, by reason of the dwelling
layout, would not be protected by detectors located in division (A)(1) or (2)
of this section.
   (B)   Each detector shall be electronically wired or battery operated and
connected to any lighting circuit. All multiple dwellings shall comply with
this section. All single dwellings shall comply before any major alteration,
addition, reoccupancy which requires a building permit, certificate or license
pursuant to this code or any other applicable ordinance.
   (C)   In all dwellings, buildings or commercial establishments having false
ceilings, a smoke detector shall be installed.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2203) (Ord. 515, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
92.99
OPEN BURN
§ 92.60 OPEN BURN.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purposes of this subchapter, the following shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BON FIRE. An outdoor fire conducted for ceremonial purposes.
      RECREATIONAL FIRE. An outdoor fire utilized for the purposes of cooking
food for human consumption.
      PERMANENT FIRE PIT. A below ground or grade level outdoor fireplace
intended to contain and control outdoor wood fires.
      PORTABLE FIRE PIT. Constructed of steel, brick, or masonry that shall be
used in accordance with the manufactures specifications and safety guidelines
and must be placed on a non-combustible surface.
   (B)    Requirements and restrictions
      (1)   No fire identified above may be constructed any closer than 15 feet
from any structure or other combustible material including overhead.
      (2)   Only natural seasoned firewood or commercial logs may be burned.
Burning of trash, yard waste or any other unapproved materials is prohibited.
      (3)   No accelerants, other than standard butane lighter fluid, may be
used to ignite any fire.
      (4)   No fire can be permitted to exceed two feet in width and two feet
in height.
      (5)   All fires must be attended and supervised by a competent adult
responsible for the property where fire is located until such time as the fire
is extinguished.
      (6)   A portable ten pound ABC type fire extinguisher, garden hose, or
bucket of sand/dirt must be readily available at all times of an active fire.
   (C)   Creation of nuisance. In the event any outdoor burning creates and
unreasonable light, heat, smoke, odor or other offensive condition which is
deemed a hazard by the Fire Department or any other enforcement official, or
causes an objectionable condition to neighboring residents, the Fire Department
or any other enforcement official shall cause fire to be extinguished.
(Ord. 860, passed 8-21-17)
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
   (B)   Penalty for violation of §
92.60.
      (1)   Any person found in violation of any condition of the
aforementioned stipulations shall be guilty of a misdemeanor with a penalty of
up to a $500 fine and/or 90 days in jail.
      (2)   Any person responsible for an offending fire in need of
extinguishing by the Fire Department; may be liable for restitution payments in
addition to fines and costs.
(‘68 Code, § 4-105) (Ord. 664, passed 6-6-88 ; Am. Ord. 860, passed 8-21-17)
CHAPTER 93: HEALTH, SAFETY AND SANITATION
Section
Poultry Slaughterhouses
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Location of business premises; restriction; nuisance; injunction
authorized
   
93.03   License, permit required; sanitary regulations
   
93.04   Butchers; exemptions
Food Establishments
   
93.15   Definitions
   
93.16   Compliance with sanitation requirements
   
93.17   Bakeries; additional regulations
Hotels
   
93.30   Reserved
   
93.31   Reserved
   
93.32   Smoking in bed; notice
Defacement of Business and Public Structures
   
93.40   Defacement declared a nuisance
Cross-reference:
   Blight violations, see
Chapter 156
POULTRY SLAUGHTERHOUSES
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is hereby declared to be necessary for the preservation of
the public peace, health and safety of the people of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 4-801) (Ord. 113, passed 4-24-53)
§ 93.02 LOCATION OF BUSINESS PREMISES; RESTRICTION; NUISANCE; INJUNCTION
AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to erect, construct, or cause to
be erected or constructed, or to begin the operation of any establishment
designed or intended to be used for the slaughtering of fowls, within 200 feet
of any lot or parcel of land restricted or zoned to residential purposes, and/
or within a distance of 200 feet from any dwelling, building or structure or
portion or part thereof occupied as a dwelling. (‘68 Code, § 4-802)
   (B)   Any establishment designed or intended to be used for the slaughtering
of fowls, erected, constructed or operated in violation of any provision of
division (A) of this section, shall be and is hereby declared a nuisance, and
shall be abated as such. (‘68 Code, § 4-803)
   (C)   Any person within the city who shall own or inhabit any dwelling,
building or portion thereof occupied as a dwelling within 200 feet of any such
establishment, or any person within the city who shall own any vacant lot
restricted of record or zoned to residential purposes in division (A) of this
section, may apply to any court of competent jurisdiction to restrain the
violation of this subchapter, notwithstanding that such violation is punishable
as in this code provided. (‘68 Code, § 4-804)
(Ord. 113, passed 4-24-53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.03 LICENSE, PERMIT REQUIRED; SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   Hereafter no person within the city shall erect, construct or cause to be
erected or constructed, or shall operate or cause to be operated, any
establishment designed or intended to be used for the slaughtering of fowls
within the limits of the city, unless such person shall be duly licensed in
accordance with this code or any other applicable ordinance, and with a permit
therefor issued by the Department of Public Works of the city and with the
compliance of the sanitary requirements and regulations, which are as follows:
   (A)   Permits, plans and specifications. Application for the approval of
plans and specifications and for a permit shall be made by the owner of the
site to the Department of Public Works of the city, upon official blanks
furnished for that purpose by the said Department. No permit to conduct a
poultry slaughterhouse shall be issued by the Department of Public Works unless
the plans and specifications of the proposed slaughterhouse shall have been
approved by the said Department.
   (B)   Required floor area. The floor space of the building used as a poultry
slaughterhouse shall cover an area of at least 700 square feet in order to
permit the receipt and delivery of poultry in crates and the storage of empty
crates entirely within the premises of the poultry slaughterhouse.
   (C)   Plans, specifications; application, approval.
      (1)   Application for the approval of the plans and specifications of the
poultry slaughterhouse proposed to be erected shall be made upon official forms
furnished by the Department of Public Works, and duplicate copies of such plans
and specifications shall be submitted with such application. Specifications
must be submitted with all plans, explaining in detail the work to be done and
the material to be used and the location of such proposed slaughterhouse.
      (2)   When such application and the plans and specifications are
approved, construction work must be started within 90 days from the date of
such approval, and the work shall be continuous until completed in a thorough,
workmanlike manner.
   (D)   Construction, maintenance of poultry slaughterhouses. No permit to
conduct a poultry slaughterhouse will be issued by the Department of Public
Works unless the following minimum requirements as to construction shall have
been in each instance fully complied with in accordance with the approval of
the plans and specifications.
      (1)   Floor construction. The floors shall be constructed of cement,
concrete or other approved watertight and nonabsorbent material so graded and
drained as to discharge all liquid matter in a properly trapped sewer in
compliance with the City Plumbing Code.
      (2)   Ceiling and walls. The ceilings shall be of a smooth, hard,
impervious material free from crevices, cracks, ledges or projections. The
walls shall be of cement or other approved watertight nonabsorbent material
with a smooth finish to the entire height of the ceiling, and shall be painted.
The junctions with the ceiling and floors shall be made in a tight and sanitary
manner.
      (3)   Height of ceiling. All ceilings shall be at least ten feet in
height, measured from the surface of the floor to the said ceiling.
      (4)   Ventilation. Adequate ventilation to the external air by natural
means shall be provided for in every room in which the poultry is stored,
killed, or which is used in connection with the slaughterhouse, and in
compliance with the City Building Code.
      (5)   Lights. Adequate natural or artificial light approved by the
Department of Public Works shall be provided for in every room in which poultry
is stored or killed.
      (6)   Killing room. A separate room shall be provided which shall be used
as a killing room, which room shall have an area of at least 80 square feet. A
bleeding trough must be provided; it shall be of adequate capacity and be
approved by the Department of Public Works. The walls and face of the trough
must be of cement, concrete or other approved watertight nonabsorbent material
with a smooth finish, and shall discharge over properly trapper and sewer
connected drains. A proper metal receptacle shall be pro vided to hold each
bird after being slaughtered; such receptacle shall be placed where the poultry
may be disposed of in a sanitary manner. The provisions of this regulation
shall not apply to a poultry slaughterhouse in which a wholesale business is
carried on principally, except what poultry shall be killed and placed in
receptacles approved by the Department of Public Works.
      (7)   Dry plucking room. Where dry plucking is the method always
employed, a separate room shall be provided, which room shall be used
exclusively for the dry plucking of poultry killed at the premises. The area of
this room shall be at least 120 square feet. The width or length of this room
shall be not less than ten feet. The walls shall be constructed of watertight
nonabsorbent tile or brick, and the floor and ceiling shall be constructed of
nonabsorbent waterproof material, floor to be graded and drained. Proper
receptacles shall be provided for the holding, storing or keeping of all
feathers.
      (8)   Storage, crates or batteries. A separate room shall be provided for
the storage of live poultry in crates or batteries. The area of this room shall
be at least 270 square feet. Cages or batteries shall be elevated at least one
foot above the floor level and shall be placed nearer than two feet from the
side walls of the building.
      (9)   Water supply. Permanent fixtures shall be provided for the
furnishing of an adequate supply of fresh water for flushing all parts of the
premises.
      (10)   Rat-proofing. The room or receptacles for the storage of food for
the poultry shall be constructed rat-proof.
      (11)   Toilet facilities. Adequate water closet accommodations for male
and female persons shall be provided, and sufficient fixtures with hot and cold
running water for washing purposes shall be provided at all times; the toilet
or rooms shall be ventilated to the outside air by direct or approved indirect
method.
      (12)   Screening. All doors, windows and other openings to the outer air
shall be adequately screened. All doors shall be equipped with self-closing
devices.
      (13)   Hot water. Adequate facilities shall be provided to insure a
sufficient supply of running hot water at all times.
      (14)   Odors. Suitable and adequate means shall be provided for the
disposal of offensive odors.
      (15)   Empty crates. A separate room shall be provided for the storage of
empty crates.
   (E)   Sanitary regulations. Every poultry slaughterhouse shall be conducted
in strict compliance with the following rules which shall govern the
maintenance and operation thereof.
      (1)   Cleanliness. Every poultry slaughterhouse, the yard adjoining same
and all air shafts and open places connected therewith shall be at all times
kept in a clean, sanitary conditions free from accumulation of refuse, garbage
and offensive materials, and nuisance of all kinds.
      (2)   Floors, washing. All floors shall be kept and maintained in a
clean, sanitary condition and in good repair, and free from rubbish and
offensive materials.
      (3)   Walls, cleaning. The side walls of all rooms used for the storage
or killing of poultry shall be kept in a clean, sanitary condition and in good
repair. Walls and ceiling shall be cleaned and painted whenever required by the
Department of Public Works.
      (4)   Ventilation. All parts of every poultry slaughterhouse shall be
properly ventilated and adequately lighted at all times.
      (5)   Plumbing. All plumbing fixtures and toilet facilities shall be kept
and maintained in a clean, sanitary condition and in good repair.
      (6)   Plucking room. All plucking of poultry shall be done exclusively in
a plucking room.
      (7)   Feather receptacles. Plucking of poultry shall be performed in such
manner that all feathers shall be thrown or placed in the receptacles for such
purpose.
      (8)   Storage of empty crates. All empty crates shall be kept and stored
exclusively in the storage room. The area of this room shall be at least 150
feet square. No empty crates shall be kept or permitted to remain outside of
the poultry slaughterhouse.
      (9)   Poultry at large prohibited. No poultry shall be allowed at large
upon premises, but shall be kept at all times in the batteries or crates
provided for such purpose.
      (10)   Screens. The screens, windows, doors and other openings to the
outer air shall be kept in good condition and repair.
      (11)   Self-closing doors. All doors shall be self closing and not
permitted to remain open except for ingress or egress.
   (F)   Structural changes. No structural change or alterations shall be made
in any poultry slaughterhouse building unless the same shall have been approved
or ordered by the Department of Public Works.
   (G)   Slaughterhouses; use, restriction. No building in which a poultry
slaughterhouse is located shall be used for any other purpose except for the
slaughter and storage of live poultry.
   (H)   Permits; renewal. Permits to carry on or conduct a poultry
slaughterhouse in the city shall be granted by the Department of Public Works
for each poultry slaughterhouse conducted or maintained in the city, and each
such permit shall expire on the last day of the calendar year following the
issue thereof, and shall be renewed annually before the expiration thereof.
   (I)   New permits; issuance required; enumeration. Upon proof by report of
any inspector of the Department of Public Works that the premises for which a
poultry slaughterhouse permit has been granted by the Department have become
vacant or have not been used or are discontinued for use as a poultry
slaughterhouse for a period of six months or more, or where the permittee has
died, or where the premises have been destroyed by fire, a new permit must be
obtained and new plans and specifications filed, passed and approved by the
Department of Public Works of the city, as herein provided.
   (J)   Basements; slaughtering prohibited. No poultry shall be killed in any
basement.
   (K)   Existing poultry slaughterhouses. Every poultry slaughterhouse
heretofore constructed and existing as such shall be made to conform with all
the requirements and regulations set forth in this section.
(‘68 Code, § 4-805) (Ord. 113, passed 4-24-53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.04 BUTCHERS; EXEMPTIONS.
   The terms and provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a regular
licensed butcher who slaughters 50 or less fowl per week upon his own premises.
(‘68 Code, § 4-806) (Ord. 113, passed 4-24-53)
FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 93.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BAKERY. An establishment wherein bread and cakes and/or pastries are
prepared and/or sold at wholesale or retail.
   BULK FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. Any establishment where food in bulk, package,
pasteboard, glass or plastic container is held, stored or offered for sale.
   CAPACITY. The maximum number of seating facilities for patrons.
   EMPLOYEE. Any person who handles food or drink during preparation or
serving, or who comes in contact with any eating or cooking utensils, or who is
employed in a room in which food or drink is prepared or served.
   FISH MARKET. An establishment wherein fresh or frozen fish are prepared and/
or sold at wholesale or retail.
   HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Wayne County Health Department.
   HEALTH OFFICER. The health officer of the county or his authorized
representative.
   ITINERANT RESTAURANT. One operating for a temporary period in connection
with a fair, carnival, circus, public exhibition, or other similar gathering.
   RESTAURANT. Restaurant, coffee shop, cafeteria, short order café,
luncheonette, tavern, sandwich stand, soda fountain, and all other eating and
drinking establishments, as well as kitchens or other places in which food or
drink is prepared for sale on the premises or elsewhere.
   UTENSILS. Any kitchenware, tableware, glassware, cutlery, containers, or
other equipment with which food or drink comes in contact during storage,
preparation or serving.
(‘68 Code, § 4-902) (Ord. 424, passed 8-21-72)
§ 93.16 COMPLIANCE WITH SANITATION REQUIREMENTS.
   All such establishments shall comply with all of the following items:
   (A)   Adequate toilet facilities conveniently located within the
establishment to be licensed, including separate toilet rooms for men and
women.
   (B)   Toilet rooms shall not open directly into any food processing room.
Toilet rooms shall be kept in a clean condition, in good repair, well lighted
and ventilated. Lavatory facilities conveniently located shall be provided with
hot and cold running water; hand-washing signs shall be posted in each toilet
room used by employees.
   (C)   All food stored shall be elevated at least 12 inches above the floor
unless packaged in water-tight containers, and free of possible source of
contamination.
   (D)   No food shall be stored below sewer lines.
   (E)   Metal sinks shall be provided for the purpose of cleaning utensils and
tools in the handling, display or dispensing of foods.
   (F)   All dairy products and eggs must be kept under refrigeration at all
times at or below a temperature of 50°F.
   (G)   Buildings must be free from contaminating surroundings and be rodent-
proof.
   (H)   Living or sleeping rooms in direct connection with any part of a food
establishment shall not be permitted.
   (I)   An adequate supply of running hot water shall be piped to all sinks.
Where a storage tank is used, the minimum capacity shall be 30 gallons.
   (J)   All work tables and benches must be of a tight smooth material, free
from cracks and easily cleaned.
   (K)   All employees shall have food handler certificates of current issue.
(‘68 Code, § 4-902) (Ord. 424, passed 8-21-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 93.17 BAKERIES; ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   Bakeries as herein defined shall be subject to the following additional
regulations:
   (A)   Metal sinks shall be provided to thoroughly clean mixing bowls, pots,
pans, fixtures and parts of machinery used in the preparation of baked goods.
Sinks shall be large enough to receive the largest utensil used. Brushes shall
be used to aid in the cleaning processes.
   (B)   Frying kettles shall be placed at least one foot from any wall; and
the wall shall be protected by a smooth, nonporous metal shield to splash
height. A hood shall be provided and suspended at least seven feet above the
floor and extending at least one foot beyond edge of frying kettle, and shall
be vented to the outside air and equipped with a fan or blower capable of
removing all smoke, odors and vapor. No vent over sidewalk will be permitted.
   (C)   The term custard mix and custard filler as used herein shall refer to
any product, consisting principally of flour, sugar, eggs and milk, with or
without cornstarch, heated, cooled and applied to pastry without subsequent
heating. The provisions of this division shall also apply to custard-filled
pastry com monly designated as cream puffs and eclairs which may be heated
subsequent to filling.
      (1)   The entire custard mix to be used in the manufacture of custard-
filled pastry shall be brought to a temperature of not less than 200° F,
maintained at not less than that temperature for a period of not less than ten
minutes, and within one hour thereafter placed in a refrigerating temperature
of not over 50° F and kept at or below such temperature until applied to the
pastry.
      (2)   No custard-filled pastry shall be sold either wholesale or retail
or transported for retail delivery unless it shall bear prominently displayed
on the outside thereof in legible letters the name of the manufacturing baker,
the day of manufacture and the following statement: “REFRIGERATE.”
      (3)   No custard-filled pastry shall be kept, displayed or offered for
sale in or from any bakery, store, place or vehicle unless it shall have been
refrigerated at a temperature not over 50° F from the time of manufacture until
the time of delivery to the consumer.
      (4)   Only wholesome ingredients shall be used in the preparation of
baked goods.
      (5)   No baked goods shall be exposed to dust, dirt or other
contamination.
(‘68 Code, § 4-903) (Ord. 424, passed 8-21-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
HOTELS
§ 93.30 RESERVED.
§ 93.31 RESERVED.
§ 93.32 SMOKING IN BED; NOTICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke or attempt to smoke any
cigarette, cigar, pipe or tobacco in any form while in bed or while lying down
in any rented or rentable room in any hotel, or to set fire to, or cause to be
burned, any furniture, drapery or furnishings within said rooms by reason of
such smoking or attempt at smoking.
   (B)   The licensee of each hotel shall post and maintain in a conspicuous
place in the lobby and in each rented or rentable room thereof a plainly
printed notice advising as to the foregoing provisions relating to smoking and
ignition of fires.
(‘68 Code, § 4-1104) (Ord. 479, passed 10-21-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fire prevention, see
Chapter 92
DEFACEMENT OF BUSINESS AND PUBLIC STRUCTURES
§ 93.40 DEFACEMENT DECLARED A NUISANCE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. The doing of an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty, or
the suffering or permitting of any condition or thing to be or exist, which
act, omission, condition or thing either essentially interferes with the
comfortable enjoyment of life and property, or tends to depreciate the value of
a person’s property or the property of others.
   (B)   The unlawful maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or
permitting to be or remain on any business, public or private property of any
of the following items, conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and
constitute a nuisance; provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed
or construed to be conclusive, limiting or restrictive. Any drawing,
inscription, design scribbling, motto, picture or photography, including those
commonly known as graffiti.
   (C)   Any graffiti or defacement of structures as defined herein shall be
removed or obliterated by the owner, landlord, tenant, and/or occupant of the
structure within 15 days of notification of same by the City Police Chief or
his designee.
(Ord. 727, passed 11-16-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 94: LITTERING
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Title
   
94.02   Definitions
Littering in Public Places, Ways and Areas
   
94.15   Litter in public places
   
94.16   Placement of litter in receptacles so as to prevent scattering
   
94.17   Removal of private receptacles from public property
   
94.18   Sweeping litter into gutters prohibited
   
94.19   Merchants’ duty to keep sidewalks free of litter
   
94.20   Litter thrown from vehicles
   
94.21   Truck loads causing litter
   
94.22   Litter in parks
   
94.23   Litter in lakes and fountains
Littering on Private Property
   
94.24   Litter on occupied private property
   
94.25   Owner to maintain premises free of litter
   
94.26   Litter on vacant lots
   
94.27   Clearing litter from property by city; procedure
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as The City Anti-Litter Regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED PRIVATE RECEPTACLE. The Department of Public Services shall
approve the use and type of all private receptacles as may be utilized in this
chapter.
   EVICTION. To physically expel the personal possessions of an occupant,
owner, tenant, or previous occupant, owner, tenant, through court order or
otherwise.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein, all other waste
materials and all other objects and materials including, but not limited to,
furniture, appliances, clothing and all other household objects which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, creates a danger to public health,
safety and welfare.
   PARK. A park, reservation, playground, beach, recreation center, or any
other public area in the city, owned or used by the city and devoted to active
or passive recreation.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company, or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, sidewalks, boulevards, alleys or other
public ways and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, grounds, and
buildings.
   REFUSE. All putrescible and nonputrescible solid wastes (except body
wastes), including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street cleanings, dead animals,
abandoned automobiles and solid market and industrial wastes.
   RUBBISH. Nonputrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, grass clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn upon a highway, including devices used exclusively upon
stationary rails or tracks.
(‘68 Code, § 8-502) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 804, passed 6-7-04; Am.
Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
LITTERING IN PUBLIC PLACES, WAYS AND AREAS
§ 94.15 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk,
public easement including the area between the sidewalk and the curb or any
other public place within the city except in public receptacles or in
authorized and approved private receptacles for collection, or in official city
dumps. The Department of Public Services shall approve the use and type of all
private receptacles as may be utilized in this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 8-503) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 804, passed 6-7-04; Am.
Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.16 PLACEMENT OF LITTER IN RECEPTACLES SO AS TO PREVENT SCATTERING.
   Persons placing litter in public receptacles or in authorized private
receptacles shall do so in such a manner as to prevent it from being carried or
deposited by the elements and/or animals upon any street, sidewalk, easement
including the area between the sidewalk and the curb or any other public place.
(‘68 Code, § 8-504) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 804, passed 6-7-04; Am.
Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.17 REMOVAL OF PRIVATE RECEPTACLES FROM PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   Private receptacles for the collection of litter shall be removed from
public property, including the area between the sidewalk and the curb, within
24 hours after the city truck has made the collection or in a case where the
Department of Public Services has authorized and approved the use of a private
receptacle within 48 hours. In the event the owner of the property has failed
to remove a private receptacle from any public property, including the area
between the sidewalk and the curb after being authorized by the Department of
Public Services to place same on public property, then in such event the city
shall remove said private receptacle from the public property and invoice the
owner of said property in the manner provided in this chapter for the cost of
removal of the private receptacle together with the costs of removal and
disposing of such litter by the city.
(‘68 Code, § 8-505) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 804, passed 6-7-04; Am.
Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.18 SWEEPING LITTER INTO GUTTERS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall sweep into or deposit in any gutter, street or other public
place within the city the accumulation of litter from any building or lot or
from any public or private sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying
property shall keep the sidewalk in front of their premises free of litter.
(‘68 Code, § 8-506) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.19 MERCHANTS’ DUTY TO KEEP SIDEWALKS FREE OF LITTER.
   No person owning or occupying a place of business shall sweep into or
deposit in any gutter, street or other public place within the city the
accumulation of litter from any building or lot, or from any public or private
sidewalk or driveway. Persons owning or occupying places of business within the
city shall keep the sidewalk in front of their business premises free of
litter.
(‘68 Code, § 8-507) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.20 LITTER THROWN FROM VEHICLES.
   No person, while a driver or passenger in a vehicle, shall throw or deposit
litter upon any street or other public place within the city.
(‘68 Code, § 8-508) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.21 TRUCK LOADS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the city
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load or
contents of litter from being blown or deposited upon any street, alley or
other public place. Nor shall any person drive or move any vehicle or truck
within the city, the wheels or tires of which carry onto or deposit in any
street, alley or other public place, mud, dirt, sticky substances, or foreign
matter of any kind.
(‘68 Code, § 8-509) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.22 LITTER IN PARKS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park within the city, except
in public receptacles and in such a manner that the litter will be prevented
from being carried or deposited by the elements upon any part of the park or
upon any street or other public place. Where public receptacles are not
provided, all such litter shall be carried away from the park by the person
responsible for its presence and properly disposed of elsewhere.
(‘68 Code, § 8-510) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.23 LITTER IN LAKES AND FOUNTAINS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any fountain, pond, lake, stream,
bay or any other body of water in a park or elsewhere within the city.
(‘68 Code, § 8-511) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
LITTERING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY
§ 94.24 LITTER ON OCCUPIED PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any occupied private
property within the city, whether owned by such person or not, except when the
owner or person in control of private property has provided authorized private
receptacles for collection in such a manner that litter will be prevented from
being carried or deposited by the elements upon any street, sidewalk or other
public place, or upon any private property. Any litter placed or deposited into
private receptacles shall be emptied of all litter at least once per week or
sooner if such receptacle is filled to capacity. Any litter placed into a
private receptacle shall not be allowed to overflow from said receptacles.
   (B)   No property owner, agent, or contractor shall throw or deposit litter
upon any occupied property, or upon any public place, in conjunction with an
eviction unless an authorized private receptacle has been provided by the
property owner. Failure to provide receptacles is subject to penalties as
outlined in §
94.27.
(‘68 Code, § 8-512) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 804, passed 6-7-04; Am.
Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.25 OWNER TO MAINTAIN PREMISES FREE OF LITTER.
   The owner or person in control of any private property shall at all times
maintain the premises free of litter. This section shall not prohibit the
storage of litter in authorized private receptacles for collection.
(‘68 Code, § 8-513) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.26 LITTER ON VACANT LOTS.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter on any open or vacant private
property within the city, whether owned by such person or not.
(‘68 Code, § 8-514) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 94.27 CLEARING LITTER FROM PROPERTY BY CITY; PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Notice to remove. The building official, or his or her duly authorized
representatives are authorized and empowered to notify the owner(s), tenant(s),
or other responsible parties of any open, vacant, occupied, or unoccupied
property within the city or the agent of any such owner’s property of any
litter as defined herein, all waste materials and/or all other objects and
materials including, but not limited to, furniture, clothing, and all other
household goods and materials which tends to create a danger to public health,
safety, or welfare. Such notice shall be by first class mail and by posting of
the property. The notice shall identify the location of the property and date
of issuance of the notice, and shall advise the property owner to properly
dispose of all litter on the property within two days of the date of issuance
of the notice.
   (B)   Action upon noncompliance. Upon the failure, neglect, or refusal of
any owner or agent so notified to properly dispose of litter dangerous to the
public health, safety, or welfare within two days of the date of issuance of
the notice, the building official or his duly authorized representative is
hereby authorized and empowered to pay for the removal and disposing of such
litter by the city. An invoice for the cost removal of any litter incurred by
the city together with a 15% administrative fee shall be forwarded to the
owner, agent or any other responsible party by the city. The administrative fee
provided in this chapter may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
City Council. In addition, failure to comply after receiving proper
notification will result in the issuance of an “order to appear” before the
City of Inkster Administrative Hearings Bureau.
   (C)   Charge included in tax bill. When the city has effected the removal of
any litter or has paid for its removal, the actual cost thereof together with a
15% administrative fee, plus accrued interest at the rate of 7% per annum or
such other amount as may be provided by law, whichever is greater, from the
date of the completion of the work, if not paid by such owner within 30 days of
invoicing by the city, shall be charged to the owner of such property on the
next regular tax bill forwarded to such owner by the city, and said charge
shall be due and payable by said owner at the time of payment of such bill.
   (D)   Recorded statement constitutes lien.
      (1)   Where the full amount due the city is not paid by such owner within
thirty days after the disposal of such litter, as provided for in divisions (A)
and (B) above, then, and in that case, the Chief Building Inspector or his duly
authorized representative shall cause to be recorded in the City Clerk’s office
and the Wayne County Register of Deeds Office, a sworn statement showing the
costs and expenses incurred for the work, the date the work was done, and the
location of the property including a full legal description on which said work
was done. The recordation of such sworn statement shall constitute a lien and
privilege on the property, and shall remain in full force and effect for the
amount due in principal and interest, plus costs of court, if any, for
collection, until final payment has been made.
      (2)   Said costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by
law for the collection of taxes and further, shall be subject to a delinquent
penalty of 7% or such other amount as may be provided by law, whichever is
greater, in the event same is not paid in full on or before the date the tax
bill upon which said charge appears becomes delinquent.
      (3)   Sworn statements recorded in accordance with the provisions thereof
shall be prima facie evidence that all legal formalities have been complied
with and that the work has been done properly and satisfactorily, and shall be
full notice to every person concerned that the amount of the statement, plus
interest, constitutes a charge against the property designated or described in
the statement and that the same is due and collectible as provided by law.
(‘68 Code, § 8-515) (Ord. 216, passed 5-20-64; Am. Ord. 763, passed 7-21-97;
Am. Ord. 804, passed 6-7-04; Am. Ord. 829, passed 12-21-09)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES; WEEDS
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Nuisances prohibited
   
95.02   Enumeration of certain specific nuisances
   
95.03   Abatement procedure
Noxious Weeds
   
95.15   Duty of owner to cut or destroy noxious weeds, grass and plants
   
95.16   Annual publication required
   
95.17   Removal by city; account of expenses
   
95.18   Lien; procedure for recovery
 
   
95.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Blight violations, see
Chapter 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   NUISANCE. This term shall be held to embrace public nuisance as known at
common law or in equity jurisprudence; and whatever is dangerous to human life
or detrimental to health; whatever dwelling is overcrowded with occupants or is
not provided with adequate ingress and egress to or from the same, or is not
sufficiently supported, ventilated, sewered, drained, cleaned or lighted;
whatever is unwholesome; whatever renders or makes an unusual noise, sound,
racket or vibration sufficient to annoy and destroy the usual peace and quiet
of any persons of the city; whatever pollutes the air to create an ill-smelling
condition so offensive as to annoy the public; whatever is conducive to the
harboring of insects, vermin, rats or rodents; all ponds of stagnant water; any
yard or area housing old and useless or nearly useless automobiles or parts
thereof, or other waste, machinery, logs, old lumber, rubbish or construction
rubbish, so that the same is offensive to the general public, are also
severally, in contemplation of this subchapter, nuisance; and such nuisances
are hereby declared illegal.
(‘68 Code, § 8-501) (Ord. 187, passed 4-19-62; Am. Ord. 682, passed 10-16-89;
Am. Ord. 875, passed 4-18-19) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.02 ENUMERATION OF CERTAIN SPECIFIC NUISANCES.
   No owner of occupant nor any person having control, management or operation
of any dwelling, building, structure, excavation, business pursuit, place open
to the general public, automobile, motorcycle or any other motor vehicle shall
allow any of the following:
   (A)   Allow any nuisance to be created or exist.
   (B)   Discharge any foul or nauseous liquid, water or other substance into
or upon any highway, street, lane, alley, public street or square or into any
adjacent lot or grounds, or deposit or allow to be deposited any refuse,
dripping or nauseous liquid or other substance from any device of any king or
nature into any sewer, receiving basin, gutter or other place within the city
or force or discharge into any public or private sewer or drain any steam vapor
or gas.
   (C)   Remove or cause to be removed any grate, cover or barricade from a
manhole, catch basin, or sewer inlet over which it is placed, or in any way
directly or indirectly injures any lateral or public sewer or any part thereof.
   (D)   Deposit or cause to be deposited in any lateral or public sewer or in
any private sewer connecting therewith any mass or bulk garbage, glass, metal,
earthenware, stone, sand, gravel, cinders, cement, lime or lime waste, rags,
lint, dust, grass, hay, straw, manure, offal, grease, feathers, ticks, or bits
of wood, gasoline, oil or oily wastes, tar, acids, offensive gaseous wastes, or
any wastes or materials or combinations thereof liable to cause injury to,
stoppage of, or unreasonably offensive odors in said sewers.
   (E)   Any loud or unusual noise, sound, racket or vibration which offend the
peace and quiet of any persons of the city, including but not limited to any of
the following:
      (1)   Animal and bird noises. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing frequent or long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose
of any person;
      (2)   Construction noises. The erection (including excavating therefor),
demolition, alteration or repair of any building, and the excavation of streets
and highways, on Sundays, and other days, except between the hours of 8:30 a.m.
and 6:30 p.m., unless a permit be first obtained from the City Department of
Building and Safety Engineering;
      (3)   Sound amplifiers. Use of any loudspeaker, amplifier or other
instrument or device, whether stationary or mounted on a vehicle for any
purpose so used shall be subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   The only sounds permitted are music or human speech;
         (b)   Operations are permitted for four hours each day, except on
Sundays and legal holidays when no operations shall be authorized. The
permitted four hours of operation shall be between the hour of 11:30 a.m. and
1:30 p.m., and between the hours of 4:30 p.m. and 6:30 p.m.;
         (c)   Sound-amplifying equipment mounted on vehicles shall not be
operated unless the vehicle upon which such equipment is mounted is operated at
a speed of at least ten miles per hour, except when such vehicle is stopped or
impeded by traffic;
         (d)   Sound shall not be issued within 100 yards of hospitals,
schools, churches or governmental buildings;
         (e)   The volume of sound shall be controlled so that is will not be
audible for a distance in excess of 50 feet from the sound-amplifying equipment
and so that the volume is no unreasonably loud, raucous, ferrying, disturbing
or a nuisance to persons within the area of audibility;
         (f)   No sound-amplifying equipment shall be operated with an excess
of 15 watts of power in the last stage of amplification;
         (g)   The restrictions hereinabove contained in division (E)(2) (a)
through (f), shall not apply to the use of church bells and school bells;
         (h)   There shall be a rebuttable presumption that the owner of any
dwelling, building, structure, excavation, business, place open to the general
public, automobile, motorcycle or any motor vehicle shall be responsible for
any violation of this section.
      (4)   Engine exhausts. The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of
any steam engine, stationary internal combustion engine, or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device that effectively prevents loud or
explosive noises therefrom;
      (5)   Handling merchandise. The creation of a loud and excessive noise in
connection with the loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and
destruction of bales, boxes and crates and container;
      (6)   Blowers. The discharge into the open air or from any noise-creating
blower or power fan unless the noise from such blower or fan is muffled
sufficiently to deaden such noise;
      (7)   Horns and signal devices. The sounding of any horns or signal
device on any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while not in motion,
except as a danger signal if another vehicle is approaching, apparently out of
control, or to give warning of intent to get under motion, or if in motion,
only as a danger signal after or as brakes are being applied and deceleration
of the vehicle is intended; the creation by means of any such signal device of
any unreasonably loud or harsh sound; and the sounding of such device for any
unnecessary and unreasonably period of time;
      (8)   Radio and musical instrument. The playing of any radio, television
set, phonograph or any musical instrument in such a manner or with sound
volume, particularly during the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. or at any
time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons
in any office or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of residence, or of any
person in the vicinity;
      (9)   Shouting and whistling. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or
singing or the making of any other loud noise on the public streets between the
hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or the making of any such noise at any time
so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any
school, place of worship or office or in any dwelling, hotel or other type of
residence, or of any persons in the vicinity;
      (10)   Whistle or siren. The blowing of any whistle or siren, except to
give notice of the time to begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or
danger.
      (11)   Exceptions. None of the terms or prohibitions of divisions (E)(1)
through (10) of this section shall apply to or be enforced against:
         (a)   Emergency vehicles. Any police or fire vehicle or any ambulance,
while engage upon emergency business.
         (b)   Highway maintenance and construction. Excavations or repairs of
bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the city or the state, during
the night, when the public safety, welfare and convenience renders it
impossible to perform such work during the day.
         (c)   Any city functions which are authorized by Council resolution.
   (F)   In the operation of hawking, vending, peddling, selling of wares,
goods, merchandise, newspapers or disposing of services or granting any
privileges from any public or private place or structure unenclosed in whole or
in part, to make a commotion or make loud noises whereby the peace of good
order of the neighborhood is disturbed.
   (G)   Keep or allow to be kept within the city any cows, horses, pigs,
goats, pigeons or fowl, or any other domestic or nondomestic animals, insects,
or reptiles, except birds, dogs, cats or other pets not expressly enumerated
herein unless certified by a veterinarian as being harmless. Pets that are
expressly excepted from the provisions of this section shall not be allowed to
run at large or create any condition or affect the conduct or disturb in any
way any neighbor or human being or cause any nuisance as herein declared or
cause any condition that might be unwholesome or in any way affect the health,
safety and welfare of the neighborhood. Any violation of this section shall be
declared to be a nuisance which may be enforced through any legal or equitable
remedy.
(‘68 Code, § 4-502) (Ord. 187, passed 4-19-62; Am. Ord. 682, passed 10-16-89;
Am. Ord. 705, passed 1- 21-92) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.03 ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Chief of Police, the Mayor, the Director of Public Works or any of
their duly authorized representatives are hereby designated to make complaint
against any alleged violator hereunder, and shall have the authority to order
the complete abatement of any nuisance within the city as set forth in §§
95.01 and
95.02 above and the Mayor, upon approval by the City Council, shall be
permitted to file injunctive proceedings in the circuit court or to exercise
any other available remedies including criminal prosecution to abate a nuisance
which he may deem necessary, each and all of said power and remedies being
cumulative and not exclusive.
   (B)   The enforcement of abatement would apply to ordinance defined
nuisances as well as all illegal activity including but not limited to dog
fighting, chop shops, theft rings and excessive loitering.
   (C)   Objective overview.  
      (1)   The threshold remedies for nuisance is to issue a warning, then
ticket if necessary, but neither have historically resulted in overwhelmingly
positive results. The lack of response from owners have left the structures in
states that fall within the following blighted guidelines: a condition that
impairs, destroys, or deteriorates the property because of its decay, improper
storage, or effect on property or quality of life including, but not limited
to, such things as litter, refuse, rubbish, garbage, junk, noxious weeds,
inoperative vehicles, and waste. The proper storage of materials or equipment
incidental to and necessary for the carrying out of any business or occupation
lawfully being carried out on the property in question is not the cause of
blight or a blighting factor if all applicable city ordinances are satisfied.
The piling and storage of firewood in a neat orderly manner for consumption by
the property residents is not blight.
      (2)   This policy allows for three different types of nuisance abatement:
         (a)   Residential blighted structure nuisance;
         (b)   Residential and commercial illegal activity related nuisance;
and
         (c)   Residential and commercial excessive loitering nuisance.
   (D)   Residential blighted structure nuisance. Nuisance enforcement for
residential structures not involved in illegal-activity would occur as follows:
      (1)   The property which may be occupied or unoccupied falls within the
current focus area of nuisance abatement that is determined by the Mayor,
Director of Public Service and Chief of Police or any of their duly authorized
representatives;
      (2)   Property owner and all interested parties found via title search
will be notified via personal service;
         (a)   If personal service is unsuccessful after three attempts, there
will be an attempt to contact the owner(s) via certified mail with return
receipt requested;
         (b)   If personal service is unsuccessful, owner(s) have an additional
five days after certified mail is sent to make contact via phone or email to
the city at the contact information provided on their notice; and
         (c)   Owner(s) will also receive notice via United States Postal
Service First Class Mail;
      (3)   Property will be postered with notice of blight violation in a
conspicuous place at the time of initial notice attempt;
      (4)   If at the expiration of the time limit in said notice, the owner(s)
has not complied with the requirement thereof or entered into a compliance
program with the city, the city may advance to file a nuisance lawsuit in Wayne
County Circuit Court to seize the property;
      (5)   If no answer is filed to the complaint within the time prescribed
by the Michigan Court Rules, then the city will file an entry of default and a
motion for entry of default judgment;
         (a)   The owner(s) may at any time between notification and default
judgment contact the city to enter into a compliance plan;
      (6)   Default judgment will result in either:
         (a)   The city being granted the right to demolish any structures on
the real property and to file a lien against the property to recover the costs
of the litigation, demolition and any other reasonable costs and fees; or
         (b)   The city being awarded ownership of the property. Upon receiving
title to the property, and depending on the physical state of the property, the
city may choose to rehabilitate the property for owner-occupancy or place the
property on the city's demolition list.
(‘68 Code, § 4-503) (Ord. 187, passed 4-19-62; Am. Ord. 682, passed 10-16-89;
Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17; Am. Ord. 875, passed 4-18-19)
NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 95.15 DUTY OF OWNER TO CUT OR DESTROY NOXIOUS WEEDS, GRASS AND PLANTS.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, possessor or occupier of land within
the city, or of every person or persons, firm or corporation having charge of
any such lands, to cut or cause to be cut down and destroyed, all Canada
thistles, milkweed, wild carrots, ox-eye daisies, asclipica, cornutus, ragweed,
poison ivy, burdock, yellow dock, sweet clover, sand burrs, goldenrod, dodders,
mustards, bindweed, perennial sowthistle, hoary alyssum, quack-grass, crab-
grass and poison sumac, or other noxious weeds growing thereon, at least twice
each year, once before May 1, and again before September 1, and as much more
often as may be necessary to prevent said noxious weeds from exceeding a height
of six inches.
(‘68 Code, § 4-504) (Ord. 191, passed 5-7-62; Am. Ord. 507, passed 6-7-76)
§ 95.16 ANNUAL PUBLICATION REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall be published for two consecutive weeks prior to May 1
and September 1 of each year with the last of said publication dates being not
less than 15 days nor more than 30 days prior to May 1 and prior to September 1
of each year in some newspaper published and circulated within the city.
(‘68 Code, § 4-505) (Ord. 191, passed 5-7-62; Am. Ord. 507, passed 6-7-76)
§ 95.17 REMOVAL BY CITY; ACCOUNT OF EXPENSES.
   In case the owner, possessor, occupier of land or the person in charge
thereof shall refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter within the time limited therefor in said published notice, it shall
be the duty of the Mayor to cause all of said noxious weeds to be cut down, and
said Mayor shall keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred in carrying
out the provisions of this subchapter with respect to each parcel of land
entered upon therefor, and shall make a statement of said account and order
same paid from the fund for general city purposes in the city out of any moneys
in the city treasury not otherwise appropriated.
(‘68 Code, § 4-506) (Ord. 191, passed 5-7-62; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 95.18 LIEN; PROCEDURE FOR RECOVERY.
   It shall be the duty of the Mayor to forthwith certify to the City Assessor
any and all accounts so allowed, and the City Assessor shall add to all said
accounts so allowed 10% of the total of each several account and shall cause
all such expenditures so allowed, together with the additional 10%, to be
severally levied on the lands on which said expenditures were made, and the
same shall become a lien upon said land and shall be collected in the same
manner as city taxes are collected, and when collected shall be paid into the
general city fund to reimburse the outlay therefrom as hereinbefore authorized.
(‘68 Code, § 4-507) (Ord. 191, passed 5-7-62; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment of not
more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 682, passed 10-16-89)
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
Rules and Regulations
   
96.15   Encroachments prohibited
   
96.16   Advertising and posting
   
96.17   Molesting wildlife prohibited
   
96.18   Games restricted; gambling prohibited
   
96.19   Alcoholic beverages prohibited
   
96.20   Parades and processions; permits required
   
96.21   Picnics limited to designated areas
   
96.22   Building fires restricted; fireworks prohibited
   
96.23   Peddling and selling prohibited; exception
   
96.24   Closing hours
Administration and Enforcement
   
96.35   Duty of commission
   
96.36   Permits indemnity agreement
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The Commissioners of the Department of Parks and Recreation.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Parks and Recreation.
   PARKS and PUBLIC PLACES. Unless specifically limited, shall be deemed to
include all parks, park lots, parkways, grass plots, playgrounds creation
centers, athletic fields, open places, square, lands under water and other
areas which are now or may hereafter be acquired by purchase, gift, devise,
bequeath, loan or lease.
(‘68 Code, § 7-701) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 96.15 ENCROACHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, maintain or permit to be erected or maintained any
building, obstruction or encroachment of any kind upon any park, park lot,
playfield, playground or public place. The word encroachment as hereby used
shall be deemed to include any sign, cornice, bay-window, awning, marquee,
porch, drive, walk or other projection of any character which rests upon or
projects over any park property or public place as defined.
(‘68 Code, § 7-703) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.16 ADVERTISING AND POSTING.
   No person shall distribute or display any advertising matter, political or
otherwise, upon or from any vehicle, nor post or place any notices, signs or
other encumbrances of any description upon any erection, structure or tree,
shrub or wire which may be growing or erected in, upon or surrounding any park
or public property under the control of the Department of Parks and Recreation.
(‘68 Code, § 7-705) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.17 MOLESTING WILDLIFE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall molest or in any manner disturb or annoy any animal, bird or
wildlife allowed to run at large.
(‘68 Code, § 7-706) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Cruelty to Animals, see §
91.01
§ 96.18 GAMES RESTRICTED; GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall play any game or games whatever in or upon any park;
however, baseball, tennis and other games of recreation may be played upon such
portion of the parks as may be designated by the Commission and under such
rules and regulations as may be prescribed and upon first obtaining a permit
therefor. Use of archery or golf equipment in any form is prohibited unless
under supervision of Parks and Recreation Commission. Gambling and other games
of chance are strictly forbidden.
(‘68 Code, § 7-707) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.19 ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall have in his possession or consume any alcoholic beverages of
any type in any park or public place as defined in §
96.01.
(‘68 Code, § 7-713) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.20 PARADES AND PROCESSIONS; PERMITS REQUIRED.
   No parade, procession, exercises or other activities which result in the
congregating together of a large number of people shall be permitted within the
parks without a permit having been obtained from the city.
(‘68 Code, § 7-709) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.21 PICNICS LIMITED TO DESIGNATED AREAS.
   No picnics may be held upon or in any park except in those sections set
aside for that purpose.
(‘68 Code, § 7-708) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.22 BUILDING FIRES RESTRICTED; FIREWORKS PROHIBITED.
   Within or upon said parks no person shall build a fire except in places
designated by the Commission; nor throw stones or other missiles; nor fire,
discharge or set off any rocket, cracker, torpedo, squib or other fireworks
containing any substance of any explosive nature. The last inhibition shall not
prevent special fireworks exhibitions to be given under the auspices or
direction of the Department.
(‘68 Code, § 7-710) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.23 PEDDLING AND SELLING PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No hawking, peddling or soliciting shall be allowed, nor any article exposed
or offered for sale or barter, within any park or public place, except by
Department employees or to concessions for which permits have been issued.
(‘68 Code, § 7-712) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.24 CLOSING HOURS.
   No person shall loiter or remain within parks between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless permitted by the Parks and Recreation Commission.
(‘68 Code, § 7-711) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65; Am. Ord. 467, passed 6-3-74)
Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 96.35 DUTY OF COMMISSION.
   It shall be the duty of the Commission to improve and beautify in
appropriate manner the parks, parkways and public places placed in the
jurisdiction of the Department of Parks and Recreation by virtue of this
chapter. They shall establish such reasonable rules and regulations for the
protection of rights and property vested in the city and under control of the
Department for the uses, care, maintenance and management of all parks.
(‘68 Code, § 7-702) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65)
§ 96.36 PERMITS INDEMNITY AGREEMENT.
   No permit shall be granted under this chapter to any person for any purpose
unless, in the application therefor, the party applying for same shall agree to
indemnify and gave the city harmless from all liability because of injury to
person or property arising out of their activity or privilege for which the
permit is granted.
(‘68 Code, § 7-704) (Ord. 238, passed 3-1-65)
CHAPTER 97: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
97.001   Definition
   
97.002   Operation of unlicensed power-driven implements prohibited; exception
   
97.003   Repair of motor vehicles on public ways prohibited; exceptions
   
97.004   Encumbering and obstructing streets prohibited; exception
   
97.005   Building materials remaining on sidewalks
Street Construction and Repair
   
97.015   Permit required
   
97.016   Authority to supervise and control; inspections
   
97.017   Conformance with lines and grades; specifications
Curb Cuts
   
97.030   Permit required
   
97.031   Issuance of permit; agreement to pave
Excavations
   
97.045   Proper control of work; essential conditions
   
97.046   Permit required
   
97.047   Application; bond required
   
97.048   Approval of permits for work; notice to police and fire departments
   
97.049   Lights and barricades required
   
97.050   Authority to enforce
   
97.051   Completion of work; delays
Sidewalks and Driveways
   
97.060   Conformance with provisions
   
97.061   Notice to build or repair; costs; lien on property
   
97.062   Contents of notice
   
97.063   Duty of owners, agents or occupants
   
97.064   Duty to maintain sidewalks in good repair
   
97.065   Authority of council to receive proposals or enter into contracts;
surety bond
   
97.066   Supervision and control over sidewalks and driveway; inspection
   
97.067   Conformance with line and grade specifications
   
97.068   Permit required; application; permit fee; bond
   
97.069   Construction and repair specifications
   
97.070   Asphalt construction and repair specifications
Snow and Ice Removal
   
97.080   Definitions
   
97.081   Snow and ice to be removed from sidewalks by private persons
   
97.082   Removal and ice from public transportation systems
   
97.083   Snow and ice to be removed from roofs
   
97.084   Depositing of snow and ice restricted
   
97.085   Failure to remove; work to be done by city; costs; penalty
Moving of Buildings
   
97.095   Permit required; application
   
97.096   Conditions for issuance
   
97.097   Compliance with regulations
   
97.098   Blocking streets or other public property; placement of lights
   
97.099   Changes in moving schedule; police approval
   
97.100   Notification of damage
   
97.101   Bond; refund
   
97.102   Refusal to issue permit
Administration and Enforcement
   
97.115   Violation notices
 
   
97.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 97.001 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SIDEWALK SPACE. The space between the lot line and the curb line of the
street or any space outside the lot line and the space under and over any such
sidewalk space.
(‘68 Code, § 7-505) (Ord. 32, passed 7-2-40)
§ 97.002 OPERATION OF UNLICENSED POWER-DRIVEN IMPLEMENTS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall operate an unlicensed power-driven implement on the
city streets, sidewalks or public ways.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to farm implements,
snowplows, lawn care implements or implements used for construction work of any
kind or nature of any vehicle bearing a license issued by the state.
(‘68 Code, § 7-502.1) (Ord. 340, passed 7-7-69) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 97.003 REPAIR OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PUBLIC WAYS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to engage in the
repair of a motor vehicle on the streets or rights-of-way of the city except
for emergency purposes.
(‘68 Code, § 7-519) (Ord. 281, passed 7-17-67) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.004 ENCUMBERING AND OBSTRUCTING STREETS PROHIBITED; EXCEPTION.
   No person shall obstruct or encumber any street, alley or any public place
with any structure, article or thing whatsoever, except as herein otherwise
provided, or encroach upon or permit to remain or maintain in any such street,
alley or public place any structure, article or thing owned, occupied or used
by any such person. The Police Department may, however, grant permission for a
temporary obstruction of a sidewalk in front of a business place for the
purpose of elevating, receiving or removing heavy merchandise, provided that
the same shall not be piled over six feet high and shall hot be of sufficient
weight to damage the sidewalk. The power to revoke any such permission for a
temporary obstruction is hereby expressly reserved to the City Council and/or
Police Department. The Council may grant a permit for the erection and
maintenance, where such erection and maintenance will not obstruct public
travel between November 1 and April 1 following in each year, of storm
enclosures, but in no case shall the framework for such enclosures be over ten
feet in height or eight feet in width, nor shall they project into the street
more than three feet.
(‘68 Code, § 7-5051 (Ord. 32, passed 7-2-40; Am. Ord. 32.1, passed 6-12-58; Am.
Ord. 246, passed 7-6- 65) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.005 BUILDING MATERIALS REMAINING ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person owning, building or repairing any house or other building shall
permit any building materials, earth, stone or other material to remain on the
sidewalks after sunset of the day upon which it was placed there without
permission of the Police Department.
(‘68 Code, § 7-502) (Ord. 32, passed 7-2-40) Penalty, see §
97.999
STREET CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR
§ 97.015 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No construction or repairs shall be commenced on any street until a permit
therefor shall have been given by the Director of the Department of Public
Services and a permit fee paid, the amount of which fee shall be prescribed
from time to time by resolution of the City Council.
(‘68 Code, § 7-505) (Ord. 117, passed 6-4-54) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.016 AUTHORITY TO SUPERVISE AND CONTROL; INSPECTIONS.
   The Director of the Department of Public Services shall have general
supervision and control of all streets and the building maintenance, repairs
and construction thereof, including inspection; and it shall be the duty of the
Director and he is hereby authorized to see that the provisions hereof are
enforced. The Director may act by himself or any duly authorized subordinate in
any of the matters hereinafter provided to be done by him, and shall, whenever
authorized by the Council, employ such assistants as may be necessary to
enforce the provisions hereof. The Director may designate any competent person
as an inspector for the purposes of this subchapter or enforcement of its
provisions.
(‘68 Code, § 7-507) (Ord. 117, passed 6-4-54)
§ 97.017 CONFORMANCE WITH LINES AND GRADES; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All streets hereafter laid and repaired in the city shall conform to the
lines and grades specifically established by the City Engineer or Director of
the Department of Public Services, and must be built and repaired according to
specifications established by the Director and approved by the Council. No
variation from the specifications will be allowed unless by resolution of the
Council upon written application, setting forth in detail the variations
desired, and the Council may permit or refuse to allow such variation, in its
discretion.
(‘68 Code, § 7-508) (Ord. 117, passed 6-4-54) Penalty, see §
97.999
CURB CUTS
§ 97.030 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to cut, alter or change or to cause the same to be done
to any concrete or other curb in or upon any street, road or public place
within the city, without first having obtained a permit. In all cases such
permit shall only authorize such work to be done by the Department of Public
Services upon payment to the City Treasurer of a permit fee of $50 for the
first 25 lineal feet of curb to be cut or any fraction thereof. Each additional
foot is $1.50, provided no permit shall be issued to cut more than 35 feet of
curb for any one opening.
(‘68 Code, § 7-517) (Ord. 120, passed 7-16-54; Am. Ord. 585, passed 8-16-82)
Penalty, see §
97.999
Cross-reference:
   Community development fees for cutting of public curbs, see §§
151.150 and
151.151
§ 97.031 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT; AGREEMENT TO PAVE.
   No permit to cut any curb shall be issued by the Department of Public
Service unless and until the applicant shall agree in such application, as a
condition to the issuance of the permit, contractor shall remove the saw cut
concrete portion at his expense, to install a concrete apron between the curb
and the sidewalk within two days after completion of the cut. Where the
pavement has been installed and curb cut opening provided, then the apron shall
be installed within 60 days from the date of paving installation. However, if
pavement and curb cut opening have been installed for some time prior to the
adoption of this section and § 97.30, then said concrete apron shall be
installed within one year from the adoption of said sections. In no case shall
a curb opening be left by any paving contractor for vacant property and/or lots
until the owner first shall have requested same from the Department of Public
Services and have, at their own expenses distinctly marked location of such
opening with stakes, and shall have accepted full responsibility for such
location markers. Failure to comply within the time limit therefor shall be and
constitute a violation thereof and subject to the penalties in this code
provided.
(‘68 Code, § 7-518) (Ord. 120, passed 7-16-54; Am. Ord. 585, passed 8-16-82)
Penalty, see §
97.999
EXCAVATIONS
§ 97.045 PROPER CONTROL OF WORK; ESSENTIAL CONDITIONS.
   For the proper control of work in all streets, public alleys, public
easements and property owned or leased by the city, it is herein specified the
conditions which are essential for all persons doing work involving excavating,
breaking and removing material, or placing a fill in such places and/or areas.
(‘68 Code, § 7-509) (Ord. 129, passed 4-1-55)
§ 97.046 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   A permit shall be required of all persons and/or contractors desiring to do
work involving excavating, breaking and removing material, and/or placing a
fill in connection with installing sewers, drains, water mains, gas mains, oil
lines, electrical conduits, poles, and any other structures of similar nature.
An application for such permit is to be filled in on forms available at the
inspection department offices. Such forms are to include information as
determined by the Director of the Department Public Services. The permit fee
shall be established from time to time by the City Council by resolution.
(‘68 Code, § 7-510) (Ord. 129, passed 4-1-55)
§ 97.047 APPLICATION; BOND REQUIRED.
   The application for the permit shall be accompanied by a cash bond in the
amount of $100 for sidewalk, $100 for driveway approach, and/or surety bond to
the city in a minimum sum of $5,000 conditioned for the faithful performance of
such work in accordance with the requirements of this subchapter and this code
or any other applicable ordinances of the city, and that the City Engineer or
Director of the Department of Public Services may determine the need for an
additional cash or surety bond which shall be based on the nature and extent of
the work involved. Said bond shall run for a period of one year and must be
renewed 60 days prior to expiration date of said bond, and further said bond
all cover all permits issued to a contractor during the term of said bond.
(‘68 Code, § 7-511) (Ord. 129, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 129.1, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 584, passed 8-16-82)
§ 97.048 APPROVAL OF PERMITS FOR WORK NOTICE TO POLICE AND FIRE DEPARTMENTS.
   The Director of the Department of public Services, after approving a permit
for such work, shall immediately notify in writing the Police and Fire Chiefs
of the issuance of said permit and shall inform them of the name and address of
the contractor and the date work is to be started and finished and all other
pertinent information. The contractor or party taking out a permit must notify
the Police and Fire Departments if the time he is to begin such work at least
one hour before actual work is to begin. (‘68 Code, § 7-514) (Ord. 129, passed
4-1-55)
§ 97.049 LIGHTS AND BARRICADES.
   All obstructions are to be fenced in or barricaded at all times and properly
lighted between sunset and sunrise. This requirement is to be fulfilled by the
permit holder, and in the event it is not done it shall be deemed a violation
of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-513) (Ord. 129, passed 4-1-55) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.050 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   The Director of the Department of Public Services is responsible for the
proper enforcement of this subchapter and may seek advice from the City
Engineer and call upon the Police Department for police action if needed.
   (A)   All work shall be pursued diligently and continuously until the
project is completed. When as a consequence of the weather or any legal
proceedings, or any other unexpected contingency, the project is not continuing
as required by this subchapter, the excavation or opening shall be filled by
direction of the Director as if the work contemplated were finished.
   (B)   A project shall not involve a larger area than is requested in the
permit application, and if such be necessary permission must be obtained by the
director of public works and noted on the permit.
   (C)   All work shall be performed in such a way as to cause a minimum of
inconvenience and restriction to both pedestrian and vehicular traffic.
   (D)   The recipient of a permit shall notify all utility companies whose
pipes, poles, mains or conduits are to be disturbed by the excavation at least
24 hours before commencing of any work.
   (E)   The width of such excavation or opening shall be only such as is
required to do the work properly. Good construction practices shall prevail in
all operations, including the requirements for bracing, shoring, tunneling, and
the like. All excavating is to be done by the open cut method, unless special
permission is granted by the Director and so noted on the permit.
   (F)   All refilling must be done within the specified time granted by the
permit, and shall consist of sand, gravel or other materials of equivalent
compaction qualities. The crown of the pavement or unimproved street must be
restored by the permit holder.
   (G)   If, in the opinion of the Director of the Department of Public
Services, the procedures employed or materials used by the permit holder in the
backfilling are not satisfactory, the Director shall have the same done by the
city. All costs and charges paid out by the city shall be deducted by the City
Treasurer before bond is released.
(‘68 Code, § 7-513) (Ord. 129, passed 4-1-55; Am. Ord. 129.1, passed 8-5-55;
Am. Ord. 679, passed 7-17-89)
§ 97.051 COMPLETION OF WORK; DELAYS.
   All work done in public rights-of-way performed by hand shall be allowed
under the condition that said work is to be done expediently and without
stoppages. Any such unwarranted or unreasonable delay or cessation of work
shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-515) (Ord. 129, passed 4-1-55) Penalty, see §
97.999
SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAYS
§ 97.060 CONFORMANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   All sidewalks and driveways hereafter laid, constructed, maintained and
repaired in the city shall conform to the provisions of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-525) (Ord. 146, passed 9-24-57) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.061 NOTICE TO BUILD OR REPAIR; COSTS; LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   (A)   Wherever, in the opinion of the City Council, any sidewalk or driveway
shall be built, repaired, rebuilt or replaced, the Council shall so declare by
resolution and the clerk shall cause to be served upon the owner or occupant of
any lot in front of or adjacent to which said sidewalk or driveway is required
to be built or repaired, notice that such sidewalk or driveway must be built or
repaired within ten days after the service of such notice, or that the work
will be done under the direction of the Department of Public Services and the
cost thereof, with 10% additional, assessed against the property. Such notice
may be served by securely posting upon the premises, if the owner or occupant
cannot be found, or if either of them can be found on or about the premises
such notice shall be served personally on such owner or occupant of such lot.
If such owner or occupant shall fail or neglect to comply with the terms of the
notice aforesaid, the Department of Public Services shall cause said sidewalk
or driveway to be built and return the cost thereof and the 10% additional to
the Council, and the Council may order such cost assessed against such lot.
   (B)   Such assessment, when confirmed, shall be a lien upon such lot or
premises the same as other special assessments, and the City Council shall
order the City Assessor to spread said amount, together with such penalty, on
his roll as a special assessment on such lot or premises, and the same shall be
collected according to law in the same amount, together with taxes, or the city
may collect such amount together with the penalty aforesaid from the owner or
occupant of such premises in an action of assumpsit together with the cost of
the suit.
(‘68 Code, § 7-520) (Ord. 145, passed 9-24-57)
Cross-reference:
   Public improvements, see
Ch. 51
§ 97.062 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   Notice herein provided for shall contain the name of the owner or occupant
of any lot in front of or adjacent to which said sidewalk or driveway is
required to be built, repaired, rebuilt or replaced, if known, a description of
the particular property in front of or adjacent to which said sidewalk is to be
built, repaired, rebuilt or replaced, and shall designate the work required to
be done. Such notices shall also recite that the work is required to be done by
resolution of the City Council, giving the date of such resolution and such
other information as shall enable the owner or occupant notified to fully
comply with its terms.
(‘68 Code, § 7-521) (Ord. 145, passed 9-24-57)
§ 97.063 DUTY OF OWNERS, AGENTS OR OCCUPANTS.
   It shall be the duty of every owner, agent or occupant of any lot or
premises notified according to the foregoing provisions of this subchapter to
promptly comply with notice and construct or repair the sidewalk or driveway as
ordered. In case any owner, agent or occupant shall neglect to build or repair
any sidewalk within the time prescribed in the notice provided in this
subchapter, and the city by any suit or other proceeding is compelled to pay
damages for injuries to any person on account of such neglect, such owner,
agent or occupant shall be liable to the city for the amount in a suit in
assumpsit in the proper court.
(‘68 Code, § 7-522) (Ord. 145, passed 9-24-57)
§ 97.064 DUTY TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS IN GOOD REPAIR.
   All sidewalks within the city shall be kept in good repair by the owner,
agent or occupant of the house, lot or premises adjacent to or in front of
which said sidewalk lies. Whenever any sidewalk within the limits of the city
shall require repairing it shall be the duty of said owner, agent or occupant
of the house, lot or premises adjacent to immediately make such repairs,
failing to do so, it shall be the duty of the Department of Public Services or
the person or persons appointed thereby whenever directed by the City Council
to notify by written notice the owner, agent or occupant of such house, lot or
premises to repair the same within 48 hours, and if the person thus notified
shall refuse or neglect to comply with the requirements of said notice then the
Department of Public Services or the person appointed for that purpose shall
cause said repair to be made forthwith under the procedure provided for in §
97.061; however, none of the provisions of this section shall be construed to
relieve such owner, agent or occupant of any lot or premises from his liability
under the provisions of §
97.063.
(‘68 Code, § 7-523) (Ord. 145, passed 9-24-57)
§ 97.065 AUTHORITY OF COUNCIL TO RECEIVE PROPOSALS OR ENTER INTO CONTRACTS;
SURETY BOND.
   The City Council shall have the power to provide by resolution the mode of
receiving proposals or entering into contracts for building and repairing of
sidewalks or driveways constructed or repaired under the provisions of this
subchapter, and it may, at its option, require the contractor or person
building the sidewalk or driveway to furnish a good and sufficient surety bond
to insure proper construction thereof.
(‘68 Code, § 7-524) (Ord. 145, passed 9-24-57)
§ 97.066 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL OVER SIDEWALKS AND DRIVEWAY; INSPECTION.
   The structural/safety division of the fire department shall have general
supervision and control of all sidewalks and driveways and the building,
maintenance, repair and construction thereof, including inspection, and it
shall be the duty of the structural/safety division of the fire department and
it is hereby authorized to see that the provisions hereof are enforced. It may
act by itself or any duly authorized subordinate in any of the matters
hereinafter provided to be done by it, and shall whenever authorized by the
Council employ such assistance as may be necessary to enforce the provisions
hereof. It may designate any competent person as sidewalk inspector for the
purpose of this subchapter or for enforcement of its provisions.
(‘68 Code, § 7-526) (Ord. 146, passed 9-24-57; Am. Ord. 459, passed 10-1-73;
Am. Ord. 775, passed 4-19-99)
§ 97.067 CONFORMANCE WITH LINE AND GRADE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All sidewalks and driveways hereafter laid in the city shall conform to the
lines and grades specifically established by the City Engineer, and must be
laid according to the specifications herein contained. Application must be made
to the structural/safety division of the fire department for the grades and
lines to be followed before the work is commenced. No variation from the
specifications will be allowed unless by resolution of the City Council upon
written application, setting forth in detail the variations desired, and the
Council may permit or refuse to allow such variations, in its discretion.
(‘68 Code, § 7-527) (Ord. 146, passed 9-24-57; Am. Ord. 459, passed 10-1-73;
Am. Ord. 775, passed 4-19-99) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.068 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; PERMIT FEE; BOND.
   A permit shall be required of all persons, firms, corporation, partnerships
and/or contractors desiring to build, repair or rebuild sidewalks and
driveways. An application for such permit is to be filed in and on forms
available at the structural/safety division of the fire department offices.
Such forms are to include information as determined by the City Engineer or his
designee. The permit fee shall be established from time to time by resolution
of the City Council. The City Engineer or his designee may require applicant
for a permit to furnish a cash or surety bond to the city in an amount
sufficient to assure the faithful performance of work done in the city. The
City Engineer shall determine the need for a cash or surety bond based on the
nature and extent of the work involved. Said bond shall run for a period of not
less than 90 days from the date of the permit and shall continue and cover all
permits issued to that particular applicant. Bonds shall not be required for a
homeowner doing the work himself on his own home property.
(‘68 Code, § 7-528) (Ord. 146, passed 9-24-57; Am. Ord. 459, passed 10-1-73;
Am. Ord. 775, passed 4-19-99) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.069 CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Grades. The line and grade, as established by the City Engineer, shall
prevail. This grade shall be a uniform incline from the curb line or line
established by the City Engineer toward the street line.
   (B)   Grading. All surplus earth must be removed. No work shall be accepted
by the city until the job has been graded and the sidewalk properly backfilled
to the satisfaction of the building inspections department.
   (C)   Railing. In railing, all stakes must be driven or cut off even with
the top surface of the rail. Railing must be straight, even and unyielding.
When these rails are taken up all stakes must be removed.
   (D)   Foundation. The contractor shall provide a template of an approved
type for checking the subgrade, this template to be the full width of the
sidewalk and exact depth of concrete. This template shall be kept on the work
at all times. No concrete shall be laid until the foundation has been checked
with this template and brought to grade. Whenever a fill is required, sand
shall be used. This fill must be well compacted by rolling, tamping or other
approved methods.
   (E)   Thickness and width. The minimum width of sidewalk to be constructed
in the city shall be five feet with a thickness of four inches on a two-inch
bedding of sand. However, there shall be a thickness of at least six inches
through driveway approaches or at any location where motor vehicles will pass
over the sidewalk.
   (F)   Residential driveways. All residential driveway approaches from the
edge of the pavement or street or back of curb through the property line, shall
be not less than six inches thick concrete containing six sack mix on a minimum
of two inches of sand as a sub-base, or as otherwise approved by the City
Engineer or his designee. All residential driveways from the property line to
the house or garage shall be not less than four inches thick concrete with a
six sack mix on a minimum of two inches of sand as a sub- base or an approved
asphalt surface installed to meet the specifications in §
97.070.
   (G)   Concrete aggregates and concrete. Coarse aggregates shall be clean,
sound pebbles or crushed stone, 95% of which will be retained on ¾-inch mesh
screen and all of which will pass a screen with one- inch square openings. The
material shall be uniformly graded between these sizes. Fine aggregate shall be
clean sand, the particles of which shall be uniformly graded between sides
passing a ¾-inch mesh screen and retained on a 40 mesh screen. Not more than 5%
shall pass a 40 mesh screen. Aggregates shall comply with standard tests of
ASTM C. 136-39.
   (H)   Portland cement. Portland cement shall conform to the requirements for
type 1 of the tentative specification for air-entrained portland cement ASTM
designation C-175. The total air content of the freshly placed concrete shall
not be less than 3% and not more than 6% when tested in accordance with the
standard method of test for weight per cubic feet yield and air content of
concrete, ASTM designation C- 139-44. Sufficient tests for the air content of
the concrete shall be made by the contractor at the start of each run or day as
the Engineer may specify, and at such additional times as he may require, to
assure air entrainment within the specified limits. Water shall be clean and
shall contain no substance that may be injurious to concrete. The minimum
amount of water shall be used that will produce a workable mix.
   (I)   Transit mix concrete. Concrete delivered in transit-mixed trucks shall
be prepared and delivered in accordance with standards of ASTM C-94-48.
   (J)   Quality of concrete. The strength of cylinders when tested shall be
not less than 3,500 pounds per square inch in 28 days or less than 2,200 pounds
per square inch in seven days. Tests shall be made after 28 days unless
otherwise stipulated by the City Engineer. Minimum cement content shall be six
bags per cubic yard.
   (K)   Surface finish. Special care shall be observed to tamp concrete
adjacent to forms and expansion joints. The concrete when placed in forms and
compacted shall show very little if any free water on surface. After concrete
has been uniforms placed in forms, the surface shall be struck uniformly to the
level of the side rails by using a suitable strength edge after which the
surface shall be lightly troweled to a uniform plane. If the owner so desires,
the final finish shall include brushing lightly with a calcimine brush dipped
in water. All edges of each square shall be neatly finished to a radius of ap
proximately ¾-inch with suitable tools. Curing compound shall be used and shall
comply with all requirements of the current Michigan Department of State
Highways Standard Specifications for highway construction and shall be applied
at the rate of not less than one gallon per 200 square feet.
   (L)   Expansion joints. All concrete sidewalks shall have expansion joints
at lot lines placed at right angles to the rails and extending to the bottom of
concrete, except where the distance between lot lines exceeds 50 feet
additional expansion joints shall be placed so that in no case the distance
between expansion joints exceeds 50 feet. All expansion joints shall be
prepared expansion paper strips not less than 3/8 inch nor more than 1/3 inch
in thickness, except where sidewalks abut the curb at this point one inch
expansion paper must be used. When in place this paper must be to the top of
the finished surface of the walk. At intervals of no less than five feet nor
more than seven feet shall be placed steel dividers ¾-inch thick at right
angles to the rails and extending to the bottom of the concrete. These dividers
must not be removed until the concrete is sufficiently set to prevent slumping.
The dividers shall then be removed and a double edger used to finish the joint.
One-half inch expansion paper shall be used where driveways abut the street
pavement and sidewalk.
   (M)   Protection of work. All completed sidewalks and driveways must be
protected by suitable barricades of a type approved by the structural/safety
division of the fire department. The finished sidewalk must be protected
against the elements, particularly rain, to prevent pitting. All barricades
must be properly protected by lights during darkness. All shut-off boxes,
manholes, coal holes, receiving basins, platform and covers, and any other
fixtures must be set to the true grade of the sidewalk, before concrete is
poured. In no case shall anyone be allowed to walk on the surface before the
concrete is thoroughly set. Barricades should be good and sufficient to guard
the public against accident.
   (N)   Engineer’s stakes. The work to be done will be staked out by the City
Engineer, and any stakes broken or removed through carelessness will be
replaced by the Engineer at a cost to the contractor of $1 for each stake. The
contractor shall give 24 hours notice when he needs the services of the
Engineer.
   (O)   Material on street. Material delivered on the street shall be neatly
and compactly piled up along the side of the roadway, in such a manner as to
cause the least inconvenience to property owners and to the general public.
Private drives and street crossings shall be kept open as far as practicable,
and planked when directed to the satisfaction of the Building Inspections
Department. Shade trees, lawns and other im provements shall be protected by
the contractor from all damage by stone or otherwise.
   (P)   Supervision and inspection. The structural/safety division of the fire
department shall at all times have access for inspection to all branches of the
work, and the contractor shall furnish from time to time such samples of each
separate ingredient in combination, giving kind and proportion of the materials
to be used in the improvement, as may be requested by the structural/safety
division of the fire department. When deemed necessary by the Building
Inspections Department, the contractor shall store separately and in such
manner as to admit of identification any or all materials which he proposes to
incorporate in this improvement.
   (Q)   Weather. The contractor shall suspend all work under this contract
when notified by the structural/safety division of the fire department that the
weather is unsuitable for carrying it on. If work is allowed during cold or
freezing weather, the contractor shall take such additional precaution as the
inspector shall require without additional expense to the city, and under no
circumstances shall materials which have been affected by the weather be used.
No work shall be done between November 15 and April 15, without special
permission from the structural/safety division of the fire department.
   (R)   Defects before acceptance. All settlements, defects or damages in any
portion of the sidewalk by public travel, rain, snow, ice, frost or other
causes, before the final acceptance of the work by the city, shall be repaired
and made good at the contractor’s expense. All rubbish which may accumulate
during and by reason of the work herein provided for shall be removed by the
contractor as fast as the sidewalk is laid, and the street be left clean and in
good condition.
(‘68 Code, § 7-529) (Ord. 146, passed 9-24-57; Am. Ord. 459, passed 10-1-73;
Am. Ord. , passed 4-19-99) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.070 ASPHALT CONSTRUCTION AND REPAIR SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Materials:
      Coarse aggregate, deep strength, 20AA modified to
      Minimum 50% crushed, div. 4.
      Fine aggregate, 3fs, 3cs
      Mineral filler 3mf
      Bituminous materials - prime coat over aggregate bases shall be ms-op, or
approved equal.
   The contractor shall obtain approval from the structural/safety inspection
division prior to starting work, on the source and particular type of course
aggregate and bituminous materials he intends to use.
   (B)   Composition of mixture aggregate material:
Passing 3/4 inch sieve 100%
Passing ½ inch sieve  95 - 100%
Passing 3/8 inch sieve 65 - 90%
Passing No. 4 sieve    -----------
Passing No. 8 sieve    45 - 70%
Passing No. 30 sieve   20 - 45%
Passing No. 200 sieve  2 - 10%
Bitumen                5 - 8%
 
   Slag aggregate may be used in the above mixtures provided the slag is air
cooled blast furnace slag weighing not less than 85 lb. per cu. ft. (dry rolled
material). Further, where slag is used, it can be anticipated that the mineral
percentage used of bitumen by weight shall be 7%.
   The proportions of composition of mixture shown hereinbefore may be varied
between the percentage limits designated. A plant mix based on the marshal
method of mix design, using a minimum stability of 1200, shall be established
by a recognized, approved independent testing laboratory, such design to be
approved by the structural/safety division, with all expenses associated
therewith paid for by the contractor. The mix design shall be approved by the
structural/safety division prior to the establishment of a paving schedule.
   (C)   Pavement thickness per course. For normal surfacing using asphaltic
materials on aggregate base or existing asphalt surfaces, the minimum and
maximum thickness per lift shall apply as set forth hereafter unless otherwise
specified in supplemental specifications.
 
M.D.O.T.      Minimum Thickness  Maximum Thickness
Designation   Inches             Inches
20AA-NO. 1100 1.0                2.5
 
   (D)   Bond coat/prime coat. Bond coat for resurfacing shall be SSlh and
shall be applied at the rate of 0.1 galons per sq. yard on existing concrete or
asphalt pavement as well as between each course of new surfacing material. The
material prime coat shall be applied on the compacted aggregate surface at a
rate of 0.30 gallons per sq. yard. Bond coat and prime coat material shall be
applied with a distributor to conform with specifications set forth in M.D.O.T.
division 4.00.05 and at an application temperature in accordance with
specifications in division 8.04.
   (E)   Testing.
      (1)   Mixture. Testing of the bituminous material in mixture shall be
done in accordance with procedures set forth in division 4.00.14. The
contractor shall bear the expense not only of removing the samples where
directed by the structural/safety division but shall pay the cost of testing by
a testing laboratory approved by the structural/safety division. Number and
location of test samples shall be at the discretion of the structural/safety
division, but shall not exceed two samples from each day’s work. Tests shall
consist of a recovery test providing sieve analysis, asphalt content and
percent of crushed aggregate.
      (2)   Cores. At the discretion of the structural/safety division a
maximum of two cores shall be taken from any one site, or two cores per every
1000 sq. yards. Cores shall be taken to the full depth of the materials
installed to verify thickness, asphalt content, graduation, percent crushed
material and density. Costs for taking these cores and testing samples shall be
borne by the contractor. If the cores indicate a deficiency in the thickness of
any material, or if the materials do not meet the requirements of the
specifications, no approval will be made until all deficiencies have been
corrected to the satisfaction of the structural/safety division. Additional
cores and material tests may be required to determine the extent of indicated
deficiencies. Costs for these cores and subsequent testing shall be paid for by
the contractor. Any additional aggregate thickness will not be a substitute for
the specified thickness of the asphalt. The final thicknesses are considered as
compacted thickness.
   (F)   Excavation. Earth excavation shall include all materials, asphalt,
broken concrete, earth and miscellaneous fill that may be present. The area
shall be excavated to the subgrade elevation to the exact cross section as
shown on the plans and established in the field by the structural/safety
division inspector. The subgrade shall be shaped to true and even lines by the
use of patrol graders and rolled with minimum 10-ton rollers. Prior to
placement of the subbase material, the structural/safety inspector shall
approve the subgrade for elevation and compaction. If the subgrade is found not
to be at the elevations as staked, the contractor shall degrade the area and
the cost for rechecking the subgrade shall be paid for by the contractor.
Excavated material shall be hauled from the site and disposed of by the
contractor.
   (G)   Aggregate base course. This work shall consist of placing aggregate
material on the prepared subgrade in accordance with the lines and grades shown
on the plans. Base aggregate shall be limestone graded in accordance with and
meeting the physical requirements of M.D.O.T., designation 22A, or 20AA
aggregate. The total compacted thickness shall be as shown on the construction
plans or as required by supplemental specifications. The compaction of the
aggregate material shall be accomplished by means of vibrating type or
pneumatic type roller, and balding aggregate surfacing with patrol graders, all
in accordance with the construction method requirements of the current standard
specifications of M.D.O.T. division 3, base course, articles 3.01.03, 3.01.04,
3.01.06, 3.01.07a and 3.01.08 except that the word “department” shall be
replaced by “contractor”.
   (H)   Asphalt surface. After the aggregate subbase has been installed and
approved by the structural/safety inspector a prime coat shall be applied as
previously specified. Asphalt shall be M.D.O.T. No. 11Gc20AA modified to 50%
crushed having a minimum stability of 1200. Asphalt shall be a minimum of two
(2) separate lifts.
   (I)   Finished grade of asphalt. The finished elevation of the asphalt shall
conform to the elevations as shown on the plans and established by the
structural/safety division inspector in the field. Because of the need for
proper drainage, asphalt not laid to such elevations may have to be removed and
replaced by the contractor, at his expense.
   (J)   Weather and temperature. Asphalt mixture must arrive on the site at a
temperature between 250°F and 325°F. No material shall be placed if it is
raining, if the surface to be treated is wet or if rain is threatening.
Material may only be placed if the ambient temperature at the construction site
is 45°F and rising. No material shall be laid after November 1st or before May
1st except by request of the contractor and subsequent approval of the
structural/safety division inspector.
   (K)   Traffic control. Traffic shall not be allowed on freshly laid asphalt
until rolling operations are completed and until there is no marking under
traffic loads.
(Ord. 775, passed 4-19-99)
SNOW AND ICE REMOVAL
§ 97.080 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. Any day not a Sunday or a national holiday.
   BUSINESS HOURS. The hours between 7:00 a.m. and 3:30 p.m. on any business
day.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Department of Public Service, or, in his
absence, his duly designated and acting representative.
   ROADWAY. That portion of a street or highway improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular travel, exclusive of the berm or shoulder.
   SIDEWALK. That portion of a street between the curb lines, or the lateral
lines of a roadway, and the adjacent property lines intended for the use of
pedestrians.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between the boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(‘68 Code, § 7-801) (Ord. 564, passed 12-15-80)
§ 97.081 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED FROM SIDEWALKS BY PRIVATE PERSONS.
   (A)   Every person, partnership, corporation, joint-stock company or
syndicate in charge or control of any building or lot of land within the city
fronting or abutting on a paved sidewalk, whether as owner, tenant, occupant,
lessee or otherwise, shall remove and clear away, or cause to be removed and
cleared away, snow and ice from a path of at least 48 inches in width so much
of said sidewalk as is in front of or abuts on said building or lot of land.
      (1)   Except as provided in division (B) hereof, snow and ice shall be so
removed from sidewalks in all business districts within the city by two
business hours after the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain
by the beginning of business hours of the next business day following such
fall, whichever is shorter.
      (2)   Except as provided in division (B) hereof, snow and ice shall be so
removed from all sidewalks within the city on the same day of the cessation of
any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain or within the first two hours of
daylight after the cessation of any such fall, whichever period is longer.
   (B)   However, in the event of snow and ice on a side walk has become so
hard that it cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the sidewalk,
the person or entity charged with its removal shall, within the time mentioned
in division (A) hereof, cause enough and or other abrasive to be put on the
sidewalk to make travel thereon reasonably safe; and shall then, as soon
thereafter as weather permits, cause a path in said sidewalk of at least 48
inches in width to be thoroughly cleaned.
(‘68 Code, § 7-802) (Ord. 564, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.082 REMOVAL AND ICE FROM PUBLIC TRANSPORTATION SYSTEMS.
   Every person, partnership, corporation, joint-stock company or syndicate
operating a public trans portation system within the city employing motor
buses, trackless trolleys, trains or street cars shall remove and clear away,
or cause to be removed and cleared away, snow and ice from its passenger
loading and unloading areas and its tracks, if any. Snow and ice from its
passenger loading and unloading areas shall be removed and cleared away within
the first two hours of daylight after the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet
or freezing rain, except that if the snow and ice has become so hard that it
cannot be removed without likelihood of damage to the underlying surface, such
operator shall, within the said two-hour period, cause enough and or other
abrasive to be put on the passenger loading and unloading area to make walking
thereon reasonably safe. He shall then, as soon thereafter as weather permits,
cause said area to be thoroughly cleaned. Exception being agreements of record;
for example, Semca Bus Shelters.
(‘68 Code, § 7-803) (Ord. 564, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.083 SNOW AND ICE TO BE REMOVED FROM ROOFS.
   Every person, partnership, corporation, joint-stock company or syndicate in
charge or control of any building or other structure within the city, whether
as owner, tenant, occupant, lessee or otherwise, shall remove and clear away,
or cause to be removed and cleared away, any accumulation of snow and ice on
said building or other structure which is liable to fall on any sidewalk,
roadway or other public way. Such work shall be completed within a reasonable
time, but not later than the end of the first two hours of daylight after the
cessation of any fall of snow, sleet or freezing rain.
(‘68 Code, § 7-804) (Ord. 564, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.084 DEPOSITING OF SNOW AND ICE RESTRICTED.
   No person, partnership, corporation, joint-stock company or syndicate shall
deposit or cause to be deposited any snow and ice on or against a fire hydrant
or on any sidewalk, roadway or loading and unloading areas of a public
transportation system, except that snow and ice may be windrowed on public
roadways, incident to the cleaning thereof, or widowed on curbs incident to the
cleaning of sidewalks in business districts.
(‘68 Code, § 7-805) (Ord. 564, passed 12-15-80) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.085 FAILURE TO REMOVE; WORK TO BE DONE BY CITY; COSTS; PENALTY.
   (A)   In the event of the failure of any person, partnership, corporation,
joint-stock company or syndicate to clear away or treat with abrasive and
subsequently clear away any snow and ice from any sidewalk as hereinbefore
provided, or cause this to be done, the Director of the Department of Public
Services shall, as soon as practicable after such failure, cause such work to
be done.
   (B)   The Director shall ascertain and keep a record of the exact cost of
all work he causes to be done in accordance with this section on account of
each act or omission of each person, partnership, corporation, joint-stock
company or syndicate; and he shall identify these persons or entities with
particularity.
   (C)   Each person, partnership, corporation, joint-stock company or
syndicate whose act or omission makes it necessary that the Director cause work
to be done in accordance with this section shall be liable to the city for the
cost of such work plus a penalty of 15% of such cost. It shall be the duty of
the Director to sue for these costs and penalties, and it shall be the duty of
the City Attorney to assist in the bringing of these suits.
(‘68 Code, § 7-806) (Ord. 564, passed 12-15-80)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 97.095 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION.
   No person shall move into, through or within the city any house and/or
building without first filing an application therefor with the City Clerk and
obtaining a permit to do so. Said application shall be accompanied by a cash
bond in the sum of $2,500 indemnifying the city against all loss, damage,
expense or claims by any public utility or property owner which might arise
during the course of the moving of such building.
   (A)   Said application shall set forth the street, alleys and other public
places upon which said building shall be moved, and shall be accompanied with a
copy of liability insurance policy. All applications to move buildings through
or within the city shall be accompanied by a permit fee of $100 for each
building. All applications to move buildings into the city from another city,
village or township shall be accompanied by an inspection fee permit of $100
for necessary preliminary inspections as set forth in §
97.096.
   (B)   Applicant shall present a proposed moving schedule to the Chief of
Police or his duly authorized representative at least ten days prior to the
proposed moving date, and he shall receive from the Chief of Police or his duly
authorized representative a written permit to move said building or structure
during certain hours on a definite date or dates and along certain designated
streets. When said proposed building or structure shall be moved, wherein
contact would be made with any telegraph, telephone, electric light or power
line, fire or police alarm or cross-arms or any other property, the licensee
shall give to the person owning or controlling the aforesaid wires, cross-arms
or other property at least one week’ s notice and said person shall move and
adjust same in such manner that such building or structure being moved may pass
by or under such wires or cross-arms and cost of same shall be borne by the
licensee. The person moving a building shall post on such building, while being
moved, in a conspicuous place, a copy of the permit.
   (C)   The application to the City Clerk shall contain the written permit of
the Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative, containing the
diagram of the proposed route of travel and time of travel.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2101) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.096 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   The City Clerk shall refuse to issue the final permit for the movement of
any building along or through any street or alley in the city wherein said
building or structure is to be moved to a location within the city until the
following conditions have been complied with:
   (A)   All permits required by the building, electrical and plumbing codes
for the city shall have been secured and they shall not be issued until said
building has been inspected by the Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector and
Plumbing Inspector and they have made a determination that said building
complies and will comply when relocated with all requirements of the building
code of the city.
   (B)   Until the foundation upon which the said building is to be located has
been completed to grade level and approved by the Building Inspector.
   (C)   Until a statement containing the signatures of 75% of the owners of
the three homes on the left, the three homes on the right and six homes
directly across the street from the proposed new location, consenting to the
relocation of said home or building, has been presented, said statement to
include the sworn affidavit of the applicant verifying the signatures thereon.
   (D)   Until pictures of the home or building to be moved into the city,
completion plans (providing for a brick exterior), showing conformity to the
surrounding neighborhood, have been submitted.
   (E)   Until proof has been produced that said home or building is no older
than ten years, that the applicant is the owner thereof and intends to live in
said home.
   (F)   (1)   A $5,000 cash bond to assure:
            (a)   Completion of the outside within six months;
            (b)   Compliance with the building, electric and plumbing codes and
all provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Said sum shall be forfeited to the city for failure to so comply,
or return to applicant upon final inspection; however, this provision is not to
be construed as waiving the city’s right to proceed under the penalty
provisions of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2102) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66)
§ 97.097 COMPLIANCE WITH REGULATIONS.
   Any person who receives a permit to move a building or structure through or
into the city shall abide by all regulations set forth by the Chief of Police
or his duly authorized representative, by this code or any other applicable
ordinances of the city and all statutes of the state.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2103) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.098 BLOCKING STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   In the event any building being so moved shall at any time block a street or
a part of a street or alley or other public property, sufficient colored lights
shall be placed thereon for the protection of the public.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2103) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.099 CHANGES IN MOVING SCHEDULE; POLICE APPROVAL.
   No change shall be made in the moving date or hours without written approval
from the Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2104) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.100 NOTIFICATION OF DAMAGE.
   In the event any damage is caused to any public or private property as the
result of said moving, the licensee shall immediately notify the City Clerk in
writing and the owner of said property of the extent of said damage.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2105) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66) Penalty, see §
97.999
§ 97.101 BOND; REFUND.
   The $2,500 cash bond set forth in §
97.095 shall not be refunded to the licensee until more than 15 days have
elapsed after the completion date of the move through or into the city and
until written approval of said refund has been received by the City Clerk from
the Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative. In the event any
damage has occurred as the result of such a move, the aforesaid bond shall not
be refunded until the owner of the damaged property has indicated in writing
that the damage has been repaired or a settlement has been made to his
satisfaction.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2106) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66)
§ 97.102 REFUSAL TO ISSUE PERMIT.
   The Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative shall not issue a
permit as set forth in §
97.095(C) in the event of any of the following:
   (A)   That the building is too large to move without endangering persons or
property in the city.
   (B)   That the building is in such a state of deterioration or disrepair or
is otherwise so structurally unsafe that it could not be moved without
endangering persons and property in the city.
   (C)   That the applicant’s equipment is unsafe and that persons or property
would be endangered by its use.
   (D)   That for any other reason, persons or property would be endangered by
the moving of the building.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2107) (Ord. 270, passed 10-3-66)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 97.115 VIOLATION NOTICES.
   In all cases of violation of the provisions of this chapter, the owner or
occupant of the buildings or premises shall remove such obstruction within 24
hours after receipt of notice to do so from any proper authority of the city.
Failing obedience to remove the same, such removal shall be forthwith effected
by the Director of the Department of Public Services at the expense of the
owner, occupant, contractor or builder who failed to heed the notice herein
provided for. Any expenses incurred by the city in effecting such removal may
be recovered by the city in an action at law before a court of competent
jurisdiction, The notice herein provided for shall be given to the owner or
occupant, contractor or builder; and if they or either of them cannot be found,
the said notice shall be securely posted in some conspicuous place on said
premises or abutting building; provided, that a compliance with such notice or
the removal of obstructions shall not operate to suspend the penalties of the
code. Each and every day that any violation continues after notice given as
above provided, until removal, the owner or occupant, contractor or builder, as
the case may be, or either or all of them, may be complained of as for an
original and distinct offense, and may be punished as is provided in this code.
(‘68 Code, § 7-504) (Ord. 32, passed 7-2-40)
§ 97.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall violate any provision of
this chapter for which another penalty has been provided shall be deemed guilty
of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, punished by a fine not to exceed
$500 and the costs of prosecution, or in default of the payment thereof by
imprisonment for not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not
exempt the offender from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-511(2)) (Ord. 584, passed 8-16-82)
   (B)   Any person, partnership, corporation, joint-stock company or syndicate
who violates any provision of §§
97.080 through
97.085 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof,
shall be fined in an amount not exceeding $25 or be imprisoned in the jail for
a period not exceeding three days, or be both so fined and imprisoned. Each day
such violation is committed or permitted to continue shall constitute a
separate offense and shall be punishable as such.
(‘68 Code, § 7-807) (Ord. 564, passed 12-15-80)
CHAPTER 98: TREES
Section
General Provisions
   
98.01   Title
   
98.02   Definitions
Planting, Care and Removal Specifications
   
98.15   Permits removed for tree planting, care and removal
   
98.16   New residences; tree planting required
   
98.17   Tree protection
   
98.18   Public and private tree care
   
98.19   Trimming and corner clearance
   
98.20   Additional rules and regulations
Administration and Enforcement
   
98.21   Department responsible for enforcement
   
98.22   Inspection; abatement procedure
   
98.23   Entry upon private grounds to treat infestations
   
98.24   Interference with work being done prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 98.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Tree Chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-601) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The department designated by the Mayor, such designation to be
registered with the City Clerk.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of such department, appointed by the Mayor.
   PARK. All public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the
city, or to which the public has free access as a park.
   PROHIBITED SPECIES. Any tree of the species of poplar (Populus Sp.), willow
(Salix Sp.), box elder (Acer Negundo), and elm (Ulmus).
   STREET. All of the land lying between property lines on either side of all
streets, highways and boulevards in the city.
   TREE. Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation.
(‘68 Code, § 7-602) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
PLANTING, CARE AND REMOVAL SPECIFICATIONS
§ 98.15 PERMITS REMOVED FOR TREE PLANTING, CARE AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   The Director shall have control over all trees located within the
street rights-of-way and parks in the city and the planting, care and removal
thereof, subject to the regulations authorized in this chapter. The owner of
land abutting on any street may, upon obtaining prior written permission of the
director, prune, spray, plant or remove trees in that part of the street
abutting his land not used for public travel, but no person shall otherwise
prune, spray, plant or remove any tree in any street or park. Every such permit
shall specifically state the extent of the authorization and the conditions to
which it is subject.
   (B)   Where an owner of abutting property requests the removal of a tree,
the Director is authorized, in his discretion, to require as a condition of
granting of approval for such removal that such property owner make the removal
in accordance with regulations established by the Department, assume all or any
part of the costs of removing such tree, and also to require that the tree
removed be replaced at some other nearby location by planting another tree, not
necessarily of the same type.
   (C)   Permits must be obtained and will be issued free of charge to persons
planting, pruning and removing trees on public or private property.
   (D)   No permit shall be issued until the tree contractor furnishes a
certificate of liability insurance indicating an amount of $50,000 for bodily
injury to any one person, and an aggregate amount of $100,000 for any persons
injured in any one occurrence, and $5,000 for property damage.
(‘68 Code, § 7-604) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.16 NEW RESIDENCES; TREE PLANTING REQUIRED.
   Hereafter, before a certificate of occupancy may be issued, the owner,
contractor or other person who has completed the building of any residence will
be required to plant one or more trees of the size and number as hereinafter
specified. Such tree or trees shall be at least eight feet in height and one
and one-half to two inches in diameter and shall be of the hardwood variety,
except those species specifically prohibited in this chapter, and any other
suitable variety approved by the Mayor. There shall be one tree planted between
the sidewalk and curb in front of each residential site for each 80 feet, or
major fraction thereof, and two trees so planted on each residential site for
every 90 or more feet of lot frontage. If the residential site is a corner lot,
at least one tree must also be planted on the side of the site between the
sidewalk and curb.
(‘68 Code, § 7-603.1) (Ord. 334, passed 4-21-69; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.17 TREE PROTECTION.
   No person shall, without authority, break, injure, mutilate, kill or destroy
any tree or shrub, or set any fire or permit any fire or the heat thereof to
injure any portion of any tree. No person owning or using or having control or
charge of gas or other substances deleterious to tree life shall allow such gas
or other deleterious substance to come in contact with the soil surrounding the
roots of any tree, shrub or plant, so as to kill or destroy or injure such
tree, shrub or plant. No person shall attach or keep attached to any tree or
shrub, or to the guard or stake intended for the protection of such tree or
shrub, any rope, wire, chain, sign or other device whatsoever except for the
purposes of protecting it or the public.
(‘68 Code, § 7-605) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.18 PUBLIC AND PRIVATE TREE CARE.
   (A)   The Department shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve
and remove trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys,
avenues, lanes, squares and public grounds as may be necessary to insure safety
or to preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Director may
remove or cause or order to be removed any tree or part thereof which is in an
unsafe condition, or which by reason of its nature is injurious to sewers or
other public improvements, or is affected with any injurious fungus, insect or
other pest. (‘68 Code, § 7-606)
   (B)   Private tree care.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for an owner of land upon whose land a tree or
shrub is growing to permit such tree or shrub to grow and spread its branches
or roots over or across the property line and on or in an adjoining owner’s
property without the consent of such adjoining owner.
      (2)   If an adjoining owner complains in writing to the owner of land
upon which such tree or shrub is growing that it spreads its roots or branches
on such adjoining land, making a nuisance thereon, it shall be the duty of such
owner forthwith to trim such branches and roots, so far as possible, so that
such tree or shrub does not extend beyond the property line of such tree owner.
      (3)   Any owner who fails to comply with the request of an adjoining
owner to remove the branches or roots of an offending tree or shrub forthwith
upon such demand shall be in violation of this chapter.
      (4)   This chapter is adopted for the purpose of preserving the public
peace, safety and welfare.
(‘68 Code, § 7-611) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.19 TRIMMING AND CORNER CLEARANCE.
   (A)   Every owner of any tree overhanging any street or right-of-way within
the city shall trim the branches so that such branches shall not obstruct the
light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street intersection and
so that there shall be a clear space of eight feet above the surface of the
street or right-of-way. Said owners shall remove all dead, diseased or
dangerous trees, or broken or deceased limbs, which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The city shall have the right to trim any tree or shrub
on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light along
the street from a street light or interferes with visibility of any traffic-
control device or sign, such trimming to be confined to the area immediately
above the right-of-way.
   (B)   No shrubs and bushes located on the triangle formed by two right-of-
way lines at the intersection of two streets, located inside the sidewalks on
private property or 12 feet from the edge of the streets where no sidewalk
exists, and extending for a distance of 25 feet each way from the intersection
of the right-of- way lines on any corner lot within the city, shall be
permitted to grow to a height of more than 24 inches above the sidewalk grade,
in order that the view of the driver of a vehicle approaching a street
intersection shall not be obstructed. Trees may be planted and maintained in
this area, provided that all branches are trimmed to maintain a clear vision
for a vertical height of 12 feet above the roadway surface and 8 feet above
walking areas and sidewalks.
   (C)   Any owner of any property failing to trim any tree, shrub or bush in
conformity with this section shall be notified by the Director to do so, and
such notice shall require trimming in conformity with this section within 30
days after the date of such notice. Upon the expiration of such period, the
director may cause the trimming to be done and the cost thereof, if unpaid,
shall become a lien against said property. The cost shall be certified to the
City Treasurer by the director and shall be included in the next tax bill
rendered to the owner unless paid prior thereto, and be collected in the same
manner as other taxes against said property.
(‘68 Code, § 7-609) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 98.20 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Director may make additional rules and regulations pertaining to the
planting, removal and care of trees, bushes and shrubs not inconsistent with
the provisions of this chapter. No person shall fail to obey such rules and
regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 7-612) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 98.21 DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBLE FOR ENFORCEMENT.
   The Department shall be charged with the duty of enforcing the provisions of
this chapter under the supervision of the Director.
(‘68 Code, § 7-603) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68)
§ 98.22 INSPECTION; ABATEMENT PROCEDURE.
   The Director is authorized to inspect any tree within the city reported to
be or supposed to be infected with the Dutch Elm disease or the virus disease
Phloem Necrosis, commonly known as Elm Blight. If upon such inspection the
Director determines that such tree is infected with either of said diseases, he
shall, if the tree is in any public street, ground or place within the city,
immediately remove and burn the same in such manner as to prevent as fully as
possible the spread of such disease. If such tree is located on private
property, said Director shall immediately serve upon the owner of such property
a written notice that such tree is so infected and that the same must be
removed and burned under the supervision of the Director within 30 days of the
service of said notice. If such owner cannot be found, a copy of said notice
shall be posted upon said infected tree. If said tree is not so removed and
burned within 30 days after the service or posting of said notice, the director
shall cause said tree to be so removed and burned. The cost of said removal and
burning shall be deemed a lien against said property. The cost shall be
certified to the City Treasurer by the Director and shall be included in the
next tax bill rendered to the owner unless paid prior thereto, and shall be
collected in the same manner as over taxes against such property.
(‘68 Code, § 7-608) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68)
§ 98.23 ENTRY UPON PRIVATE GROUNDS TO TREAT INFESTATIONS.
   The Director shall also ave power to enter upon any private grounds in the
city and to spray or otherwise treat or cause or order to be sprayed or
otherwise treated any tree or shrub or plant infected or infested by any
parasite or insect pest when it shall be necessary, in his opinion, to do so to
prevent the breeding or scattering of any parasite or insect pests, to prevent
danger therefrom to trees and shrubs planted in public streets or other public
places; and whenever in the opinion of the director, trimming, treatment or
removal of any such tree or shrub located on private grounds shall be deemed
wise, he shall have the power to trim, treat or remove any such tree or shrub
or cause the to be removed, treated or trimmed.
(‘68 Code, § 7-607) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68)
§ 98.24 INTERFERENCE WITH WORK BEING DONE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to prevent, delay or interfere with the
director or any of his employees, agents or servants while engaged in and about
the planting, cultivating, mulching, pruning, spraying or removing of any tree,
plant or shrub in or upon any public highway or public place or upon any
private grounds as authorized in this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-610) (Ord. 301, passed 4-1-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 99: UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES
Section
   
99.01   Designation of policy
   
99.02   Application; jurisdiction
   
99.03   Definitions
   
99.04   Discriminatory or unlawful housing practices
   
99.05   Posting of notices
   
99.06   Procedures and enforcement
   
99.07   Other legal action
   
99.08   Exemptions
 
   
99.99   Penalty
§ 99.01 DESIGNATION OF POLICY.
   It is the continuing policy of the city to do the things necessary and
proper to secure for all its citizens their rights to equal housing
opportunities regardless of their race, creed, color, sex, marital status,
religious beliefs, age, national origin or handicap.
(‘68 Code, § 6-401) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83)
§ 99.02 APPLICATION; JURISDICTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all housing located within
territorial limits of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-407) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83)
§ 99.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISCRIMINATION, DISCRIMINATING or DISCRIMINATE.  To render any difference in
treatment to any person in the sale, lease, rental or financing of a dwelling
or housing unit because of a person’s race, creed, color, sex, marital status,
religious belief, age, national origin or handicap.
   HOUSING. Any building, facility or structure or portion thereof which is
used or occupied or is intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied as
the home, residence or sleeping place of one or more persons, groups of
families and any vacant land offered for sale or lease for the construction or
location thereof of such building, facility or structure.
   LENDING INSTITUTION. Any bank, building and loan association, insurance
company, or other persons whose business consists in whole or in part in the
lending of manner or guaranteeing loans.
   PERSON. One or more individuals, corporations, associations, firm or
enterprises, labor organizations, legal representatives, mutual companies,
trusts, unincorporated organizations, trustees, trustees in bankruptcy,
receivers and fiduciaries.
   REAL ESTATE AGENT. Any real estate salesman or an agent thereof or any other
person, partnership, association or corporation who for consideration sells,
purchases, exchanges, rents, leases, negotiates, offers or attempts to
negotiate the sale, purchasing, exchanging, renting or otherwise transferring
and interest in real property.
(‘68 Code, § 6-402) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83)
§ 99.04 DISCRIMINATORY OR UNLAWFUL HOUSING PRACTICES.
   It shall be unlawful housing practice and a violation of this chapter:
   (A)   For any person or real estate agent:
      (1)   To discriminate against any person in the selling, leasing,
subleasing, renting, assigning or otherwise transferring of any interest in
housing.
      (2)   To discriminate against any person by refusing to negotiate,
refusing to transmit a bona fide offer, making false representations of the
availability of or withdrawing from the market, a housing unit which is for
sale, lease, sublease or rental.
      (3)   To include in their terms, conditions or privileges of any sale,
lease, sublease, rental, assignment or other transfer of any housing, any
clause, condition or restriction discriminating against any person in the use
or occupancy of such housing.
      (4)   To discriminate in the furnishing of any facilities, repairs,
improvements or services, or in the terms, conditions, privileges or tenure or
occupancy of any person.
   (B)   For any lending institution:
      (1)   To discriminate in lending money, guaranteeing loans, accepting a
deed of trust or mortgage or otherwise making available funds for purchasing,
constructing, improving, altering, repairing, rehabilitation or maintaining any
housing or to discriminate against in the fixing of the amount, interest rate,
duration, or other terms, conditions or provisions of any such financial
assistance.
      (2)   To discriminate in the lending of money, guaranteeing loans,
accepting a deed of trust or mortgage or otherwise making funds available on
the basis of geographic location.
   (C)   For any person, real estate agent or lending institution with respect
to any prohibited act specified in this chapter, to publish, to circulate or
cause to be published or circulated any notice, statement, listing or
advertisement, or to announce a policy or make any record in connection with
the prospective sale, lease, sublease, rental or financing of any housing which
indicated reliance, determination or decision based on race, creed, color, sex,
marital status, religious belief, age, national origin or handicap.
   (D)   For any person of real estate agent to assist in, compel, or coerce
the doing of any act declared to be an unlawful housing practice under this
chapter or to obstruct or prevent endorsement or compliance with provisions of
this chapter or to attempt directly or indirectly to commit any act declared by
this chapter to be unlawful housing practice.
   (E)   For any person, real estate agent or lending institution:
      (1)   To induce or attempt to induce the sale, transfer of interest, or
listing for sale of any housing by making representations regarding the
existing or potential proximity of real property owned, used or occupied by any
person of any particular race, creed, color, sex, marital status, religious
belief, age, national origin or handicap by direct or indirect methods.
      (2)   To make any representation to a prospective purchaser or lessee
that any housing in a particular block, neighborhood or area may undergo, is
undergoing or has undergone a change with respect to race, creed, color, sex,
religious belief, age, national origin or handicap of such block, neighborhood
or area.
      (3)   To induce or attempt to induce the sale or listing or sale of any
housing by representing that the presence or anticipated presence of persons of
any particular race, creed, color, sex, religious belief, age, national origin
or handicap in the block, neighborhood or area will or may result in:
         (a)   The lowering of property values;
         (b)   A change in the racial, color, religious, nationality, or ethnic
composition of the block, neighbor or area in which the property is located;
         (c)   An increase in criminal or antisocial behavior in the area;
         (d)   A decline in the quality of schools serving the area.
   (F)   For any person or real estate agent to cause or coerce or attempt to
cause or coerce retaliation against any person because such person has lawfully
opposed any act or failure act that is in violation of this chapter or has, in
good faith, filed a complaint, testified, participated or assisted in any way
on any proceedings under this chapter or prevent any person from complying with
this chapter.
   (G)   To deny any person, because of a person’s race, creed, color, sex,
religious belief, age, national origin or handicap, access to or membership or
participation in any multiple listing service, real estate brokers’
organization or other service organization or facility relating to the business
of selling or renting housing, or discriminate against a person in the terms or
conditions of such access, membership or participation.
   (H)   To do any other thing or engage in conduct which would otherwise make
unavailable equal housing opportunities.
(‘68 Code, § 6-403) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.05 POSTING OF NOTICES.
   (A)   Every real estate agent shall purchase and post in a conspicuous
location in that portion of his place of business normally used by him for
negotiating the terms of a sale or lease of housing, and each person who
operates a multi-unit residential building containing more than two units shall
post at all times when prospective tenants are being interviewed, in a
conspicuous location is that portion of his business normally used by him for
negotiating the rental of a housing unit therein, a notice prepared by the city
which contains the following language, printed in black on a light-colored
background in not less than 14-point type:
   “It is a violation of the Fair Housing Regulations of the City of Inkster,
State of Michigan, for any real estate agent or for any person owning or
managing a multi-unit apartment dwelling to:
      1)   Deny housing to any person because of race, color, creed, sex,
religious belief, age, national origin or handicap.
      2)   Discriminate against any person because of race, creed, color, sex,
religious belief, age, national origin, or handicap to the terms, conditions or
privileges of housing accommodations or in the furnishing of facilities or
services in connection therewith.
IF YOU BELIEVE YOU HAVE BEEN DISCRIMINATED AGAINST, CONTACT THE CITY OF
INKSTER, THE MICHIGAN DEPARTMENT OF CIVIL RIGHTS, AND THE U.S. DEPARTMENT OF
HOUSING AND URBAN DEVELOPMENT.”
   (B)   Failure to comply with this section shall constitute a violation of
this chapter.
(‘68 Code, § 6-405) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83) Penalty, see §
99.99
§ 99.06 PROCEDURES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person subject to an unlawful housing practice may file within 180
days of the alleged violation with the properly trained and designated persons
in the city who shall give counseling and make referral to the proper
resources: namely, HUD-FHEO Division, Michigan Department of Civil Rights, Fair
Housing Center - Detroit, or through the United States District Court, with
counsel of choice.
   (B)   The complainant may file a complaint in person or through verbal means
and must state: the name and address of the person aggrieved, the name and
address against whom the complaint is filed, a description and the address of
the dwelling which involves the alleged discriminating housing practice, a
concise statement of the facts, including pertinent dates, times, individuals
involved and other such facts constituting the alleged discriminating housing
practice as may be required by any of the investigating resources.
(‘68 Code, § 6-406) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83)
§ 99.07 OTHER LEGAL ACTION.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall prevent any person from exercising
any right or seeking any remedy to which he might otherwise be entitled or from
filing any complaint with any other agency or court.
(‘68 Code, § 6-408) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83)
§ 99.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   A religious or organization or association or society or any non-
profit institution or organization operating, supervised, or association or
society which it owns or operates for other than commercial purpose to persons
of the same religion, or which gives preference to such persons, unless
membership in such housing or religion is restricted on account of race, color,
sex or national origin.
   (B)   A private club not in fact open to the public which as an incident to
its primary purposes provides lodgings which it owns or operates for other than
a commercial purpose, and which limits the rental or occupancy of such lodgings
to its members or gives preference to its members.
   (C)   Rooms or units in dwellings containing living quarters occupied or
intended to be occupied by no more than four families living independently of
each other, if the owner actually maintains and occupies one of such living
quarters as his residence.
   (D)   Any person who selects, procures or rents to another person to be a
co-habitant in his or her own home, dwelling or housing unit.
   (E)   Any licensed or publicly regulated senior citizen housing.
(‘68 Code, § 6-404) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83)
§ 99.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Every person or firm convicted of a violation of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor and punished by a fine not less than $100 and not to
exceed $500, or by imprisonment for not to exceed 90 days, or both.
   (B)   Further, to the extent permitted by law, the court in any civil case
arising hereunder may award damages to the aggrieved party and injunctive
relief if the circumstances so require.
(‘68 Code, § 6-409) (Ord. 604, passed 9-6-83)
CHAPTER 100: BASIC CABLE T.V. RATE REGULATIONS
Section
   
100.01   Definitions
   
100.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
100.03   Rate regulations promulgated by FCC
   
100.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
100.05   Proprietary information
   
100.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
100.07   Tolling order
   
100.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of thirty-day deadline
   
100.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
100.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
100.11   Refunds; notice
   
100.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
100.13   Rules and regulations
   
100.14   Failure to give notice
   
100.15   Additional hearings
   
100.16   Additional powers
   
100.17   Failure to comply; remedies
§ 100.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other words
and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as defined in the
Act and FCC rules.
   ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub.
L. 102-385), and as may be amended from time to time.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 CFR Section 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Basic service as defined in the FCC rules, and any
other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the city
pursuant to the Act and FCC rules.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Council.
   FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer service.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.02 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   The purpose of this chapter is to adopt regulations consistent with the Act
and the FCC rules with respect to basic cable service rate regulation, and
prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for consideration of
the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable service rate
regulation by the city. This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted
consistent with the Act of FCC rules.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.03 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the city shall follow all FCC rules.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.04 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the City Clerk. For purposes of this chapter, the filing
of the cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least ten
copies have been received by the City Clerk. The City Council may, by
resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the
information, data, and calculations which must be included as part of the cable
operator’s filing of the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and date required by rules and regulations
of the city pursuant to division (A) of this section, a cable operator shall
provide all information requested by the City Manger in connection with the
city’s review and regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier and
associated equipment or proposed increase in these rates. The Mayor may
establish deadlines for submission of the requested information and the cable
operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC rules including, without
limitation, 47, USC Section 543 and 47 CFR Sections 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 100.05 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   In this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the city pursuant
to §
100.04(B), or any other request for information which requires the production
of proprietary information, the cable operator shall produce the information.
However, at the specific, identified portions of its response be treated as
confidential and withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the
reason why the information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that
support those reasons. The request for confidentiality will be granted if the
city determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure
is consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 USC
Section 552. The city shall place in a public file for inspection any decision
that result in information being withheld. If the cable operator requests
confidentiality and the request is denied, where the cable operator is
proposing a rate increase, it may withdraw the proposal, in which case the
allegedly proprietary information will be returned to it; or the cable operator
may seek review within five working days of the denial in any appropriate
forum. Release of the information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the city. The city shall weigh the policy considerations
favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting inspection in
light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly notify the
requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the information as to
the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or condition a request. The
requesting party or the cable operator may seek review of the decision by
filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will be stayed pending
resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including, without limitation, 47 CFR Section 0.459.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.06 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
100.04(A), the City Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the city which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the City Clerk and (except those
parts which maybe withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying, and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the City Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice is
published.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time, and place of the meeting at which the City Council shall first consider
the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be mailed by
first-class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition, if a
written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase is prepared for consideration of the City Council, then the City Clerk
shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the cable operator at
least three days before the meeting at which the City Clerk shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.07 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
100.04(A) unless the City Council (or the properly authorized body of officials
tolls the 30 day deadline pursuant to 47 CFR Section 76.933 by issuing a brief
written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of the days in cases
not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional 150 days in cases
involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.08 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF THIRTY-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
100.07 and 47 CFR Section 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
these rates, the cable operator shall submit to the city any additional
information required or requested pursuant to §
100.04. In addition, the City Council shall hold a public hearing to consider
the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or 150-day
period, as the case may be. The City Clerk shall publish a public notice of the
public hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within the city which
shall state:
      (1)   The date, time, and place at which the hearing shall be held,
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objection to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates, and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (B)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the City Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy of
the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.09 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Mayor shall cause a report to be prepared
for the City Council which shall (based on the filing of the cable operator,
the comments or objections of interested parties, information requested from
the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s review, and other
appropriate information) include a recommendation for the decision of the City
Council pursuant to §
100.10. The City Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator by
first-class mail not less than 20 days before the City Council acts under §
100.10. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
City Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the City Clerk within ten days after the report is mailed to the
cable operator, the City Clerk shall forward it to the City Council.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93; Am. Ord. 857, passed 4-17-17)
§ 100.10 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The City Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or impart, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC rules. If the City Council issues an order allowing the existing
rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it shall also
direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47 CFR Section
76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90 days of
the tolling order under §
100.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
100.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.11 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The City Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47 CFR
Section 76.942. Before the City Council orders any refund to subscribers, the
City Clerk shall give at least seven days written notice to the cable operator
by first-class mail of the date, time, and place at which the City Council
shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity for the
cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by agent,
or by letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the City
Council.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.12 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the City Council pursuant to §§
100.10 or 100,11 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the
City Council, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption. The
Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a newspaper of
general circulation within the city which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision, and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   In addition, the City Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
110.04, the City Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC rules.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.14 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the City Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions or
proceeding of the City Council.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.15 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the City Council may hold
additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the City Council in
its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The city shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC rules, the
cable operator’s franchise, and all other applicable law. The powers exercised
pursuant to the Act, the FCC rules, and this chapter shall be in addition to
powers conferred by law or otherwise. The city may take any action not
prohibited by the Act and the FCC rules to protect the public interest in
connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
§ 100.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The city may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including without limitation, all remedies against the cable
operator’s consent agreement with the city) for failure to comply with the Act,
the FCC rules, any orders or determinations of the city pursuant to this
chapter, any requirements of this chapter,or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or
denial or renewal of a cable operator’s consent agreement.
(Ord. 725, passed 10-4-93)
CHAPTER 101: TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDERS’ USE OF RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
   
101.01   Definitions
   
101.02   Purpose
   
101.03   Permit required
   
101.04   Issuance of permit
   
101.05   Construction/engineering permit
   
101.06   Conduit or utility poles
   
101.07   Route maps
   
101.08   Repair of damage
   
101.09   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
101.10   Modification of existing fees
   
101.11   Savings clause
   
101.12   Use of funds
   
101.13   Annual report
   
101.14   Cable television operators
   
101.15   Existing rights
   
101.16   Compliance
   
101.17   Reservation of police powers
   
101.18   Authorized city officials
 
   
101.99   Penalty
§ 101.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act (Public Act 48 of 2002), as amended from time to time.
      CITY COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Inkster. This section does
not authorize delegation of any decision or function that is required by law to
be made by the City Council.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following:
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to Section 3 of the Act.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and the term “Commission” in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. Public right-of-way does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in Section 332(d) of Part I of Title III
of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. 332
and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 CFR 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in Section 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act,
Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER
does not include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a
federally licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in Section 332(d)
of Part I of Title III of the Communications Act of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat.
1064, 47 U.S.C. 332 and further defined as commercial mobile radio service in
47 CFR 20.3, and service provided by any wireless, two-way communication
device. For the purpose of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also
includes all of the following:
         (1)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (2)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (3)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.02 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Act and other applicable law, and to ensure that the city
qualifies for distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to
providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with Section 6(1) of the
Act. A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with
the City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager and one copy with the City
Attorney. Upon receipt, the City Clerk shall make three copies of the
application and distribute a copy to all interested parties as may be
determined by the City Manager or his or her designee. Applications shall be
complete and include all information required by the Act, including without
limitation a route map showing the location of the provider’s existing and
proposed facilities in accordance with Section 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to Section 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications
provider shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee
in the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information requested by the city, the city or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in Section 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to Section 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under Section 251 of
the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the city to
telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of Section 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to Section 5(3) of the Act, within 180
days from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under
Section 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991,
being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251, shall submit to the city an application for a permit
in accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to Section 5(3)
of the Act, a telecommunications provider submitting an application under this
division is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under
division (D) above. A provider under this division shall be given up to an
additional 180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the
Authority, as provided in Section 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.04 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to Section 15(3)
of the Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under §
101.03(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to
Section 6(6) of the Act, the City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City
Manager has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the
date on which the application was filed and the date on which the permit was
granted or denied. The City Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application
for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for a permit is approved, the City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with Sections 6(1),
6(2) and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to Section 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to Section 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.05 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over
across or under the public rights-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as may be required under the city code (as
amended) for construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be
charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.06 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to Section 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.07 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to Section 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in [paper or electronic] format unless and until the
Commission determines otherwise, in accordance with Section 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.08 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to Section 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider
undertaking an excavation or construction or installing telecommunications
facilities within a public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public
right-of-way in the city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all
damage done to the street surface and all installations under, over, below or
within the public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-
way to its preexisting condition.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02) Penalty, see §
101.99
2003 S-11
§ 101.09 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
101.03(D) above, a telecommunications provider with telecommunications
facilities in the city’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance
fee to the Authority pursuant to Section 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.10 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(1) of the Act, the city
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the
Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of Section 13(4)
of the Act, the city also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under Section
8 of the Act. The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected
by the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of
Section 13(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications
providers in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are
otherwise inconsistent with the Act, such imposition is hereby declared to be
contrary to the city’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02) Penalty, see §
101.99
§ 101.11 SAVINGS CLAUSE
   Pursuant to Section 13(5) of the Act, if Section 8 of the Act is found to be
invalid or unconstitutional, the modification of fees under §
101.10 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.12 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to Section 9(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from
the Authority shall be used by the city solely for rights-of-way related
purposes. In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the city
from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or the
Local Street Fund maintained by the city under Public Act 51 of 1951.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.13 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to Section 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager shall file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.14 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to Section 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to apply after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.15 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein
with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.16 COMPLIANCE.
   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this chapter
is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions hereof
should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose. The city shall
comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including but not
limited to the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in §
101.03(C);
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
101.03(F);
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
101.03(G);
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of- way within the city, in accordance
with §
101.04(A);
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
101.04(A);
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
101.04(A);
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
101.04(B);
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
101.04(C);
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
101.04(D);
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
101.05;
   (K)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
101.10;
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
101.13; and
   (M)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
101.14.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.17 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to Section 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the
city’s right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.18 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) for violations under this
chapter as provided by the city code.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
§ 101.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit shall be subject to an ordinance violation as may be
specified in the city code. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit
the remedies available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of
this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 795, passed 10-21-02)
CHAPTER 102: COLLECTION BINS
Section
   
102.01   Purpose
   
102.02   Definitions
   
102.03   Permit required
   
102.04   Permit application
   
102.05   Permit form, effective periods and renewal
   
102.06   Permitted locations
   
102.07   Standards for bin and surrounding area
   
102.08   Identification of collection bins
   
102.09   Permit revocation, removal of collection bins and liability
   
102.10   Appeal to the Mayor/City Council
   
   
102.99   Penalty and remedies
§ 102.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate collection bins in the city so
that they remain clean, safe and do not create hazards to pedestrians,
vehicular traffic or create blight issues.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18)
§ 102.02 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this chapter, unless otherwise provided, the following words have
the meanings given herein:
   COLLECTION BINS. Any container, receptacle, or similar device that is
located on any parcel or lot of record within the city and that is used for
soliciting and collecting the receipt of clothing, small household items, or
other salvage personal collection of recyclable material, any rubbish or
garbage receptacle (excludes large household items: appliances, beds,
furniture, etc.).
   CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICER. The Code Compliance Supervisor or his or her
authorized representative.
   COLLECTION BIN OPERATOR. A person who owns, operates, supervises or
otherwise is in control of collection bins to solicit collections of
salvageable personal property.
   CODE OF ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT DEPARTMENT. The Ordinance Department or his or
her representative.
   PROPERTY OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or
equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of the
site, county or municipality as holding title to the property.
   REAR PROPERTY. A lot, plot or parcel of land recorded and located in the
city.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18)
§ 102.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person or entity shall cause or permit the installation or placement of a
collection bin upon any real property located within the city, whether public
or private, without first obtaining an annual permit from the City Clerk. The
city reserves the right to deny or issue a bin permit.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.04 PERMIT APPLICATION.
   (A)   An application for a collection bin permit, as required by §
102.03 shall be made to the City Clerk upon forms provided by the city, such
application shall be filed with the City Clerk not less than 30 days prior to
date that the collection bin is placed on real property. One annual permit is
required for each collection bin. The application shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   An affidavit and acknowledgment from the property owner, giving
written permission to place a collection bin on the property owner’s real
property, as well as an acknowledgment of receipt of a copy of this chapter,
and a signed statement agreeing to obey all of its requirements;
      (2)   A rendering indicating the placement of the collection bin, in
compliance with requirements of §
102.07;
      (3)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the
applicant, property owner and collection bin operator;
      (4)   The name, address, telephone number and email address of the agent
or person who will be available during regular business hours and will be
responsible for compliance;
      (5)   A photograph of the collection bin to be installed;
      (6)   The number to a 24 hour hotline for overflow events;
      (7)   A nonrefundable fee determined by resolution as set by City
Council;
      (8)   A copy of the license and registration from the State of Michigan
under the Michigan Consumer Protection Act and/or the Charitable Organizations
and Solicitations Act if statutorily required; and
      (9)   A copy of applicants photo ID shall accompany every application.
   (B)   In order to bring existing collection bins into compliance with this
section, collection bin operators, of existing collections bins, shall have 15
days from the adoption of this chapter to submit a permit application to the
City Clerk.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18)
§ 102.05 PERMIT FORM, EFFECTIVE PERIODS AND RENEWAL.
   The City Clerk shall issue a permit for compliant collection bins that
conform to the following:
   (A)   A collection bin permit is valid for a one year period. The renewal
application must be filed not later than 30 days before the current permit
expires.
   (B)   If the permit expires and the permit is not renewed, the collection
bin must be removed from the real property within a maximum of ten days after
expiration of the permit.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18)
§ 102.06 PERMITTED LOCATIONS.
   (A)   Collection bins are allowed in the city in the “RM” Multiple Dwelling
District (Low Rise), “RM-1" Multiple Family Residential District (Low Rise),
“O-1" Office District, “B-1" Local Business District, “B-2" Thoroughfare Mixed-
Use District, “B-3" General Business District, “M-1" Light Industrial District,
“TCD” Town Center District.
   (B)   Collection bins shall not be located within 500 feet from another
collection bin as measured along a straight line from one box to the other
final approval by Mayor/City Council.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.07 STANDARDS FOR BIN AND SURROUNDING AREA.
   Collection bins shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Collection bins shall be maintained in good condition and appearance
with no structural damage, holes or visible rust and shall be free of graffiti.
   (B)   Collection bins are required to be placed on a paved or concrete
surface; collection bins must be level and stable.
   (C)   Collection bins shall be locked and be equipped with a secure safety
chute so contents cannot be accessed by anyone other than those responsible for
the retrieval of contents.
   (D)   The collection bin shall be emptied with such frequency and regularity
as to ensure that it does not overflow and materials do not accumulate outside
the collection bin.
   (E)   The collection bin operator and property owner shall maintain, or
cause to be maintained, the area surrounding the bins free from any overflow
collection items, furniture, rubbish, debris, hazardous materials, and noxious
odors. To the extent provided by law, the collection bin operator and/or
property owner shall be jointly and severally responsible for the city’s cost
to abate nuisance.
   (F)   Collection bins shall be located on a parcel where there is a
functioning and permitted use, collection bins shall not be permitted:
      (1)   On any land used or zoned residential;
      (2)   On any unimproved parcel; or
      (3)   Where the principal use of the land has been closed or unoccupied
for more than 30 days.
   (G)   Four collection bins on a single lot of record is allowed.
   (H)   The total size of a collection bin is limited to a maximum dimension
of 5 x 5 x 7.
   (I)   Collection bins shall not cause a visual obstruction, as determined by
the Transportation Engineer, City Engineer or Director of Public Service
Department, to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
   (J)   No collection bin shall be placed closer than five feet from:
      (1)   A public or private sidewalk except that this provision does not
apply to a private sidewalk as long as the private sidewalk maintains a five-
foot clearance;
      (2)   A public right-of-way;
      (3)   A driveway; or
      (4)   A side or rear property line of adjacent property used for
residential public.
   (K)   Collection bins shall not be placed in a designated fire lane, in or
adjacent to a handicap parking space, or block a building entrance or exit.
   (L)   Collection bins shall be made of durable metal or UV resistant molded
hard plastic or fiberglass material that is fire resistant or fire proof.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.08 IDENTIFICATION OF COLLECTION BINS.
   (A)   Collection bins shall have signage on each bin that identifies the
name, mailing address, email address, website and phone number of the
collection bin operator. The collection bin signage may include a company logo.
Total sign area on the collection bin signage may not exceed six square feet
per side. The font size used on the sign shall not be less than one inch in
height.
   (B)   The collection bin must prominently display at all times a readable
permit identification sticker provided by the city.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.09 PERMIT REVOCATION, REMOVAL OF COLLECTION BINS AND LIABILITY.
   (A)   If the Public Service Department and/or Code Enforcement Office
determines that a collection bin has been placed or is being maintained in
violation of this chapter, a correction notice shall be sent by regular United
States mail to the collection bin operator and property owner of the real
property on which the collection bin has been placed, as shown on the most
recent permit application. In the event there is not on file a permit
application made for the collection bin within 24 months immediately preceding
the date of violation, the correction notice shall be sent to the real property
tax payer of record in the Assessor’s office. The correction notice shall
describe the offending condition to be corrected within seven calendar days
after mailing.
   (B)   If the offending condition is not corrected or abated within seven
calendar days after mailing, the city or the city’s contractor shall clean up
the collection bin area.
   (C)   All costs incurred by the city or the city’s contractor associated
with the correction or abatement of a collection bin shall be the
responsibility of the property owner and collection bin owner. If such
obligation is not paid within 30 days after mailing of a billing of costs to
the property owner, the city may place a lien upon such real property
enforceable as a tax lien in the manner prescribed by the general laws of this
state against the property and collected as in the case of general property
tax. If the same is not paid prior to the preparation of the next assessment
roll of the city, the amount shall be assessed as a special tax against such
premises on the next assessment roll and collected thereunder.
   (D)   The City Clerk shall have the right to revoke any permit issued
hereunder if:
      (1)   Offending conditions cited in a correction notice are not corrected
or abated within seven days after mailing;
      (2)   Placement or conditions of the bin or surrounding area violate any
applicable state or federal law;
      (3)   Any governmental authority or agency determines that the collection
bin has violated the Michigan Consumer Protection Act and/or the Charitable
Organizations and Solicitations Act or other statutes enacted that regulate or
govern collection bins.
   (E)   Upon revocation of a permit issued pursuant to this chapter, the
collection bin shall be removed from the real property within ten calendar days
and, if not so removed within the time period, the city or the city’s
contractor may remove, store or dispose of the collection bin.
   (F)   All costs incurred by the city or the city’s contractors associated
with removal, storage or disposal of a collection bin shall be the
responsibility of the property owner and collection bin owner. If such
obligation is not paid within 30 days after mailing of a billing of costs to
the property owner, the city may place a lien upon such real property
enforceable as a tax lien in the manner prescribed by the general laws of this
state against the property and collected as in the case of general property
tax. If the same is not paid prior to the preparation of the next assessment
roll of the city, the amount shall be assessed as a special tax against such
premises on the next assessment roll and collected thereunder.
   (G)   If a collection bin permit is revoked, the collection bin operator
shall not be eligible for a new permit for one year from the date of
revocation.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
102.99
§ 102.10 APPEAL TO THE MAYOR/CITY COUNCIL.
   Any person aggrieved by the decision rendered by the City Clerk in granting
or denying an application for a permit under this chapter or in revoking a
permit issued under this chapter may appeal that decision to the City Council.
The Public Service Department shall make written findings of fact in support of
any license revocation. The appeal shall be made by filing a written request
with the City Clerk setting forth the grounds for the appeal not later than ten
days after receiving notice of the revocation by the City Clerk. In the event
that the written request is filed with the City Clerk, City Council shall hold
a public hearing to affirm or modify the decision of the City Clerk. The
determination by City Council shall be final, subject to appeal to a court of
competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18)
§ 102.99 PENALTY AND REMEDIES.
   (A)   In addition to revocation of a permit pursuant to §
102.09, any person violating the provisions of this chapter is guilty of a
municipal civil infraction; with the penalties and fines to be determined by
City Council pursuant to the city’s schedule of fines and penalties.
   (B)   In addition to the penalty provided in division (A) of this section,
any condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of the provisions of
this chapter, or any ordinance, shall be deemed a new and separate offense for
each day that such condition continues to exist.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the city from pursuing any other
remedy provided by law in conjunction with or in lieu of prosecuting persons
under this section for violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The collection bin operator and real property owner shall be held
jointly and severally liable for each violation and for payment of any fines
and costs.
(Ord. 868, passed 3-5-18)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   ADVERTISING
      
111.   ALARM SYSTEMS
      
112.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
      
113.   AMUSEMENTS
      
114.   CARE ESTABLISHMENTS
      
115.   JUNK AND SECONDHAND DEALERS; PAWNBROKERS
      
116.   MASSAGE PARLORS
      
117.   PUBLIC SERVICE OPERATIONS AND TRADES
      
118.   ROOMING HOUSES AND MOTELS
      
119.   SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS AND PEDDLERS
      
120.   TAXICABS; VEHICLES FOR HIRE
      
121.   VEHICLE PARKING AND STORAGE AREAS; SERVICE STATIONS
      
122.   VENDORS; GARAGE SALES
      
123.   BUSINESS REGISTRATION
      
124.   MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS LICENSE
CHAPTER 110: ADVERTISING
Section
Commercial and Noncommercial Handbills and Circulars
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Distributing or scattering handbills in public places prohibited
   
110.04   Distribution of handbills on uninhabited or vacant private premises
   
110.05   Distribution on inhabited private premises
   
110.06   Posting or placing handbills on vehicles
   
110.07   Prohibiting distribution where properly posted
   
110.08   Name and address of printer and distributor required on handbills
   
110.09   Offensive handbills prohibited
   
110.10   Exemptions
Cross-reference:
   Billposting prohibited, see §
153.05
COMMERCIAL AND NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILLS AND CIRCULARS
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   To protect the people against the nuisance of and incident to the
promiscuous distribution of handbills and circulars, particularly commercial
handbills, as herein defined, with the resulting detriment and danger to public
health and safety, the public interest, convenience and necessity requires the
regulation thereof and to that end the purposes of this subchapter are
specifically declared to be as follows:
   (A)   To protect local residents against trespassing by solicitors,
canvassers or handbill distributors upon the private property of such residents
if they have been given reasonable notice that they do not wish to be solicited
by such persons or do not desire to receive handbills or advertising matter.
   (B)   To protect the people against the health and safety menace and the
expense incident to the littering of the streets and public places by the
promiscuous and uncontrolled distribution of advertising matter and commercial
handbills.
   (C)   To preserve for the people their constitutional right to receive and
disseminate information not restricted under the ordinary rules of decency and
good morals and public order, by distinguishing between the nuisance created by
the promiscuous distribution of advertising and commercial circulars and the
right to deliver noncommercial handbills to all who are willing to receive the
same.
('68 Code, § 8-401) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, and sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature:
      (1)   Which advertises for sale any merchandise, product, commodity, or
thing;
      (2)   Which directs attention to any business or mercantile or commercial
establishment, or other activity, for the purpose of either directly or
indirectly promoting the interests thereof by sales; or
      (3)   Which, while containing reading matter other than advertising
matter, is predominantly and essentially an advertisement, and is distributed
or circulated for advertising purposes or for the private benefit and gain of
any person so engaged as advertiser or distributor.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with federal statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and,
in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   NONCOMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device,
dodger, circular, leaflet, pamphlet, newspaper, magazine, paper booklet or any
other printed or otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or
literature not included in the aforesaid definitions of a sign, or a commercial
handbill, or a newspaper, with the exception of political and religious
literature.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling, house, building or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys, or
other public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, plazas, grounds and
buildings.
('68 Code, § 8-402) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64)
§ 110.03 DISTRIBUTING OR SCATTERING HANDBILLS IN PUBLIC PLACES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, place, throw, scatter or
cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any public place
within this city; and it shall be also unlawful for any person to hand out,
distribute or sell any commercial or noncommercial handbill in any public place
to any person not willing to accept such handbill.
('68 Code, § 8-403) (Ord. 212, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.04 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS ON UNINHABITED OR VACANT PRIVATE PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw,
scatter or cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private
premises which are temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant.
('68 Code, § 8-405) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.05 DISTRIBUTION ON INHABITED PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any
commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any private premises which are
inhabited, except by handing or transmitting any such handbill directly to the
owner, occupant or any other person then present in or upon such private
premises. However, in case of inhabited private premises which are not posted
as provided in §
110.07, the aforesaid licenses or other person, unless requested by anyone upon
such premises not to do so, may place or deposit any such handbill in or upon
such inhabited private premises, if such handbill is so placed or deposited as
to secure or prevent such handbill from being blown or drifted about such
premises or elsewhere, except that mailboxes may not be so used when so
prohibited by federal postal laws or regulations.
('68 Code, § 8-407) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.06 POSTING OR PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw,
scatter or cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill in or upon any
automobile or other vehicle within this city. The provisions of this section
shall not be deemed to prohibit the handling, transmitting or distributing of
any commercial or noncommercial handbill to the owner or other occupant of any
automobile or other vehicle who is willing to accept the same.
('68 Code, § 8-404) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.07 PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION WHERE PROPERLY POSTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw,
scatter or cast any commercial or noncommercial handbill upon any premises, if
requested by anyone thereon not to do so or if there is placed on said premises
in a conspicuous position near the entrance thereof a sign bearing the words:
"No trespassing", "no peddlers or agents", "no advertisement", or any similar
notice, indicating in any manner that the occupants of said premises do not
desire to be molested, to have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any
such handbills left upon such premises. However, it shall be the duty of the
owner, landlord or person in control of any premises remaining vacant for a
period of more than five days to post in a conspicuous position on the premises
such sign as is indicated by this section. The term vacant as used herein shall
not be deemed to include temporary absences from the premises by its regular
occupants.
('68 Code, § 8-406) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.08 NAME AND ADDRESS OF PRINTER AND DISTRIBUTOR REQUIRED ON HANDBILLS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, scatter, hand
out or circulate any commercial or noncommercial handbill in any place, under
any circumstances, which does not have printed on the cover, front or back
thereof. the name and address of the following:
   (A)   The person who printed, wrote, compiled or manufactured the same.
   (B)   The person who caused the same to be distributed; however, in the case
of a fictitious person or club, in addition to such fictitious name, the true
names and addresses of the owners) managers or agents of the person sponsoring
said handbill shall also appear thereon.
('68 Code, § 8-408) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.09 OFFENSIVE HANDBILLS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, to hand out, distribute or
transmit any sign, or any commercial or noncommercial handbill:
   (A)   Which may reasonably tend to incite riot or other public disorder, or
which advocates disloyalty to or the overthrow of the government of the United
States or of this state by means of any artifice, scheme or violence or which
urges any unlawful conduct, or encourages or tends to encourage a breach of the
public peace or good order of the community; or
   (B)   Which is offensive to public morals or decency, or which contains
blasphemous, obscene, libelous or scurrilous language.
('68 Code, § 8-410) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 110.10 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States, nor to newspapers as defined in this
chapter.
('68 Code, § 8-409) (Ord. 212, passed 2-3-64)
CHAPTER 111: ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
Alarm Systems and Devices
   
111.01   Definition
   
111.02   Alarm installation business, license required; fee
   
111.03   Alarm system installation; permit required
   
111.04   Separate alarm for each business; multiple occupancy building
requirements
   
111.05   Inspection and approval of system plans and equipment
   
111.06   Connection to police or fire dispatch board; permit and monitoring fee
   
111.07   False alarms; fee required
   
111.08   Payment of fee required for use of system
   
111.09   Liability or responsibility for maintenance, repair or replacement of
system
Telephone Alarm Systems
   
111.20   Definition
   
111.21   Written consent required from subscribers
ALARM SYSTEMS AND DEVICES
§ 111.01 DEFINITION.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. An assembly of equipment and devices arranged to signal the
presence of a hazard requiring urgent attention.
('68 Code, § 6-801) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84)
§ 111.02 ALARM INSTALLATION BUSINESS, LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   (A)   No person shall operate, conduct or engage in the business of
installing an alarm system without first obtaining a license thereof in the
manner provided in this subchapter and paying a fee to be set by council
resolution.
   (B)   The license required herein shall not be granted except upon
certification by the Fire Chief and Police Chief.
('68 Code, § 6-802) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 ALARM SYSTEM INSTALLATION; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install an alarm system, with the exception of residential
fire-alarm systems, without first obtaining an installation permit from the
Building Department and paying a fee for such permit.
('68 Code, § 6-803) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 SEPARATE ALARM FOR EACH BUSINESS; MULTIPLE OCCUPANCY BUILDING
REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No alarm shall cover more than one business place and/or residence,
meaning that buildings with more than one business must have a separate alarm
for each business located therein, provided they have separate entrances.
   (B)   No single alarm shall cover a grouping of houses, apartments or
condominiums which have separate entrances to each living quarters; provided,
however, in case of fire-alarm systems (for example, heat detector, smoke
detector, sprinkler system supervision) or any combination of systems in
multiple occupancy buildings, an annunciation panel shall be installed in an
area which is readily accessible to the fire division. The annunciation panel
shall indicate in which occupancy or section of the building the system was
activated.
('68 Code, § 6-804) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.05 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF SYSTEM PLANS AND EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No alarm system shall be installed within the city unless the same is
"Underwriters Laboratory Approved" or equivalent, as determined by the Chief
Building Inspector; and the installation of all alarm systems shall be subject
to inspection and approval by the Building Department.
   (B)   In the case of fire-alarm systems or devices, the following additional
requirements shall be complied with:
      (1)   Fire-alarm devices shall be subject to approval by the fire
marshal.
      (2)   Plans and specifications for all fire-alarm and sprinkler system
supervision systems shall be submitted to the Fire Marshal and Chief Building
Inspector for their approval prior to the installation of the system.
      (3)   All fire-alarm systems shall be installed and maintained according
to applicable sections of this code.
('68 Code, § 6-805) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.06 CONNECTION TO POLICE OR FIRE DISPATCH BOARD; PERMIT AND MONITORING
FEE.
   No alarm system shall be connected to the police or fire dispatch board
until a permit for such connection has been obtained from the police or fire
divisions and payment of an annual permit fee to be set by council resolution.
Such permits shall be subject to revocation by the Police Chief or Fire Chief
upon notification in writing stating the reasons therefor.
('68 Code, § 6-806) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.07 FALSE ALARMS; FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   To defray the cost of responding to false alarms, the owner or lessee
of an alarm system shall pay to the city the following sums for each occasion
that the alarm system is activated and responded to by the police and/or fire
divisions in any of the following cases:
False Alarm Fee
False Alarm                                       Fee
Alarm condition resulting from weather conditions No charge
First call in the calendar year                   No charge
Second call in the calendar year                  No charge
Third call in the calendar year                   $10
Fourth call in the calendar year                  15
Fifth call in the calendar year                   20
Sixth call in the calendar year                   25
Seventh call in the calendar year                 30
Eighth call in the calendar year                  35
Ninth call in the calendar year                   40
Tenth call in the calendar year                   45
All additional calls                              50
 
   (B)   The aforestated sums may be amended by council resolution.
('68 Code, § 6-807) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84)
§ 111.08 PAYMENT OF FEE REQUIRED FOR USE OF SYSTEM.
   The payment of all fees prescribed in this subchapter shall constitute a
condition for the right to continue use of an alarm system.
('68 Code, § 6-808) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84)
§ 111.09 LIABILITY OR RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE, REPAIR OR REPLACEMENT OF
SYSTEM.
   The city assumes no liability or responsibility for the maintenance, repair
or replacement of components to any alarm system monitored by city employees.
Nor does the city assume liability or responsibility for an inoperable system
which may result from a lack of maintenance or through normal use and wear.
('68 Code, § 6-809) (Ord. 610, passed 10-15-84)
TELEPHONE ALARM SYSTEMS
§ 111.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TELEPHONE NUMBER.  Any additional numbers assigned by a public utility
company engaged in the business of providing communications services and
facilities to be used by means of a rotary or other system to connect with the
subscriber to such primary number when the primary telephone number is in use.
('68 Code, § 4-1302) (Ord. 385, passed 4-19-71)
§ 111.21 WRITTEN CONSENT REQUIRED FROM SUBSCRIBERS.
   No person engaged in the business of providing communications services and
facilities shall use or operate, attempt to use or operate, or cause to be used
or operated, or arrange, adjust, program or otherwise provide or install any
device or combination of devices that will upon activation, either
mechanically, electronically or by other automatic means, initiate the
intrastate calling, dialing or connection to any telephone number assigned to
any subscriber by a public telephone company, without the prior written consent
of such subscriber.
('68 Code, § 4-1301) (Ord. 385, passed 4-19-71)
CHAPTER 112: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
112.01   Transporting alcoholic beverages in motor vehicle
Application to Underage Persons
   
112.15   Sale of or furnishing alcoholic beverages to minors prohibited
   
112.16   Purchase, consumption or possession by persons under 21 years of age
prohibited
Licensing/Permit Requirements
   
112.30   Purpose
   
112.31   License/permit required; Council approval
   
112.32   Application for license/permit
   
112.33   Restrictions on liquor licenses or permits
   
112.34   Approval of financial application
   
112.35   Terms of license/permit
   
112.36   Annual license/permit review
   
112.37   Revocation of license or permit
   
112.38   Procedure for recommendation of nonrenewal or revocation
   
112.39   Criteria for nonrenewal or revocation
   
112.40   Transfer of license; existing licenses
Enforcement
   
112.50   Police powers; appearance tickets
 
   
112.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 112.01 TRANSPORTING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES IN MOTOR VEHICLE.
   (A)   A person less than 21 years of age shall not knowingly transport or
possess, in a motor vehicle, alcoholic liquor unless the person is employed by
a licensee of the Michigan Liquor Control Commission or an agent of the Liquor
Control Commission, and is transporting or having the alcoholic liquor in a
motor vehicle under the person's control during regular working hours and in
the course of the person's employment. A person who violates this division is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (B)   Within 30 days after the conviction of a person for the violation of
division (A) of this section, which conviction has become final, complaint may
be made by the arresting officer or the officer's superior before the court
from which the warrant was issued, which complaint shall be under oath and
shall contain a description of the motor vehicle in which alcoholic liquor was
possessed or transported by the person less than 21 years of age in committing
the offense and praying that the motor vehicle be impounded as provided in this
section. Upon the filing of the complaint the court shall issue an order to the
owner of the motor vehicle to show cause why the motor vehicle shall not be
impounded. The order to show cause shall have a date and time fixed in the
order for a hearing, which date shall not be less than ten days after the
issuance of the order, and shall be served by delivering a true copy to the
owner not less than three full days before the date of hearing or, if the owner
cannot be located, by sending a true copy by certified mail to the last known
address of the owner. If the owner is a nonresident of the state, service may
be made upon the Secretary of State as provided in Section 403 of Act 300 of
the Public Acts of 1949, as amended, being M.C.A.A. § 257.403.
   (C)   If the court determines upon the hearing of the order to show cause,
from competent and relevant evidence, that at the time of the commission of the
offense the motor vehicle was being driven by the person less than 21 years of
age with the express or implied consent or knowledge of the owner, and that the
use of the motor vehicle is not needed by the owner in the direct pursuit of
the owner's employment or the actual operation of the owner's business, the
court shall authorize the impounding of the vehicle for a period to be
determined by the court, of not less than 15 days nor more than 30 days. The
court's order authorizing the impounding of the vehicle shall authorize a law
enforcement officer to take possession without other process of the motor
vehicle wherever located and to store the vehicle in a public or private garage
at the expense and risk of the owner of the vehicle. Appeal shall lie from the
order to the circuit court of the county and the provisions governing the
taking of appeals from judgments for damages shall be applicable to the appeal.
This division shall not prevent a bona fide lienholder from exercising rights
under a lien.
   (D)   A person who knowingly transfers title to a motor vehicle for the
purpose of avoiding this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
('68 Code, § 4-306) (Ord. 535, passed 6-4-79) Penalty, see §
112.99
APPLICATION TO UNDERAGE PERSONS
§ 112.15 SALE OF OR FURNISHING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES TO MINORS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Alcoholic liquor shall not be sold or furnished to a person unless the
person has attained 21 years of age. A person who knowingly sells or furnishes
alcoholic liquor to a person who is less than 21 years of age, or who fails to
make diligent inquiry as to whether the person is less than 21 years of age, is
guilty of a misdemeanor. A suitable sign which describes this division and the
penalties for violating this subsection shall be posted in a conspicuous place
in each room where alcoholic liquors are sold. The signs shall be approved and
furnished by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   In an action for the violation of division (A) of this section, proof
that the defendant or the defendant's agent or employee demanded and was shown,
before furnishing alcoholic liquor to a person under 21 years of age, a motor
vehicle operator's license or a registration certificate issued by the federal
Selective Service or other bona fide documentary evidence of the age and
identity of that person, shall be a defense to an action under this section.
('68 Code, § 4-305) (Ord. 535, passed 6-4-79) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.16 PURCHASE, CONSUMPTION OR POSSESSION BY PERSONS UNDER 21 YEARS OF AGE
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   A person less than 21 years of age shall not purchase alcoholic
liquor, consume alcoholic liquor in a licensed premises, or possess alcoholic
liquor, except as provided in §
112.01(A).
   (B)   A person who furnishes fraudulent identification to a person less than
21 years of age, or a person less than 21 years of age who uses a fraudulent
identification to purchase alcoholic liquor, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   This section shall not be construed to prohibit a person less than 21
years of age from possessing alcoholic liquor during regular working hours and
in the course of his or her employment, if employed by a person licensed by
this act, by the Liquor Control Commission, or by an agent of the Liquor
Control Commission, if the alcoholic liquor is not possessed for his or her
personal consumption.
   (D)   This section shall not be construed to limit the civil or criminal
liability of the vendor or the vendor's clerk, servant, agent or employee for a
violation of this act.
   (E)   The consumption of alcoholic beverages by a person under 21 years of
age who is enrolled in a course offered by an accredited post secondary
educational institution in an academic building of the institution under the
supervision of a facility member shall not be prohibited by this act if the
purpose is solely educational and a necessary ingredient of the course.
('68 Code, § 4-307) (Ord. 535, passed 6-4-79)
LICENSING/PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 112.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to promote and preserve the public peace,
health, safety and welfare through the local regulation of the application,
review, issuance, renewal and revocation of liquor licenses and dance/
entertainment permits for liquor establishments to the fullest extent
permissible under state law based upon a recognition of the impact of the
liquor licenses and dance/entertainment permits on the well-being of the
community.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.31 LICENSE/PERMIT REQUIRED; COUNCIL APPROVAL.
   No person shall engage in the business of selling alcoholic liquor, beer,
win or spirits for consumption on any premises in the city without first
obtaining a license therefore, as required by the statues of the state. No
person shall sell alcoholic liquor, beer, wine or spirits for consumption on
any premises which provide dance/entertainment within the city without having
obtained a permit from the City Council after application and review in accord
with provisions of this subchapter and state law for a license or permit.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92) Penalty, see §
112.99
§ 112.32 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE/PERMIT.
   In addition to such application as may be required by the Michigan Liquor
Control Commission for licensing by the state, application shall be made to the
City Council for a permit to sell alcoholic liquor, beer, wine or spirits, on
premises and to provide dance/entertainment thereon. That separate application
shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee a established by resolution of the
City Council. In addition, each licensee shall pay an annual renewal fee as
established by resolution of the City Council payable on or before April 1 of
each year. The City Council may from time to time amend the established fees by
resolution. That separate application shall be filed in writing and forwarded
to the Police Department; signed by the applicant, if an individual, or by a
duly authorized agent, if a partnership or a corporation, verified by oath or
affidavit and shall contain the following information:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of a
partnership, the partners thereof; in the case of a corporation, the officers,
directors, and all shareholders holding directly or indirectly 10% or more of
the voting stock or share of the corporation.
   (B)   The citizenship of the applicants, place of birth and if naturalized
citizens, the date and place of naturalization.
   (C)   The nature of business that the applicant is engaged in; and in the
case of a corporation, the object for which it was formed.
   (D)   The length of time the applicants have been in business or, in the
case of a corporation, the date when its Charter was issued.
   (E)   The location and description of the premises or place of business
which is to be operated under such license.
   (F)   In the case of an application for an entertainment permit, a statement
concerning the specific type, kind, character and quality of entertainment
proposed to be presented.
   (G)   A statement as to whether the applicants have operated or made
application for a similar license or permit on any premises other than
described in this application and the disposition of such application.
   (H)   A statement that applicant has never been convicted of a crime and is
not disqualified to receive a license or permit by reason of provision
contained in this subchapter or the laws of the state.
   (I)   A statement that the applicants will not violate any of the laws of
the state or any ordinances of the city or the administrative rules of any
regulatory agency in the conduct of their business.
   (J)   The application shall be accompanied by building and plat plans
shoring the entire structure and premises, and in particular, the specific
areas where the license/permit is to be utilized. The plans shall demonstrate
compliance with all applicable city ordinances and shall be signed by the
applicants.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.33 RESTRICTIONS ON LIQUOR LICENSES OR PERMITS.
   (A)   No license or permit shall be issued to:
      (1)   A person whose license or permit has been revoked for cause;
      (2)   A person who, at the time of application or renewal of any license
or permit issued hereunder, would not be eligible for such license or permit
upon first application.
      (3)   A partnership, unless all of the members of such partnership shall
qualify to obtain a license or permit;
      (4)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or a
stock owner of such corporation would not be eligible to receive a license or
permit hereunder for any reason;
      (5)   A person whose place of business is conducted by a manager or
agent, unless such manager or agent possesses qualifications similar to those
required of the permit holder;
      (6)   A person who has been convicted or found responsible far a
violation of any federal or state law or Administrative Rule of the Michigan
Liquor Control Commission concerning the manufacture, possession or sale of
alcoholic liquor;
      (7)   A person who does not own the premises for which a license or
permit is sought or does not have a written lease therefore for the full period
for which the license or permit is issued;
      (8)   A person who has been convicted of any felony or a misdemeanor
involving: Alcohol, dishonesty, false statements or moral turpitude;
      (9)   A person in default in the payment of any tax, fee or debt to the
city.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued to operate on premises:
      (1)   Where there exists any violation of applicable city ordinances or
Police Department regulations;
      (2)   Where it is determined by a majority of the Council that the
premises do not, or will not reasonably soon after commencement of operations,
have adequate off-street parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities, noise
or nuisance control;
      (3)   Where Council determines by majority vote that the location
proposed for a licensed liquor establishment or establishment providing
entertainment will have an adverse effect on the community, with consideration
given to traffic safety conditions, accessibility to major streets or highways,
distance from public or private schools, impact of adjacent residential
districts, zoning classification or availability of parking and the impact that
the establishment will have upon the resources of the city, including, but not
limited to, financial resources and manpower.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.34 APPROVAL OF FINANCIAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Before the approval of the City Council is given to the issuance,
renewal or transfer of liquor license or dance/entertainment permit, the
application for such issuance, renewal or transfer shall be referred to the
following city departments: Police, Building and Safety, Fire, Health,
Treasurer and City Manager. The written report of all such departments
certifying compliance with all applicable laws and regulations shall be
approved by the City Council.
   (B)   All personal property taxes, real property taxes and other obligations
which relate to the premises for which a liquor license or dance/entertainment
permit is sought and which are due and payable to the city shall be paid before
the City Council shall approve the issuance, renewal or transfer of such
license or permit. The city shall not approve the issuance, renewal or transfer
of any license or permit to any person, partnership or corporation which is in
default to the city.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.35 TERMS OF LICENSE/PERMIT.
   Approval of the liquor license or dance/entertainment permit shall be for a
period of one year subject to annual renewal by the City Council upon continued
with all of the provision of this subchapter. Approval of a license/permit
shall be with the understanding that any necessary remodeling or new
construction for the use of the license permit shall be completed within six
months of the action of the City Council or the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission approving such license or permit whichever last occurs. Any unusual
delay in the completion of such remodeling or construction may result in
revocation of the license or permit.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.36 ANNUAL LICENSE/PERMIT REVIEW.
   (A)   All liquor establishments licenses and dance/entertainment permits
shall be automatically renewed on April 15 of each year if the licensee is in
compliance with all of the provisions of this subchapter, unless a review of
the license/permit is requested by one of the city departments listed in §
112.34. A request for review shall be made in writing to the City Council by
April 1. The request shall cite the section of this subchapter being violated
and constituting the basis for recommendation of nonrenewal or revocation of
the license/permit.
   (B)   At the time of the annual review by the City Council of liquor
establishment license and dance/entertainment permits for the purpose of making
recommendations to the Michigan Liquor Control Commission regarding renewal of
that license and permits, Council shall consider whether the establishment has
been operated during the existing license or permit year in a manner consistent
with the provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable laws,
ordinances and regulations, whether continued operation in the establishment is
likely to adversely affect investment in real property in the in the
neighborhood of the establishment, and whether impact upon the neighborhood
otherwise contrary to the peace, order and tranquility of the community.
   (C)   The report of the Police Department to the Council shall include any
incidents, that involve a violation of any local ordinance and/or the State
Penal Code as amended, specifically including, but not limited to, furnishing
alcohol liquor to minors, transporting alcoholic liquor; consumption of
alcoholic beverages on public highways and streets, and violations involving
underage drinking and fraudulent identification in relation thereto. The
Council shall specifically consider such evidence in reviewing renewal of the
licensed premises.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.37 REVOCATION OF LICENSE OR PERMIT.
   Each establishment within the city for which a license or permit is granted
for the consumption of alcoholic liquor upon the premises or providing shall be
operated and maintained in accordance with all applicable laws, ordinance and
regulation, and in clean and sanitary manner meeting the approval of the
applicable city departments. Upon any violation of any section of this
subchapter, the City Council may, after notice and hearing, request the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission to revoke such licensee or permits.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.38 PROCEDURE FOR RECOMMENDATION OF NONRENEWAL OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Before filing any objection for renewal or request of revocation of a
license or permit with the Michigan Liquor Control Commission, the City Council
shall serve the licensee or permit holder by first class mail, mailed not less
than seven days prior to hearing with notice of a hearing, which notice shall
contain the following:
      (1)   Notice of proposed action;
      (2   Reasons for the proposed action;
      (3)   Date, time and place of hearing; and
      (4)   A statement that the licensee or permit holder may present evidence
and testimony and confront adverse witnesses and may be represented by a
license attorney.
   (B)   The hearing shall be recorded and open to the public and notice of the
public hearing shall be mailed by first-class mail to each residence or place
of business within 300 feet of the property of the license establishment. Such
hearing may be conducted by the City Council as a whole or by a hearing officer
or by a committee of the Council appointed by the Council for such purposes. If
a hearing officer or Council committee is appointed, it shall be that Council
committee's or hearing officer's duty to undertake such hearing and take
evidence and testimony of the licensee and witnesses on its behalf or in
opposition thereto and after such hearing, the Council committee or hearing
officer shall make a recommendation to the City Council for their ultimate
final review and decision. The City Council shall submit to the license or
permit holder and the Michigan Liquor Control Commission a written statement of
its findings and determination.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.39 CRITERIA FOR NONRENEWAL OR REVOCATION.
   The City Council may recommend nonrenewal or revocation of a license or
permit to the Michigan Liquor Control Commission upon a determination by this
Council that, based upon a preponderance of evidence presented at the public
hearing, any of the following exists:
   (A)   Violation of any of the restrictions of licenses or permits set forth
in or any provision of this subchapter or any other law, ordinance or statute
or Administrative Rules or provisions of the Michigan Liquor Control Act;
   (B)   Maintenance of a nuisance upon the premises, including, but not
limited to, any of the following:
      (1)   Existing violation of building, zoning, health, fire or regulatory
codes;
      (2)   A pattern of patron conduct upon or in the neighborhood of the
licensed establishment which is in violation of the law or disturbs the peace,
order and tranquility of the neighborhood;
      (3)   Failure to maintain the grounds and exterior of the licensed
establishment, including litter, debris, refuse blowing or being deposited on
adjoining properties.
      (4)   Entertainment without a permit or entertainment which disturbs the
peace, order and tranquility of the neighborhood;
      (5)   Any advertising, promotion or activity which by its nature causes,
creates or contributes to disorder, disobedience to rules, ordinances or laws,
or contributes to the disruption of normal activity of those in the
neighborhood of the licensed establishment;
      (6)   Any condition of default in the payment of any tax, fee, charge,
water bill, special assessment or other debt to the city or any unpaid judgment
payable to the city;
      (7)   Perjury or any misrepresentation of any information in any
application or hearing for the grant or renewal of any license or permit;
      (8)   Any remodeling or construction, identified as necessary for the use
of the licensed premises at the time the license and/or permit is approved or
renewed, which has not been completed with six months of the City Council or
the Michigan Liquor Control Commission approving such license or permit
whichever occurs last;
      (9)   The operation of the licensee's business or the circumstances and
conditions surrounding the licensee as business have changed and/or the type or
nature of entertainment conducted by the licensee has changed or is proposed to
be changed;
      (10)   The licensee has failed to comply with any general or specific
condition imposed pursuant to the granting of the license and/or has changed or
deviated from any of the statements or representations made in the application
for license/permit and/or in the investigation for the issuance, renewal or
transfer of license/permit;
      (11)   The license has not been activated by the licensee within a
reasonable time after approval by the City Council.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
§ 112.40 TRANSFER OF LICENSE; EXISTING LICENSES.
   The transfer of any existing liquor license covered under this subchapter
shall be subject to each of the requirements, criteria and procedures,
including fees, set forth in this subchapter for the granting of a new liquor
license. In addition, the transferee-applicant shall furnish a copy of any and
all files which may be in the State Liquor Control Commission's possession
regarding that Commission's investigation of the transferee as a present
licensee or as a previous licensee, or of a business or other legal entity in
which the transferee has or has had a partial interest.
(Ord. 710, passed 12-7-92)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 112.50 POLICE POWERS; APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   (A)   A police officer or an inspector of the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission who witnesses a person violating §
112.16, for which a civil fine is prescribed, may stop and detain the person
for purposes of obtaining satisfactory identification, seizing illegally
possessed alcoholic beverages, and issuing an appearance ticket.
   (B)   As used in this section, APPEARANCE TICKET means a complaint or
written notice issued and subscribed by a law enforcement officer or inspector
of the Commission, directing a designated person to appear in a designated
district or municipal court or courts of common pleas at a designated time in
connection with the alleged violation for which a civil fine is prescribed. The
appearance ticket shall consist of the following parts:
      (1)   The original which shall be a complaint or notice to appear by the
officer and filed with the court;
      (2)   The first copy which shall be the abstract of court record;
      (3)   The second copy which shall be delivered to the alleged violator;
      (4)   The third copy which shall be retained by the law enforcement
agency.
   (C)   A judge may accept an admission of the allegations of an appearance
ticket defendant and the judge shall then direct the civil sanctions imposed by
§
112.16. If the defendant denies the allegations of the appearance ticket, the
judge shall set a date for trial. If a person fails to appear on the date
specified on the appearance ticket, the judge shall enter a default judgment
against the defendant.
('68 Code, § 4-308) (Ord. 535, passed 6-4-79)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter for which another
penalty has not been provided shall upon conviction be fine not more than $500
and costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by
both such fine and imprisonment. Each day upon which any such violation shall
occur, shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   A person less than 21 years of age who violates this §
112.16(A) is liable for the following civil fines:
      (1)   For the first violation, a fine of not more than $25.
      (2)   For a second violation, a fine of not more than $50, or
participation in substance abuse prevention services as defined in Section 6107
of Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 333.6107, and
designated by the administrator of substance abuse services, or both.
      (3)   For a third or subsequent violation, a fine of not more than $100,
or participation in substance abuse prevention services as defined in Section
6107 of Act 368 of the Public Acts of 1978, and designated by the administrator
of substance services, or both.
('68 Code, § 4-307) (Ord. 535, passed 6-4-79)
CHAPTER 113: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Billiard and Pool Rooms
   
113.001   Definitions
   
113.002   License required
   
113.003   Application for license; filing; contents
   
113.004   License fees
   
113.005   Expiration date; nontransference; display
   
113.006   Authority to inspect and investigate premises
   
113.007   Hours of operation restricted
   
113.008   Gambling; screens and obstructions
   
113.009   Restriction of minors; responsibility
   
113.010   Revocation of license
   
113.011   Exception
Bowling Rooms or Alleys
   
113.025   Definitions
   
113.026   License required
   
113.027   Application for license; filing; contents
   
113.028   License fees
   
113.029   Expiration date; nontransference; display
   
113.030   Authority to inspect and investigate premises
   
113.031   Hours of operation restricted
   
113.032   Restriction of minors; responsibility
   
113.033   Revocation of license
   
113.034   Exceptions
Mechanical Amusement Arcades
   
113.045   Title
   
113.046   Definitions
   
113.047   License required
   
113.048   Application for license; fee
   
113.049   License fees
   
113.050   Denial of license
   
113.051   Inspection of premises
   
113.052   Renewal of license; nontransference
   
113.053   Conditions of operation
   
113.054   Proof of insurance
   
113.055   Granting of licenses
   
113.056   Conduct on premises
   
113.057   Revocation of license
   
113.058   Exemptions
Mechanical Amusement Devices
   
113.070   Title
   
113.071   Definitions
   
113.072   License required
   
113.073   License fees
   
113.074   Record of licenses issued to be kept
   
113.075   Nontransference of license
   
113.076   Expiration date
   
113.077   Devices specifying sexual activities prohibited where minors
permitted
   
113.078   Restriction of persons under 12 years of age
   
113.079   Awarding gifts or prizes prohibited
   
113.080   Exemptions
Mechanical Music Devices
   
113.090   Definitions
   
113.091   License required
   
113.092   License application; contents
   
113.093   License fees
   
113.094   Public investigations and inspections
   
113.095   Restriction on use in private residences
   
113.096   Display of license; transference of license
   
113.097   Revocation of license
   
113.098   Sound amplification; restriction
Public Dances, Dance Halls and Roller Skating Rinks
   
113.110   Definitions
   
113.111   Permit or license required
   
113.112   License fee
   
113.113   Premises; inspection and approval
   
113.114   Access to premises by police officers and city inspectors
   
113.115   Hours of operation
   
113.116   Rules and regulations
   
113.117   Suspension or revocation of license; notice and hearing
   
113.118   Responsibility of operators
   
113.119   Exemptions
Carnivals
   
113.130   Definition
   
113.131   License required
   
113.132   License application; form and contents
   
113.133   Council action required on applications
   
113.134   License fee
   
113.135   Fraud or untrue statements on applications prohibited
   
113.136   Nontransference of license
   
113.137   Revocation or cancellation of license
   
113.138   Disorderly conduct prohibited
Shows
   
113.150   Definitions
   
113.151   License required; application; contents
   
113.152   Insurance and bond required
   
113.153   Recommendation by authorities prior to issuance or renewal of license
   
113.154   Suspension or revocation of licenses; hearings
   
113.155   Hours of operation restricted
   
113.156   Inaccurate or misleading representation of shows prohibited
   
113.157   Obscene or lewd acts produced or exhibited prohibited
   
113.158   Disorderly conduct; responsibility of owner
   
113.159   Prohibiting attendance by persons under 18 years
   
113.160   Exemption
Private Clubs
   
113.170   Definition
   
113.171   License required; application; fee
   
113.172   Factors of council determination
   
113.173   Unlicensed private clubs prohibited; loitering
Cabarets
   
113.185   Title
   
113.186   Definitions
   
113.187   License required
   
113.188   Expiration date; fee
   
113.189   Authority to refuse or revoke licenses
   
113.190   Appeal of a decision to deny/revoke license
   
113.191   Inspection and approval of premises; structural and sanitation
requirements
   
113.192   Certain acts prohibited on licensed premises
   
113.193   Record of performers, dancers and/or entertainers or those who
audition to be performers, dancers and/or entertainers; reporting requirements
   
113.194   Receipt of money from patrons for privilege of leaving with performer
or dancer is prohibited
   
113.195   Employment of performers and entertainers to perform secondary
services
   
113.196   Performer's identification required for all performers and dancers
   
113.197   Minors in cabarets prohibited
   
113.198   Dancing and entertainment during certain hours
   
113.199   Inspection of premises by authorities
   
113.200   Locked doors prohibited
Burlesque Shows and Live Entertainment
   
113.210   Definition
   
113.211   License required; fee
   
113.212   License application; inspections and recommendations
   
113.213   Certain acts depicting specific sexual activities
   
113.214   License denial; notice; hearing; appeal
   
113.215   Transfer of license restricted
   
113.216   Operation at designated location
   
113.217   Operation without license declared nuisance; abatement
   
113.218   Revocation of license
 
   
113.999   Penalty
BILLIARD AND POOL ROOMS
§ 113.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BILLIARDS or POOL. The several games played on a table known as a billiard
table surrounded by an elastic ledge or cushions with or without pockets, with
balls which are impelled by a cue and which includes all forms of the game
known as carom billiards, pocket billiards, three cushion billiards and English
billiards and all other games played on billiard tables, and which also include
the so-called games of pool which shall include the game known as 15-ball pool,
8-ball pool, bottle pool, pea pool and all other games played on a so-called
pool table, and all games played on a so-called pigeon hole table.
   BILLIARD or POOL ROOM. Any public place where the game of billiards or pool
is played or permitted to be played. (Ord. 172, passed )
   SCHOOL SESSION. Those days of the week in which the public school in the
district in which the minor is a resident is in operation, excluding the summer
school session in said district and all school holidays and other days in which
the school district closes their schools for any purpose whatsoever.
(Ord. 194, passed 8-6-62)
('68 Code, § 3-119)
§ 113.002 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, society, firm or corporation shall open or cause to be opened, or
conduct, maintain or operate any billiard or pool room within the city, without
first having obtained a license from the City Council to do so.
('68 Code, § 3-120) (Ord. 172, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.003 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FILING; CONTENTS.
   Each person, society, club, firm or corporation desiring to open, conduct or
maintain a billiard or pool room shall first make application to the City
Council for a license therefor. Said application shall be filed at least five
days prior to the time of granting said license. No license shall be granted to
any person who is not a citizen of the United States. ('68 Code, § 3-121)
   (B)   Said application shall contain the name, address, including street and
number, of the applicant, or if more than one person or if an association or a
firm, the full names and addresses, including street and number, of the persons
financially interested; if a corporation, a list of the officers and the
manager and whether or not the manager is a citizen of the United States; the
applicant's business for the past three years and the place or places in which
he has conducted business during the past three years. ('68 Code, § 3-122)
(Ord. 172, passed - - )
§ 113.004 LICENSE FEES.
   Each person, society, club, firm or corporation to whom license is granted
shall pay an annual fee therefor, the same being payable on or before May 1 of
each and every year, in the sum of $10 for the first billiard table and $5 for
each additional billiard table, said sums to be payable to the City Treasurer.
('68 Code, § 3-120) (Ord. 172, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 371, passed 12-21-70)
§ 113.005 EXPIRATION DATE; NONTRANSFERENCE; DISPLAY.
   All licenses granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
April 30 of each and every year. Said license shall not be transferable without
the approval of the City Council, and shall be displayed in a conspicuous place
in the billiard or pool room licensed thereunder.
('68 Code, § 3-125) (Ord. 172, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.006 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND INVESTIGATE PREMISES.
   The Chief of Police and his deputies and officers shall have access at all
times to all billiard and pool rooms within the city limits. It shall be his
duty to investigate and inspect all billiard and pool rooms within the city
limits.
('68 Code, § 3-123) (Ord. 172, passed - - )
§ 113.007 HOURS OF OPERATION RESTRICTED.
   No person, society, club, firm or corporation shall open or cause to be
opened or operate or cause to be operated within the city limits any billiard
or pool room or any place where billiard tables are kept between the hours of
12:00 midnight and 7:00 a.m. in any day; and all billiard tables, shall be
covered and not used for playing on Sunday, except from 12:00 noon until 10:00
p.m.
('68 Code, § 3-126) (Ord. 172, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.008 GAMBLING; SCREENS AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   No dice shall be thrown nor shall a pea ball or shake ball be used, nor
shall cards, raffles or any other games of chance or any form of gambling be
permitted in any billiard or pool room in the city or in any room in which said
tables are located or in any cigar stand or any other business in the same
room. Any screens or other obstructions shall not be placed in the doors or
windows of said billiard or pool rooms, but said doors and windows must at all
times be free and clear of obstructions so as to permit an unobstructed view
into said billiard and pool rooms.
('68 Code, § 3-127) (Ord. 172, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.009 RESTRICTION OF MINORS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   No person shall be permitted to loiter; in or about or play billiards
or pool in any billiard or pool room at any time who is under the age of 17
years, unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian. No person shall be
permitted to loiter in or about or play billiards or pool in any billiard or
pool room prior to 4:00 p.m., who is under the age of 18 years on any day in
which school is in session, unless accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
However, nothing herein shall prevent a minor who has attained the age of 17
years from playing billiards or pool in any billiard or pool room without being
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian when school is not in session or
during a summer school session. (Ord. 195, passed 8-17- 62)
   (B)   No person shall hold himself out to be over the age of 17 years who is
under the age of 17 years for the purpose of being permitted to so play
billiards or pool. (Ord. 172, passed - - )
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any billiard or pool room proprietor, or the
operator, manager or the employee of such establishment, to permit a minor to
remain in any such establishment contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 194, passed 8-6-62)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, legal guardian or other adult
person having the care or control of a minor to knowingly permit such minor to
violate any provision of this subchapter. (Ord. 194, passed 8-6-62)
('68 Code, § 3-128) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.010 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may revoke any licenses granted under the provisions of
this subchapter after a hearing has been held before the Council wherein proof
is submitted which discloses the violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter, any state statute, any applicable provision of this code, or any
applicable ordinance of the city. The Chief of Police, or his duly authorized
representative, may request such hearing before the Council and the licensee
shall be notified, in writing, by the Chief of Police or his duly authorized
representative of the charges upon which the revocation of the license is to be
based. Said notice shall be delivered to the licensee at least ten days prior
to the date of said hearing.
('68 Code, § 3-129) (Ord. 172, passed - - )
§ 113.011 EXCEPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to private residences, schools, churches,
fraternal societies or municipal institutions.
('68 Code, § 3-130) (Ord. 172, passed - - )
BOWLING ROOMS OR ALLEYS
§ 113.025 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOWLING. Any of the several games played on a wooden surface where the balls
are thrown by hand toward wooden pins, and which include all forms of the game
known as ten pins, nine pins, duck pins, or any other game played on a bowling
alley.
   BOWLING ROOM. Any public place where the game of bowling is played or
permitted to be played.
('68 Code, § 3-131) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61)
§ 113.026 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, society, club, firm or corporation shall open or cause to be
opened, or conduct, maintain or operate, any bowling room within the city,
without first having obtained a license from the City Council to so do.
('68 Code, § 3-132) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.027 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FILING; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Each person, society, club, firm or corporation desiring to open,
conduct or maintain a bowling room shall first make application to the City
Council for a license therefor. Said application shall be filed at least five
days prior to the time of granting said license. No license shall be granted to
any person who is not a citizen of the United States. ('68 Code, § 3-133)
   (B)   Said application shall contain the name, address, including street and
number, of the applicant, or if more than one person or if an association or a
firm, the full names and addresses, including street and number, of the persons
financially interested; if a corporation, a list of the officers and the
manager and whether or not the manager is a citizen of the United States; the
applicant's business for the past three years and the place or places in which
he has conducted business during the past three years. ('68 Code, § 3-134)
(Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61)
§ 113.028 LICENSE FEES.
   Each person, society, club, firm or corporation to whom license is granted
shall pay an annual fee therefor, the same being payable on or before May 1 of
each and every year in the sum of $5 for the first bowling alley and $1 for
each additional bowling alley, said sums to be payable to the City Treasurer.
('68 Code, § 3-136) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61)
§ 113.029 EXPIRATION DATE; NONTRANSFERENCE; DISPLAY.
   All licenses granted under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
April 30 of each and every year. Said license shall not be transferable without
the approval of the city council and shall be displayed in a conspicuous place
in the bowling room licensed thereunder.
('68 Code, § 3-137) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.030 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT AND INVESTIGATE PREMISES.
   The Chief of Police and his deputies and officers shall have access at all
times to all bowling rooms within the city limits. It shall be his duty to
investigate and inspect all bowling rooms within the city limits.
('68 Code, § 3-135) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61)
§ 113.031 HOURS OF OPERATION RESTRICTED.
   No person, society, club, firm or corporation shall open or cause to be
opened or operate or cause to be operated within the city limits any bowling
room or any place where bowling alley or alleys are kept between the hours of
3:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. in the forenoon on any day; and all bowling alleys
shall not be used for playing between the hours of 3:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m. in
the forenoon on any day.
('68 Code, § 3-138) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.032 RESTRICTION OF MINORS; RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 17 years to be in
a bowling room after 10:00 p.m. in the evening, unless accompanied by a parent
or legal guardian.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any child under the age of 17 years to be in
a bowling room after 12:00 midnight, even though accompanied by a parent or
legal guardian.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any bowling room proprietor or the operator,
manager or the employee of such establishment to permit a child under the age
of 17 years to remain in any such establishment contrary to the provisions of
this subchapter.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for the parent, legal guardian or, other adult
person having the care or control of a child under 17 years of age to knowingly
permit such child to violate any provision of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-135) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.033 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may revoke any licenses granted under the provisions of
this subchapter after a hearing has been held before the Council wherein proof
is submitted which discloses the violation of any of the provisions of this
subchapter, any state statute, any applicable provision of this code, or any
applicable ordinance of the city. The Chief of Police, or his duly authorized
representative, may request such hearing before the Council and the licensee
shall be notified, in writing, by the Chief of Police or his duly authorized
representative of the charges upon which the revocation of the license is to be
based. Said notice must be delivered to the licensee at least ten days prior to
the date of said hearing.
('68 Code, § 3-140) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61)
§ 113.034 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter all not apply to private residences, schools, churches,
fraternal societies or municipal institutions.
('68 Code, § 3-141) (Ord. 171, passed 2-14-61)
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT ARCADES
§ 113.045 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Mechanical
Amusement Arcade Subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-158.1) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.046 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT ARCADE. Any place of business or establishment
containing four or more mechanical or electrical devices which provide
amusement or entertainment, which may be operated or set in motion upon the
insertion of a coin or token.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any mechanical or electrical device which
provides amusement or entertainment, which may be operated or set in motion
upon the insertion of a coin or token. This definition shall not include
jukeboxes, telephone devices or machines which disburse merchandise.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of the majority.
   OPERATOR. Proprietor, lessee, manager or employee of any mechanical
amusement arcade or business operating a mechanical amusement device.
('68 Code, § 3-159) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.047 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No mechanical amusement arcade shall be established, maintained or conducted
in the city by any person or corporation without first obtaining a license to
operate such place from the City Council. No operator, as defined in §
113.046, shall allow or permit the use of a mechanical amusement arcade machine
unless a license for such use shall have been obtained from the City Council.
('68 Code, § 3-160) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.048 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FEE.
   (A)   Every person or operator as defined in §
113.046 desiring to obtain a license as required by this subchapter shall file
a written application to the City Clerk on forms approved by the City Clerk,
together with an application fee of $200 or as hereinafter provided by
resolution of Council.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information: The
applicant's correct name, post office address and residence, the length of time
and location of all residences within the state for the five years immediately
preceding the date of application; whether or not the applicant has been
convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude; references in each
application of at least five reputable citizens in any community wherein the
applicant has resided within the state during the last five years, and written
recommendations of at least two citizens in such community of residence
respecting the moral character of said applicant.
   (C)   Each application shall be accompanied by a non-refundable fee as
herein specified payable to the city treasurer for the use of the city. Said
applicant shall specify in each application the type of business and the exact
location of the place thereof. If the application should be from a corporation,
authorized to do business in this state, the application shall be made by the
agent of such corporation having principal charge of the place of business
proposed to be established, and such application shall contain all statements
and furnish recommendations in respect to such agents as are required in the
case of private individuals treated herein.
   (D)   Any license issued to a corporation shall be revocable upon the
occurrence of a change in the personage of the agent managing the place of
business as stated herein, and a new license shall be required by the City
Council before any new agent may take charge of such place of business for said
corporation.
   (E)   In cases of partnership applications, each active partner in said
applicant's business shall furnish all of the information and recommendations
required of any individual applicant.
('68 Code, § 3-161) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.049 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fee to be paid upon granting of licenses hereunder shall be $200
plus $15 for each mechanical amusement device on said premises, or as set by
resolution of the City Council. Said license fee is in addition to the
aforementioned application fee.
   (B)   An additional fee of $5 shall be charged for every transfer of
location of any mechanical amusement device. The City Clerk shall keep a record
of every license issued and the location of the device.
('68 Code, § 3-165) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.050 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued:
   (A)   Where the individual operator, managing agent of a corporation or
active partner has been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude.
   (B)   For any premises, unless the Building Regulations and any applicable
provision of this code or any applicable ordinance of the city, as far as can
be determined, are met and satisfied.
   (C)   For any premises unless the applicant files an approval of the
application in writing signed by 60% or more of all owners of property residing
or operating establishments within 500 feet of the premises on which the
business is operated, except in the case of renewal of licenses in which
instance such approval is not mandated.
   (D)   For any premises which might be located within 1,500 feet of any
school building attended by students below the age of 16 years (measurement
shall be made from front door to front door, along the street line).
   (E)   For any premises which do not provide off-street parking as provided
in the Zoning Code of the city.
   (F)   For any premises which do not provide space for safe ingress and
egress as determined by the Fire Chief or his agent.
   (G)   For any premises housing living quarters with direct entry to the
premises.
   (H)   Whenever the City Council deems that the granting of such license will
not be in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare of the
city.
('68 Code, § 3-164) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.051 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   (A)   Before any mechanical amusement arcade license shall be issued,
investigation of the application and inspection of the premises shall be made
by the City Building Department, the Fire Chief or his agent, the Police
Department and such other city departments or agencies as may be deemed
necessary to determine whether the premises fully comply with any applicable
provision of this code or any applicable ordinance of the city.
   (B)   Before any mechanical amusement grade license may be recommended for
approval, it must be determined by the Police Department and such other
agencies or departments as deemed necessary that the applicant is providing
sufficient off-street parking and sufficient aids and regulations whereby
vehicular traffic shall not constitute a nuisance or danger. For a standard for
such determination, minimum off-street parking facilities shall be as required
by the Zoning Code of the city, with additional facilities for general peak
load parking requirements of the business being operated.
   (C)   Before the Fire Chief or his agents approve the same, it must be
determined that adequate space is provided between or around the mechanical
amusement device or mechanical amusement devices to permit safe ingress and
egress in said premises.
('68 Code, § 3-162) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.052 RENEWAL OF LICENSE; NONTRANSFERENCE.
   Any license issued in accordance with this subchapter may be renewed for an
additional year upon the same terms and subject to the requirements as provided
herein for an original license. Whenever the holder of such license desires to
effect a change of place of doing business, he shall notify the City Council
and make application for a license for such new location in the same manner as
in the first instance, excepting that proof of good character may be dispensed
with by the City Council. No license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall
be assignable or transferable, nor shall any person excepting the person to
whom it was issued be permitted to do business thereunder, either directly or
indirectly.
('68 Code, § 3-169) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.053 CONDITIONS OF OPERATION.
   Each licensee shall:
   (A)   At all times open each and every portion of the licensed premises for
inspection by the Police Department and other city departments for the purpose
of enforcing any provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   At all times display the license granted hereunder in a conspicuous
place near the entrance to the licensed establishment.
   (C)   Have at least one operator of at least legal age of majority on the
premises at all times that the premises are open to the public. Said operator
shall not have been convicted of a crime involving moral turpitude and shall be
so approved by the Police Department.
   (D)   No person shall permit any mechanical amusement device regulated by
this subchapter to be played in any commercial establishment or arcade by any
minor under the age of 17 years between 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless
accompanied by parent or legal guardian.
('68 Code, § 3-163) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.054 PROOF OF INSURANCE.
   Before the issuance of a license, applicant shall secure and file with the
City Clerk certificates of proof of insurance providing single limits for
public general comprehensive liability and property damage insurance in the
amount of at least $300,000 per person. Certificates or renewals thereof shall
provide that the city shall be notified upon discontinuance or alteration of
any such insurance coverage for any reason.
('68 Code, § 3-166) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.055 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   After review and recommendation by all city agencies and departments, the
City Clerk shall present said application to the City Council at its next
regular meeting. The City Council upon receiving such application, if presented
in due form, shall pass upon the same at its next regular meeting or any
adjournment thereof, and, if satisfied that such application possesses the
qualifications herein prescribed, shall grant such license for a term expiring
on June 30 of each year. All such licenses shall be in such form as the City
Council may prescribe and shall contain the name, address, place of business,
the number of mechanical amusement machines on the premises, and the date of
expiration of such license, and shall be authenticated by the signature of the
City Clerk.
('68 Code, § 3-167) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.056 CONDUCT ON PREMISES.
   No licensee, by himself, directly or indirectly, or by any servant, agent or
employee, shall:
   (A)   Permit any indecent, immoral or profane language, or indecent, immoral
or disorderly conduct.
   (B)   Permit the licensed premises to become a resort for disorderly persons
of any type.
   (C)   Permit gambling or the use, possession or presence of gambling
paraphernalia in the premises (the winning of anything of value as a result of
the operation of a mechanical amusement device shall constitute gambling).
   (D)   Permit intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises.
   (E)   Permit the use of any mechanical amusement device by any person under
the age of 12 years at any time unless accompanied by a parent or legal
guardian.
   (F)   Permit the possession or use of any alcoholic liquor on the premises,
nor shall the licensed premises be accessible in any way with any place where
alcoholic liquor is kept, sold, distributed or given away. The prohibition
shall not apply while a Michigan Liquor Control Commission license is in effect
at the licensed premises.
   (G)   Permit the possession or use of any unlawful drug or narcotic,
including marijuana, on the premises.
   (H)   Permit noise or music to emerge from licensed premises which is
disturbing to the surrounding area.
('68 Code, § 3-168) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.057 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council shall have the right to revoke any license once granted or
deny annual renewal thereof when it appears to its satisfaction that any
licensee has violated this subchapter or any applicable provision of this code,
any applicable ordinance of the city, or statute of the state. The issuance of
any license or the denial or renewal thereof shall not be made without a
hearing before the City Council. Notice must first be given of hearing and the
reasons for such revocation or denial of renewal of said license. Any
conviction of a violation of this subchapter or any applicable provision of
this code, any applicable ordinance of the city, or statute of the state
involving moral turpitude, by the licensee or his employees shall be grounds
for revocation of any license or the refusal to renew the same.
('68 Code, § 3-170) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.058 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to mechanical amusement
devices located and operated in a private residence for the private and
nonbusiness use of the family members therein and their guests, nor shall they
apply to mechanical amusement devices located in any city-owned property and
operated by or on behalf of the city. With respect to the use and operation of
mechanical-amusement devices by other municipal corporations, school districts
or non-profit organizations, the City Council may exempt use from the
provisions of this subchapter and impose any restrictions deemed necessary for
the preservation of the public health, welfare and morals.
('68 Code, § 3-172) (Ord. 600, passed 4-18-83)
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 113.070 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Mechanical
Amusement Device Regulations.
('68 Code, § 3-142) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.071 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A machine which, for a fee or upon the
insertion of a coin or slug, operates or may be operated for use as a game,
contest or amusement of any description, or which may be used for any such
same, contest or amusement, and which contains no automatic device for the
return of slugs, money, coin, checks, tokens or merchandise or which provides
for no such device by any other means or manner.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of the majority.
   STREET LOCATION LICENSE. Any establishment containing three or less
mechanical amusement devices.
('68 Code, § 3-143) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.072 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate for use in any place of business any mechanical
amusement device or devices as defined in §
113.071 without first obtaining a street location license therefor from the
City Clerk, who shall issue such license only upon a certificate being issued
by the Police Department that such device or devices complies with the
requirements of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-144) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.073 LICENSE FEES.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to issue a $100 street location license
for the operation of such mechanical amusement device or devices to any person
of good moral character, upon the payment of an annual license fee of $15 for
each device. The annual license fee for amusement rides for small children
shall be $7 for each device. An additional fee of $5 shall be charged for every
transfer of location of any mechanical device.
('68 Code, § 3-145) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.074 RECORD OF LICENSES ISSUED TO BE KEPT.
   The City Clerk shall keep a record of every license issued and the location
of the device.
('68 Code, § 3-145) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.075 NONTRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   These licenses are not transferable from one mechanical device to another.
('68 Code, § 3-145) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.076 EXPIRATION DATE.
   All street location and mechanical amusement device and amusement ride
licensee expire June 30 of each year.
('68 Code, § 3-145) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83)
§ 113.077 DEVICES SPECIFYING SEXUAL ACTIVITIES PROHIBITED WHERE MINORS
PERMITTED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section:
      (1)   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES is defined as:
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal;
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy;
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
regions, buttocks or female breasts.
      (2)   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREA is defined as:
         (a)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
            1.   Human genitals, pubic region;
            2.   Buttocks; and
            3.   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola.
         (b)   Human male genitals in a discernable rigid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   (B)   Mechanical amusement devices, visual or audible, describing or
relating to specified sexual activities or specified anatomical area (as
described below), shall not be allowed on any place of business or
establishment which allows the presence of minors.
('68 Code, § 3-146) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.078 RESTRICTION OF PERSONS UNDER 12 YEARS OF AGE.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated in the city any mechanical
amusement device by any person under the age of 12 years at any time unless
accompanied by a parent or legal guardian.
('68 Code, § 3-147) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.079 AWARDING GIFTS OR PRIZES PROHIBITED.
   No person, by himself or another or otherwise, shall give any prize, award,
merchandise, gift or anything of value to any player or to any operator of such
mechanical device or to any contestant for a score made on such device.
('68 Code, § 3-148) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.080 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to mechanical amusement
devices located and operated in private residences for the private and
nonbusiness use of the family members therein and their guests, nor shall they
apply to mechanical amusement devices located in any city-owned property and
operated by or on behalf of the city. With respect to the use and operation of
mechanical amusement devices by other municipal corporations, school districts
or non-profit organizations, the City Council may exempt such use from the
provisions of this subchapter and impose any restrictions deemed necessary for
the preservation of the public health, welfare and morals.
('68 Code, § 3-149.1) (Ord. 569, passed 4-20-81)
MECHANICAL MUSIC DEVICES
§ 113.090 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUKEBOX. Any music vending machine, contrivance or device which, upon the
insertion of a coin, slug, token, disc or key into any slot, crevice or other
opening, or by the payment of any price, operates or may be operated for the
emission of songs, music or similar amusement.
   PERSON, FIRM, CORPORATION or ASSOCIATION. Any person, firm, corporation or
association which owns any such jukebox machine; the person, firm, corporation
or association on whose premises any such jukebox machine is placed; and the
person, firm, corporation or association having control over such jukebox
machine; provided, however, that the payment of such fee by any person, firm,
corporation or association enumerated herein shall be deemed a compliance with
this section of the subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-150) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55)
§ 113.091 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Any person displaying for public patronage or keeping for operation any
jukebox machine as herein defined by §
113.090 shall be required to obtain a license from the city, upon payment of a
license fee. Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk upon
a form to be supplied by the Clerk for that purpose.
('68 Code, § 3-151) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.092 LICENSE APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   The application for such license shall contain the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant, age, date and place of birth;
      (2)   Prior conviction of applicant, if any;
      (3)   Place where jukebox machine is to be displayed or operated and the
business conducted at that place;
      (4)   Description of jukebox machine to be covered by the license,
mechanical features, name of manufacturer, and serial number.
   (B)   No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he shall be over 21
years of age and a citizen of the United States.
   (C)   Failure to obtain a license in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter shall be deemed a violation of this subchapter on the part of the
owner of the jukebox machine and/or the person or persons, firm, corporation or
association on whose premises any such jukebox machine is placed and punishable
in the manner set forth in this chapter for violations of this subchapter
herein.
('68 Code, § 3-152) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.093 LICENSE FEES.
   Every applicant before being granted a license shall pay an annual license
fee of $10 for the privilege of operating or maintaining for operation each
jukebox machine as defined in §
113.090, herein, all licenses to expire June 30 of each year, irrespective of
the date of issuance of the original license.
('68 Code, § 3-155) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55)
§ 113.094 PUBLIC INVESTIGATIONS AND INSPECTIONS.
   Application for license shall be made out and referred to the Chief of
Police.
   (A)   The Chief of Police shall investigate the location wherein it is
proposed to operate such jukebox machine, ascertain if the applicant is a
person of good moral character, and either approve or disapprove the
application;
   (B)   The Chief of Police, or any of his officers, shall have the right to
inspect the premises where a jukebox is placed, at any time, to ascertain the
existence of a proper license for said jukebox. Any owner of said jukebox and/
or any person or persons, firm, corporation or association on whose premises
said jukebox is placed who fails to permit said inspection shall be deemed in
violation of this subchapter and punishable in the manner set forth in this
chapter for violations herein.
('68 Code, § 3-153) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.095 RESTRICTION ON USE IN PRIVATE RESIDENCES.
   Any person owning or operating a jukebox in or upon the premises of a
private residence for private use must acquire a license in the same manner as
hereinbefore set forth in §
113.094; however, no fees shall be required for said license, nothing
withstanding to the contrary.
('68 Code, § 3-154) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.096 DISPLAY OF LICENSE; TRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The license or licenses herein provided for shall be posted
permanently and conspicuously at the location of the jukebox machine in the
premises wherein the jukebox machine is being operated or maintained to be
operated;
   (B)   Such license may be transferred from one jukebox machine to another
jukebox machine upon application to the City Clerk to such effect and the
giving of a description and the serial number of the new jukebox machine. No
more than one jukebox machine shall be operated under one license and the
applicant or licensee shall be required to secure a license for each and every
jukebox machine displayed or operated by him;
   (C)   If the licensee shall move his place of business to another location
within the city, the license may be transferred to such new location upon
application to the City Clerk, giving the street and number of the new
location. The new location shall be approved by the Chief of Police in the same
manner as provided in §
113.094.
('68 Code, § 3-156) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.097 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Every license issued under this subchapter is subject to the right, which is
hereby expressly reserved, to revoke the same should the licensee, directly or
indirectly, permit the operation of a jukebox machine contrary to the
provisions of this subchapter, any applicable provision of this code, any
applicable ordinance of the city, or the laws of the state. Said license may be
revoked by the City Council after written notice to the licensee, (which notice
shall specify any applicable provision of this code, any applicable ordinance
of the city, or law violations with which the licensee is charged) if, after a
hearing before the Council, the licensee is found to be guilty of such
violations. Ten days notice of the hearing shall be given by the City Clerk to
the licensee, by registered mail (return receipt requested) to the licensee's
last known address. At such hearing the licensee and his attorney may present
and submit evidence of witnesses in his defense.
('68 Code, § 3-157) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55)
§ 113.098 SOUND AMPLIFICATION; RESTRICTION.
   A license issued under this subchapter shall not permit the licensee to use
an outside amplifying system; nor shall any jukebox be operated in such a
manner as to cause the sounds therefrom to be carried outside the building in
which the jukebox is licensed. However, a jukebox licensee may apply to the
City Council for a special permit to allow the licensee to amplify the jukebox
music to the outside of his premises subject to such restrictions as the
Council may deem necessary.
('68 Code, § 3-158) (Ord. 132, passed 9-16-55; Am. Ord. 220, passed 7-20-64)
Penalty, see §
113.999
PUBLIC DANCES, DANCE HALLS AND ROLLER SKATING RINKS
§ 113.110 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATION OF A DANCE HALL OR ROLLER SKATING RINK. Any person operating a
dance hall or roller skating rink, including any lessee or manager, and, in the
case of an unincorporated club or association, a member thereof shall be
designated by such organization as the operator.
   PUBLIC DANCE HALL or ROLLER SKATING RINK. Any room, place or space in which
a public dance or public hall or roller skating shall be held or where
admission can be had by payment of a fee or by purchase, possession and
presentation of a ticket or token or in which a charge is made for care of
clothing or other property, or where the public generally may gain admission
with or without payment of a fee, but shall not include municipal dances or
dances or roller skating sponsored by the recreation  commission or charitable
or fraternal organizations if exempt under §
113.119.
('68 Code, § 3-109) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67)
§ 113.111 PERMIT OR LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to hold any public dance or public ball or roller
skating in the city other than in a licensed public dance hall or roller
skating rink. No person shall operate any public dance hall or roller skating
rink in the city without first having obtained either a public dance hall
permit, license or temporary license, or a roller skating rink permit, license
or temporary license; provided that the City Council may issue a temporary or
probationary permit for the purpose of determining whether or not a license
should be is issued.
('68 Code, § 3-110) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.112 LICENSE FEE.
   No person shall operate a public dance hall or a public roller skating rink
without first obtaining a license from the city. Said license shall be
authorized by the City Council and issued in accordance with §
113.113 by the City Clerk upon payment of the annual fee of $50. Said licenses
shall be effective for one year and shall be renewed on November 1, annually,
of each year. One license shall suffice for a hall that is being used for both
dancing and roller skating.
('68 Code, § 3-118) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67; Am. Ord. 294, passed 2-19-68)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.113 PREMISES; INSPECTION AND APPROVAL.
   Before any license required under this subchapter shall be authorized by the
City Council, the Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department shall
inspect the premises for which license application has been made to determine
that the premises are in compliance with the rules and regulations of the fire
department and the State Fire Code, and the rules and regulations of the Board
of Health and the Police Department relating to the safety, health, convenience
and the comfort of the public. They shall also determine whether there is
adequate ventilation, sufficient toilet conveniences for both men and women,
including sanitary towels, that there is at least one sanitary drinking
fountain, that the fire exits are marked and lighted and have free and
unobstructed means of exit and that the premises are free of rubbish and
inflammable material.
('68 Code, § 3-112) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67)
§ 113.114 ACCESS TO PREMISES BY POLICE OFFICERS AND CITY INSPECTORS.
   The operator or person in charge of any public dance hall or roller skating
rink shall at all times open each and every portion of such public dance hall
or roller skating rink for the inspection of the Police Department or other
city department engaged in enforcing any of the provisions of this subchapter
or carrying on any inspection for such purpose.
('68 Code, § 3-113) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.115 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No dancing or roller skating shall be permitted and no public dance hall or
roller skating rink shall operate between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 8:00 a.m.,
Eastern Standard Time, without first having obtained permission from the City
Council upon the recommendation of the Chief of Police.
('68 Code, § 3-111) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67; Am. Ord. 294, passed 2-19-68)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.116 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall apply to any dance hall or roller
skating rink licensed hereunder:
   (A)   Disorderly conduct. No operator shall permit any disorderly conduct or
the use of any immoral, profane or indecent language or conduct offensive to
public decency, or permit such place to become a resort for thieves,
prostitutes or other disorderly persons.
   (B)   Smoking. Smoking on the dance floor or roller skating floor or the
holding of lighted cigar, cigarette or pipe while dancing or roller skating is
prohibited.
   (C)   Gambling. Gambling or the use, possession or presence of gambling
apparatus or paraphernalia is prohibited.
   (D)   Lighting. There must be adequate lighting at all times where lights
are required. Every part of the premises shall be well lighted.
   (E)   Overcrowding. There shall be no overcrowding on the dance floor or
roller skating rink floor.
   (F)   Intoxicated persons. No intoxicated persons shall be allowed to dance,
roller skate or loiter on the premises. No intoxicating beverages of any kind
or nature shall be permitted on the premises except in the case of a special
club license granted under the state liquor laws and approved by Chief of
Police.
('68 Code, § 3-114) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.117 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE; NOTICE AND HEARING.
   The Chief of Police may recommend the suspension or revocation of a public
dance hall or roller skating rink license by written notice to the licensee.
Said notice shall set forth the reasons for the suspension or revocation of
said license and shall set forth the date and time for a hearing to be held
before the City Council. At said hearing, the Council shall determine whether
or not the suspension or revocation recommended by the Chief of Police shall
stand, be modified, or withdrawn.
('68 Code, § 3-115) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67)
§ 113.118 RESPONSIBILITY OF OPERATORS.
   Each operator under this subchapter shall be responsible and accountable for
the violation of any of the terms of this subchapter by all of his agents or
servants, whether or not the violation is committed with his knowledge. The
operator, his agents or servants shall not allow patrons to do any of the acts
prohibited by this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-116) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.119 EXEMPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to municipal dances or roller skating,
dances or roller skating sponsored by the Recreation Commission, dances or
roller skating sponsored by any of the student bodies of the public or
parochial schools of the city, and fraternal or church organizations of the
city, the proceeds of which or the benefits thereof shall be devoted
exclusively to the benefit of such student bodies or school class,
fraternities, organizations or churches.
('68 Code, § 3-117) (Ord. 287, passed 10-2-67)
CARNIVALS
§ 113.130 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CARNIVAL. A transient outdoor show or exhibition consisting of or including
amusement machines or devices, concessions, or amusement stands, exhibits of
natural or artificial curiosities, or any combination thereof, and which or in
connection with are conducted or permitted games of chance or skill, or partly
chance and partly skill, or when goods are given away or awarded to persons
paying a consideration for a chance or opportunity to win or secure the same as
a prize or award, or any show, display, meeting, public gathering, or a similar
type activity conducted within the corporate limits of the city.
('68 Code, § 3-102) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39; Am. Ord. 458, passed 10-1-73)
§ 113.131 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, as owner, manager, sponsor, officer or agent, shall operate or
conduct a carnival within the boundaries of the city without first securing
absence from the City Council.
('68 Code, § 3-101) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.132 LICENSE APPLICATION; FORM AND CONTENTS.
   Any person desiring to operate or conduct a carnival within the city shall
make written application to the City Council for the same. The application
shall contain the names and addresses, including street and number; if the
applicant is a firm, corporation, association or organization, the full names
and addresses of such association or organization. The names and addresses of
any of the members of such firm, or of the officers, officials, directors and
other persons who may be financially interested in the carnival, shall also be
listed, together with a statement of the nature of their interest. The
application shall also specify the place where the carnival is proposed to be
conducted, the number, type and character of the stands, devices, exhibits and
displays proposed to be operated or maintained, the period for which the
carnival is proposed to be conducted, and the area proposed to be covered by
and used in connection with the carnival.
('68 Code, § 3-103) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39)
§ 113.133 COUNCIL ACTION REQUIRED ON APPLICATIONS.
   Each such application shall be filed with the City Clerk and shall be
brought before the Council at its next regular meeting. In case the applicant
shall advance the costs of a special meeting, the Mayor may call a special
meeting for the consideration of such application. In case the application
shall be approved by the Council, the Clerk shall thereupon, and upon payment
by the applicant the license fee, issue to the applicant a license. All
licenses, when issued, shall state the location of the carnival licensed, the
dates between which it may be conducted, the area which may be covered or used
in connection therewith, and the number, type and character of the stands,
devices, exhibits and displays permitted to be operated and maintained in
connection therewith.
('68 Code, § 3-104) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39)
§ 113.134 LICENSE FEE.
   The license fee which shall be paid to the City Clerk shall be not less than
$25 for each day during any part of which the carnival is proposed to be
conducted, and shall be paid for the full term of the license in advance,
before the license shall issue; provided that in case the Council shall approve
a license for a period of more than 30 days, not more than the license fees for
the first 30 days of such license need be paid in advance. In such case the
license fees for the remaining period of the license shall be paid in advance
at the beginning of each 30-day period. If it shall appear from any application
that the carnival for which license is sought will occupy or use more than one
acre of ground, then the license fee shall be $50 per day.
('68 Code, § 3-105) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39)
§ 113.135 FRAUD OR UNTRUE STATEMENTS ON APPLICATIONS PROHIBITED.
   In case any application shall contain any untrue statements, the license
issued upon the approval of said application shall be subject to cancellation
at any time by the City Council, and all license fees paid therefor shall be
forfeited.
('68 Code, § 3-106) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39)
§ 113.136 NONTRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferable except with
the approval of the City Council.
('68 Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.137 REVOCATION OR CANCELLATION OF LICENSE.
   Any license granted under this subchapter may be revoked or cancelled at any
time with or without cause by the City Council at its pleasure.
('68 Code, § 3-108) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39)
§ 113.138 DISORDERLY CONDUCT PROHIBITED.
   No licensee under this subchapter shall permit or allow any disorderly
conduct upon the carnival grounds, or the use of any immoral, profane or
indecent language in, at or around any booth, stand, room, building, concession
or structure upon the carnival grounds, or permit or allow any such structure
or any part of the carnival grounds to become a place of resort for disorderly
persons. No display, show, exhibit or act held or conducted in connection with
any carnival shall be of an indecent or immoral character. Violation of any of
the provisions of this section by any licensee, his agents, employees or
associates, shall be grounds for the cancellation of such license and the
forfeiture of all license fees paid.
('68 Code, § 3-107) (Ord. 24, passed 8-4-39)
SHOWS
§ 113.150 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK, MANAGER, FIRE CHIEF, BUILDING INSPECTOR or POLICE CHIEF. These city
officials and their duly authorized representative when used in this
subchapter.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation, and their legal successors.
   SHOW. Any show, motion picture, play, opera or other theatrical performance,
concert, or other musical performance or exhibition, sporting event, whether
such event originates in the city or is exhibited in the city by electronic,
mechanical or other means, circus, menagerie or other exhibition,
entertainment, carnival, show or museum of whatsoever nature and name that is
open to the public or accessible to casual clientele for which money or any
other consideration is in any way demanded or received for admission thereto.
('68 Code, § 4-701) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72)
§ 113.151 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sponsor, operate, exhibit,
perform or cause to be operated, exhibited or performed any show within the
city without first obtaining a license therefor from the City Clerk. The City
Clerk is hereby authorized to grant such license for the aforesaid purpose.
However, that no license shall be required under this chapter where the
sponsor, operator, exhibitor or performer of such show is the state, or a
political subdivision thereof.
   (B)   Applications for licenses to operate a show shall be made by the
owner, manager, sponsor or operator thereof on forms to be furnished by the
City Clerk and shall be sworn to and filed with the City Clerk no less than 15
days prior to the date upon which the permit applied for shall become
effective. However, the City Clerk may, upon good cause shown, allow the filing
of an application less than 15 days prior to the effective date of the permit
applied for. The application shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the person applying for the permit; the
full name and address of the owner, operator and sponsor of such show.
      (2)   The proposed location and dates of operation of such show, or a
statement that operation will be on a continuous basis and the hours of such
operation.
      (3)   A brief description of the type of show.
      (4)   A statement setting forth all admission charges.
   (C)   If, while the application is pending, or during the term of any permit
granted thereunder, there is any change in fact, policy or method which would
alter the information provided in such application, applicant shall notify the
City Clerk in writing thereof within 72 hours after such change.
   (D)   Each license shall expire on June 1 of each year.
('68 Code, § 4-702) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.152 INSURANCE AND BOND REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to issuance by the City Clerk of any license under this
subchapter, each person applying for a license shall file with the City Clerk a
public liability and property damage insurance policy insuring such persons and
the city against any liability imposed on such person and/or the city arising
out of the operation of such show in the city by such person. Such policy shall
provide for payment up to $300,000 in the event of injury or death of any one
person, and for payment up to $500,000 in the event of injury or death of more
than one person, and for payment up to $100,000 for property damage. Such
policy shall bear an endorsement to the effect that the insurance company shall
notify the City Clerk at least ten days prior to the expiration of such policy,
whether by way of cancellation or limitation of term.
   (B)   Prior to issuance by the City Clerk of any license under this
subchapter, each person applying for a license shall file with the City Clerk a
bond in the penal sum of $500, indemnifying the city against any and all
violations of any provision of this code or any applicable ordinance, rule or
regulation of the city, to indemnify the city for any and all damage to public
property of any kind or nature, and conditioned that said licensee will pay to
the city all fines or penalties which may be assessed against said licensee for
breach of any applicable provision of this code or any applicable ordinance of
the city relating to the business carried on by such person, and conditioned
further that said licensee will fulfill any obligation to a resident of the
state, which obligation is incurred as a result of the operation of such show
by the licensee within the city.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person required to have a license under
this subchapter, to sponsor, operate, exhibit, perform or cause to be operated,
exhibited or performed, such show within the city unless a policy of insurance
and bond, as required by this section, are in force at the time of said
operation, exhibition or performance.
('68 Code, § 4-704) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.153 RECOMMENDATION BY AUTHORITIES PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OR RENEWAL OF
LICENSE.
   (A)   Previous to issuance or renewal of any license under this subchapter,
a recommendation concerning the issuance of said license must be obtained from
the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Building Inspector, The Police Chief shall
determine whether or not there is any criminal record involving the applicant,
and examine the site to determine the traffic patterns for safety purposes, for
proper ingress and egress to said site, and to determine whether or not a
police officer or officers may or may not be needed for traffic purposes or
other purposes to protect the safety, health and welfare of the citizens of the
community.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall inspect the site and the facilities to be used
thereon to be certain that said facilities meet all requirements of the Fire
Code of the city, and to establish any regulations for the operation of said
show to conform therewith.
   (C)   The Building Inspector shall inspect the site to determine the
adequacy of sanitary facilities, rest rooms, the proper construction of
temporary bleachers or other seats or stands, and to determine that said
facilities meet all of the requirements of the Building Regulations, the Zoning
Code and off-street parking requirements of the city code.
('68 Code, § 4-705) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72)
§ 113.154 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any license issued under this subchapter may be suspended and revoked
for the violation of the laws of the state, any applicable provision of this
code or any applicable ordinance of the city. Prior to any suspension or
revocation, a hearing shall be held by the City Manager. A hearing notice shall
be mailed to the licensee, by regular mail, addressed to the licensee at the
address shown on the license, and said notice shall specify the violation or
violations with which the licensee is charged and the date or dates of said
violations. The notice shall state the date and place of the hearing before the
City Manager, and said notice shall be mailed not less than six days before the
date of the hearing. At such hearing, the licensee and his attorney may be
present and may submit evidence in his defense. If the Manager determines from
the evidence that the licensee is guilty of the violation or violations
charged, he may revoke the license to operate immediately.
   (B)   The licensee may request an appeal hearing before the City Council at
their next regular meeting, provided said regular Council meeting is not less
than six days from the date the appeal request is made, and in the event it is
less than six days, the appeal shall be heard by the City Council at the
following regular meeting of the Council. The license shall remain suspended
during the appeal period. At the appeal hearing, the licensee and his attorney
may be present and may submit evidence in his defense. If the City Council
determines from the evidence that the licensee is guilty of the violation or
violations charged, they may sustain the decision of the City Manager to revoke
the license or they may overrule the decision of the City Manager and reinstate
the license.
('68 Code, § 4-707) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72)
§ 113.155 HOURS OF OPERATION RESTRICTED.
   No show shall conduct any performance, entertainment, or remain open to the
public between the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 12:00 noon on Sundays, and between
the hours of 1:00 a.m. and 9:00 a.m. on other days.
('68 Code, § 4-708) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.156 INACCURATE OR MISLEADING REPRESENTATION OF SHOWS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to advertise any show licensed under
this subchapter in such a manner so that the advertising does not accurately
represent the nature of the show, or so as to mislead or misinform the public
as to the nature of the show.
('68 Code, § 4-708) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.157 OBSCENE OR LEWD ACTS PRODUCED OR EXHIBITED PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      Material is obscene when the average person, applying contemporary
community standards, would find that the work taken as a whole, appeals to the
prurient interest; the work depicts or describes, in a patently offensive way,
sexual conduct specifically defined by applicable law; and the work, taken as a
whole, lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to knowingly advertise, produce,
operate, exhibit or cause to be advertised, produced, operated or exhibited, in
the city, any show, as defined in this subchapter, which is obscene, lewd or
lascivious, either in whole or in part, or which contains an article or
instrument of absence, indecent or immoral use or purports to be for obscene,
indecent or immoral use or purpose.
('68 Code, § 4-708) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.158 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNER.
   (A)   No person receiving a license under this subchapter shall permit any
disorderly conduct or the use of any immoral, profane or indecent language, or
permit the sale, giving away or use of intoxicating liquors or narcotics, or
permit such place of amusement or exhibit to become or be a place or resort of
thieves, prostitutes, narcotic addicts, narcotic peddlers, or other disorderly
persons.
('68 Code, § 4-709)
   (B)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner or operator of any show to
maintain quiet and good order upon the premises. ('68 Code, § 4-708)
(Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.159 PROHIBITING ATTENDANCE BY PERSONS UNDER 18 YEARS.
   When the City Manager recommends that any show shall not be viewed by
persons under the age of 18 years, the City Clerk, when issuing said license,
shall state on the face of said license that the licensee is to prohibit the
attendance to said show of persons under the age of 18 years.
('68 Code, § 4-711) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.160 EXEMPTION.
   This subchapter shall not apply to places having a Class C liquor license.
('68 Code, § 4-710) (Ord. 418, passed 5-1-72)
PRIVATE CLUBS
§ 113.170 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE CLUB. A place where a group of people congregate for special
purposes or for the promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature,
politics or the like, but not operated for profit.
('68 Code, § 3-1401) (Ord. 382, passed 3-15-71)
§ 113.171 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   All private clubs must obtain a license to occupy the premises in the city
from the City Council. Applications for a hearing before the City Council, to
determine whether or not the said license shall be issued, shall be furnished
at the office of the City Clerk. The City Council shall, by resolution,
determine the annual license fee for private clubs.
('68 Code, § 3-1401) (Ord. 382, passed 3-15-71; Am. Ord. 387, passed 5-1-71)
Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.172 FACTORS OF COUNCIL DETERMINATION.
   At such hearing, the City Council shall consider the following items in
order to determine whether or not a license should be issued for the proposed
private club, as requested in the application:
   (A)   Compliance with the City Zoning Code;
   (B)   Compliance with the City Building Regulations;
   (C)   Sufficient off-street parking facilities;
   (D)   Proper fencing for the elimination of headlights flashing in adjacent
buildings;
   (E)   Compliance with proper traffic regulations to insure the safety of
pedestrians and vehicles traveling on abutting streets and highways; and
   (F)   Abatement of noise that would disturb the peace and good order of the
neighborhood.
('68 Code, § 3-1402) (Ord. 382, passed 3-15-71)
§ 113.173 UNLICENSED PRIVATE CLUBS PROHIBITED; LOITERING.
   (A)   Any person who shall occupy any building or premises for the purpose
of operating a private club, as defined in §
113.170, shall be in violation of this subchapter.
   (B)   Any person who shall loiter in or about any unlicensed private club
shall be in violation of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-1404) (Ord. 382, passed 3-15-71) Penalty, see §
113.999
CABARETS
§ 113.185 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be known and cited as the City of Inkster Cabaret
Ordinance.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
§ 113.186 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DAY. A 24 hour period of time commencing at the opening of the
cabaret or club cabaret for business on a given calendar day.
   CABARET. Any place wherein food and/or any type of alcoholic or non-
alcoholic beverages are sold or given or given away on the premises and the
establishment utilizes or features topless dancers, strippers, male or female
impersonators or similar entertainers and the operator thereof holds a yearly
license from the state to sell such beverages by the glass, and where the
patrons are provided with entertainment or space for dancing.
   CLUB CABARET. An association of persons over the age of 18 years, organized
as a non-profit corporation, which shall have a listed membership with regular
fees for joining or annual dues. Such corporation shall be licensed by the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission under the appropriate rules and regulations
and shall comply with all appropriate laws and statutes of the city, county and
state,
   OPERATOR. Any person licensed by the State Liquor Control Commission, or
such person's agent or employee, operating any cabaret or club cabaret.
   PERFORMER. Any topless dancer, stripper, male or female impersonator or
similar entertainer.
   PERSON. Any person, co-partnership, firm, corporation, society, club,
association or organization which engages in, sponsors, or conducts the
operation of any cabaret or club cabaret, or a performer in any such cabaret or
club cabaret.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
§ 113.187 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate any cabaret or club
cabaret in the city without first obtaining a proper license therefore from the
City Clerk. The City Clerk shall issue a license based upon the recommendation
of the City Manager, as set forth in §
113.191. No license shall be issued, however, until the applicant shall have
complied with the requirements of the Zoning Code, the provisions of this
subchapter, and any applicable provisions of this code or any applicable
ordinance of the city. Consistent with Michigan Law, a preexisting legal
nonconformity shall be deemed to be in compliance with the Zoning Code for
cabaret licensing purposes. The fee for cabaret license shall be established by
resolution of the City Council which resolution may be amended after three
years. The fee shall be set in an amount sufficient to cover the administration
and enforcement of the regulations set forth in this subchapter. A cabaret or
club cabaret in operation at the time this subchapter is adopted shall be
considered a licensed cabaret or club cabaret if it submits an application for
a license within 30 days of the effective date of this subchapter. If the
application is received within the 30-day time period, said cabaret or club
cabaret may continue in operation pending the review of the license application
or any subsequent appeal of the decision on the application received within the
30-day time period.
   (B)   Upon receipt of certification from the departments mentioned in §
113.191, it shall be the duty of the City Clerk to inform the City Manager that
the licensing requirements have been complied with and certification received.
Thereupon, it is the duty of the City Clerk or his or her designee to approve
the issuance of such license unless, within one week of the Clerk's
notification, the City Manager files with the Clerk and serves upon the
applicant written reasons why such license should not be issued. Unless another
appeal procedure is set forth in this subchapter, the applicant may request,
within five days of service of the City Manager's decision, a hearing before
the City Council, said hearing to be held within 45 days of receipt of the
applicant's written request. The City Council may, by majority vote, direct the
City Manager or his or her designee to issue said license upon material and
substantial evidence on the record as a whole that the City Manager's
recommendation was unjustified, or it may affirm or modify the City Manager's
recommendation.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.188 EXPIRATION DATE; FEE.
   Cabaret licenses issued pursuant to this subchapter shall expire on May 1 of
each year, and the annual license fee established by resolution of the City
Council shall be due and payable on or before that date.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
§ 113.189 AUTHORITY TO REFUSE OR REVOKE LICENCES.
   (A)   Denial of license application.
      (1)   The City Manager may refuse to recommend issuance of a license for
the operation of any business regulated by this subchapter. The City Manager's
written recommendation shall list all reasons for the recommendation based upon
the following criteria:
         (a)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.
         (b)   An applicant is overdue in his or her payment to the city of
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed in relation to a
cabaret or club cabaret.
         (c)   An applicant has failed to provide information requested in the
application for the issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question
or request for information on the application forms.
         (d)   An applicant has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this section, other than the offense of operating a cabaret or club cabaret
without a license, within two years immediately preceding the filing of the
application.
         (e)   The premises to be used for the cabaret or club cabaret has not
been approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, or Building Official;
or the premises is not in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
         (f)   The license fee required by this section has not been paid.
         (g)   An applicant has a record of conviction for an offense involving
gambling, narcotics, prostitution, pandering, pornography, public indecency,
sexual assault, or any violation of any provision of this subchapter within the
preceding two years.
         (h)   The applicant is not in compliance with applicable zoning
ordinances.
         (i)   The Chief of Police reports that the applicant is presently
unfit to operate a cabaret or club cabaret due to the applicant's overall
criminal record, regardless of the date of any criminal conviction. In making
this determination, the Chief of Police shall consider the following factors:
            1.   The extent and nature of past criminal activities;
            2.   The age at the time of the commission of the crime;
            3.   The amount of time that has elapsed since the last illegal
activity;
            4.   The conduct and work activity prior to and following the
illegal activity;
            5.   Evidence of any rehabilitation or rehabilitative effort while
incarcerated or following release; and
            6.   Other evidence of present fitness, including letters of
recommendation from prosecution, law enforcement, and correctional officers who
prosecuted, arrested, or had custodial responsibility for that person, the
Sheriff and Chief of Police in the community where the applicant resides, and
any other persons in contact with the applicant.
      (2)   Any denial of a license application based upon the recommendation
of the City Manager under division (A)(1)(a) through (h) of this section may be
appealed to the City Council by notifying the City Clerk in writing within five
calendar days of the denial of the license application. The City Council shall
hear the appeal and decide whether to affirm, reverse or modify the city's
decision within 45 days of the receipt of the written appeal. The decision of
the City Council shall constitute a final decision. The filing of an appeal
shall not stay a City Council decision under division (A)(1)(a) through (h) of
this section to deny an application for a cabaret license, unless the
application is for further renewal of an existing cabaret or club cabaret
license. If the application is for the renewal of an existing cabaret or club
cabaret license, the applicant may continue to operate unless the city obtains
a temporary restraining order or other injunctive relief in the Circuit Court,
requiring the cessation of operation pending the appeal.
      (3)   Any denial of a license application based upon the recommendation
of the City Manager under division (A)(1)(i) of this section shall constitute a
final decision and may be appealed directly to the Circuit Court. Within 14
business days of the city's denial based upon the City Manager's recommendation
for denial of the application for a cabaret license, when made under division
(A)(1)(i) of this section, the city shall file an action in the Circuit Court
seeking a declaratory judgment affirming the City Manager decision. If the city
files for a declaratory judgment within 14 days of the City Manager's decision,
the filing of an appeal shall not stay the city's decision under division (A)
(1)(i) of this section to deny an application for a cabaret license, unless
otherwise ordered by the Circuit Court.
   (B)   Suspension or revocation of an existing cabaret license.
      (1)   The City Manager may suspend or revoke an existing cabaret license
for the operation of any business regulated by this subchapter, to be effective
at the expiration of the appeal period set forth in this section unless
otherwise ordered by a court of competent jurisdiction. The City Manager's
written suspension or revocation shall list all reasons for the suspension or
revocation based upon the following criteria:
         (a)   A licensee is discovered to be under 18 years of age.
         (b)   A licensee is found to be overdue in his or her payment to the
city of taxes, fees, fines, or penalties assessed against or imposed in
relation to a cabaret or club cabaret.
         (c)   A licensee has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application forms.
         (d)   A licensee has been convicted of a violation of a provision of
this section, other than the offense of operating a cabaret or club cabaret
without a license, within two years immediately preceding the filing of the
application.
         (e)   The premises used for the cabaret or club cabaret is no longer
approved by the Health Department, Fire Department, or Building Official; or
the premises is no longer in compliance with applicable laws and ordinances.
         (f)   A licensee is convicted for an offense involving gambling,
narcotics, prostitution, pandering, pornography, public indecency, sexual
assault, or any violation of any provision of this subchapter within the
preceding two years.
         (g)   The Chief of Police reports that the licensee is presently unfit
to operate a cabaret or club cabaret due to the applicant's overall criminal
record, regardless of the date of any criminal conviction. In making this
determination, the Chief of Police shall consider the following factors:
            1.   The extent and nature of past criminal activities;
            2.   The age at the time of the commission of the crime;
            3.   The amount of time that has elapsed since the last illegal
activity;
            4.   The conduct and work activity prior to and following the
illegal activity;
            5.   Evidence of any rehabilitation or rehabilitative effort while
incarcerated or following release; and
            6.   Other evidence of present fitness, including letters of
recommendation from prosecution, law enforcement, and correctional officers who
prosecuted, arrested, or had custodial responsibility for that person, the
Sheriff and Chief of Police in the community where the applicant resides, and
any other persons in contact with the licensee.
      (2)   Any suspension or revocation by the City Manager under division (B)
(1)(a) through (f) of this section may be appealed to the City Council by
notifying the City Clerk in writing within five calendar days of the license
suspension or revocation. The City Council shall hear the appeal and decide
whether to affirm, reverse or modify the City Manager's decision within 45 days
of the receipt of the written appeal. The decision of the City Council shall
constitute a final decision. The filing of an appeal shall stay a City Manager
or City Council decision under division (B)(1)(a) through (f) of this section
to suspend or revoke a cabaret license.
      (3)   Any suspension or revocation by the City Manager under division (B)
(1)(g) of this section shall constitute a final decision and may be appealed
directly to the Circuit Court. Within 14 business days of the City Manager's
suspension or revocation of a cabaret license under division (B)(1)(g) of this
section the city may file an action in the Circuit Court seeking a declaratory
judgment affirming the City Manager decision. If the city files for a
declaratory judgment within 14 days of the City Manager's decision, the filing
of an appeal shall stay the City Manager's decision under division (B)(1)(g) of
this section to suspend or revoke a cabaret license, unless otherwise ordered
by the Circuit Court.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
§ 113.190 APPEAL OF A DECISION TO DENY/REVOKE LICENSE.
   (A)   An appeal to the City Council is commenced with the filing of a
written appeal with the City Clerk's Office within the time specified by this
subchapter, as provided below. An appeal from a denial of a license application
due to the recommendation of the City Manager based upon §
113.189(A)(1)(i) alone, or from a suspension or revocation by the City Manager
under §
113.189(B)(1)(g) alone, shall be filed in the Circuit Court of the county in
which the city is located, as provided by the Michigan Rules of Court.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall schedule the appeal for a public hearing within
45 days of the receipt of the written appeal, and shall provide notice of the
hearing date, time and location by written notice mailed to the address listed
on the application. Notice of the appeal hearing shall also be published in a
newspaper in general circulation in the city one week before the hearing, said
notice to include the date, time and place of the hearing, the notice of appeal
and the name of the party appealing the decision.
   (C)   The party appealing the decision to deny, suspend or revoke the
license shall appear for the hearing at the date, time and place provided in
the notice and may present evidence in support to its position, which evidence
shall be made part of the record. Any written statements or documentary
evidence to be presented at the hearing should be submitted to the City Clerk
at least one week prior to the date of the hearing. The city shall allow the
party appealing the decision to review any written statements or documentary
evidence to be presented at the hearing at least one week prior to the hearing,
subject to the exemptions listed in the Freedom of Information Act.
   (D)   The city shall make a final decision on the appeal within 14 days of
the completion of the hearing.
   (E)   Any person adversely affected by final decision of the City Council or
City Manager may appeal the decision to the Circuit Court of the county in
which the city is located, as provided by the Michigan Rules of Court.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
§ 113.191 INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OF PREMISES; STRUCTURAL AND SANITATION
REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon application and before any license required by this subchapter shall be
issued, it shall be the duty of the person seeking such license to request and
to provide proof of an inspection of the proposed premises of any cabaret or
club cabaret to be made by the Department of Buildings, the Department of
Health, and the Fire Department. The departments shall make every effort to
inspect the premises promptly upon the request of the applicant, but in no case
shall the inspection be delayed more than two weeks from the initial request.
In the case of a club cabaret operating pursuant to a limited license issued by
the Michigan Liquor Control Commission, upon premises leased or rented for a
48-hour period or less, said premises not being owned by the club cabaret so
renting or leasing, said inspection may be waived at the discretion of the City
Manager. Upon full compliance with all pertinent laws, rules and regulations of
the aforesaid departments, including the following particular requirements,
such department shall certify the application to the City Clerk.
   (A)   Plumbing. All plumbing in cabarets and club cabarets shall meet the
minimum requirement of the Plumbing Code of the city. All rooms housing the
sanitary facilities shall be equipped with sanitary towels of a type acceptable
to the Department of Health. Sanitary drinking fountains shall not be located
in the toilet room.
   (B)   Ventilation. Proper ventilation, either natural or mechanical, shall
be provided so that each person on the premises shall be supplied with 1,200
cubic feet of air per hour.
   (C)   Fire protection, lighting and building safety. The premises of the
licensed establishment shall meet the requirements of the Fire Prevention Code,
and shall furnish lighting sufficient to provide one foot candle power at table
top level. Such lighting may be reduced to accommodate acts of entertainment,
while such acts are in progress, but must be raised to the required level at
all other times the establishment is in use as heretofore defined.
   (D)   Compliance with building regulations. The premises shall comply with
the building regulations of the city.
   (E)   Compliance with city codes and ordinances. The premises shall comply
with all codes and ordinances of the city. A preexisting legal nonconformity
shall be considered as complying with the Zoning Code for purposes of cabaret
licensing requirements.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
§ 113.192 CERTAIN ACTS PROHIBITED ON LICENSED PREMISES.
   The following rules and regulations shall, where applicable, govern all
types of establishments licensed under this subchapter, and any operator or his
agent, independent contractor, performer or employee shall not:
   (A)   Permit any disorderly conduct.
   (B)   Suffer or allow, in or upon the licensed premises, the annoying,
molesting or accosting and soliciting for immoral purposes, of any patrons,
independent contractors, performers or employees by other patrons, independent
contractors, performers or employees.
   (C)   Permit any of the following conduct, either by patrons, independent
contractors, performers or employees:
      (1)   The performance of acts of sexual intercourse, masturbation,
sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation, flagellation, or any sexual acts which are
prohibited by law.
      (2)   The actual caressing or fondling of the breast, buttock, pubic
region or genitals of any other person, patron, independent contractor or
performer.
      (3)   The actual or simulated display of the pubic hairs, pubic region,
anus, vulva or genitals.
   (D)   Allow or permit any person to smoke or hold a lighted cigar, cigarette
or pipe, on the dance floor while dancing is permitted.
   (E)   Fail to provide separate and adequate dressing rooms for male and
female performers and/or entertainers if entertainment is provided.
   (F)   Permit or allow any patron to take an active part in any
entertainment; except, that patrons may engage or participate in group or
community singing.
   (G)   Permit overcrowding of the dance floor or provide less than 200 square
feet of dance space in establishments which have a seating capacity of less
than 100 persons, or provide less than 400 square feet in establishments which
have a seating capacity of 100 or more persons. Such dance space shall be
plainly indicated by floor markings and shall be kept free of tables, chairs or
any other obstacles during the time that dancing is permitted.
   (H)   Permit any visibly intoxicated person to be sold or served any
alcoholic beverages, or permit such person to dance, loiter or be employed on
the licensed premises.
   (I)   Permit independent contractors, performers, dancers and entertainers,
to eat, drink, solicit drinks or otherwise mingle with the patrons. As used in
this division, the term "mingle" shall not be interpreted so as to prevent an
independent contractor or performer from having brief contact with a patron in
order to receive tips during or within a reasonable time following a
performance. The purchasing of or otherwise furnishing an independent
contractor or performer with food or drink shall not be considered tipping.
Entertainers under 18 years of age shall not be permitted to remain in that
portion of the licensed premises that is open to the public except during
periods of actual performance or when accompanied by a parent, legal guardian,
or spouse over 18 years of age.
   (J)   Permit or be engaged in any illegal act or occupation on the licensed
premises.
   (K)   Permit or allow gambling or the use, possession or presence of
gambling apparatus or paraphernalia, except for those charitable gaming
activities permitted and regulated by Public Act 382 of 1972, as amended.
Charitable gaming activities shall only be permitted in an approved charitable
gaming room and also meet the following criteria:
      (1)   Charitable gaming rooms must be confined to an area of the building
that is physically separated from the cabaret.
      (2)   Charitable gaming rooms must be accessed via a separate interior or
exterior entry.
   (L)   Employ or contract with any person except in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter or any applicable provision of this code, any
applicable ordinance of the city, or state laws.
   (M)   Permit any person to remain in or upon the licensed premises who
engages in conduct prohibited by this section.
   (N)   Permit the exhibition of pictures, video tapes or films depicting acts
of sexual intercourse, masturbation, sodomy, bestiality, oral copulation,
flagellation, or any sexual acts which are prohibited by law.
   (O)   Permit any person under the influence of any type of drug or narcotic
to be sold or served any alcoholic beverages, or permit such person to dance,
loiter or be employed on the licensed premises.
   (P)   Permit any person to perform or audition for a position as a
performer, who has performed a secondary service, as described by §
113.195 on the same business day or who is identified on the notice from the
Police Department as provided in §
113.196(B) or to allow any person ro perform or audition for a position as a
performer without first obtaining the information and documentation required by
§
113.196(A) and entering the information on the daily logs as required in §
113.193(A).
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08; Am. Ord. 834, passed 2-21-11) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.193 RECORD OF PERFORMERS, DANCERS AND/OR ENTERTAINERS OR THOSE WHO
AUDITION TO BE PERFORMERS, DANCERS AND/OR ENTERTAINERS; REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Daily logs of all performers required. The licensee of a cabaret shall
keep a daily log of each person that performs as a performer, dancer or other
entertainer during each business day and shall keep said daily logs on the
premises and make such daily logs available for inspection by any police/agency
of the city, county or state. The daily logs shall be kept on the premises for
a period of 120 days, and shall include all the information required in §
113.196(A) for each performer that appears in the daily log.
   (B)   Reporting requirements. The licensee of a cabaret shall, within 15
days of receiving its license, provide to the Police Department a master list
of all performers appearing at the licensed establishment, which master list
shall include all the information required in §
113.196(A) for each performer appearing on the master list. Thereafter, the
licensee of a cabaret shall, within five days of the first of each month,
provide to the Police Department an update to the master list, including
starting dates for all performers not listed on the master list as updated for
the month immediately preceding the reporting period, and when known, the
termination date for each performer who ceased performing at the licensed
establishment during the reporting period. The monthly update shall contain all
the required documentation set forth in §
113.196(A) for each performer that performed at the licensed establishment
during the prior month who was not listed on the master list, as updated for
the month immediately preceding. The monthly update shall also contain a list
of performers listed on the master list as updated for the month immediately
preceding, who are no longer performing at the licensed establishment. Should a
performer perform one or more times during any given month and quit prior to
the end of the reporting period, the licensee shall provide all the required
documentation set forth in §
113.196(A), and shall further provide the name of such a performer on the list
of those no longer performing at the licensed establishment. The city
recognizes the information submitted constitutes an investigating record for
law enforcement purposes, the disclosure of which may constitute an unwarranted
invasion of personal privacy of the applicants, and will therefore mark the
daily logs as records exempt from Freedom of Information Act requests pursuant
to MCL § 15.243(b)(iii).
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.194 RECEIPT OF MONEY FROM PATRONS FOR PRIVILEGE OF LEAVING WITH PERFORMER
OR DANCER IS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his agent, independent contractor,
performer or employee to require or accept any consideration, be it money,
ticket, token or other thing of value, or any ticket, token or other thing
which evidences a debt or value owing, in return for which any patron at a
cabaret shall be privileged to leave such cabaret in company with any
performer, dancer or entertainer prior to the closing hour of such cabaret.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.195 EMPLOYMENT OF PERFORMERS AND ENTERTAINERS TO PERFORM SECONDARY
SERVICES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee, his agent, independent contractor,
performer or employee to permit any person serving as a performer, dancer or
entertainer in a cabaret to perform a secondary service on the same business
day as the service as a performer, dancer or entertainer. Secondary services
shall include, but are not limited to, the selling of cigarettes, photographing
patrons, waiting tables, bartending or hat-checking.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.196 PERFORMER'S IDENTIFICATION REQUIRED FOR ALL PERFORMERS AND DANCERS.
   (A)   The licensee shall not allow a person to perform at the licensed
premises without first obtaining and retaining with the daily log required in §
113.193(A) a copy of the person's driver's license, state identification or
similar picture identification, and recording the person's full legal name,
date of birth, residential address, stage name (if any), a height/weight
description of the person and a statement signed by the person that the person
has not been convicted of any of the following types of crimes: prostitution;
accosting and soliciting; public indecency; criminal sexual conduct; obscenity;
delivery, conspiracy to deliver, or possession with intent to deliver a
controlled substance in any amount; pornography, or any violation of this
subchapter, within the past two years.
   (B)   The Chief of Police or his designee shall review the master list, as
updated pursuant to §
113.193(B) and shall provide notice to all cabaret licensee's within the city
that a person is not permitted to perform in any cabaret within the city based
upon any of the conduct listed below:
      (1)   Conviction of any of the following types of crimes within the past
two years: prostitution; accosting and soliciting; public indecency; criminal
sexual conduct; obscenity; delivery, conspiracy to deliver, or possession with
intent to deliver a controlled substance in any amount; pornography.
      (2)   False, misleading and/or incomplete information contained in the
daily log kept by the cabaret pursuant to §
113.193.
      (3)   Violation of this subchapter within the past two years.
      (4)   The person is under 18 years of age.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee of any cabaret, his agent,
independent contractor, performer, or employee to allow any person to perform
or audition for a position as a performer that the Chief of Police or his
designee has listed in the notice to all cabaret licensees within the city as
set forth above.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.197 MINORS IN CABARETS PROHIBITED.
   The minimum age of patrons of cabarets shall be 18 years.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.198 DANCING AND ENTERTAINMENT DURING CERTAIN HOURS.
   No dancing or entertainment shall be permitted in any cabaret or club
cabaret between the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:30 a.m. Eastern Standard Time;
provided, that the exceptions in the Michigan Liquor Control Act governing
hours of operation on December 24 and 26 annually and the regulations of the
State Liquor Control Commission governing hours of operation on January 1 shall
prevail on the aforesaid dates.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.199 INSPECTION OF PREMISES BY AUTHORITIES.
   The operator or person in charge of any cabaret shall allow the portion of
the cabaret or club cabaret which is open to the public to be inspected without
a search warrant by the Police Department or other city departments for the
purpose of enforcing any of the provisions of this subchapter, this code or any
applicable ordinance of the city. Said inspections may occur at any time during
the cabaret or club cabaret's regular business hours, when the cabaret or club
cabaret is otherwise open for business, or as otherwise provided by law.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
§ 113.200 LOCKED DOORS PROHIBITED.
   Any public entrances or exits in any cabaret governed by the provisions of
this subchapter and the Fire Prevention Code shall not be locked during the
hours of operation of said cabaret unless approval shall be granted by the
Police Department, Fire Department and Building Department upon written
application stating reasons acceptable to the Chief of Police, Fire Chief and
Director of the Building Department, in their sole discretion; provided, that
such approval shall not be used to impede or prevent the enforcement of any of
the provisions of this subchapter or any applicable provision of this code, any
applicable ordinance of the city, or the laws of the state. Violation of this
section shall be a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08) Penalty, see §
113.999
BURLESQUE SHOWS AND LIVE ENTERTAINMENT
§ 113.210 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BURLESQUE SHOWS and LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. The presentation of acts which are
presented live for the enjoyment of the audience.
('68 Code, § 8-701) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77)
§ 113.211 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   A license shall be obtained for a period of one year from the City Clerk. A
license shall be obtained by each owner, partner and/or officer of the
corporation operating a business active in the presentation of burlesque shows.
Licensing fee shall be $500 per year or fraction thereof.
('68 Code, § 8-702) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.212 LICENSE APPLICATION; INSPECTIONS AND RECOMMENDATIONS.
   The City Manager shall determine whether or not said license shall be
issued, revoked or suspended after reviewing the recommendation of the Fire
Chief, Police Chief and the Building Department. The Fire Chief shall inspect
the site and the facilities to be used thereon, to be certain that said
facilities meet all requirements of the city and state fire code. The Police
Chief shall determine whether or not there is any criminal record involving the
applicant/licensee and examine the site, to determine the traffic patterns for
safety purposes, for proper egress and ingress to said site. The Building
Department shall inspect the facilities at said site and determine that said
premises meet all the requirements of the Building Regulations, Zoning Code and
off-street parking requirements of this code. The principal criteria to be used
by the City Manager, in addition to the aforementioned recommendations, in
consideration of each license request, shall be that the proposed licensee must
comply with the provisions of this subchapter and not be in violation of any
applicable provision of this code, any applicable ordinance of the city, or
statutes of the state.
('68 Code, § 8-703) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77)
§ 113.213 CERTAIN ACTS DEPICTING SPECIFIC SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
   No person, firm, corporation or licensee shall present or allow to be
presented, or participate in, any live acts which are distinguished or
characterized by their emphasis on matters depicting, describing or relating to
specific sexual activities or specified anatomical areas as defined below:
   (A)   Specified sexual activities:
      (1)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      (2)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy.
      (3)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region,
buttock or female breast.
   (B)   Specified anatomical areas:
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered:
         (a)   Human genitals, pubic region;
         (b)   Buttock; and
         (c)   Female breast below a point immediately above the top of the
areola; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernable turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
('68 Code, § 8-704) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.214 LICENSE DENIAL; NOTICE; HEARING; APPEAL.
   In the event the City Manager chooses to deny the issuance of said license,
he shall notify the applicant in writing. If the applicant desires a hearing,
he shall notify the city manager in writing within ten days and the City
Manager shall set a date for hearing within 15 days and shall give at least ten
days notice by mailing a hearing notice to the applicant, by regular mail
addressed to the applicant at the address shown on the application, and said
notice shall specify the charges for which the application is denied or license
suspended or revoked and the date and place of hearing before the City Manager.
At such hearing, the applicant and his attorney may present and submit evidence
in the applicant's defense. In the event the application is denied, the
applicant may request an appeal hearing at the next regular Council meeting;
provided, that said meeting is not less than six days from the date of the
appeal request, and in the event it is less than six days, the appeal shall be
heard by the City Council at the following meeting of said City Council. At the
appeal hearing, the applicant and his attorney may present and may submit
evidence in the applicant's defense. After hearing the recommendations of the
City Manager and the request of the applicant, the City Council shall determine
whether to sustain or overrule the decision of the City Manager.
('68 Code, § 8-705) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77)
§ 113.215 TRANSFER OF LICENSE RESTRICTED.
   Licenses issued under this subchapter shall not be transferable without the
approval of the city.
('68 Code, § 8-701) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.216 OPERATION AT DESIGNATED LOCATION.
   A license issued under this subchapter shall entitle the licensee to operate
only at the location designated in the license application.
('68 Code, § 8-708) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.217 OPERATION WITHOUT LICENSE DECLARED NUISANCE; ABATEMENT.
   Operating a business of this nature without a license is hereby declared to
be a public nuisance per se, and shall be abated by order of any court of
competent jurisdiction.
('68 Code, § 8-711) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77) Penalty, see §
113.999
§ 113.218 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Licenses shall be revoked by the City Manager for breach of this subchapter
or any laws of the city or state. A licensee whose license is revoked shall be
entitled to the same rights as an applicant for a new license whose application
is denied by the City Manager as stated in §
113.214.
('68 Code, § 8-706) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77)
§ 113.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty has not been provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $500 for
each offense or to imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
('68 Code, § 3-149) (Ord. 599, passed 4-18-83)
   (B)   Any person, member of a partnership and/or officer and director of a
corporation, violating any of the provisions of §§
113.210 through
113.218, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
subject to a fine of not more than $500 and be punished by imprisonment in, the
county jail for a period of not to exceed 180 days for each offense.
('68 Code, § 8-709)
   (C)   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or
when the violation occurs or continues.
('68 Code, § 8-710) (Ord. 511, passed 1-18-77)
   (D)   Any violation of §§
113.185 through
113.200 shall be punishable by a fine of up to $500, a license suspension or
revocation, or a combination of a fine and a license suspension or revocation.
The penalty shall be imposed by the City Manager based upon the severity of the
violations and/or whether the violation is a repeat offense. Generally, a first
violation shall be punishable by a fine, a second violation within one year of
the first violation by a license suspension and/or fine and a third violation
within one year of the first violation shall result in a license revocation
and/or fine. The penalty imposed may be appealed the City Council using the
appeal procedures set forth in §
113.190. The City Council may affirm or amend the penalty imposed by the City
Manager.
(Ord. 816, passed 2-20-08)
CHAPTER 114: CARE ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
Convalescent Homes
   
114.01   Definitions
   
114.02   License required
   
114.03   Application for license; contents; fee
   
114.04   Conditions required prior to issuance of license
   
114.05   Authority to establish standards
   
114.06   Periodic inspections of premises required
   
114.07   Revocation or suspension of license
CONVALESCENT HOMES
§ 114.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AGED. Any person who has attained the age of 65 years or over.
   CONVALESCENT HOME or HOME FOR THE AGED. As used in Act 280 of the Public
Acts of 1939, as amended by Act 30 of the First Extra Session of 1944 and Act
142 of the Public Acts of 1949, which is a part hereof, is defined as an
institution or building in which accommodation is maintained, furnished or
offered for any fee, gift, compensation, reward or in expectation thereof, for
the hospitalization or care of any aged, infirm or senile person, requiring or
receiving boarding care, chronic or convalescent care.
('68 Code, § 3-503) (Ord. 126, passed 12-2-54)
§ 114.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person may continue to operate any existing convalescent home or home for
the aged within the city, nor establish, conduct, maintain or manage such
convalescent home or home for the aged, for the hospitalization and/or care of
human beings, without first obtaining a license therefor from the City Council.
('68 Code, § 3-501) (Ord. 126, passed 12-2-54) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 114.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS; FEE.
   (A)   Any person desiring to conduct a convalescent home or home for the
aged in the city shall make an application in writing to the Department of
Health, in triplicate, on a form which shall conform to the general provisions
of this chapter. One copy of the application shall be forwarded at once to the
Fire Department, and one copy to the Building Inspector; and the report of
their recommendations shall be made to the Department of Health. The applicant
shall also submit satisfactory evidence that he is of reputable and responsible
character, and in the event the applicant is an association or corporation,
like evidence shall be submitted as to the members thereof and the person in
charge. Applicants shall, in addition, furnish satisfactory evidence of their
ability to comply with the minimum standards of this subchapter and all the
rules and regulations adopted thereunder.
('68 Code, § 3-504)
   (B)   Each application to the City Council for a license to conduct a
convalescent home or home for the aged shall be accompanied by a fee to be
determined by the number of beds available and approved for patients thereof.
Those with ten patients or less shall pay a fee of $50; those with over ten
patients shall pay a fee of $100 annually.
('68 Code, § 3-507) (Ord. 126, passed 12-2-54)
§ 114.04 CONDITIONS REQUIRED PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Before the City Council shall authorize the City Clerk to issue a
license as provided for in §
114.02, the applicant shall furnish it with a certificate of approval from the
Board of Health and the City Fire Department, stating that the establishment
where the applicant intends to conduct such convalescent home or home for the
aged is a proper place in which to conduct such business, and the payment of a
license fee hereafter prescribed in §
114.03, which shall be renewed annually thereafter on June 1. No license
granted hereunder shall be assignable or transferable.
('68 Code, § 3-502)
   (B)   Before the Board of Health issues a permit to the applicant to conduct
a convalescent home or home for the aged, they shall cause an inspection of the
premises to be made, and the number of patients that may be cared for will be
determined as a result of such inspection.
('68 Code, § 3-506) (Ord. 126, passed 12-2-54)
§ 114.05 AUTHORITY TO ESTABLISH STANDARDS.
   The Board of Health is hereby authorized to establish the standards
governing convalescent homes or homes for the aged and their method of
operation, and to adopt any additional rules and regulations from time to time
as circumstances may warrant.
('68 Code, § 3-505) (Ord. 126, passed 12-2-54)
§ 114.06 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS OF PREMISES REQUIRED.
   Every convalescent home or home for the aged for which a license has been
issued shall be periodically inspected by a duly appointed representative of
the Board of Health and the Fire Department, and such inspection shall be made
and conducted at any time said inspection shall be made and conducted at any
time said inspection shall be advisable in the opinion of the Board or the Fire
Department or either of their authorized representatives.
('68 Code, § 3-508) (Ord. 126, passed 12-2-54)
§ 114.07 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council is hereby authorized and shall, upon a petition from the
Board of Health or the Fire Department, revoke or suspend the license issued
hereunder on any of the following grounds:
   (A)   Violation of any of the provisions of this subchapter or the rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto:
   (B)   Permitting, aiding or abetting the commission of an illegal act in
such institution; or
   (C)   Conduct or practices detrimental to the welfare of patients.
('68 Code, § 3-509) (Ord. 126, passed 12-2-54)
CHAPTER 115: JUNK AND SECONDHAND DEALERS; PAWNBROKERS
Section
Junk Yards or Shops
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   License required; application; prerequisites
   
115.03   License fee; public liability insurance required; expiration date
   
115.04   Expiration date
   
115.05   Form and content of license; display of license
   
115.06   Record of vehicles required to be kept
   
115.07   Business hours restricted
   
115.08   Refusal to issue license; suspension or revocation
   
115.09   Fence required; specifications
   
115.10   Pledges, pawns and loans prohibited
   
115.11   Exhibition of goods purchased or received; records required
   
115.12   Retention of purchases; delivery of record to police; exception
   
115.13   Receipt of articles restricted
   
115.14   Suspension or revocation of licenses; procedure
Used Car and Machinery Dealers
   
115.25   License required
   
115.26   Conditions of issuance; fees; surety bond
   
115.27   Expiration date; renewal of license
   
115.28   Nontransference of license
   
115.29   Separate license for each place of business required
   
115.30   Records required to be kept; contents; police inspection
   
115.31   Vehicles for sale to be in safe condition; equipment required
   
115.32   Revocation of license; hearing; notice
Secondhand Dealers
   
115.45   Definitions
   
115.46   License required; application; contents; investigation
   
115.47   License fee; surety bond
   
115.48   Separate license required for each location
   
115.49   Expiration date
   
115.50   Posting of license; contents
   
115.51   Exhibition of goods purchased or received; records required
   
115.52   Retention of purchases; exceptions
   
115.53   Receipt of articles restricted
   
115.54   Suspension or revocation of license
   
115.55   Fences required; specifications
Pawnbrokers
   
115.65   Application of state law
   
115.66   License required; bond; fee
JUNK YARDS OR SHOPS
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any personal property which is or may be salvaged for re-use, re-sale,
reduction or similar disposition, or which is possessed, transported, owned,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted for any of the aforesaid
purposes. Without limiting the aforesaid definition of JUNK, the term shall
include used or salvaged iron, brass, lead, copper and other base metal or
metals, and their compounds or combinations; used or salvaged rope, bags,
paper, rags, glass, rubber, and similar articles, or used lumber, used brick,
used tile, and any other used building material or fixtures, and used motor
vehicles which are used, owned or possessed for the purpose of wrecking or
salvaging parts therefrom.
   JUNK DEALER. Every person who engages in the business of buying, exchanging,
collecting, receiving, storing or selling any article or articles hereinabove
defined as junk.
   JUNK YARD  or JUNK SHOP. Any place at which a junk dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores, accumulates, sells or otherwise handles junk.
('68 Code, § 3-1001) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 363, passed 6-1-70)
§ 115.02 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; PREREQUISITES.
   (A)   No person, persons, corporation, partnership or firm shall maintain or
operate a junk yard or junk shop in the city without first obtaining a license
therefor. Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk upon
blanks to be provided. The applications so received by the City Clerk shall be
referred to the City Manager, the Chief Building Inspector, the Fire Chief and
the Police Chief for purposes of investigation and recommendation by such.
   (B)   After receipt of such recommendations, the application shall be
submitted to the Mayor and City Council. The sole power to grant licenses
hereunder is invested in said Mayor and Council. Licenses granted by said Mayor
and Council shall be issued by the City Clerk.
   (C)   Any applicant seeking to establish a junk yard or junk shop in a
location not previously used for that purpose, or any licensee seeking to move
or establish a junk yard or junk shop in a location not previously used for
that purpose, must first obtain the consent in writing of 65% of the owners of
residential property within 300 feet of any part of the area in which the
proposed junk business is to be conducted. Said area shall include any portion
to be used for the storage of any property in connection with such proposed
junk business.
('68 Code, § 3-1002) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.03 LICENSE FEE; PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED; EXPIRATION DATE.
   Any person seeking to engage in the business of a junk yard or junk shop as
hereinbefore defined shall pay the City Treasurer as a license fee the sum of
$50 per annum, and shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $2,000
with one or more sureties, conditioned that said licensee will faithfully
observe the provisions of this subchapter. A separate license must be taken out
for each separate location to be used for a junk yard or junk shop.
('68 Code, § 3-1003) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 363, passed 6-1-70)
§ 115.04 EXPIRATION DATE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 of each year.
('68 Code, § 3-1003) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62; Am. Ord. 353, passed 6-1-90)
§ 115.05 FORM AND CONTENT OF LICENSE; DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every licensee granted a license to engage in the business of operating a
junk yard or junk shop shall be furnished a license on a form supplied by the
City Clerk. Every licensee receiving such a license shall post said license in
a conspicuous place within the establishment. Said license shall have the
licensee's name and address, same to be in large and readable letters and
figures, inscribed thereon.
('68 Code, § 3-1005) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.06 RECORD OF VEHICLES REQUIRED TO BE KEPT.
   Every licensee hereunder who shall loan or permit the use of any licensed
cart, wagon or other vehicle by any other person shall keep a written record of
such use, showing the person or persons making use of such vehicle, the address
of such person or persons, the date the vehicle was used, and such other
information as may be required by the Department of Police.
('68 Code, § 3-1007) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.07 BUSINESS HOURS RESTRICTED.
   No collector licensed hereunder shall be permitted to conduct his business
on the streets or alleys of the city between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00
a.m.
('68 Code, § 3-1008) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.08 REFUSAL TO ISSUE LICENSE; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The Mayor and the City Council may refuse to issue a license to any
applicant who has previously been convicted of any crime or who has twice been
convicted of violating the provisions of this subchapter, or for other good
cause shown. Each application for a license shall contain an agreement on the
part of the applicant that he will accept the license, if granted him, upon the
condition that it may be suspended or revoked at the will of the Mayor and the
City Council. No license issued hereunder shall be used at any other location
other than the location specified therein without the approval of the Council.
('68 Code, § 3-1009) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62)
§ 115.09 FENCE REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   No person shall maintain a junk yard or junk shop within the city unless
such business is carried on entirely inside a building or unless the premises
on which the said business is conducted are entirely enclosed, except for gates
and places of ingress, by a fence not less than six feet in height. The entire
fence must be of solid construction with the exception of the gates which may
be of open construction. Gates for access to said premises shall swing inward,
and such gates shall be closed when the premises are not open for business.
('68 Code, § 3-1004) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.10 PLEDGES, PAWNS AND LOANS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee hereunder shall receive in the course of his business any
article by way of a pledge or pawn, nor shall he loan or advance any sum of
money on the security of any article or thing.
('68 Code, § 3-1010) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.11 EXHIBITION OF GOODS PURCHASED OR RECEIVED; RECORDS REQUIRED.
   Every licensee hereunder shall, on demand, exhibit all goods purchased or
received, and each such licensee shall keep a separate record book open to
inspection by a member of the Police Department in which shall be written in
the English language at the time of the purchase or exchange of such article a
description thereof, the name the description and residence of the person from
whom the same was purchased and received, and the day and hour when such
purchase or exchange was made. Each entry shall be numbered consecutively,
commencing with number one.
('68 Code, § 3-1011) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.12 RETENTION OF PURCHASES; DELIVERY OF RECORD TO POLICE; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   (1)   All articles purchased or received in exchange by any licensee
hereunder shall be retained by him for at least 15 days before disposing of
them, in an accessible place in the building where such articles are purchased
and received. A tag shall be attached to such articles in some visible and
convenient place, with the number written thereupon, to correspond with the
entry number in such record book. Such purchaser shall prepare and deliver on
Monday of each week to the Chief of Police or his duly authorized police
representative, before 12:00 noon, a legible and correct copy written in the
English language from such record book, containing a description of each
article purchased or received during the preceding week, the hour and day when
the purchase was made, and the description of the person from whom the purchase
was made. Such statement shall be verified by the affidavit of the person
subscribing his name thereto.
      (2)   This division shall not apply to old rags, waste paper, and
household goods except radios, televisions, record players and electrical
appliances.
      (3)   Nothing herein contained shall make it necessary for the purchaser
to retain articles purchased from individuals, firms or corporations having a
fixed place of business after said articles shall have been reported.
('68 Code, § 3-1012)
   (B)   If the purchaser or receiver, by exchange or otherwise, is a collector
as defined herein, who does not have a place of business in a building, he need
not retain such articles for 15 days before selling them; provided on Monday of
each week he files with the Chief of Police or his duly authorized police
representative a report showing the place of business of the person to whom
such sale was made, a copy of the record as shown in his record book of the
articles purchased or received during the preceding week, including a
description of such articles sold, to whom sold, and his place of business.
('68 Code, § 3-1013)
(Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.13 RECEIPT OF ARTICLES RESTRICTED.
   No licensee shall purchase or receive by sale, barter or exchange or
otherwise, any article mentioned in this subchapter from any person between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., nor from any person who was at the time
intoxicated, or from any minor without consent of parents, or from a habitual
drunkard, or from any person known by the licensee to be a thief, or any
associate of thieves, or receiver of stolen property, or from any person he has
reason to suspect of being such.
('68 Code, § 3-1014) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES; PROCEDURE.
   The City Council may, at any time, suspend or revoke any license granted
under this subchapter and order the shop or place of business to be closed. All
licenses granted hereunder are issued and accepted with the understanding that
they are subject to suspension or revocation at the will of the Council. In
case of such suspension or revocation, the Chief of Police or his duly
authorized representative shall cause to be served upon the holder of the
license so suspended or revoked, or the person in charge of the business,
notice in writing of such action by the Council. No person shall continue to
operate such business after the service upon him of such notice of suspension
or revocation. Provided, before any license granted under the provisions of
this subchapter is suspended or revoked, charges in writing shall be preferred
against the licensee whose license it is sought to suspend or revoke. Such
charges shall be served upon the licensee and the licensee shall be given a
hearing at the next regular City Council meeting not less than ten days
following service of such charges in writing, and at said hearing said licensee
shall have an opportunity to present evidence in his defense.
('68 Code, § 3-1015) (Ord. 189, passed 4-16-62)
USED CAR AND MACHINERY DEALERS
§ 115.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of keeping, buying or selling used
motor vehicles, trailers or other machinery or vehicles on any unenclosed lot
or place of business within the city without securing a license from the city
as herein provided. The word unenclosed shall mean a place of business
not located in a permanent building or structure.
('68 Code, § 3-901) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.26 CONDITIONS OF ISSUANCE; FEES; SURETY BOND.
   (A)   The City Council is hereby authorized to issue a license to any person
of good character to engage in any business mentioned in §
115.25, on an unenclosed place or lot, upon payment into the city treasury of
the sum of $25 and executing a surety bond to the city in the penal sum of
$1,000, said surety bond to be approved by the City Attorney; provided,
however, that no license shall be issued unless the application is accompanied
by a certificate issued by the Police Department recommending the issuance of
such license, and in addition thereto a certificate from the Department of
Public Works stating that the location of the business will not violate any of
the terms of the Zoning Code. The license fee and bond herein required may be
waived where such business is operated in conjunction with a garage or gales
room owned or leased by the applicant and which contains at least 1,600 square
feet.
('68 Code, § 3-902) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51; Am. Ord. 104.1, passed 9-9-58)
   (B)   The Council may condition its approval for the issuance of any license
hereunder requiring applicant to surface the area to be used, landscape the
same and provide such other reasonable conditions or safeguards which the
Council may deem advisable, and may require further bond to insure compliance
with such conditions.
('68 Code, § 3-907) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51)
§ 115.27 EXPIRATION DATE; RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire at
midnight following the second Tuesday in May of each calendar year. The
applicant shall pay an annual removal fee and execute surety bond for each
renewal in the same amounts as the original application as above provided.
('68 Code, § 3-902) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51; Am. Ord. 104.1, passed 9-9-58)
§ 115.28 NONTRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued hereunder shall not be transferable. Where the licensee is a
corporation, the transfer of the controlling interest in the corporation shall
be deemed a transfer of the business, which will require the issuing of a new
license therefor.
('68 Code, § 3-902) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51; Am. Ord. 104.1, passed 9-9-58)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.29 SEPARATE LICENSE FOR EACH PLACE OF BUSINESS REQUIRED.
   No person licensed under this subchapter shall by virtue of one license
operate any such business within the city in any place other than the place of
business for which such license is issued.
('68 Code, § 3-903) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.30 RECORDS REQUIRED TO BE KEPT; CONTENTS; POLICE INSPECTION.
   (A)   Every person licensed under this subchapter shall, at the place of
business named in said license, keep a book in which shall be written in ink at
the time of the purchase or sale of any secondhand trailer or used automobile
or parts or accessories a description thereof, the name, age, address and
personal description of the person from whom such purchase was made or to whom
such sale is made, as well as the day and hour of such purchase or sale. Such
book at all times shall be open to the inspection of any authorized member of
the Police Department. No entry in such book shall be erased, obliterated,
altered or defaced. Every licensed dealer shall make out a report every day
before 10:00 a.m. of sales made and the cars received for sale or purchase in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, such report to give full
details in accordance with this subchapter of all transactions of the day
previous and up to the time of making such report, and said report shall be
filed with the Chief of Police before 10:00 a.m. of the next following business
day. Every such licensed dealer shall post in a conspicuous place in his place
of business the dealer's license under the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The licensee shall, upon the completion of any sale of any used motor
vehicle, execute in triplicate a certificate in the form prescribed by the
Chief of Police, stating that the used motor vehicle sold is equipped with the
parts designated in §
115.31, in good working order as specified in §
115.31. The licensee shall deliver one copy of such certificate to the vendee,
one copy to the city Police Department, and he shall retain the remaining copy
for his files.
('68 Code, § 3-904) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51; Am. Ord. 104.2, passed 7-21-59)
§ 115.31 VEHICLES FOR SALE TO BE IN SAFE CONDITION; EQUIPMENT REQUIRED.
   No person licensed under this subchapter shall sell any used motor vehicle
intended for use on the highway or public street, which is in such unsafe
condition that its use on the highway or public street, would endanger persons
or property; and all such vehicles sold must have the following described parts
and equipment:
   (A)   A functioning pair of headlights, so designed that there will be two
distributions of light projected to different elevations the uppermost to be
able to reveal persons and vehicles at least 350 feet distant during the night
time on a straight level highway under normal atmospheric conditions; the
lowermost to be able to reveal persons and vehicles at least 100 feet distant
under the same conditions as above.
   (B)   A functioning pair of taillights which shall emit a red light plainly
visible from a distance of 500 feet to the rear.
   (C)   A separate rear white light so placed as to illuminate the rear
license plate and render it clearly legible from a distance of 50 feet to the
rear.
   (D)   A stop light at the rear which shall emit a red or amber light when
the foot brake is actuated and shall be visible at least 100 feet to the rear
when used.
   (E)   A functioning set of brakes, capable of stopping the vehicle on a dry,
smooth, level road, free from loose material, within 30 feet after initial
application of foot brake while proceeding at 20 miles per hour.
   (F)   A horn in good working order and capable of emitting sound audible
under normal conditions from a distance of not less than 200 feet.
   (G)   A muffler in good working order to prevent excessive noise and
annoying smoke.
   (H)   A rear or side view mirror so placed as to render the highway to the
rear of the vehicle clearly visible to the driver.
   (I)   A set of windshield wipers in good working order, capable of clearing
the windshield of rain, snow and other moisture, and be so constructed to be
operated by the driver of the vehicle.
   (J)   A windshield and a full complement of window glass that is sound and
unbroken and without any minor blemishes that would tend to interfere with the
driver's vision.
('68 Code, § 3-905) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51; Am. Ord. 104.2, passed 7-21-59)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.32 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING; NOTICE.
   Any license issued under this subchapter may be revoked by the City Council
for cause if the licensee shall violate this subchapter or any applicable
provision of this code, any applicable ordinance of the city, or state or
federal law, or if the Zoning Board of Appeals shall fail to renew any
temporary certificate of compliance or occupancy previously granted to the
licensee; provided, the licensee shall be notified of any hearing ordered by
the Council, in such manner as the Council shall direct.
('68 Code, § 3-906) (Ord. 104, passed 12-4-51)
SECONDHAND DEALERS
§ 115.45 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECONDHAND DEALER. Any person who engages in the business of buying,
exchanging, collecting, receiving, storing or selling any property herein
defined as secondhand property.
   SECONDHAND PROPERTY. Any used furniture, used appliances, used wearing
apparel, used jewelry and used household tools, or any re-salable goods other
than rags, papers, scrap metal and automobile parts.
   SECONDHAND STORE. Any place at which a secondhand dealer buys, exchanges,
collects, receives, stores or sells secondhand property.
('68 Code, § 3-1016) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62)
§ 115.46 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; CONTENTS; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of keeping a secondhand store
or a place for buying and selling secondhand property without a license from
the City Council as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk upon
blanks to be provided. The application so received by the City Clerk shall be
referred to the City Manager, the Chief Building Inspector, the Fire Chief and
the Police Chief, for purposes of investigation and recommendation by such.
   (C)   After receipt of such recommendations, the application shall be
submitted to the City Council. The sole power to grant licenses hereunder is
vested in said Council. Licenses granted by the Council shall be issued by the
City Clerk.
('68 Code, § 3-1017) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.47 LICENSE FEE; SURETY BOND.
   Any person seeking to engage in the business of keeping a secondhand store
as hereinbefore defined shall pay the City Treasurer the sum of $25 per annum
and shall execute a bond to the city in the penal sum of $200 with one or more
sureties, conditioned that said licensee will faithfully observe the provisions
of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-1018) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62)
§ 115.48 SEPARATE LICENSE REQUIRED FOR EACH LOCATION.
   A separate license must be taken out for each separate location to be used
as a secondhand store.
('68 Code, § 3-1018) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.49 EXPIRATION DATE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on June 30 of each year.
('68 Code, § 3-1018) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62)
§ 115.50 POSTING OF LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   Every licensee granted a license to engage in the business of operating a
secondhand store shall be furnished a license on a form supplied by the City
Clerk. Every licensee receiving such a license shall post said license in a
conspicuous place within the establishment. Said license shall have the
licensee's name and address, same to be in large and readable letters and
figures. Further, every person licensed under this subchapter shall cause his
name or the name of the firm, with the words "Licensed Secondhand Dealer", to
be printed in large legible characters and placed over the outside of the door
of the secondhand store.
('68 Code, § 3-1019) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.51 EXHIBITION OF GOODS PURCHASED OR RECEIVED; RECORDS REQUIRED.
   Every licensee issued a license hereunder shall, on demand, exhibit all
goods purchased or received, and each such licensee shall keep a separate
record book open to inspection by a member of the Police Department in which
shall be written, in the English language at the time of the purchase or
exchange of such article, a description thereof, the name, the description and
residence of the person from whom the same was purchased and received, and the
day and hour when such purchase or exchange was made. Each entry shall be
numbered consecutively, commencing with number one. ('68 Code, § 3- 1020) (Ord.
190, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.52 RETENTION OF PURCHASES; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   All articles purchased or received in exchange by any licensee
hereunder shall be retained by him for at least 15 days before disposing of
them, in an accessible place in the building where such articles are purchased
and received. A tag shall be attached to such articles in some visible and
convenient place, with the entry number in such record book. Such purchaser
shall prepare and deliver on Monday of each week to the Chief of Police or his
duly authorized police representative, before 12:00 noon, a legible and correct
copy written in the English language from such record book, containing a
description of each article purchased or received during the preceding week,
the hour and day when the purchase was made and the description of the person
from whom the purchase was made. Such statement shall be verified by the
affidavit of the person subscribing his name thereto.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to household goods except radios,
televisions, record players and electrical appliances.
   (C)   Nothing herein contained shall make it necessary for the purchaser to
retain articles purchased from individuals, firms or corporations having a
fixed place of business after said articles shall have been reported.
('68 Code, § 3-1021) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.53 RECEIPT OF ARTICLES RESTRICTED.
   No licensee shall purchase or receive, by sale, barter, or exchange or
otherwise, any article mentioned in this subchapter from any person between the
hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., nor from any person who was at the time
intoxicated, or from any minor without consent of parents, or from a habitual
drunkard, or from any person known by the licensee to be a thief, or any
associate of thieves, or receiver of stolen property, or from any person he has
reason to suspect of being such.
('68 Code, § 3-1022) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 115.54 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may, at any time, suspend or revoke any license granted
under this subchapter and order the place of business of the licensee to be
closed. All licenses granted hereunder are issued and accepted with the
understanding that they are subject to suspension or revocation at the will of
the Council. In case of such suspension or revocation, the Chief of Police or
his duly authorized representative shall cause to be served upon the holder of
the license so suspended or revoked, or the person in charge of the business,
notice in writing of such action by the Council. No person shall continue to
operate such business after the service upon him of such notice of suspension
or revocation. Provided, before any license granted under the provisions of
this subchapter is suspended or revoked, charges in writing shall be preferred
against the licensee whose license it is sought to suspend or revoke. Such
charges shall be served upon the licensee and the licensee shall be given a
hearing at the next regular Council meeting not less than ten days following
service of such charges in writing, and at said hearing said licensee shall
have an opportunity to present evidence in his defense.
('68 Code, § 3-1023) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62)
§ 115.55 FENCES REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain a secondhand store within the city unless
such business is carried on entirely inside a building or unless the premises
on which the said business is conducted are entirely enclosed, except for gates
and places of ingress, by a fence not less than six feet in height. The entire
fence must be of solid construction with the exception of the gates which may
be of open construction.
   (B)   Gates for access to said premises shall swing inward and such gates
shall be closed when the premises are not open for business.
('68 Code, § 3-1024) (Ord. 190, passed 4-16-62)
PAWNBROKERS
§ 115.65 APPLICATION OF STATE LAW.
   All the terms, provisions, regulations and penalties of Act 273, Public Acts
of 1917, and as the same may be amended, are hereby declared to be in force and
applicable to the conduct of the business of pawnbroking in the city.
('68 Code, § 3-402) (Ord. 61, passed 8-1-44)
§ 115.66 LICENSE REQUIRED; BOND; FEE.
   No person shall hereafter carry on the business of pawnbroker, as defined in
and under the terms of the Act of the Legislature of the State of Michigan,
being Act 273, Public Acts of 1917, and titled, "An Act to regulate and license
pawnbrokers in cities and incorporated villages of this state, having a
population of more than three thousand", without first having furnished a bond
to the city in the penal sum of $3,000, with at least two sureties, to be
approved by the City Council, conditioned for the faithful performance of the
duties and obligations pertaining to the said business and for the payment of
all costs and damages incurred by any violation of this Act, and without first
having obtained a license and having paid annually to the City Treasurer a
license fee which is hereby fixed and determined, pursuant to Section 2 of said
Act, in the sum of $200.
('68 Code, § 3-401) (Ord. 61, passed 8-1-44) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 116: MASSAGE PARLORS
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Definitions
Licensing Procedure
   
116.15   License required
   
116.16   Application for license
   
116.17   License fee
   
116.18   Inspection and recommendations; prior to issuance of license
   
116.19   Issuance of license; determination; appeal and hearing
   
116.20   Expiration date
   
116.21   Nontransference and display of license
Standards of Operation
   
116.35   Hours of operation restricted
   
116.36   Disorderly conduct
   
116.37   Persons of opposite sex restricted in giving massage
Instructors
   
116.50   License required; fee
   
116.51   Applicant for license; qualifications
Enforcement
   
116.65   Access to premises
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK, MANAGER, FIRE CHIEF, CODE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER or POLICE CHIEF.
Whenever these terms are used, they shall also include the duly authorized
representative of said city officials.
   MASSAGE PARLOR. Any building, room, place or establishment, other than a
regularly licensed hospital or dispensary, where nonmedical and nonsurgical
manipulative exercises are practiced upon the human body, for other than
cosmetic or beautifying purposes, with or without the use of mechanical or
bathing devices, by anyone not a physician or surgeon or of a similarly
registered status.
   PERSON. Every natural person, firm, copartnership, association or
corporation and their legal successors.
('68 Code, § 8-801) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
LICENSING PROCEDURE
§ 116.15 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall open or cause to be opened, or conduct, maintain or operate,
any massage parlor within the city, without first having obtained a license
from the city to do so.
('68 Code, § 8-802) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.16 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   (A)   Each person desiring to open, conduct or maintain a massage parlor
shall first make application to the City Clerk for a license therefor. Said
application shall be filed at least 15 days prior to the time desired for
granting of said license. No license shall be granted to any person who is not
a citizen of the United States.
('68 Code, § 8-803)
   (B)   Said application shall contain the name, address, including street and
number of the applicant, or if more than one person, or if an association or a
firm, the full names and addresses, including street and number, of the persons
financially interested; if a corporation, a list of the officers and the
manager and whether or not the manager is a citizen of the United States; the
applicant's business for the past three years and the place or places in which
he has conducted business during the past three years.
('68 Code, § 8-8014)
   (C)   (1)   The application filed with the City Clerk shall contain the
following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the person applying for the permit.
         (b)   Satisfactory proof of the required age and educational
qualifications necessary to conform with the provisions of this chapter.
         (c)   The proposed location.
         (d)   Such other information as the City Clerk shall deem reasonably
necessary and proper for the full protection of the city, as well as the
applicant/licensee, in order to effectuate the purposes of this chapter and to
determine whether the terms of the city code and state statutes have been
complied with.
      (2)   If, while the application is pending, or during the term of any
permit granted thereunder, there is any change in fact, policy or method which
would alter the information provided in such application, applicant/licensee
shall notify the city clerk in writing thereof within 72 hours after such
change.
('68 Code, § 8-812) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
§ 116.17 LICENSE FEE.
   Each person to whom a license is granted shall pay a yearly fee (or any part
thereof) and renewal fee, in the amount of $100.
('68 Code, § 8-806) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
§ 116.18 INSPECTION AND RECOMMENDATIONS; PRIOR TO ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Previous to issuance or renewal of any license under this subchapter,
a recommendation concerning the issuance of said license shall be obtained from
the Police Chief, Fire Chief and Code Enforcement Officer. The Police Chief
shall determine whether or not there is any criminal record involving the
applicant/licensee, and examine the site, to determine the traffic patterns for
safety purposes, for proper ingress and egress to said site.
   (B)   The Fire Chief shall inspect the site and the facilities to be used
thereon, to be certain that said facilities meet all requirements of the city
fire code.
   (C)   The Code Enforcement Officer shall inspect the facilities at said site
and determine that said premises meet all of the Building Code requirements,
zoning requirements and off-street parking requirements of the city code and
this chapter.
('68 Code, § 8-810) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
§ 116.19 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; DETERMINATION; APPEAL AND HEARING.
   The City Manager shall determine whether or not said license shall be
issued, revoked or suspended, after reviewing the recommendations of the Police
Chief, Fire Chief and the Code Enforcement Officer. In the event he chooses to
deny the issuance of said license or revoke or suspend an existing license, he
shall set a date for hearing within 15 days and shall give at least ten days
notice by mailing a hearing notice to the applicant, or licensee, by regular
mail, addressed to the applicant/licensee at the address shown on the
application, and said notice shall specify the charges for which the
application is denied or license suspended or revoked and the date and place of
hearing before the City Manager. At such hearing, applicant/licensee and his
attorney may be present and may submit evidence in applicant's/ licensee's
defense.
   (B)   In the event the application is denied, or license suspended or
revoked, the applicant/licensee may request an appeal hearing at the next
regular council meeting; provided, however, that said regular meeting is not
less than six days from the date the appeal request is made and, in the event
it is less than six days, the appeal shall be heard by the City Council at the
following meeting of the City Council. At the appeal hearing, the applicant/
licensee and his attorney may be present and may submit evidence in
applicant's/licensee's defense. After hearing the recommendations of the City
Manager and the request of the applicant/licensee, the City Council shall
determine whether to sustain the decision of the City Manager or to grant the
applicant's/ licensee's request.
('68 Code, § 8-811) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
§ 116.20 EXPIRATION DATE.
   All licenses granted under the provisions of this chapter shall expire on
February 1 of each and every year.
('68 Code, § 8-807) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
§ 116.21 NONTRANSFERENCE AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Said license shall not be transferable without the approval of the city and
shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in the massage parlor licensed
herein.
('68 Code, § 8-807) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 116.35 HOURS OF OPERATION RESTRICTED.
   No person shall open or cause to be opened, or operate or cause to be
operated, within the city limits, any massage parlor between the hours of 11:00
p.m. and 6:00 a.m.
('68 Code, § 8-808) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.36 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person receiving a license under this chapter shall permit any disorderly
conduct or the use of any immoral, profane or indecent language, or permit the
sale, giving away or use of intoxicating liquors or narcotics, or permit such
massage parlor to become or be a place or resort of thieves, prostitutes,
narcotic addicts, narcotic peddlers or other disorderly persons.
('68 Code, § 8-809) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.37 PERSONS OF OPPOSITE SEX RESTRICTED IN GIVING MASSAGE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to perform any massage whether by
hand or with a mechanical or electrical apparatus or to allow such massage to
be performed on a person of the opposite sex. Provided, however, that this
provision shall not apply in cases in which the service is under the
supervision of any person licensed to practice medicine under the Michigan
Medical Practice Act, MCLA 338. 1802-1806.
   (B)   The text of division (A) of this section shall be posted on the
premises in a location calculated to give the public notice of the existence of
division (A) of this section or posted as directed by the Chief of Police or
his representative.
('68 Code, § 8-815) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
INSTRUCTORS
§ 116.50 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE.
   Instructors in any school in which the practices defined in this chapter are
taught shall obtain a license. The yearly license fee (or any part thereof) and
renewal fee shall be $10 for each such instructor.
('68 Code, § 8-813) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 116.51 APPLICANT FOR LICENSE; QUALIFICATIONS.
   Applicants for licenses under this chapter shall meet the following
qualifications:
   (A)   The apprentice or student shall be at least 18 years of age and of
good moral character and have an education equivalent to the completion of
grammar school.
   (B)   Operators shall be at least 20 years of age and of good moral
character, and have an education equivalent to the completion of grammar school
and shall have not less than one year's practice under the supervision of a
registered operator or instructor as an apprentice or shall have graduated from
a licensed training school. Operators' licenses shall be granted only to those
persons who are able to pass an examination arranged by the County Department
of Health, indicating said person is free of any communicable disease.
   (C)   The owners or conductors of any massage parlor shall be of good moral
character, or, if a corporation, its officers of good moral character. The
premises on which such establishment is located shall be sanitary and suitable
for the conduct of such business.
   (D)   The owner or conductor of a school (and if a corporation, its
officers) for any of the practices defined in this chapter shall be of good
moral character. The premises on which such school is to be conducted shall be
sanitary and suitable for the purpose and meet the approval of the County Board
of Health as to its sanitary condition.
   (E)   An instructor in a school for any of the practices defined in this
chapter shall be a person of good moral character, shall be a graduate of a
grammar school, and shall have been a licensed operator for a period of at
least one year and pass an examination arranged by the Wayne County Department
of Health, indicating said person is free of any communicable disease.
('68 Code, § 8-814) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 116.65 ACCESS TO PREMISES.
   The Chief of Police and deputies and officers and the code enforcement
officer shall have access at all times to all massage parlors within the city
limits. It shall be his duty to investigate and inspect all massage parlors
within the city limits.
('68 Code, § 8-805) (Ord. 412, passed 1-24-73)
CHAPTER 117: PUBLIC SERVICE OPERATIONS AND TRADES
Section
Television Servicing Licenses
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   License required for installation, maintenance or advertising
   
117.03   Certified technicians; license required; identification cards
   
117.04   Service dealer's license; applicants; qualifications
   
117.05   Application for license; form and content
   
117.06   Investigations and examinations
   
117.07   Board of examiners; powers and duties
   
117.08   Issuance of license; refusal, revocation or suspension
   
117.09   Expiration date
   
117.10   Nontransference of license
   
117.11   License fees
   
117.12   Authority to enforce
   
117.13   Charges to customers; billing procedure
   
117.14   Reciprocal licensing authorized; prerequisites
   
117.15   Exceptions
Barber Shop
   
117.25   Adoption of state law by reference
Fumigators
   
117.35   License, permit required; fee
   
117.36   Issuance of permits; public liability insurance required; applicant to
be approved
   
117.37   Fumigating process and procedure; requirements
Drain Layers
   
117.50   License required
   
117.51   Application for license; deposit required
   
117.52   Examination required
   
117.53   Bond
   
117.54   Expiration date; renewal of license
   
117.55   License and renewal fee
   
117.56   Employment of unlicensed workers prohibited; supervision
   
117.57   Suspension of licenses
   
117.58   Installation of sewers, drains; license required; specifications
Electrical Services
   
117.70   Definitions
   
117.71   Electrical inspection
   
117.72   Fees for inspection
   
117.73   Right of access to buildings
   
117.74   Permits
   
117.75   Contractor's requirements; exceptions
   
117.76   Inspection
   
117.77   Re-inspection
   
117.78   Construction requirements
   
117.79   Approved materials
   
117.80   Record and review
   
117.81   License and registration for electrical work
   
117.82   License and registration fees and annual renewals
   
117.83   Exemptions
   
117.84   Liability
 
   
117.99   Penalty
TELEVISION SERVICING LICENSES
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOARD. Detroit TV Board of Examiners.
   CERTIFIED TECHNICIAN. A person who has passed the examination required by
the board.
   DISTRIBUTOR. A person who is a wholesale vendor of receiving equipment.
   RECEIVING EQUIPMENT. Television receiving apparatus and its associated
components, including television receiving antenna system.
   SERVICE. The installation, maintenance, repair, replacement, testing,
inspection and modification of receiving equipment.
   SERVICE DEALER. A person engaged in the business of servicing receiving
equipment, having an established location for the performance of such service,
and maintaining books of accounts and records incident to the business,
including records of state sales tax.
('68 Code, § 3-1201) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.02 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR INSTALLATION, MAINTENANCE OR ADVERTISING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
installing, servicing, maintaining or repairing receiving equipment in the city
without a license as a service dealer as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to offer, by advertisement,
telephone or any other manner, to install, service, maintain or repair
receiving equipment in the city unless such person has a license as a service
dealer as hereinafter provided.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
contracting to install, service, maintain or repair receiving equipment in the
city without a license as a service dealer as hereinafter provided.
('68 Code, § 3-1202) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.03 CERTIFIED TECHNICIANS; LICENSE REQUIRED; IDENTIFICATION CARDS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the occupation or
trade of a certified technician without a license therefor as hereinafter
provided; provided, that the provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to
any employee of a licensed service dealer performing services with his approval
under the direction of the certified technician, nor to a student or apprentice
when accompanied and supervised by a certified technician. All such employees
shall carry official identification cards, of such form and style as the Board
of Examiners shall prescribe, to be issued be the service dealer, identifying
them as authorized employees of said service dealer and bearing the license
number of said service dealer, which shall be displayed upon demand to the
customer.
('68 Code, § 3-1203)
   (B)   An applicant for a certified technician's license shall be over 21
years of age and show four or more years experience in servicing receiving
equipment, or a combination of technical training at a university, college,
correspondence or trade school and practical experience equivalent to two years
with a minimum of one year of practical experience. The applicant shall submit
to the examination hereinafter provided. Provided, that any such applicant who
shall submit a written statement verified by at least two witnesses showing
names, places, addresses and dates that the applicant has engaged in such
servicing for four or more years prior to the effective date hereof, shall have
50% of the points added to the examination rating of the applicant.
('68 Code, § 3-1205) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.04 SERVICE DEALER'S LICENSE; APPLICANTS; QUALIFICATIONS.
   An applicant for a service dealer's license shall be a holder of a certified
technician license or must regularly employ a full-time certified technician.
No service dealer's license shall be issued until the applicant has submitted
to an examination as hereinafter provided and qualified thereunder, or has a
regularly employed certified technician actively in charge, who has submitted
to the examination and qualified thereunder; provided, that when a license has
been issued to an applicant based on the qualifications of such regular
employee and the active services of such employee with the licensee have been
terminated, the said license shall be of no effect until the service dealer is
again qualified in accordance with the provisions hereof, and it shall be
unlawful for any such service dealer to engage in the business during the
period not so qualified.
('68 Code, § 3-1204) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; FORM AND CONTENT.
   Applications for a license shall be made on forms, furnished for such
purpose by the Building Department of the city. The application shall contain,
in addition to other requested information, the following:
   (A)   Name, age and business address of applicant;
   (B)   Qualifications of applicant;
   (C)   If applicant be a corporation:
      (1)   Full and accurate corporate name;
      (2)   When and where incorporated;
      (3)   Full names and addresses of officers of corporation; and
      (4)   Name of officer or regular employee who is to take the examination
and his qualifications.
   (D)   If applicant is a partnership: Names and business addresses of members
thereof and the name of the partner or regular employee who is to take the
examination and his qualifications;
   (E)   If the applicant conducts business under a trade or assumed name, the
following additional information:
      (1)   Complete and full trade name; and
      (2)   The name of the person or persons doing business under such trade
or assumed name.
('68 Code, § 3-1206) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.06 INVESTIGATIONS AND EXAMINATIONS.
   Investigations and examinations contemplated by this subchapter will be
conducted by the Detroit Board of Television Examiners or by such agency as
shall from time to time be appointed by the City Council.
('68 Code, § 3-1207) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.07 BOARD OF EXAMINERS; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Board of Examiners or other agency shall:
   (A)   Make a thorough investigation of the training, experience,
qualification, character, reputation and fitness of the applicants and/or of
the persons to be examined, to determine their qualifications, competency and
suitability to take part in the operation of the business.
   (B)   Examine all applicants for any license hereunder. Regular meetings
therefor shall be held at least once a month and special meetings therefor
shall be held at the call of the Chairperson or as the Board may determine or
upon written request of three members, provided 24-hours notice has been given
to each member before the time set for such meetings.
   (C)   Prepare examinations for applicants which shall be practical in
character and relate to those matters which fairly test the capacity of the
applicant to engage in the business. The examination shall cover the theory and
practice of service, knowledge of the provisions of this subchapter,
interpretation of charts and blueprints and plans of such service. The
character, experience and qualifications of the applicant to engage in such
activity shall also be taken into consideration, and in making such
determination the license history of the applicant, conviction for violation of
the laws of the United States, the state and of the provisions of this chapter,
and whether or not the applicant engages in false, misleading or deceptive
advertising as to service shall be considered. The examination may be written
or oral, but when oral examinations are given, a stenographic report of the
examination shall be made. The Board shall forward its findings and
recommendations to the City Clerk.
   (D)   Conduct hearings to determine whether or not a licensee has complied
with the provisions of this subchapter, or with the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, or is qualified to continue to engage in the operations
of the business, and shall report its findings and recommendations to the City
Clerk as to suspension, revocation or renewal of the license.
   (E)   Keep a record of its proceedings and of the applicants for licenses,
and keep available a list of licensees, their names, addresses and registration
numbers.
   (F)   Make and promulgate administrative rules and regulations necessary to
effectuate the provisions of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-1208) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; REFUSAL, REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to grant the required license to any
applicant he finds qualified hereunder. He may refuse to issue a license and
may suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder in accordance with the
provisions of the City Charter and this subchapter relative to a hearing
thereon, on a finding that the applicant or licensee has violated or is
violating any of the provisions of this subchapter, the laws of the United
States or of the state, or for any other good cause shown, and may also refuse
to issue a license, and may suspend or revoke any license issued hereunder to
any partnership, firm or corporation of which any partner, officer, director or
manager has violated or is violating any of the provisions of this subchapter,
the laws of the United States or of the state, or for other good cause shown.
('68 Code, § 3-1209) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.09 EXPIRATION DATE.
   Licenses issued herein shall expire on January 1 of each year.
('68 Code, § 3-1209) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.10 NONTRANSFERENCE OF LICENSE.
   No license issued hereunder shall be transferred or assigned to any person,
nor shall any service dealer engage in such business at any location other than
the location stated in the license, unless such charge is approved by the
Board.
('68 Code, § 3-1209) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.11 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fees for licenses issued hereunder shall be as follows:
      (1)   Service dealer, $25 annually.
      (2)   Certified technician, $10 annually.
   (B)   Provided, that in cases in which the service dealer is also a
certified technician, one fee shall be charged in the amount of $25 annually.
When the said license is issued to a new service dealer or new certified
technician for a period of less than six calendar months next preceding January
1, the fee shall be one-half for the remainder of said license term, and in all
other instances the full amount of the fee shall be collected.
('68 Code, § 3-1210) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.12 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   The Building Department of the city shall enforce the provisions of this
subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-1211) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.13 CHARGES TO CUSTOMERS; BILLING PROCEDURE.
   All charges to customers for installing, servicing, maintaining or repairing
of any television equipment in the city shall be made out in duplicate bill
form and shall state indelibly, accurately and clearly the date or dates when
the work is performed, the make, model and serial number of the set, the full
name and registration number of the licensee, the name and address of the
customers and a computation of the charge. Such computation shall separately
specify the nature of the work for which such charge is made, the amount
charged for labor and for each part or replacement. One copy shall be given to
the customer. The owner licensee shall be required to keep one copy for a
period of two years before they may be destroyed, and any such record shall be
open to inspection by the board.
('68 Code, § 3-1212) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
§ 117.14 RECIPROCAL LICENSING AUTHORIZED; PREREQUISITES.
   The city shall permit contractors and technicians engaged in the business of
installing, servicing, maintaining or repairing receiving equipment, when
legally licensed by other municipalities of the state to engage in such
business, to also engage in such business within the corporate limits of the
city upon registration with the City Electrical Department and the payment of a
$2 registration fee; provided that the municipality in which such contractors
and technicians are licensed reciprocate in recognizing licensees under this
subchapter by granting them same privileges and charging substantially the same
license and registration fees; and that the licensing ordinances are
substantially equal to the requirements of this subchapter. No contractor who
maintains a place of business within the city limits may claim the benefit of
this section.
('68 Code, § 3-1214) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.15 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to service and
installation of industrial machine, mobile equipment, any television equipment
used or furnished by a common carrier public utility nor to any service and
installation relative to which the state or the United States government has
taken over the field of regulation and supervision.
('68 Code, § 3-1213) (Ord. 161, passed 4-11-60)
BARBER SHOP
§ 117.25 ADOPTION OF STATE LAW BY REFERENCE.
   Act 355 of the Public Acts of Michigan for the year 1968, known as the
Barber Licensing and Regulation Act of 1968, and all amendments and supplements
thereto and all future amendments and supplements thereto, is hereby adopted by
reference.
('68 Code, § 3-1501) (Ord. 384, passed 4-5-71)
FUMIGATORS
§ 117.35 LICENSE, PERMIT REQUIRED; FEE.
   No person shall undertake or attempt in the city to exterminate household
insects or pests by the process of fumigation, in which the process of
fumigation, hydrocyanic acid gas or other poisonous or dangerous gases or fumes
are used, unless licensed to do so by a municipality of this state, and then
only when issued a permit by the City Clerk, the cost of which shall be $1.
('68 Code, § 4-301) (Ord. 81, passed 12-13-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.36 ISSUANCE OF PERMITS; PUBLIC LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED; APPLICANT TO
BE APPROVED.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued until there is filed by the said applicant a
certificate of insurance, insuring the fumigator and indemnifying the public in
the sum of at least $50,000 for the injury or death of one person and $100,000
for the injury or death of two or more persons, injured in any one accident,
and $5,000 property damage, as a result of any fumigation, resulting from the
use of poisonous gases by said fumigant owner or agent or employees thereof,
which liability policy shall inure to the benefit of any person or persons,
their heirs, executors, administrators and/or assigns, who may receive bodily
illness, injuries or suffer death by reason of the negligence or the misconduct
or violations of this subchapter, respecting the uses of such gases or fumes by
said fumigant owner or any agents or employees thereof, engaged in the business
of exterminating and fumigating, as herein set forth.
   (B)   Each applicant shall furnish with his application proper endorsement
of the insurance company showing the issuance of the insurance hereinbefore
required, which endorsement shall be kept on file in the office of the City
Clerk, and no permit shall be valid in the event of the cancellation of said
insurance.
   (C)   Further, each application must be approved by the Chief of Police and
the Chief of the Fire Department or their duly authorized representative.
('68 Code, § 4-302) (Ord. 81, passed 12-13-46; Am. Od. 391, passed 7-6-71)
§ 117.37 FUMIGATING PROCESS AND PROCEDURE; REQUIREMENTS.
   When hydrocyanic acid gas or other dangerous gases or fumes are used for
exterminating purposes, the following method of procedure shall be followed:
   (A)   Notification of occupants and adjoining occupants and vacating of
premises. Before fumigating, the operator shall personally inspect the
premises, and shall service notice over his signature upon all responsible
occupants of each room or apartment within the danger area, stating the dangers
of the process and the precautions to be observed, designating the rooms or
apartments which must be vacated, and indicating the time when the gas is to be
generated.
      (1)   In every case all rooms to be gassed shall be vacated and in
addition the adjoining or adjacent rooms on the same floor and on the floors
immediately above and immediately below, and, in case of a building with
apartments, the entire apartment adjoining or adjacent and immediately above.
      (2)   In the case of a building in which there are inner courts or light
wells upon which any room being gassed opens, all rooms with windows opening to
such courts or light wells shall be vacated and securely locked.
      (3)   In the case where the walls of any adjoining buildings are located
within ten feet of the rooms or apartments being gassed, the operator shall
notify, over his signature, all responsible occupants of rooms or apartments
with window openings in such walls that such windows as are directly opposite
or above the area of the adjoining building which is under gas must remain
closed or the rooms vacated during the time the building gassed is being
flushed or aired.
      (4)   All rooms or apartments ordered vacated but not under gas shall be
well ventilated during the process by keeping the windows of such rooms or
apartments open.
      (5)   Special notices with the operator's signature thereon shall be
served upon all responsible occupants of every room or apartment within the
danger area. Such notices shall state in consider and concise manner the
precautions to be exercised during the entire process.
   (B)   The danger area. The danger area shall be construed as those portions
of any structure or dwelling under gas which lie within the boundary of the
outside walls of the building, the roof, and the basement or cellar floor, and
such cutoff or fire walls as may exist in the structure in question; such
cutoff or fire wall shall be solid masonry, gas tight, at least eight inches in
thickness extending from the basement through the attic, with all openings
locked and guarded against entry and effectively sealed against gas leakage.
   (C)   Persons qualified to perform dangerous work. No person other than a
duly licensed operator shall release cyanide gas in any room or enclosure, or
enter into any room under gas for any purpose whatsoever. This section shall
not apply to inspectors of the Department of Health, duly authorized to
investigate into the use of cyanide gas.
   (D)   Sealing rooms before releasing cyanide gas. Before fumigation, it is
required that the operator shall seal all cracks, crevices and apertures in
porous walls and floors in such a way as will confine the gas to the premises
intended to be treated.
   (E)   Locking rooms and adjoining rooms or apartments. Before fumigation, it
is required that the operator shall personally inspect all rooms and apartments
ordered vacated under division (A) of this section, and be assured that they
are unoccupied by persons or domestic animals. Afterwards, all doors to all
rooms or apartments excepting one exit door to the rooms or apartments to be
gassed shall be securely locked; in addition, such windows or other wall
openings as might possibly be used to gain entrance shall be securely fastened.
Immediately upon generating the gas, the door through which the operator leaves
shall be securely locked and sealed, and keys to all rooms or apartments
ordered vacated retained by the operator until all danger is passed. As an
additional precaution, all rooms and apartments vacated shall be placarded.
   (F)   Warning card. Before releasing the gas, the operator shall place on
all entrances a plainly legible card at least 8 inches by 12 inches in size
with the following warning:
      "Danger — do not enter.
      This place is being fumigated with a poisonous gas and must not be
entered except by fumigator until this card is removed.
         By order of the Inkster City Council."
   (G)   Guard. It is required that whenever cyanide gas is generated in any
room or portion of a structure in the city, a capable alert watchpersons or
watchpersons shall remain on duty at the entrance or entrances to the room,
building or enclosed space vacated for gassing, to keep people from entering
while gas is present and for two hours after the room or area gassed is opened
for airing. All guards or watchpersons shall be able-bodied persons. The
licensed operator shall be held strictly responsible and accountable for the
conduct of the guards or watchpersons. In every case where the entire building
is not vacated, the licensed operator shall remain on the job during the
progress of fumigation, and shall constantly supervise the occupancy of the
structure to insure that no person will be endangered by gas leakage. Licensed
operators shall give all guards definite and proper instruction, and shall
visit the premises being fumigated at regular intervals during the process to
insure that the property is properly guarded.
   (H)   Removal of food. Before fumigation, the operator shall see that all
ice, food and drink are removed from the rooms ordered vacated; except that
such food as is in sealed air-tight containers and those food products which
must be boiled or cooked before serving need not be removed.
   (I)   Gas fires. All fires within the premises under gas shall be put out.
   (J)   Containers for ingredients. For containing the ingredients, a deep
stoneware or crockery jar is recommended.
   (K)   Spilling of cyanide. Great care must be taken that no cyanide crystals
be dropped on the floor or left exposed where people may come in contact with
them.
   (L)   Acid gas ingredients. The ingredients for generating hydrocyanic acid
gas shall be of such quality and shall be mixed in such proportions as will
liberate sufficient gas to completely fill the rooms or apartments treated.
   (M)   Opening of rooms after gassing. At the conclusion of the gassing
process, which shall consume not less than six hours, it shall be the duty of
the operator to throw open the doors and windows of the premises, starting at
the basement or first floor and continuing through the upper floors of the
house until all rooms have been opened for free access of air. No person other
than the operator or operators shall be permitted to enter the premises until
all traces of the gas have disappeared, and in no case shall the occupants of
the rooms or areas gassed be permitted to enter until six hours after airing
begins. Infants and children under six years of age shall not be permitted to
re-enter the premises until 12 hours after the rooms or apartments are opened
for airing. The licensed operator shall be responsible for informing all
occupants having children of this provision.
   (N)   Disposition of residue. The residue left in the jars or containers
shall be poured down the toilet bowl, which shall then be flushed thoroughly
with water to remove all traces of the chemicals.
   (O)   Report of premises fumigated. It shall be the duty of every person
intending to generate or release cyanide gas for fumigating purposes to notify,
in writing, the Chief of Police and the Chief of the Fire Department of the
location of the building or enclosed space to be fumigated, as well as its
character, and the day and hour when the work will be performed. This
notification must be received at the offices of the above mentioned respective
departments prior to the release of the gas and not later than 8:30 a.m. of the
day upon which the job is to be undertaken, For the purpose of this subsection,
8:30 a.m. is to be construed as the time of the beginning of the working day.
('68 Code, § 4-303 (Ord. 81, passed 12-13-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
DRAIN LAYERS
§ 117.50 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the trade or business of drainlaying in the city
unless he shall first have obtained a license therefor.
('68 Code, § 3-601) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.51 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   Applications for such licenses shall be made upon proper forms and submitted
to the Director of the Department of Public Services, and the applicant at the
time of filing such application shall deposit a fee in the amount of $10 with
the City Treasurer, and no such application shall be accepted for filing by the
Commissioner until such deposit of fee has been made.
('68 Code, § 3-602) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46)
§ 117.52 EXAMINATION REQUIRED.
   Subsequent to the filing of such application, the applicant shall submit to
an examination by the Director of the Department of Public Services or such
other person whom the Council may designate to determine the ability and
qualifications of said applicant as a drain layer.
('68 Code, § 3-603) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46)
§ 117.53 BOND.
   Any applicant who shall have successfully passed said examination and filed
with the Director of the Department of Public Services a bond in the sum of
$1,000 and paid his license fee shall be entitled to engage in the business of
drainlaying in the city, and such incense therefor shall, upon the
recommendation of such Commissioner, be granted to said applicant by the City
Council.
('68 Code, § 3-604) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46)
§ 117.54 EXPIRATION DATE; RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   All licenses to practice drainlaying under this subchapter shall expire on
the first Tuesday in May following the date of the issuance of such license.
However, all licenses to engage in the business of drainlaying may be renewed
within 60 days from the date of expiration of such license by filing a proper
application therefor with the Director of the Department of Public Services and
paying the required fee hereinafter set forth.
('68 Code, § 3-606) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46)
§ 117.55 LICENSE AND RENEWAL FEE.
   Each applicant shall be required to pay the full sum of $10 upon the
issuance of any original license to engage in the business of drainlaying in
the city for the first year thereof; provided that no such license shall be
renewed at any time for a period of more than one year and renewal fee of $5
for each year thereafter.
('68 Code, § 3-607) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46)
§ 117.56 EMPLOYMENT OF UNLICENSED WORKERS PROHIBITED; SUPERVISION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business or trade of
drainlaying in the city without having first secured a license as hereinbefore
required, or to employ any other person to do such work in the city without
proper license, or to employ any apprentices to do such work without having a
licensed drain layer in charge of such work and present in person at all times
while such work is being performed.
('68 Code, § 3-605) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 117.57 SUSPENSION OF LICENSES.
   Any licensed drain layer who shall neglect or refuse to comply with this
subchapter or rules and regulations established by the Commissioners of Public
Works or with the conditions of his permit may have his license suspended by
the Commissioner and shall thereby be debarred from obtaining permits or doing
drainlaying until the suspension has been removed by the commissioners or by
action of the City Council, and shall also be liable for prosecution. Good
faith or unreasonable delay in the performance of any work or drainlaying shall
be deemed as sufficient reason for subjecting the drain layer so offending to a
suspension of his license by the Commissioners, and every drain layer shall be
held responsible for the violations of any regulations by mechanics or laborers
employed by him.
('68 Code, § 3-608) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46)
§ 117.58 INSTALLATION OF SEWERS, DRAINS; LICENSE REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   A master plumber may install sewers without having first secured a
drain layer's license as herein required, but in such event such sewer must be
laid by himself or by a licensed drain layer or journeyman plumber.
('68 Code, § 3-609)
   (B)   Drain layers will be permitted to lay only such sewers or drains as
are of vitrified clay construction, and will be held responsible for only such
lines as are constructed over three feet outside of the foundation walls of
buildings (private garages or minor outbuildings excepted) or over three feet
outside of the surface projection of buildings set upon posts or piers. No
drain layer shall lay, alter or repair any sewer or drain within three feet of
any building, or foundation wall thereof (private garages and minor
outbuildings excepted).
('68 Code, § 3-610) (Ord. 72, passed 2-5-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
ELECTRICAL SERVICES
§ 117.70 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPRENTICE ELECTRICIAN. An individual other than an Electrical Contractor,
Master Electrician, or Electrical Journeyman, who is engaged in learning about
and assisting in the installation or alteration of electrical wiring and
equipment under the direct personal supervision of an Electrical Journeyman or
Master Electrician.
   BOARD. City of Inkster Electrical Examining and Appeals Board.
   DEPARTMENT. City of Inkster Building Department.
   ELECTRICAL EQUIPMENT. All electrical devices, in connection with the
generation, distribution, communication, and utilization of electrical energy,
within or on a building, residence, structure, or properties including fire
alarm and sign devices.
   ELECTRICAL CONTRACTOR. A person, firm or corporation engaged in the business
of erecting, installing, altering, repairing, servicing, or maintaining
electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment.
   ELECTRICAL INSPECTOR. Any person who has the necessary qualifications,
training, experience, and knowledge to inspect all electrical apparatus for
compliance with the codes and who shall be the agent or employee of the
department designated by the building official as an electrical inspector.
Inspectors shall be registered pursuant to Act No. 54 of the Public Acts of
1986, being MCL 336.2301 et seq., and known as the Building Officials and
Inspectors Registration Act.
   ELECTRICAL JOURNEYMAN. A person other than an electrical contractor who, as
his or her principal occupation, is engaged in the practical installation or
alteration of electrical wiring. An electrical contractor or master electrician
may also be an electrical journeyman.
   ELECTRIC SIGN. Fixed, stationary, or portable self-contained, electrically
illuminated equipment that has words or symbols designed to convey information
or attract attention. The term includes outline lighting.  ELECTRIC SIGN does
not include those signs that are indoor or outdoor portable applications or
recognized holiday residential signs listed with a recognized electrical
testing laboratory and that use a cord cap-110 volt plug as the electrical
energizing attachment method.
   ELECTRICAL WIRING. All wiring, generating equipment, fixtures, appliances,
and appurtenances in connection with the generation, distribution,
communication, and utilization of electrical energy, within or on a building,
residence, structure, or properties, and including service entrance wiring as
defined by the code.
   FIRE ALARM CONTRACTOR. A person, firm, or corporation engaged in the
business of erecting, installing, altering, repairing, servicing, or
maintaining wiring, devices, appliances or equipment of a fire alarm system.
   FIRE ALARM SPECIALTY APPRENTICE TECHNICIAN. An individual other than a fire
alarm contractor or a fire alarm specialty technician who is engaged in
learning about and assisting in the installation or alteration of fire alarm
system wiring and equipment under the direct personal supervision of a fire
alarm specialty technician.
   FIRE ALARM SPECIALTY LICENSURE. Licensure as a fire alarm contractor or a
fire alarm specialty or apprentice technician.
   FIRE ALARM SPECIALTY TECHNICIAN. A person other than a fire alarm contractor
who, as his or her principal occupation, is engaged in the practical
installation or alteration of fire alarm system wiring.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system designed to detect and annunciate the presence
of fire, or by-products of fire, installed within a building or structure. FIRE
ALARM SYSTEM does not include a single station smoke detector.
   JOBSITE. The immediate work area within the property lines of a single
construction project, alteration project or maintenance project where
electrical construction or alteration of electrical wiring is in progress.
   MASTER ELECTRICIAN. A person having the necessary qualifications, training,
experience and technical knowledge to supervise the installation of electrical
wiring and equipment in accordance with the standard rules and regulations
governing that work.
   MINOR REPAIR WORK. Electrical work such as repairing or replacing flush and
snap switches, fuses, lamp sockets or receptacles; replacing lamps or the
connection of portable electrical equipment to suitable permanently installed
receptacles; provided the total value does not exceed $100.
   MUNICIPALITY. A city, village or township.
   OUTLINE LIGHTING. An arrangement of incandescent lamps or electric discharge
tubing which is an integral part of an electrical sign that outlines certain
features, such as the shape of a building or the decoration of a window.
   OWNER. Any natural person, firm, partnership, association or corporation and
their legal successors. In all proceedings, actions or prosecution hereunder,
in which a corporation is the owner of any building, structure or part thereof,
or of premises, any of its officers, directors or persons in control or
management thereof, as well as the corporation, shall be subject to the
provisions of this subchapter.
   SIGN SPECIALIST. A person who, as his or her principal occupation, is
engaged in the installation, alteration or repair of electric signs.
   SIGN SPECIALTY CONTRACTOR. A person, firm or corporation engaged in the
business of manufacturing, installing, maintaining, connecting, or repairing
electric sign wiring or devices, including wiring that is directly related to
electric signs and is electrically dedicated as a sign circuit beginning at the
load side of the sign circuit disconnect.
   SIGN SPECIALTY LICENSURE. Licensure as a sign specialist or sign specialty
contractor.
   RELATED SIGN WIRING.
      (1)   Except as otherwise provided in divisions (2), (3), and (4) of this
definition, that portion of the electric sign wiring that originates at the
load-side terminals of a disconnecting means located in the vicinity of the
electric sign involved but does not include the installation of the
disconnecting means, complete with line-side connections.
      (2)   In the case of electric sign installations having sign transformers
installed physically apart from the electric originates at the load-side
terminals of a disconnecting means located in the vicinity of the electric sign
involved but does not include the installation of the disconnecting means,
complete with line-side connections.
      (3)   In the case of the free-standing electric sign installations
supplied through underground circuit conductors, that portion of the electric
sign wiring that originates at a wiring termination point adjacent to, within
or immediately above the permanent base for the electric sign but does not
include, if the base of the sign structure is suitable for use as a raceway,
the installation of bushing, complete with free-length circuit conductors
extending through to accommodate the connection of the related wiring within
the sign structure raceway.
      (4)   In the case of electric signs specifically designed to be connected
directly to the building wiring raceway or cable supply, that portion of the
electric sign wiring that originates at the point where the free-length circuit
conductors extend through the building wiring raceway or cable at the
specifically designed supply location for the electric sign involved but does
not include the installation of the building wiring raceway or cable system to
the specifically designated point of supply for the electric sign involved,
complete with free-length circuit conductors extending through the building
wiring raceway or cable to accommodate the connection of the related wiring.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.71 ELECTRICAL INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Electrical Examining and Appeals Board, also referred to in this
subchapter as the Board, shall have and hereby is given jurisdiction, subject
to review as hereinafter provided, over the inspection of all electrical
installations, including changes, repairs and additions thereto within the
city.
   (B)   The Board is hereby empowered and it shall be their duty to promulgate
and recommend such rules and regulations concerning electrical work in the city
as may be required to properly provide for the situations therein. The rules
and regulations so made by the Board shall be effective upon approval by the
city and the Michigan Construction Code Commission and shall take precedence
over plans, specifications and national electrical code rules.
   (C)   The city shall appoint an electrical inspector, who shall be licensed
as an electrical journeyman or master electrician, who shall inspect all
electrical installations and report to the inspection authority. This
jurisdiction shall apply to the installation of electrical wiring, electrical
devices, apparatus and equipment for connection to electrical supply systems
except as provided in §
117.75(A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F) and (H).
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.72 FEES FOR INSPECTION.
   When an application is made for a permit, license, registration or
examination required under the terms of this subchapter, a fee shall be paid in
an amount as prescribed by the City Council.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.73 RIGHT Of ACCESS TO BUILDINGS.
   Subject to the Constitution and the laws of the state, the Electrical
Inspector and/or his or her deputy shall have the right during reasonable hours
to enter any building in the discharge of his or her official duties for the
purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation of electrical
wiring, electrical devices and/or electrical materials contained therein and
shall have the authority to cause the turning off of all electrical supply and
to disconnect, in cases of emergency, any wire where such electrical currents
are dangerous to life or property or may interfere with the work of the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.74 PERMITS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to install,
alter, maintain, service or repair electrical equipment in or on any building,
structure or part thereof, or on premises, or cause or permit therein or
thereon the installation, altering, maintaining, servicing or repairing of any
electrical equipment without a permit having been obtained wherefore as
provided herein. Nothing in this section shall be considered as applying to any
person engaged in repairing and maintaining electrical appliances.
   (B)   Permits shall be issued only to (B)(1) through (4) of this section:
      (1)   Licensed electrical contractors.
      (2)   Licensed fire alarm contractors.
      (3)   Licensed sign specialty contractors.
      (4)   A bona fide owner of a single-family residence which is, or will be
on completion, his or her own place of residence, and no part of which is used
for rental or commercial purposes nor is now contemplated for such purpose,
provided that the owner applies for and secures a permit, pays the fee, does
the work himself/herself in accordance with the provisions hereof, applies for
inspections and receives approval thereof. Failure to comply with these
requirements will subject the owner's permit to cancellation.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94) Penalty, see §
117.74
§ 117.75 CONTRACTOR'S REQUIREMENTS; EXCEPTIONS.
   No person, firm, or corporation shall engage in the business of electrical
contracting, fire alarm contracting, or sign contracting unless such person,
firm, or corporation shall have received from the state or the appropriate
municipality the appropriate contractor's license; nor shall any person other
than a Master Electrician, except a person duly licensed and employed by and
working under the direction of a holder of an Electrical Contractor's license,
Fire Alarm Contractor's license, or Sign Contractor's license, in any manner
undertake to execute any electrical wiring; except, no license shall be
required by the Board to perform the work indicated in divisions (G), (I), (J),
(K), (L), (M), and (N) of this section; nor shall a license or permit be
required to execute the work covered by divisions (A), (B), (C), (D), (E), (F)
and (H) of this section:
   (A)   Minor repair work, as defined.
   (B)   The installation, alteration, repairing, rebuilding or remodeling of
elevators, dumbwaiters, escalators, or man lifts performed under a permit
issued by an elevator inspection agency of the state or political subdivision
of the state.
   (C)   The installation, alteration or repair of electrical equipment and its
associated wiring, installed on the premises of consumers or subscribers by or
for electrical energy supply or communication agencies for use by such agencies
in the generation, transmission, distribution or metering of electrical energy,
or for the operation of signals or transmission of intelligence, not including
fire alarm systems.
   (D)   The installation, alteration or repair of electric wiring for the
generation and primary distribution of electric current, or the secondary
distribution of electric current, or the secondary distribution system, up to
and including the meters, where such work is an integral part of the system
owned and operated by and electric light and power utility in rendering its
duly authorized service.
   (E)   Any work involved in the manufacture of electric equipment, including
the testing and repairing of such manufactured equipment.
   (F)   The installation, alteration or repair of equipment and its associated
wiring for the generation or distribution of electric energy for the operation
of signals or transmission of intelligence where such work is in connection
with a communication system owned or operated by a telephone or telegraph
company in rendering its duly authorized service as a telephone or telegraph
company.
   (G)   Any installation, alteration or repair of electrical equipment by a
homeowner in a single-family home and accompanying outbuildings owned and
occupied or to be occupied by the person performing the installation,
alteration or repair of electrical equipment.
   (H)   Any work involved in the use, maintenance, operation, dismantling or
reassembling of motion picture and theatrical equipment used in any building
with approved facilities for entertainment or educational use and which has the
necessary permanent wiring, floor and wall receptacle outlets designed for the
proper and safe use of such theatrical equipment, but not including any
permanent wiring.
   (I)   Work performed by mechanical contractors licensed in classifications
listed in Section 6 (3) (a), (b), (d), (e), and (f) of the Forbes Mechanical
Contractor Act, Act No. 192 of the Public Acts of 1984, being MCL 338.976,
plumbing contractors licensed under Act No. 266 of the Public Acts of 1929,
being MCL 338.901 to 338.917, and employees of persons licensed under Act No.
192 of the Public Acts of 1984 and Act No. 266 of the Public Acts of 1929 while
performing maintenance, service, repair, replacement, alteration, modification,
reconstruction or upgrading of control wiring circuits and electrical component
parts within existing mechanical systems defined in the mechanical and plumbing
codes provided for in the State Construction Code Act of 1972, including, but
not limited to, energy management systems, relays and controls on boilers, and
water heaters, furnaces, air conditioning compressors and condensers, fan
controls, thermostats and sensors, and all manufacturer prewired system wiring
associated with the mechanical systems in building which are on the load side
of the unit disconnect, which is located on or immediately adjacent to the
equipment, except for life safety systems wiring.
   (J)   Electrical wiring associated with the installation, removal,
alteration, or repair of a water well pump on a single family dwelling to the
first point of attachment in the house from the well, by a registered pump
installer under part 127 of the Public Health Code, Act No. 368 of the Public
Acts of 1978, being MCL 333.12701 to 333.12771.
   (K)   The installation, maintenance or servicing of burglar alarm systems
within a building or structure.
   (L)   The installation, maintenance or servicing of residential lawn
sprinkling equipment.
   (M)   The installation, alteration, maintenance or repair of electric signs
and related wiring by an unlicensed individual under the direct supervision of
a licensed sign specialist except that the ratio of unlicensed individuals
engaged in this activity shall not exceed two unlicensed individuals to one
licensed sign specialist. An enforcing agency shall enforce this ratio on a
jobsite basis.
   (N)   The construction, installation, maintenance, repair and renovation of
telecommunications equipment and related systems by a person, firm or
corporation primarily engaged in the telecommunications and related information
systems industry. This exemption does not include the construction,
installation, maintenance, repair and renovation of a fire alarm system.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.76 INSPECTION.
   (A)   Upon the completion of the wiring of any building, it shall be the
duty of the person, firm or corporation installing the same to notify the city,
who shall notify the Electrical Inspector to inspect the installation as soon
as possible, and if it is found to be fully in compliance with this subchapter
and does not constitute a hazard to life and property, he/she shall issue upon
request to such person, firm or corporation for delivery to the owner a
certificate of inspection.
   (B)   All wires which are to be hidden from view shall be inspected before
concealment and any person, firm or corporation installing such wires shall
notify the city, giving sufficient time in which to make the required
inspection before such wires are concealed.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.77 RE-INSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspector may, when specifically authorized by state law or
separate municipal ordinance, make periodically a thorough re-inspection of the
installation in buildings of all electrical wiring, electrical devices and
electrical material now installed or that may hereafter be installed, within
the city. When the installation of any such wiring, devices, and/or material is
found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the person, firm or corporation
owning, using or operating the same shall be notified and shall make the
necessary repairs or changes required to place such wiring, devices and
material in a safe condition and have such work completed within 15 days, or
any longer period specified by the Electrical Inspector in the notice. The
Electrical Inspector is hereby empowered to disconnect or order in writing the
discontinuance of electrical service to such wiring, devices and/or material
found to be defectively installed until the installation of such wiring,
devices and material has been made safe as directed by the Electrical
Inspector.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.78 CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   No Certificate of Inspection shall be issued unless the electrical
installation is in strict conformity with the provisions of this subchapter,
the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations issued by the Michigan
Public Service Commission under the authority of the state statutes and unless
they are in conformity with approved methods of construction for safety to
persons and property. The regulations as laid down in the National Electrical
Code (N.F.P.A.-70), City Building and N.F.P.A.'S: 71, 72, 73 & 74, for fire
alarm systems as approved by the American National Standards Institute (ANSI)
and in the amendments, rules and regulations established as hereinafter
provided shall be prima facie evidence of such approved methods.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.79 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install or use any electrical device,
apparatus, or equipment designed for attachment to, or installation on any
electrical circuit or system for heat, light, power, or fire alarm system that
is not of good design and construction and safe and adequate for its intended
use. The Electrical Inspector shall have power to disapprove the use or
installation of devices not fulfilling these requirements.
   (B)   Devices, apparatus and equipment listed by such generally recognized
authorities as United States Bureau of Standards, or by qualified electrical
testing laboratories such as: Electrical Testing Laboratories (ETL),
Underwriters Laboratories (UL) or Factory Mutual (FM) may be given the approval
by the Electrical Inspector unless explicitly disapproved by said authority for
reasons of faulty design or poor construction involving danger to persons and/
or property.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.80 RECORD AND REVIEW.
   (A)   The city shall keep complete records of all permits issued and
inspections made and other official work performed under the provision of this
subchapter.
   (B)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation, the owner or his or her agent may within five days after
receiving written notice from the electrical inspector, file a petition in
writing for review of said action of the Electrical Inspector with the
Examining and Appeals Board. Upon receipt of the petition, the Board shall at
once proceed to determine whether the electrical installation complies with
this subchapter, and within three days shall make a decision in accordance with
its findings.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.81 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FOR ELECTRICAL WORK.
   (A)   (1)   The Electrical Examining and Appeals Board is hereby constituted
consisting of the City Electrical Inspector; a representative of the electrical
utility company; a licensed electrical contractor who is also a licensed master
electrician; a licensed master electrician; and an electrical engineer.
      (2)   The members of the Board shall be appointed by the City Council for
such terms as shall be designated at the time of appointment. This Board shall
examine all applicants for Electrical, Fire, and Sign Contractor's License;
Journeyman and Master Electrician License; Fire Alarm Specialty Technician
License and Sign Specialist License; and the registration of apprentice
electricians and fire alarm specialty apprentice technicians.
   (B)   Applicants for Journeyman and Master Electrician License; Fire Alarm
Specialty Technician License and Sign Specialist License shall designate their
residence as the location of their legal address. All applicants for contractor
licenses shall designate their principal place of business as their legal
address.
   (C)   All electrical contractors, fire alarm contractors, sign specialty
contractors, master electricians, journeyman electricians, fire alarm specialty
technicians, sign specialists, apprentice electricians and fire alarm specialty
apprentice technicians having their legal address within the corporate limits
of the city shall secure their license or registration from the city.
   (D)   The Board shall prepare the application forms, prescribe the
examination and meet on call of the city to hold examinations. Due notice shall
be given applicants of the date of examination. All applications for
examination shall be in writing. The examination shall consist of a written
examination as the Board shall determine and other practical tests at the
discretion of the Board.
   (E)   The examination for Journeyman and Master Electricians, Fire Alarm
Specialty Technician License, and Sign Specialist License shall include, but
not be limited to, questions designed to test an individual's knowledge of this
subchapter, the State Construction Code Act of 1972, and any code adopted by
the city, as well as the theory relative to those codes.
   (F)   The examination for Electrical Contractor's License, Fire Alarm
Contractor's License and Sign Specialty Contractors License shall include, but
not be limited to, questions designed to test an individual's knowledge of this
subchapter and any rules promulgated under this subchapter, the State
Construction Code Act of 1972 and the administration and enforcement procedures
of any code adopted by this municipality.
   (G)   All application forms and examinations shall be in English and all
applicants shall be able to read and write in the English language.
   (H)   A person holding a valid Electrical Contractor's License, Master
Electrician's License, Electrical Journeyman's License or Apprentice
Electrician's registration shall not be required to hold any specialty licenses
in order to perform specialty installations.
   (I)   Contractors. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation
to engage in the business of electrical contractor, fire alarm contractor, sign
specialty contractor and install, alter or repair electrical wiring, equipment,
apparatus or fixtures for light, heat, power or fire alarm system in or about
buildings and/or structures located within the city without first having
procured the appropriate contractor's license.
      (1)   Contractor's license; requirements.
         (a)   Electrical Contractor: The building department shall issue an
Electrical Contractor's License to a person who
does all of the following:
            1.   Holds a Master Electrician's License or has not less than one
Master Electrician residing in this state who is in his or her full time
employ. That Master Electrician shall be actively in charge of and responsible
for code compliance of all installations of electrical wiring and equipment,
and represents no other person, firm or corporation as their Master
Electrician.
            2.   Files a completed application on a form provided by the
building department.
            3.   Pays the examination fees and passes an examination provided
for by the Board and the building department.
            4.   Pays the license fee prescribed by resolution of City Council.
         (b)   Fire Alarm Contractor: The Building Department shall issue a
Fire Alarm Contractor's License to a person who does all of the following:
            1.   Holds a Fire Alarm Specialty Technician's License or has not
less than one Fire Alarm Specialty Technician residing in the state who is in
his or her full-time employ. The Fire Alarm Specialty Technician shall be
actively in charge of and responsible for code compliance of all installation
of fire alarm system wiring and equipment.
            2.   Files a completed application on a form provided by the
department.
            3.   Pays the examination fee and passes the examination provided
by the Board and the department.
            4.   Pays the license fee prescribed by resolution of the City
Council.
Note: Beginning the effective date of the ordinance that added this division
and for a period of three years from that date, the department shall issue a
license to a person qualified for fire alarm specialty licensure except for the
requirement of certification by the National Institute for Certification in
Engineering Technology or the equivalent as determined by the Board. Under
these circumstances, the applicant shall furnish a notarized statement from
current and past employers documenting past work experience. Work experience of
not less than 4,000 hours obtained over a period of not less than two years
shall qualify the person for fire alarm specialty licensure under this
division.
         (c)   Sign Specialty Contractor: The Building Department shall issue a
Sign Specialty Contractor's License to a person who does all of the following:
            1.   Holds a Sign Specialist's License or has not less than one
sign specialist residing in this state who is in his or her full-time employ.
The sign specialist shall be actively in charge of and responsible for code
compliance of all installations, maintenance, connection, and repair of
electric signs and related wiring.
            2.   Files a completed application of a form provided by the
Department.
            3.   Pays the examination fee and passes an examination provided
for by the Board and the Department.
            4.   Pays the license fee prescribed by resolution of City Council.
            5.   Provides evidence of public liability insurance coverage.
Note:
1.   Beginning the effective date of the ordinance that added this division and
for a period of 360 days from that date, the department shall issue a license
to a person applying for licensure as a sign specialty contractor who has not
less than two years experience, presented by affidavit, as a sign contractor
and who is qualified under division (I)(1)(c) of this section except for the
examination requirement.
2.   Beginning the effective date of the ordinance that added this division and
until the expiration of 180 days after the Department and Board administer and
make available the examination described in this subchapter, a person not
eligible for a license under division (1) of this note or the note following
division (M) of this section may engage in the installation, alteration, or
repair of electric signs and related wiring.
   (J)   Master, Journeyman and Apprentice Electrician. It shall be unlawful
for any person to engage in the occupation or trade of master, journeyman or
apprentice electrician in the installation, alteration, maintenance or repair
of electrical wiring equipment, apparatus or fixtures for buildings and/or
structures within the city without having first obtained a license or
apprentice registration as herein provided.
All electrical work done by apprentice electricians shall be performed under
the direct personal supervision of a journeyman or master electrician who shall
be on the premises at all times when such apprentice electricians are
performing such work.
      (1)   Master Electrician's License; Requirements; Failure to Pass
Examination; Condition of Renewal; License Limitation.
         (a)   The Department shall issue a Master Electrician's License to a
person not less than 22 years of age who does all of the following:
            1.   Files a completed application provided by the Department.
            2.   Pays the examination fee prescribed and passes an examination
provided for by the Board.
            3.   Pays the license fee prescribed by the Department.
            4.   A written statement from present or former employers to the
effect that the applicant has not less than 12,000 hours of practical
experience obtained over a period of not less than six years related to
electrical construction or maintenance of buildings, or electrical wiring or
equipment under the supervision of a master electrician.
            5.   Has held an Electrical Journeyman's License for no less than
two years. Verification of license shall be furnished.
         (b)   Upon failure to pass the master electrician examination two
times within a period of two years, an applicant shall be ineligible to sit for
another examination until a period of not less than one year from the date of
failure of the second examination, at which time he or she shall present to the
Board proof of the successful completion of a course on code, electrical
fundamentals, or electrical theory, approved by the Board; in order to become
eligible to again sit for an examination.
         (c)   As a condition of renewal of a Master Electrician's License, the
master electrician shall demonstrate the successful completion of a course,
approved by the Board, concerning any update or change in the code, prior to or
within 12 months after the adoption of the update or change in that code. This
requirement applies only during or after those years that the code is updated
or changed by adoption into ordinance.
         (d)   A holder of a Master Electrician's License shall not qualify for
more than one Electrical Contractor's License.
      (2)   Electrical Journeyman's License; Requirements; Failure to Pass
Examination; Condition of Renewal.
         (a)   The Department shall issue an Electrical Journeyman's License to
a person not less than 20 years of age who does all of the following:
            1.   Files a completed application form provided by the Department.
            2.   Pays the examination fee prescribed and passes an examination
provided for by the Board.
            3.   Pays the license fee prescribed by the Department.
            4.   Files a written statement from present or former employers to
the effect that the applicant has not less than 8,000 hours of experience
obtained over a period of not less than four years related to electrical
construction or maintenance of buildings or electrical wiring or equipment
under the direct supervision of a master or journeyman electrician that is
licensed under this subchapter.
         (b)   Upon failure to pass the electrical journeyman examination two
times within a period of two years, an applicant shall be ineligible to sit for
another examination until a period of not less than one year from the date of
failure of the second examination, at which time he or she shall present to the
Board proof of the successful completion of a course on code, electrical
fundamentals, or electrical theory, approved by the board, in order to become
eligible again to sit for an examination.
         (c)   As a condition of renewal of an Electrical Journeyman's License,
the electrical journeyman shall demonstrate the successful completion of a
course, approved by the Board, concerning any update or change in the code,
prior to or within twelve months after the adoption of the update or change in
that code. This requirement applies only during or after those years that the
code is updated or changed by adoption into ordinance.
      (3)   Apprentice Electrician: Registration; Forms; Certificate of
Registration; Apprenticeship Training Program; Apprentice Electrician Ratio.
         (a)   An individual employed as an apprentice electrician shall
register on a form provided by the Board within 30 days after employment.
         (b)   The Department shall issue a certificate of registration to a
person seeking registration upon satisfactory proof of the person's
participation in a bona fide apprenticeship training program approved by the
Board. This program shall be equivalent to the requirements of those imposed by
the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training,
subject to division (J)(3)(a) of this section.
         (c)   Except as otherwise provided in division (J)(4) of this section,
the ratio of electrical journeymen or master electricians to registered
apprentice electricians shall be on the basis of one electrical journeyman or
master electrician to one registered apprentice electrician. The Department
shall enforce the ratio on a jobsite basis.
         (d)   Notwithstanding division (J)(3) of this section, in the case of
a residential single- family dwelling or a multi-family dwelling not exceeding
eight units per building, the Department shall enforce the apprentice
electrician ratio on the basis of one electrical journeyman or master
electrician to two registered apprentice electricians on a jobsite basis.
   (K)   Fire Alarm Specialty Technician's License.
      (1)   The Department shall issue a Fire Alarm Specialty Technician's
License to a person no less than 20 years of age who does all of the following:
         (a)   Files a completed application form provided by the Department.
         (b)   Pays the examination fee and passes an examination provided for
by the Board and the Department.
         (c)   Pays the license fee.
         (d)   Has certification by the National Institute for Certification in
Engineering Technology as an Associate Engineering Technician, Level II, or the
equivalent as determined by the Board in the field of fire alarm systems
technology.
      (2)   As a condition of renewal of a Fire Alarm Specialty Technician's
License, the fire alarm specialty technician shall demonstrate the successful
completion of a course, approved by the Board, concerning any update or change
in the code relating to fire alarm systems prior to or within 12 months after
the adoption of the update or change in that code. This requirement applies
only during or after those years that the code is updated or changed by
adoption into ordinance.
      (3)   The holder of a Fire Alarm Specialty Technician's License shall not
qualify for more than one Fire Alarm Contractor's License.
   (L)   Fire Alarm Apprentice: An individual employed as a fire alarm
specialty apprentice technician shall register with the Board on a form
provided by the Board within 30 days after employment.
      (1)   The Department shall issue a Certificate of Registration to a
person seeking registration upon satisfactory proof of the person's
participation in a bona fide apprenticeship training program approved by the
Board. The program shall be equivalent to the requirements of those imposed by
the United States Department of Labor Bureau of Apprenticeship and Training,
subject to division (C) of this section.
      (2)   The ration of fire alarm specialty technicians to registered fire
alarm specialty apprentice technicians shall be on the basis of one fire alarm
specialty technician to two registered fire alarm specialty apprentice
technicians. The Department shall enforce the ratio on a jobsite basis.
   (M)   Sign Specialty Technician License.
      (1)   The Department shall issue a Sign Specialists License to a person
not less than 18 years of age who does all of the following:
         (a)   Files a completed application form provided by the Department.
         (b)   Pays the examination fee and passes the examination provided for
by the Department.
         (c)   Pays the license fee.
         (d)   A statement from present or past employers to the effect that
the applicant has not less than 4,000 hours of experience, obtained over a
period of not less than two years, related to the manufacture, installation,
maintenance, connection, or repair of electric signs and related wiring;
equivalent education may be substituted for work experience as determined by
the Board.
         (e)   Demonstrates the successful completion of a course concerning
the installation, maintenance, connection, or repair of electric signs and
related wiring as contained in the Sign Electrician's Workbook published by the
American Technical Publishers, Inc., or any other course designed to address
the sign industry, as approved by the Board.
      (2)   Upon failure to pass the Sign Specialist examination two times
within a period of two years, an applicant shall be ineligible to sit for
another examination until he or she presents to the Board proof of the
successful completion of a course on code and electrical fundamentals approved
by the Board, in order to become eligible again to sit for an examination.
      (3)   As a condition of renewal of a Sign Specialist's License, the sign
specialist shall demonstrate the successful completion of a course, approved by
the Board, concerning any update or change in applicable section of the code
prior to or within 12 months after the adoption of the update or change in that
code. The requirement applies only during or after those years that the code is
updated or changed by adoption into ordinance.
Note: Beginning the effective date of the ordinance that added this division
(M) and for a period of 360 days from that date, the department shall issue a
license to a person applying for licensure as a sign specialist who is
qualified under division (I)(1)(c) of this section, except for the examination
requirement.
Under these circumstances, the applicant shall furnish a notarized statement
from current and past employers documenting past work experience. Work
experience of not less than 4,000 hours obtained over a period of not less than
two years shall qualify the person for sign specialty licensure under division
(M) of this section.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.82 LICENSE AND REGISTRATION FEES AND ANNUAL RENEWALS.
   (A)   The fees for an examination and/or license for an electrical
contractor, fire alarm contractor, sign specialty contractor, master
electrician, journeymen electrician, fire alarm specialty technician, and sign
specialist shall be prescribed by resolution of City Council.
   (B)   Licenses shall expire on December 31 of each year, and shall be
renewed upon application by the licensee, together with payment of the required
fee. After March 1, contractor, master journeyman, technician and specialist
licenses not renewed shall be considered cancelled and may not be renewed
except upon approval of the Board. A license not renewed within three years
shall not be reissued without examination except upon special approval by the
Board.
   (C)   Electrical contractor's, fire alarm contractor's, sign specialty
contractor's, master electricians journeyman electrician's, technician's and
specialist's licenses shall be issued by the city upon the recommendation of
the Board.
   (D)   Licenses and registration issued under this subchapter shall be non-
transferable and shall be displayed when required.
   (E)   Electrical, fire, and sign contractor's licenses under the terms of
this subchapter shall not secure permits for work to be done by any person not
employed by the contractor, and the license may be revoked for violation of
this rule.
   (F)   Apprentice electrician, and fire alarm specialty apprentice technician
registrations shall be issued by the city upon recommendation of the Board.
   (G)   Apprentice electrician and fire alarm specialty apprentice technician
registrations will expire on August 31 of each year and shall be renewable
within 30 days after that date upon payment of the fee prescribed in this
subchapter. Fees for apprentice electrician and fire alarm specialty apprentice
technician registrations shall be prescribed by resolution of City Council.
   (H)   No license shall be recognized by the city unless such licenses are
issued by a cooperating member of the Reciprocal Electrical Council, Inc., a
municipality that has adopted an ordinance under Section 6 of the Electrical
Administrative Act 217, or the Michigan Electrical Administrative Board.
   (I)   The city shall permit electrical, fire, and sign contractors lawfully
licensed within the state; to install, alter, or repair electrical wiring,
equipment, apparatus or fixtures for light, heat, power, or fire alarm system
purposes within the corporate limits of the city, upon payment of a
registration fee, provided such authorities reciprocate in recognizing the
contractors who are duly licensed under the provisions of this subchapter by
granting them the same privilege.
   (J)   The City Building Department shall have the authority to investigate
the activities of a person licensed or registered under this subchapter or
Public Act 217 which are related to the person's licensure or registration as
an electrical, fire alarm, or sign contractor; master, or journeyman
electrician; fire alarm specialty technician; sign specialist; electrician
apprentice, or fire alarm specialty apprentice technician, which activities
include, but are not limited to, the grounds described in division (K) of this
section. The Department may hold hearings and shall report its findings to the
Board.
   (K)   (1)   Grounds for Board Action.
         (a)   Fraud or deceit in obtaining a license or registration under
this subchapter.
         (b)   The willful violation of a code.
         (c)   False advertising.
         (d)   A violation of this subchapter, or Rules, or the Act, except in
the case of a minor violation.
         (e)   Failure to produce the identification card for a license or
registration and at least one piece of identification containing the
individual's picture when requested by the Electrical Inspector.
         (f)   Recommendation by the Michigan Electrical Administrative Board
or any other municipal board to suspend or revoke a license or registration
issued by this Board.
         (g)   Cheating on an examination.
      (2)   The Board shall impose one or more of the following sanctions for a
violation in (K)(1)(a) through (g) above:
         (a)   Suspension of the license or registration issued under this
subchapter.
         (b)   Denial of the license or registration required under this
subchapter.
         (c)   Revocation of the license or registration issued under this
subchapter.
         (d)   Restriction from taking an exam for a minimum of two years.
         (e)   Restitution.
         (f)   Fine as listed in Section 15(b) and/or the General Rules.
      (3)   Two violations of this subchapter within a period of two years, the
Board may double the fine imposed under this subchapter.
      (4)   Three violations of this subchapter within a period of three years,
the Board shall revoke the person's license or registration and permanently
deny the person's re-application for a license or registration of the class
revoked.
      (5)   If restitution is required to be made by a licensee or registrant
under this section, the Board may suspend the license or registration of the
person required to make the restitution until restitution is made.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.83 EXEMPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to apparatus and equipment
installed by or for any utility operating under jurisdiction of the Michigan
Public Service Commission in the exercise of its function as a utility and when
such apparatus or equipment is used primarily for the purpose of communication
or metering; or for the generation, control, transformation, transmission and
distribution of electrical energy.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.84 LIABILITY
   (A)   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electrical wiring, electrical devices and/or electrical material
for damages to person or property caused by any defect therein nor shall the
city or the Electrical Inspector be held as assuming any such liability by
reason of the inspection authorized herein, or certificate of inspection issued
as herein provided.
   (B)   This subchapter shall take effect immediately upon passage and posting
as may be required by law.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
§ 117.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall fail to comply with any of
the provisions of §§
117.70 through
117.84 shall, upon conviction thereof, be subject to a fine of not more than
$500 or imprisonment in the jail of the city or any other place of confinement
provided by the city for such purpose in the discretion of the Court for a
period not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment at the
discretion of the Court unless otherwise provided in this subchapter.
   (B)   Except as provided for in division (A) of this section, a person
licensed or registered under §§
117.70 through
117.84 who commits a violation of §§
117.70 through
117.84 that is not a Minor Violation as described in the General Rules or a
person not licensed or registered under §§
117.70 through
117.84 who is performing any activity related by §§
117.70 through
117.84 is guilty of a civil violation, punishable by a fine of not less than
$1,000 per day for each day the violation except that a fine shall not exceed
$5,000 in total per violation. A second or subsequent violation is punishable
by a fine of not less than $2,000 per day for each day the violation occurs
except that a fine shall not exceed $10,000 in total per violation.
(Ord. 736, passed 1-4-94)
CHAPTER 118: ROOMING HOUSES AND MOTELS
Section
   
118.01   Intent
   
118.02   Definitions
   
118.03   Applicability to hotels
   
118.04   Operation, occupancy, compliance required
   
118.05   License to operate required
   
118.06   Denial of license, appeal, procedure
   
118.07   Inspection, suspension of license
   
118.08   Appeal, revocation of license
   
118.09   Minimum basic facilities required
   
118.10   Bed linen and towels
   
118.11   Minimum space
   
118.12   Means of egress
   
118.13   Responsibility for maintenance
§ 118.01 INTENT.
   The City Council finds that the licensing of rooming houses and motels is
necessary to protect the health, safety, commercial and general welfare of the
residents in the city.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17)
§ 118.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HOTEL. Any building or part thereof kept, used or maintained as or held out
to the public to be an inn, hotel or motel where travelers or members of the
public (including gratuitous guests) are furnished with sleeping
accommodations, and which may include a general kitchen and a public dining
room where the guests and general public may be served with food and drink.
   ROOMING, LODGING OR BOARDING HOUSES. A dwelling having one kitchen and used
for the purpose of providing meals or lodging or both meals and lodging for pay
or compensation of any kind, computed by day, week or month to persons other
than members of the family occupying such dwellings. In the case of single and
two-family dwellings the number of roomers or boarders shall not exceed the two
per dwelling unit unless such dwellings be made to comply in all respects with
the provisions of this chapter relating to multiple dwellings.
(‘68 Code, § 4-1101) (Ord. 370, passed 12-21-70; Am. Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91;
Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17)
§ 118.03 APPLICABILITY TO HOTELS.
   Every provision of this chapter which applies to rooming houses shall also
apply to hotels and motels, except to the extent that any such provision may be
found in conflict with the laws of the state or with the lawful regulations of
any state board or agency. No roomers, boarders, occupant or guests shall be
allowed to occupy any hotels or motels, in excess of 30 days in any quarterly
period. The Mayor, or his designee, may extend the occupancy of a hotel or
motel guest or occupant for up to 30 additional days upon a showing of hardship
by the guest or occupant.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17)
§ 118.04 OPERATION, OCCUPANCY, COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a rooming house, or shall occupy or let to another
for occupancy any rooming unit in any rooming house, except in compliance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Register required; inspection; false information. Every owner,
operator, manager or their agent, servant or employee under this subchapter
shall provide and maintain a register in which shall be inscribed, in ink, at
the time of arrival, the correct name of every guest renting or occupying a
room as verified by and photocopy held of valid photo identification, together
with the home street and city address of each such guest, and the number of the
space assigned, together with the time when such was rented. When any guest
shall terminate his stay, it shall be the duty of the owner, operator, manager,
or their agent, servant or employee, to see to it that the time thereof is
entered in the register. Each such check in/out is required to be recorded in
the register. Such register shall be open to inspection to police, fire and
health officers on official business.
   (B)   False information.
      (1)   (a)   Any person who shall put up at any hotel, motel, inn,
restaurant or café as a guest and shall procure any food, entertainment or
accommodation without paying therefor, except when credit is given therefor by
express agreement, with the intent to defraud such keeper thereof out of the
pay for the same, or, who, with intent to defraud such keeper out of the pay
therefor, shall obtain credit at any hotel, motel, inn, restaurant or café for
such food, entertainment or accommodation, by means of any false show of
baggage or effects brought thereto, is guilty of a misdemeanor. No conviction
shall be had under the provisions of this section unless complaint is made
within 60 days of the time of the violation hereof.
         (b)   Wherein a guest is in violation of the above section, hotel
management or staff who can provide proof of proper registry to include valid
photocopy of identification, sign in/room assignment and payment log, Code
Enforcement or any other city authority able to enforce city ordinance, may be
contacted to cite violator to the fullest extent allowable.
      (2)   Whenever an owner, operator or manager, or his agent, servant or
employee, knows or has reasonable cause for believing that any person has
inscribed a false name or given false information in such register, it shall be
his duty to forthwith notify the code enforcement of such fact.
      (3)   It shall be unlawful for any person to write or cause or permit to
be written in any hotel register any other or different nature or designation
than the true name of the person so registered.
   (C)   "Short stay" shall be prohibited. The minimum increment of time per
rental or occupying shall not be less than 24 hours.
('68 Code, § 4-1102) (Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.05 LICENSE TO OPERATE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a rooming house unless he holds a valid rooming
house license issued by the City Clerk in the name of the operator and for the
specific dwelling or dwelling unit. The operator shall apply annually to the
City Clerk for such license which shall be issued by the Clerk. Upon compliance
by the operator with the applicable provisions of this chapter and of any rules
and regulations adopted pursuant thereto. A copy of a current rate schedule is
required to be provided at the time of application. This rate schedule must be
maintained current at all times. Such license shall be issued only if a
Certificate of Occupancy (or approved point of sale inspection whichever
language is adopted) and a Certificate of Compliance are current with the
Building Department. The City Council may, by resolution, establish a licensing
fee to be paid by the operator at the time of application.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.06 DENIAL OF LICENSE, APPEAL, PROCEDURE.
   Any person whose application for a license to operate a rooming house has
been denied may appeal the matter to the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17)
§ 118.07 INSPECTION, SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   Whenever, upon inspection of any rooming house, the Department of Building
or other enforcement officials, finds that conditions or practices exist which
are in violation of any provision of this chapter or of any rule or regulation
adopted pursuant thereto, the Department of Building or other enforcement
officials, shall give notice in writing to the operator of such rooming house
that unless such conditions or practices are corrected within a maximum period
of time, to be determined by the Department of Building or other enforcement
officials, the operator's rooming house license shall be suspended. At the end
of such period, the Department of Building or other enforcement officials shall
reinspect such rooming house, and if it finds that such conditions or practices
have not been corrected, it shall give notice in writing to the operator that
the later's license has been suspended. Upon receipt of suspension, the
Department of Building shall suspend the Certificate of Compliance. Such
operator shall immediately cease operation of such rooming house, and no person
shall occupy for sleeping or living purposes any rooming unit therein.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.08 APPEAL, REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any person whose license to operate a rooming house has been suspended, or
who has received notice from the Department of Building that his license is to
be suspended unless existing conditions or practices at his rooming house are
corrected, may appeal the matter to the Board of Zoning and Housing Appeals
under the procedure provided in the city ordinances. If no petition for such
appeal is filed within ten days following the day on which such license was
suspended, such license and Certificate of Compliance shall be deemed to have
been automatically revoked.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17)
§ 118.09 MINIMUM BASIC FACILITIES REQUIRED.
   At least one flush water closet, lavatory basin and bathtub and/or shower,
properly connected to a water and sewer system approved by the Department of
Building and in good working condition, shall be supplied for each eight
persons or fraction thereof residing within a rooming house, including members
of the operator's family whenever they share the use of the said facilities. In
a rooming house where rooms are let only to males, flush urinals may be
substituted for not more than one-half of the required number of water closets.
All such facilities shall be so located within the dwelling as to be accessible
from a common hall or passageway to all persons sharing such facilities. Every
lavatory basin and bathtub or shower shall be supplied with hot water at all
times. No such facilities shall be located in a basement except by written
approval of the Department of Building.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.10 BED LINEN AND TOWELS.
   The operator of every rooming house shall change supplied bed linen and
towels therein at least once each week, and prior to letting of any room to any
occupant. The operator shall be responsible for the maintenance of all supplied
bedding in a clean and sanitary manner.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.11 MINIMUM SPACE.
   Every room occupied for sleeping purposes by one person shall contain at
least 80 square feet of floor space and every room occupied for sleeping
purposes by more than one person shall contain at least 50 square feet of floor
space for each occupant thereof.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.12 MEANS OF EGRESS.
   Every rooming unit shall have safe, unobstructed means of egress leading to
safe and open space at ground level as required by the laws of the state and
the city.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 118.13 RESPONSIBILITY FOR MAINTENANCE.
   The operator of every rooming house shall be responsible for the sanitary
maintenance of all walls, floors and ceilings, and for maintenance of a
sanitary condition in every other part of the rooming house; and he shall be
further responsible for the sanitary maintenance of the entire premises where
the entire structure or building is leased or occupied by the operator.
(Ord. 698, passed 2-18-91; Am. Ord. 861, passed 8-21-17) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 119: SOLICITORS, CANVASSERS AND PEDDLERS
Section
General Provisions
   
119.01   Title
   
119.02   Purpose
   
119.03   Definitions
   
119.04   License required
   
119.05   Application for license
   
119.06   License fees
   
119.07   Investigation; issuance of license
   
119.08   Possession and display of license
   
119.09   Expiration of license
   
119.10   Entry upon premises requesting no solicitation or canvassing
prohibited
   
119.11   Order of goods or products; requirements
   
119.12   Authority to enforce
Solicitation of Funds
   
119.25   Council resolution prerequisite
   
119.26   Compliance with resolution
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 119.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Soliciting,
Canvassing and Peddling Regulations.
('68 Code, § 3-1601) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
§ 119.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the city by licensing and regulating persons engaged
in soliciting, canvassing and peddling, as defined herein, within the city.
('68 Code, § 3-1602) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
§ 119.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSING or SOLICITING. The going from door to door, house to house, place
to place and street to street within the city for the purpose of soliciting
orders for or canvassing occupants or residents for the sale of food products,
books, magazines, goods, wares or merchandise of any nature whatsoever, for
future delivery, or for the purpose of soliciting orders for, or canvassing
occupants or residents for, the installation or servicing of any household
equipment or appliances, including but not limited to furnace or boiler repair
and maintenance, repair and servicing of washing machines, clothes dryers,
dishwashers, garbage disposals and incinerators, or the installation of storm
windows and screens, awnings, roofing and siding of buildings, and the
cleaning, painting or modernization of buildings.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the city.
   LOCAL ORGANIZATION. Any charitable or non-profit organization having its
principal offices in the city, substantially serving the residents of the city.
   PEDDLING. The going from door to door, house to house, place to place and
street to street in the city, carrying, conveying or transporting, by person,
wagon, motor vehicle or other type of conveyance, for the purpose of offering
for immediate sale, food products, including but not limited to meat, fish,
fruit, vegetables, farm produce or provisions, candy, goods, wares or
merchandise of any nature whatsoever, and landscaping materials of all types.
('68 Code, § 3-1603) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
§ 119.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or carry on the business of
soliciting, canvassing or peddling, as defined in §
119.03, in the city, without first obtaining a license in compliance with the
provisions of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-1604(a)) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.05 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for licenses required by this subchapter shall be made upon
forms provided by the City Clerk, which shall be signed and verified under oath
by the applicant, if an individual, or by the authorized agent for any firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company or organization, and shall set
forth the following:
   (A)   If an individual, the name, address and telephone number of the
individual.
   (B)   If a partnership, the name, residence and business address and
telephone number of each partner.
   (C)   If a corporation, the name, date and state under whose laws such
corporation was organized, and if a foreign corporation, whether authorized to
do business in this state; the names of the principal officers, directors and
local representatives, their residences and business addresses and telephone
number.
   (D)   If an employee, the name, residence and telephone number of the
employee, together with written credentials setting forth this exact nature of
his employment.
   (E)   The length of time for which the right to do business is sought.
   (F)   A photograph of the applicant or the agent for the applicant who is to
do the actual canvassing, soliciting or peddling, which photograph shall be two
inches by two inches showing head and shoulders of applicant or agent.
   (G)   A brief description of the product, products or services involved.
   (H)   If any soliciting, canvassing or peddling is to be carried on by a
minor or minors between the ages of 14 and 17 years, an approved copy of State
Department of Labor form L 52 showing the approved hours of work and the type
of soliciting, canvassing or peddling to be done shall be attached to the
application.
   (I)   For each applicant or agent or employee of an applicant under the age
of 17 years, appropriate working papers shall be filed with the Clerk at the
time of application.
('68 Code, § 3-1605) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
§ 119.06 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The city shall, by resolution, determine the following fees to be paid
to the Clerk at the time of the application, and no license shall be is sued
until such fees are paid:
      (1)   Individual license fee per year.
      (2)   Firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or other
organization per year.
      (3)   Local non-profit organization per year.
      (4)   Duplicate copies of licenses per year.
   (B)   The issuance of a license and payment of the fee by a firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company or other organization shall not
waive the requirement that each individual person engaged in soliciting,
canvassing or peddling shall also be licensed.
('68 Code, § 3-1606) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
§ 119.07 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of application and fees as aforesaid, a copy of the application
shall be forwarded to the Police Department for investigation. After
investigation, the Chief of Police or his designee shall endorse on the
application his approval or disapproval and return the application to the City
Clerk, stating thereon any grounds for disapproval. In case of disapproval, the
applicant shall be notified and no license shall be issued. If the application
is approved, the license shall be executed and delivered to the applicant. Such
license shall contain the signature and seal of the issuing officer, and shall
show the name, address and photograph of said licensee. The Clerk may issue a
license to a local organization without investigation upon being satisfied that
such organization qualifies as such under this subchapter, and he shall notify
the Police Department of the issuance of any such license.
('68 Code, § 3-1607) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
§ 119.08 POSSESSION AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter must be in the
possession of the licensee at all times and must be displayed at the request of
any police officer of the city or at the request of any citizen being solicited
or canvassed or to whom goods or products are being peddled.
('68 Code, § 3-1609) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.09 EXPIRATION OF LICENSE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
June 30 of each year.
('68 Code, § 3-1608) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
§ 119.10 ENTRY UPON PREMISES REQUESTING NO SOLICITATION OR CANVASSING
PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit or canvass upon any premises
in the city if requested by anyone in control of the premises not to do so, or
if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position near the entrance
thereof a sign or any similar notice indicating in any manner that the
occupants of said premises do not desire to have solicitors, canvassers or
peddlers call upon them.
('68 Code, § 3-1604(b)) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.11 ORDER OF GOODS OR PRODUCTS; REQUIREMENTS.
   All orders taken by licensees shall be in writing and in duplicate, stating
the name and address of both the solicitor, canvasser or peddler and his
employer, and, if applicable, the terms of the order, a description of the
goods or products involved, the same price, the down payment, the balance and
the terms of payment of same. One copy of the order shall be delivered to the
purchaser.
('68 Code, § 3-1610) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.12 AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall be enforced by the Police
Department, and it shall be the duty of any police officer of the city to
require any person seen soliciting, canvassing or peddling, and who is not
known by such officer to be duly licensed, to produce his license.
('68 Code, § 3-1611) (Ord. 390, passed 6-21-71)
SOLICITATION OF FUNDS
§ 119.25 COUNCIL RESOLUTION PREREQUISITE.
   It shall be necessary for any person who desires to solicit funds from any
of the residents or commercial establishments in the city to obtain a
resolution of approval from the City Council before such solicitation can be
commenced.
('68 Code, § 4-1001) (Ord. 264, passed 6-20-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 119.26 COMPLIANCE WITH RESOLUTION.
   It shall be mandatory that any person who obtains the approval of the City
Council for the solicitation of funds shall abide by all of the terms and
conditions and restrictions, if any, that are set forth in such approving
resolution.
('68 Code, § 4-1002) (Ord. 264, passed 6-20-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 120: TAXICABS; VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
General Provisions
   
120.001   Definitions
   
120.002   Compliance with laws and regulations; reservation of council of right
to amend provisions
   
120.003   Additional rules and regulations; authority of Police Chief
   
120.004   Operation of jitneys prohibited
Operators of Taxicab Service; Licensing
   
120.015   License required
   
120.016   Application for license
   
120.017   License fee
   
120.018   Certificate of public convenience and necessity
   
120.019   Insurance requirements
   
120.020   Inspection prior to licensing of vehicles
   
120.021   Issuance of license card duplicates
   
120.022   License plates to be affixed to vehicle; registration of numbers
   
120.023   Expiration date
   
120.024   Transfer of license restricted; fee
   
120.025   Suspension or revocation of license
Taxicab Drivers; Licensing
   
120.035   Public driver's license required
   
120.036   Application; qualifications; investigation
   
120.037   Photograph of driver to accompany application
   
120.038   Examination of applicants
   
120.039   Issuance of license to persons convicted of felonies restricted
   
120.040   License fee
   
120.041   Issuance of license; form; defacing license or book prohibited
   
120.042   Licenses to be displayed in vehicles
   
120.043   Renewal of license; fee
   
120.044   Suspension or revocation of licenses
   
120.045   Record of licenses to be kept; duty of police department
   
120.046   Additional rules and regulations
Standards of Operation
   
120.055   Conduct of drivers
   
120.056   Periodic inspections of vehicles
   
120.057   Property lost or left in vehicles
   
120.058   Cruising
   
120.059   Advertising on vehicles
   
120.060   Persons loitering in or near vehicles prohibited
   
120.061   Furnishing of service to hotels
   
120.062   Interurban operations
   
120.063   Complaints by aggrieved persons; police investigation
Passengers
   
120.075   Drivers may demand payment of fares in advance; duty to convey
orderly persons
   
120.076   Carrying additional passengers; consent of first passenger required
   
120.077   Passengers occupying front seat restricted
   
120.078   Soliciting passengers
Rates and Fares
   
120.085   Taximeter required; inspection, testing and illumination
   
120.086   Rates of fares
   
120.087   Change in fares; restriction
   
120.088   Disputes as to lawful rate of fare; police determination
Taxicab Stands
   
120.100   Designation and location of stands; parking restricted
   
120.101   Operation of vehicles in stands
   
120.102   License for taxicab stands
Motor Buses
   
120.115   Definitions
   
120.116   Compliance with provisions
   
120.117   License required
   
120.118   Application for license; contents
   
120.119   Issuance of license; liability insurance
   
120.120   Number of motor buses to be operated on approved routes
   
120.121   Expiration date
   
120.122   Revocation of license; hearing
   
120.123   Annual fee
   
120.124   Vehicle specifications
Motorcycle Renters
   
120.135   Title
   
120.136   Definitions
   
120.137   License required
   
120.138   Application for license; contents
   
120.139   License fees
   
120.140   Examination and inspection; written report
   
120.141   Issuance of license; determination by Council
   
120.142   Expiration date
   
120.143   License renewals
   
120.144   Duties of licensee and employees
   
120.145   Revocation or suspension of license; hearing
Slowplow Operators
   
120.155   License required
   
120.156   Application for license; contents
   
120.157   License fee
   
120.158   Issuance and display of license card
   
120.159   Inspection of vehicles
   
120.160   Liability insurance required
   
120.161   Suspension and revocation of license; appeal
 
   
120.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 120.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JITNEY. Any motor-propelled vehicle designed to carry no more than seven
persons (other than a taxicab or public vehicle which is hired by the hour),
which is operated on the streets, avenues, boulevards or other public places of
the city as a public carrier, affording service similar to that of a city,
suburban or interurban street railway, for the service of which fares are
charged or collected or received.
   MOTOR VEHICLE FOR HIRE. A motor vehicle, not equipped with a taximeter,
designed to carry seven or less persons for public hire at an hourly rate.
   PASSENGER. Any person, package, chattel, property, animal, or anything
capable of being transported which may be carried within the vehicle.
   TAXIMETER. A mechanical instrument or device by which the charge for hire is
mechanically calculated and upon which such charge shall be indicated by means
of figures.
('68 Code, § 5-501) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68; Am. Ord. 476, passed 9-16-74)
§ 120.002 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND REGULATIONS; RESERVATION OF COUNCIL OF RIGHT
TO AMEND PROVISIONS.
   All applicable laws and ordinances of the city affecting the operation of
taxicabs and motor vehicles for hire and all traffic regulations applicable
thereto, now in force or which may hereafter be enacted or put into force,
shall be complied with by licensees under this chapter. The licensee shall also
comply with and enforce the carrying out of any orders or regulations which may
be issued by the City Council, designed for the protection and safety of
persons and property or for the comfort, health and convenience of the public.
The right is hereby reserved by the Council, at its pleasure or caprice, to
amend, alter or repeal this chapter at any time in the future. No licensee
operating under this chapter shall acquire any rights under which shall be
constructed as preventing the council from taking such action.
('68 Code, § 5-547) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.003 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS; AUTHORITY OF POLICE CHIEF.
   The Chief of Police is hereby empowered to make such additional rules and
regulations within the scope of and consistent with this chapter as may be
necessary or proper to carry out the terms and provisions of this chapter and
effectuate the objects of this chapter. Such rules and regulations, when
formulated and published, shall be regarded as part of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 5-548) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.004 OPERATION OF JITNEYS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated upon any street, avenue,
boulevard or other public place within the city any jitney, whether such jitney
operates wholly within the city, or from some point within the city to some
point outside of the city, or from some point outside of the city to some point
within the city, or otherwise.
('68 Code, § 5-502) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
OPERATORS OF TAXICAB SERVICE; LICENSING
§ 120.015 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate for hire, upon the streets of the city, any taxicab
or motor vehicle for hire without first obtaining a license therefor from the
chief of police or his agent.
('68 Code, § 5-503) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.016 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Application for license for taxicabs and motor vehicles for hire shall be
made by the owner upon blanks to be furnished by the Police Department, Such
applications shall contain the full name and address of the owner, class of the
vehicle for which a license is desired, the length of time the vehicle has been
in use, the number of persons it is capable of carrying, and the motor power
thereof.
('68 Code, § 5-504) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.017 LICENSE FEE.
   A taxicab license may be granted by the City Clerk upon the applicant paying
into the city treasury a fee designated by City Council resolution for each
taxicab or motor vehicle for hire and filing a bond or liability insurance as
required by this chapter.
('68 Code, § 5-508) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.018 CERTIFICATE OF PUBLIC CONVENIENCE AND NECESSITY.
   No license under this chapter shall be granted until the person applying for
such license shall have secured from the Chief of Police a certificate
certifying that public convenience and necessity require the operation of the
taxicab or motor vehicle for hire. In determining such public convenience and
necessity, the City Manager shall consider the number of taxicabs operating in
the city and the demands of the public for such taxicab service; financial
responsibility of the applicant; the number, kind, type, equipment, schedule of
rates proposed to be charged; traffic conditions on the streets of the city;
whether the taxicab service will result in a greater hazard to the public, and
such other relative facts as the City Manager may deem advisable or necessary.
('68 Code, § 5-505) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.019 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Before the issuance of license to operate a taxicab or motor vehicle
for hire, the licensee shall file a certificate, signed by a duly authorized
officer of a company authorized to write insurance in the state, to the effect
that a policy of insurance has been issued and is in full force and effect to
the licensee, and that the premium has been paid as required thereon, together
with a true copy of the policy contract or certificate of insurance. In cases
where the insurance premium is payable monthly, proper certificates or
evidences of payment of the premiums shall be delivered to the license
collector not later than the first of each month.
   (B)   Such policy of insurance shall be in a sum as determined by resolution
of the City Council.
   (C)   Such policy of insurance shall contain a provision for a continuing
liability thereunder the full amount thereof, notwithstanding any recovery
thereon, and that until the policy is revoked, as herein provided, the
insurance company will not be relieved from liability on account of nonpayment
of premium, failure to renew license at the end of the year, or any act or
omission of the named assured.
   (D)   Any insurance company whose policy has been so filed pursuant to this
section may file a notice in the office of the Chief of Police of its intention
to terminate and cancel such policy and give notice thereof to the named
licensee, whereupon after ten days after such filing such licensee or owner
shall cease to operate or cause to be operated within the city such taxicab or
motor vehicle for hire, and the license issued therefor shall be automatically
revoked and liability on such policy shall cease and terminate; provided, that
the liability of the insurance company thereon for any act or omission of the
licensee or owner occurring prior to the effective date of cancellation shall
not be thereby discharged or impaired.
   (E)   The Chief of Police may from time to time, at his discretion, require
financial reports to be furnished to him by any or all insurance companies
writing policies of insurance filed in compliance with this chapter.
   (F)   If the financial condition of any of such companies shall at any time
be found unsatisfactory or insecure with reference to the extent of the risks
assumed or policies outstanding, the Chief of Police, after ten days notice to
the owner of any vehicle covered or affected by insurance policies issued by
any such companies in pursuance of the provisions of this chapter, shall revoke
the licenses of such owners unless a satisfactory policy or bond shall have
been previously filed in the manner and form required by this section.
('68 Code, § 5-506) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68; Am. Ord. 567, passed 2-2-81)
§ 120.020 INSPECTION PRIOR TO LICENSING OF VEHICLES.
   No taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall be licensed under this chapter
until it has been thoroughly and carefully inspected and examined and found to
be in thoroughly safe condition for the transportation of passengers, clean,
fit, of good appearance and well painted. The Police Department is hereby
authorized and empowered to establish rules and regulating for the inspection
of such public vehicles and their appearance, construction and condition of
fitness.
('68 Code, § 5-507) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.021 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE CARD DUPLICATES.
   (A)   If, upon inspection, the taxicab or motor vehicle for hire is found to
be of lawful construction and in proper condition in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and the rules and regulations established under this
chapter and upon payment of the license fee provided for in this chapter and
when so licensed, there shall be delivered to the owner, in addition to the
license, a card of such size and form as may be prescribed by the Police
Department.
      (1)   Such card shall contain the official license number of the vehicle,
together with the date of inspection of the same, and a statement to the effect
that, in case of any complaint, the Police Department shall be notified, giving
the license number of the vehicle.
      (2)   Such card shall be signed by the officer of the Police Department
having charge of the enforcement of this chapter and shall contain blank spaces
upon which an entry make be made of the date of every inspection of the vehicle
by the inspector.
      (3)   License cards shall be distinctly different color each year.
      (4)   They shall contain the name of the person owning such taxicab or
motor vehicle for hire and the state license number issued therefor.
   (B)   Upon paying a fee of $10 and furnishing proof by affidavit of the loss
or destruction of such license or such card, duplicates thereof shall
immediately be issued to the licensee with appropriate notation thereon that
they are duplicates.
('68 Code, § 5-509) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.022 LICENSE PLATES TO BE AFFIXED TO VEHICLE; REGISTRATION OF NUMBERS.
   When a taxicab license has been granted, the licensee shall affix to the
taxicab or motor vehicle for hire so licensed a small plate not exceeding six
inches in diameter, which shall bear the license number of the vehicle. The
registration of such numbers shall be under the administration and control of
the Police Department and the design of such license plates shall be changed
annually.
('68 Code, § 5-510) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.023 EXPIRATION DATE.
   All taxicab licenses issued by the city under this chapter, unless sooner
revoked by the City Council as provided in this chapter, shall expire on April
30 each year.
('68 Code, § 5-511) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.024 TRANSFER OF LICENSE RESTRICTED; FEE.
   Taxicab licenses issued under this chapter shall not be transferable for a
period of 18 months subsequent to the original issuance thereof to the
licensee; provided, that in the event of the death of the licensee, such
license may be transferable. In the case that the licensee is a corporation, a
transfer of the license shall not be permitted for a period of 18 months
subsequent to the original issuance thereof to the licensee corporation.
Whenever such license is transferred, there shall be a transfer fee of $10.
('68 Code, § 5-512) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.025 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   Any taxicab licenses granted under the terms of this chapter may be
suspended by the Chief of Police or revoked by the City Council if the taxicab
shall, with the knowledge and consent of the owner, be engaged in immoral or
illegal business in violation of any provisions of this code or other city
ordinances, state or federal law, or in violation of the terms of this chapter.
('68 Code, § 5-513) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
TAXICAB DRIVERS; LICENSING
§ 120.035 PUBLIC DRIVER'S LICENSE REQUIRED.
   Each person driving a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall be licensed as
a public driver. No person shall permit any employee to operate a public
taxicab or motor vehicle for hire within the city without first obtaining a
license as a public driver from the Chief of Police. No person shall permit any
unlicensed public driver or any public driver whose license has been suspended
or revoked to operate any taxicab in the city.
('68 Code, § 5-519) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.036 APPLICATION; QUALIFICATIONS; INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   The applicant for a license to become a public driver shall:
      (1)   Be of the age of 18 years or over.
      (2)   Be of sound physique and good eyesight, and not subject to
epilepsy, vertigo, heart trouble, or any other infirmity of body or mind which
might render him unfit for the safe operation of a public vehicle.
      (3)   Be able to read and write the English language.
      (4)   Be clean in dress and person and not addicted to the use of
intoxicating liquors or drugs.
      (5)   Produce, on forms to be provided by the Police Department,
certificates of his good character from two reputable citizens who have known
him personally and observed his conduct during one month next preceding the
date of his application.
      (6)   Fill out, upon a blank form to be provided by the Police
Department, a statement giving his full name, residence, place of residence for
five years previous to moving to his present address, age, color of eyes,
height, color of hair, place of birth, length of time he has resided in the
city, whether he is a citizen of the United States, place of previous
employment, whether married or single, whether he has ever been convicted of a
felony or misdemeanor, and if convicted, the nature of the crime and the date
when and the place of the conviction, whether he has previously been licensed
as a driver or chauffeur, and if so, when and where and whether his license has
ever been revoked and for what cause, which statement shall be signed and sworn
to by the applicant and filed with the Police Department as a permanent record.
   (B)   The investigation of all applicants for public driver's licenses under
the provisions of this chapter shall be conducted by the Police Department, and
when such investigation is completed, the application shall be forwarded by the
investigator to the Chief of Police, who shall indorse his recommendation
thereon and forward the same to the officer of the Police Department in charge
of licenses; provided, that a temporary license may be issued pending such
investigation, but not to exceed 20 days.
('68 Code, § 5-520) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68; Am. Ord. 389, passed 6-21-71)
§ 120.037 PHOTOGRAPH OF DRIVER TO ACCOMPANY APPLICATION.
   Each applicant for a public driver's license must file with his application
three recent photographs of himself, of a size which may be easily attached to
the license, one of which shall be attached to the license when issued, one on
the card, and the other shall be filed, together with the application, with the
Police Department. The photograph shall be so attached to the license that it
cannot be removed and another photograph substituted without detection.
('68 Code, § 5-521) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.038 EXAMINATION OF APPLICANTS.
   Each applicant for a public driver's license shall be examined by a person
designated by the Police Department as to his knowledge of the provisions of
this chapter, the traffic regulations and geography of the city, and, if the
result of the examination is unsatisfactory, he shall be refused a license.
Each such applicant must, if required by the Police Department, demonstrate his
skill and ability to safely handle the vehicle by driving it through a crowded
section of the city accompanied by an inspector designated by the Police
Department.
('68 Code, § 5-522) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.039 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE TO PERSONS CONVICTED OF FELONIES RESTRICTED.
   No public driver's license shall be issued to any person who has been
convicted of a felony; except, the City Council may issue a license to the
applicant if it appears that the applicant is presently a law- abiding citizen.
The City Council may consider the recommendations of the City Manager, Police
Chief, or any other citizen in determining whether the applicant is entitled to
a public driver's license.
('68 Code, § 5-523) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68; Am. Ord. 728, passed 12-21-93)
§ 120.040 LICENSE FEE.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to grant a public driver's license to an
applicant meeting all of the requirements of this chapter upon payment of a fee
as designated by City Council resolution.
('68 Code, § 5-524) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68; Am. Ord. 506, passed 4-22-76)
§ 120.041 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; FORM; DEFACING LICENSE OR BOOK PROHIBITED.
   Upon satisfactory fulfillment of the requirements of this chapter, there
shall be issued to the applicant a public driver's license, which shall be in
such form as to contain the photograph and signature of the licensee. Any
licensee who defaces, removes or obliterates any official entry made upon his
license or book shall, in addition to any other punishment imposed therefor,
have his license revoked at the discretion of the Chief of Police.
('68 Code, § 5-525) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.042 LICENSES TO BE DISPLAYED IN VEHICLES.
   Every licensed public driver shall have his license, together with his
photograph, conspicuously displayed on the inside of his taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire, and with a light shining on it at night, so that it may be
easily seen both in the day and nighttime by occupants of the taxicab or motor
vehicle for hire.
('68 Code, § 5-526) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.043 RENEWAL OF LICENSE; FEE.
   The Police Department may renew a public driver's license from year to year
by appropriate endorsement by the Police Department upon the application for
renewal. A driver, in applying for renewal of his license, shall make such
application upon a form to be furnished by the Police Department, entitled
"Application for Renewal of License," which shall be filled out with the full
name and address of the applicant, together with a statement of the date upon
which his original license was granted and the number thereof. The fee for such
renewal license shall be $3, and in case of the loss of such license, the fee
of a duplicate thereof shall be $3.
('68 Code, § 5-527) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.044 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF LICENSES.
   Any public driver's license may be suspended by the Chief of Police or
revoked by the City Council if the driver is engaged in any immoral or illegal
business with such taxicab, or in violation of any provisions of this code or
other city ordinance, state or federal law, or in violation of the terms of
this chapter.
('68 Code, § 5-528) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.045 RECORD OF LICENSES TO BE KEPT; DUTY OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Police Department shall keep a complete and public record of the
issuance of each license issued under this chapter and all renewals,
suspensions and revocations thereof, which record shall be kept on file with
the original application for such license. If a member of any co-operative
association, the license shall give the name of the association, and shall
notify the license bureau of the Police Department of any change in his
membership or affiliation within 48 hours of change.
('68 Code, § 5-529) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.046 ADDITIONAL RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Department is hereby authorized and empowered to establish such
additional rules and regulations governing the issuance of public driver's
licenses, not inconsistent with this chapter, as may be necessary and
reasonable.
('68 Code, § 5-522) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
STANDARDS OF OPERATION
§ 120.055 CONDUCT OF DRIVERS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of every person driving or operating a taxicab to
be courteous and polite, to refrain from smoking while actually carrying
passengers in his taxicab, to refrain from swearing, loud talking or boisterous
conduct, to drive his motor vehicle carefully and in full compliance with all
traffic laws of this code and any applicable ordinances and regulations of the
city or orders of the Police Department or any of its members, to promptly
answer all court notices, traffic violations or police notices, to deal
honestly with the public and with his employer.
   (B)   Upon the violation of any provision of this section, the Chief of
Police may forthwith suspend the license of any offending driver, and upon
investigation may recommend to the City Council that the license be revoked.
('68 Code, § 5-531) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.056 PERIODIC INSPECTIONS OF VEHICLES.
   The Police Department shall maintain a constant vigilance over all taxicabs
and motor vehicles for hire to see that they are kept in condition of continued
fitness for public use, and to this end, the Police Department shall inspect or
cause to be inspected all taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire from time to time
or on the complaint of any citizen or as often as may be necessary. Reports in
writing of all inspections shall be promptly made to the Police Department.
('68 Code, § 5-533) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.057 PROPERTY LOST OR LEFT IN VEHICLES.
   (A)   Every driver of a taxicab, immediately after the termination of any
hiring or employment, shall carefully search such taxicab for any property lost
or left therein, and any such property, unless sooner claimed or delivered to
the owner, must be taken to the police station and deposited with the officer
in charge within 24 hours after the finding thereof, and the officer in charge
of the station to which such report shall be made shall forward a written
notice to the police property officer with brief particulars and description of
the properly.
   (B)   The provisions of this section shall not apply in case a profit
corporation or a non-profit corporation composed of members engaged in the
taxicab business shall have a regularly established lost- and-found department,
in which case such property must be kept subject to the call of the owner for
at least 30 days, at the end of which time it shall be disposed of in
accordance with law.
('68 Code, § 5-537) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.058 CRUISING.
   (A)   No public taxicab, while awaiting employment by passengers, shall
stand on any public street or place other than upon a public taxicab stand
designated or established in accordance with this chapter, nor shall any driver
of such taxicab seek employment by repeatedly and persistently driving his
taxicab to and fro in a short space before or by otherwise interfering with the
proper and orderly access to or egress from any theater, hall, hotel, public
resort, railway station, or other place of public gathering or in any other
manner obstructing or impeding traffic. But any taxicab may solicit employment
by driving through any public street or place without stops other than those
due to obstruction of traffic and at such speed as not to interfere with or
impede traffic, and may pass and repass before any theater, hall, hotel, public
resort, railway station or other place of public gathering; provided, that
after passing such public place, he shall not turn and repass until he shall
have gone a distance of two square blocks beyond such place.
   (B)   In the event of any violation of any of the provisions of division (A)
of this section, any police officer may forthwith take up the license of the
driver of such taxicab and forward it to the Chief of Police, who shall suspend
such license for a period of not exceeding 90 days. It shall be unlawful for
such driver to operate any taxicab in the city during the period of such
suspension.
   (C)   In case of persistent or repeated violations, the Chief of Police may
suspend and the City Council may revoke the taxicab license of the owner of
such taxicab; provided, that such owner has had timely notice and an
opportunity to be heard in his defense against the revocation of such license.
In the event of such revocation, for a period of one year thereafter such owner
shall be ineligible to receive a license under this chapter, and no license
shall be issued during the same period for the operation of the vehicles so
used or operated in violation of this section.
('68 Code, § 5-541) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.059 ADVERTISING ON VEHICLES.
   Subject to the rules and regulations of the Chief of Police, it shall be
lawful for any person owning or operating a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire
to permit advertising matter to be affixed to or installed in or on such
taxicab or motor vehicle for hire.
('68 Code, § 5-543) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.060 PERSONS LOITERING IN OR NEAR VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the driver or owner of a
taxicab or automobile kept for hire standing upon the public streets, to loiter
at, within or near such taxicab or automobile kept for hire.
('68 Code, § 5-544) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.061 FURNISHING OF SERVICE TO HOTELS.
   It shall be mandatory for all licensees under this chapter to file with the
license collector copies of all contracts, agreements, arrangements, memoranda
or other writings relating to the furnishing of taxicab service to any hotel,
theater, hall, public resort, railway station or other place of public
gathering, whether such arrangement is made with the licensee or any
corporation, firm or association with which the licensee may be interested or
connected. Failure to file such copies within seven days shall be sufficient
cause for the revocation of the license of any offending licensee or the
cancellation of any cab stand privileges.
('68 Code, § 5-545) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.062 INTERURBAN OPERATIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit any licensed suburban
taxicab from coming into the city to discharge passengers accepted for
transportation outside the city. While such is in the city, no roof light or
other special light shall be used to indicate that the vehicle is vacant or
subject to hire, and a white card, bearing the words "Not For Hire" printed in
black letters not less than two inches in height, shall be displayed at the
right front corner of the windshield of the vehicle, in such a manner as not to
obscure vision of the driver. No person shall be solicited or accepted in such
vehicle for transportation from any place within the city.
('68 Code, § 5-546) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.063 COMPLAINTS BY AGGRIEVED PERSONS; POLICE INVESTIGATION.
   Any person being aggrieved by reason of the conduct or action of any taxicab
operator, owner or driver may present his complaint to any police officer. Such
complaint shall be promptly investigated by the Police Department and the
license of any person complained of may be suspended by the Police Chief or
revoked by the City Council after such investigation.
('68 Code, § 5-532) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
PASSENGERS
§ 120.075 DRIVERS MAY DEMAND PAYMENT OF FARES IN ADVANCE; DUTY TO CONVEY
ORDERLY PERSONS.
   Every driver of a taxicab shall have the right to demand payment of the
legal fare in advance, and may refuse employment until so prepaid, but no
driver of a taxicab shall otherwise refuse or neglect to convey any orderly
person or persons upon request anywhere in the city unless previously engaged
or unable to do so.
('68 Code, § 5-538) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.076 CARRYING ADDITIONAL PASSENGERS; CONSENT OF FIRST PASSENGER REQUIRED.
   No driver of a licensed taxicab shall carry any other person than the person
first employing a taxicab without the consent of the passenger.
('68 Code, § 5-539) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.077 PASSENGERS OCCUPYING FRONT SEAT RESTRICTED.
   No person shall be permitted to ride on the front seat with the driver of a
taxicab unless said taxicab has a full load of passengers which were picked up
at the same location. In that event, the driver must discharge the front seat
passenger first. This provision shall not apply to passengers who are
physically handicapped and unable to be transported in the rear set of a
taxicab. Any driver who fails to comply with this section may be deprived of
his license.
('68 Code, § 5-542) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68; Am. Ord. 506, passed 4-5-76)
Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.078 SOLICITING PASSENGERS.
   No person shall solicit passengers for a public taxicab upon the streets and
highways of the city, except the driver of a public taxicab when sitting upon
the driver's box of his vehicle. The chauffeur or driver of any taxicab or
automobile kept for hire shall remain on the driver's seat or inside his
vehicle at all times when such vehicle is standing upon the public stands or
when actually engaged in carrying passengers; provided, that nothing in this
section shall be held to prohibit such driver or chauffeur from alighting to
the street or sidewalk for the purpose of assisting passengers into or out of
such vehicle or take care of the calls of nature while upon a public stand,
limiting his absence from such stand to 30 minutes, during which time his
taxicab or car for hire shall occupy a position at the rear end of such public
stand.
('68 Code, § 5-540) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
RATES AND FARES
§ 120.085 TAXIMETER REQUIRED; INSPECTION, TESTING AND ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Every taxicab shall have a taximeter affixed thereto. The case of each
taximeter shall be sealed and the cover and gear thereof intact. Every
taximeter shall be so affixed that the amount of the fare determined shall be
plainly visible to the passengers thereof, and after sundown shall be
illuminated by suitable light.
   (B)   No person shall operate or permit to be operated any taxicab unless
the taximeter has been first inspected, tested and approved by the sealer of
weights and measures, for which service a fee of $2 shall be charged for each
inspection. The taximeter shall be examined at least once annually and there
shall be a record kept of all such inspections and approvals and disapprovals;
such taximeter shall be approved by a proper sealer of weights and measures
with certification thereon.
('68 Code, § 5-514) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.086 RATES OF FARES.
   (A)   Taxicabs.
      (1)   The rates to be charged and collected for service by taxicabs shall
be the following:
         (a)   $2.00 flag;
         (b)   $2.20 per mile (pro-rated per mile);
         (c)   $25.00 an hour for waiting;
         (d)   $0.20 drop (incremental change in meter).
Waiting time shall include the time when the taxicab is not in motion,
beginning with the arrival at the place to which it has been called, or the
time consumed while standing at the direction of the passenger, and for delays
caused by slow-moving traffic or traffic lights, but no charge shall be made
for time lost for inefficiency of the taxicab or its operator or time consumed
by premature response to a call. No charge shall be made for extra passengers.
      (2)   The City Council reserves the right to increase or decrease the
rates established by this section, which rates may be changed from time to time
by resolution of the City Council. No rate change shall be made except as may
be established by the City Council. There shall be posted in a conspicuous
place on the inside of the taxicab a card on which shall be printed, in plain,
legible type, the rates of fare provided for in this chapter, the meter rate of
the taxicab and reference to this section number.
('68 Code, § 5-515) (Ord. 815, passed 8-6-07)
   (B)   Motor vehicle for hire.
      (1)   No person operating a motor vehicle for hire shall operate the same
within the city other than on an hourly rate. The schedule of rates for service
of such vehicle shall be as follows: For the use of any such motor vehicle for
hire carrying two or less passengers, not more than $3 per hour; for use of
such motor vehicle for hire carrying three to five passengers, not more than
$3.50 per hour; for the use of such motor vehicle for hire carrying more than
five passengers, not more than $4.50 per hour. No charge of less than $2.50 per
hour shall be charged for the use of such motor vehicle for hire for the first
hour or any fraction thereof.
      (2)   For the use of motor vehicles for hire where such vehicle has been
used in excess of one hour, additional time shall be charged for on the basis
of quarter hour fractions of the rate charged for the first hour's use of such
vehicle. The amount so charged shall be upon an hourly basis.
      (3)   The time shall begin when the motor vehicle is ready at the time
and place requested by the passenger, and shall continue until the passenger
has been discharged and the car shall have had time thereafter to return to the
garage or stand by the most direct route, and at the maximum speed permitted by
law. The driver of a motor vehicle for hire shall give the passenger a receipt
showing the time when the trip commenced and concluded and shall be signed by
the driver.
      (4)   There shall be displayed, in plain public view on each motor
vehicle for hire, a sign giving the rates charged by the hour.
      (5)   This section shall not apply to a taxicab where a taximeter is
attached thereto.
('68 Code, § 5-516)
(Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
§ 120.087 CHANGE IN FARES; RESTRICTION.
   No change in fare shall be charged until the taximeter shall be adjusted to
the change in fare and the meter approved by the sealer of weights and
measures. No fare in excess of or less than the indication shown by the
taximeter shall be charged.
('68 Code, § 5-517) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.088 DISPUTES AS TO LAWFUL RATE OF FARE; POLICE DETERMINATION.
   All disputes as to the lawful rate of fare shall, upon request of the driver
or passenger of a taxicab or vehicle for hire, be determined by the police
officer in charge of the station nearest to where such dispute is had. This
provision shall be mandatory and the police officer in charge of the station
where such request is made shall render such service.
('68 Code, § 5-518) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
TAXICAB STANDS
§ 120.100 DESIGNATION AND LOCATION OF STANDS; PARKING RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No stands shall be established except with the approval of the City
Clerk, City Manager, and the Police Department. The City Clerk, in cooperation
with the City Manager and the Police Department, shall recommend the number of
taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire. Such recommendation shall not become
effective except with the approval of the City Council, and the council may
approve of such recommendation or may establish such regulations respecting the
number of cars as they may see fit.
   (B)   The Department of Public Works shall cause to be attached to a post or
stanchion a metal sign which shall state the number of taxicabs or motor
vehicles for hire which shall be permitted to stand at such particular stand.
No stand for public taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire shall be established
within a five- foot limit to be determined by measuring five feet on either
side of a point at the curb, opposite the door or entrance of a building. The
Chief of Police shall recommend, subject to approval by the Council, additional
stands for night use only. No taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall be
permitted to park anywhere within the one-mile circle designated by the city
except at stands therein established as provided in this section.
   (C)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as prohibiting the parking
or standing of taxicabs outside of said one-mile circle, where parking is
permitted, other than on authorized cab stands when such cab is not being used
in the soliciting of business.
('68 Code, § 5-534) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.101 OPERATION OF VEHICLES IN STANDS.
   Only public taxicabs in such numbers as are set forth on the metal signs
provided for in the preceding section may remain at taxicab stands while
waiting for employment, and they must be parked in single file. The public
taxicab standing at the head of such parked line shall not be permitted to
refuse to carry an orderly person who offers to hire such taxicab and agrees to
pay the proper rate of fare; provided, that the foregoing provisions shall not
be construed to prevent any person from selecting any taxicab he may desire on
the stand, whether it be at the head of the line or not. As the taxicabs leave
the parked line with passengers, those in the rear shall move up, and any
public taxicab seeking space on such stand shall not approach same except from
the rear thereof and shall move up as closely as possible to the last on the
parked line.
('68 Code, § 5-535) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.102 LICENSE FOR TAXICAB STANDS.
   Upon application on such form as may be required by the City Council, the
City Council may authorize taxicab stands on or along any public street or
space in the city to any taxicab licensee, provided the application shall be
approved by the Chief of Police and such licensee shall pay to the City
Treasurer the sum designated by Council resolution for a vehicle space for the
use of such. However, the termination of the taxicab license for any reason,
except if such license be renewed, shall terminate the right to use such space.
('68 Code, § 5-536) (Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
MOTOR BUSES
§ 120.115 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HIGHWAY. Any and all streets, avenues, boulevards, public alleys,
thoroughfares, public places or highways in the city which are controlled by
either the state, county or city.
   MOTOR BUS. Any motor-propelled vehicle that is operated as a common carrier
or contract carrier of passengers for hire over a fixed or established route in
the city, but such definition shall not be  deemed to and shall not include
vehicles engaged in interstate commerce.
('68 Code, § 5-601) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48)
§ 120.116 COMPLIANCE WITH PROVISIONS.
   No person shall operate or cause to be operated one or more motor buses as
defined herein upon the highways of the city without first complying with the
terms and provisions of this subchapter, and failure to operate any motor bus
in compliance with the provisions of this subchapter may be cause for the
revocation of such license.
('68 Code, § 5-606) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.117 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person, as owner or otherwise, shall operate or cause to be operated one
or more motor buses as defined herein on the highways of the city without first
obtaining a license therefor from the City Council.
('68 Code, § 5-602) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.118 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   (A)   An application, either original or renewal, to operate one or more
motor buses on the city highways shall set forth the factory serial numbers of
the buses to be operated, the owner's identifying number printed on the outside
of each bus to be licensed, the number of buses the applicant desires to
operate, the proposed route or routes on the city highways, the proposed motor
bus schedule, the proposed schedule of fares and the proposed loading stations,
and shall be filed with the City Clerk. The Clerk shall refer such application
to the safety commission for its investigation and recommendation in connection
therewith.
   (B)   The route or routes over which the applicant desires to operate motor
buses, as defined herein, shall be strictly adhered to by the applicant, if and
when such route is approved by the City Council. Any route and motor bus
schedule on which applicant proposes to operate, and the amount of any fare or
schedule of fares covering the charge for transportation wholly within the
corporate limits of the city, shall be approved by and shall be changed only
with the permission of the City Council.
   (C)   Any motor bus licensed under this chapter may stop to take on or
discharge passengers at such street intersections or bus stops on such route or
routes as determined by the safety commission and approved by the City Council.
('68 Code, § 5-603) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48; Am. Ord. 91.1, passed 2-4-54)
§ 120.119 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to issue a motor bus license or a
renewal thereof to any person as a common carrier in the city upon the approval
of the application therefor by the City Council, and before any license is
issued the applicant shall file with the City Clerk a certified copy of the
permit issued by the Michigan Public Service Commission and a certified copy of
the contract of insurance or indemnity bond or agreement filed with the
Michigan Public Service Commission. In event the applicant requests authority
to operate within the limits of the city, only, he shall file with the City
Clerk, before any license shall be issued, an insurance police providing a
limit of liability of not less than $20,000 for bodily injury or death to any
one person, and a total disability of not less than $40,000 for all injuries
and deaths resulting from any one accident. Such policy shall further provide a
limit of not less than $5,000 liability for property damage. Such policy shall
provide further that the insurance company issuing same shall give the City
Clerk five days notice of any contemplated cancellation of said policy, and
shall also notify the City Clerk when such policy for any reason is cancelled.
The policy shall be approved by the city attorney.
('68 Code, § 5-604) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48)
§ 120.120 NUMBER OF MOTOR BUSES TO BE OPERATED ON APPROVED ROUTES.
   Any and all licensees under the provisions of this subchapter shall operate
the number of motor buses set forth in any such approved schedule as a minimum
of service upon the routes approved and described in the application for the
license.
('68 Code, § 5-604) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48)
§ 120.121 EXPIRATION DATE.
   All licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire at
midnight following the first Tuesday in May of each year, which date shall be
deemed the termination of the license year, unless sooner revoked as herein
provided.
('68 Code, § 5-604) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48)
§ 120.122 REVOCATION OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   Any license issued as herein provided may be revoked for cause by the City
Council after a hearing thereon before the Council. The proceedings for such
revocation may be filed with the Council by the Chief of Police or by the
Council on its own motion in the form of a complaint setting forth a brief and
concise statement of the facts forming the basis of such revocation. A copy of
such complaint shall be served or caused to be served upon such licensee
forthwith by the City Clerk, either personally or by registered mail with
return receipt requested, and in connection therewith a notice of hearing
before the City Council shall be given, which hearing date shall be not less
than five days nor more than ten days from the date said complaint is served on
the licensee, said notice to set forth the time and place of hearing on said
complaint. At the time of hearing, the facts constituting the basis of such
complaint shall be presented to the council and any evidence in opposition
thereto may be presented by the licensee, and the council shall make its
determination as to whether the license should be revoked. All questions of
fact determined by the Council shall be final.
('68 Code, § 5-604) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48)
§ 120.123 ANNUAL FEE.
   Before any license shall issue as herein required, the applicant shall pay
in advance to the City Treasurer an annual fee of $50.
('68 Code, § 5-605) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48)
§ 120.124 VEHICLE SPECIFICATIONS.
   All vehicles which may be operated pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter shall comply with the following general requirements:
   (A)   Each vehicle shall be maintained in good and safe repair and shall be
subject to inspection by the Chief of Police or any inspector in the city
authorized to make such inspection at such reasonable time as may be necessary.
   (B)   Each vehicle shall be propelled by power generated or contained within
the vehicle itself, or by storage battery, but no power shall be used which
will in its generation or use produce smoke or noxious odors sufficient, in the
opinion of the City Council or its authorized representatives, to constitute a
nuisance.
   (C)   All parts of each vehicle shall be so constructed that excessive
quantities of oil or grease cannot drop on the roadway.
   (D)   All parts of every vehicle shall be so constructed that no undue noise
or vibration shall result from the operation thereof.
   (E)   (1)   Every vehicle shall have attached on the outside and in the rear
thereof a metal plate showing in legible print the words, "City of Inkster,
License No. (showing number) expires (date of expiration)." Such plate shall be
mounted and kept in a conspicuous position on the vehicle to which it is
assigned. Plate shall be furnished by the City Clerk upon payment of a fee of
$2 for each plate requested.
      (2)   As soon as a license number and plate have been issued to any
licensee under this subchapter, a record thereof shall be given to the Police
Department, which record shall show the name of the licensee, the license
number, and the owner's identifying number on the bus for which such license
plate was issued.
   (F)   The name of the owner of every motor bus licensed under this
subchapter shall be printed in plainly legible letters in at least two places
on the outside of every such bus, together with the owner's identifying number
thereon.
   (G)   Every vehicle shall be operated in such manner at all times so as to
comply with any applicable traffic regulations of this code, the Police
Department and any applicable ordinances of the city.
('68 Code, § 5-607) (Ord. 91, passed 7-19-48) Penalty, see §
120.999
MOTORCYCLE RENTERS
§ 120.135 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Motorcycle
Rental Licensing Regulations.
('68 Code, § 5-901) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.136 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR-DRIVEN CYCLE. All motorcycles, including motor scooters, which are
propelled by a motor attached thereto and made a part thereof, which can
produce up to but not exceeding five maximum brake horsepower, and every
bicycle with a motor attached.
   MOTORCYCLE. Every vehicle having a seat or saddle for the use of the rider
which is propelled by a motor made a part thereof and which is designed to
travel on not more than three wheels in contact with the ground.
('68 Code, § 5-902) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.137 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own and/or operate a business engaged
in the renting and/or leasing and/or giving or granting of permission to use or
operate motorcycles and/or motor driven cycles regulated by the provisions of
this subchapter in the city without first having obtained a license therefor as
required by the provisions of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-911) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.138 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   Applications for licenses required by this subchapter shall be made upon
forms provided by the City Clerk, which shall be signed and verified under oath
by the applicant, if an individual, or by the authorized agent for any
partnership, corporation, association or other legal entity, and shall set
forth the following:
   (A)   If an individual, the name and address of the individual;
   (B)   If a partnership, the name, residence and business address of each
partner;
   (C)   If a corporation, the name, date and state under whose laws such
corporation was organized, and if a foreign corporation, whether authorized to
do business in the state; the names of the principal officers, directors and
local representatives, their residences and business addresses;
   (D)   A plot plan of the premises to be used in the conduct of the business
upon which shall be indicated the location and size of all building structures
to be used thereon and all vacant portions of the site together with means of
ingress and egress;
   (E)   A statement setting forth the zoning district classification of the
premises;
   (F)   A statement as to the number of vehicles to be rented or leased in the
conduct of the business, and the location of their storage, service facilities
and location thereof, and the number of employees to be engaged in the conduct
of the business proposed to be licensed; and
   (G)   Such other information as may be required by the City Clerk or Chief
of Police in order to process the application.
('68 Code, § 5-903) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.139 LICENSE FEES.
   An annual fee of $100 shall be paid for each license or renewal thereof
issued hereunder. For licenses issued after March 1 in any year, the fee shall
be $50 for the remainder of the year.
('68 Code, § 5-907) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.140 EXAMINATION AND INSPECTION; WRITTEN REPORT.
   Upon receipt of the application with accompanying documents, the City Clerk
shall refer the same to the Chief of Police who shall examine and inspect or
cause to be examined and inspected the application, plot plan and premises
covered by the application and make a written report to the City Clerk, who
shall thereupon refer the entire matter to the City Council for its action.
('68 Code, § 5-904) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.141 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; DETERMINATION BY COUNCIL.
   The application, attendant documents and the report of the Chief of Police
or his duly authorized representative shall be referred to the City Council by
the City Clerk, and upon consideration thereof, if the Council shall determine
that the provisions of this subchapter have been complied with or will be
complied with, the Council shall direct the City Clerk to issue the license,
subject to such proper and reasonable conditions as the Council may impose. If
the application is rejected by the City Council, the applicant shall be
notified in writing to that effect, with the reasons for the rejection, and
shall be given an opportunity to be heard by the City Council, either in person
or by an attorney, and present such evidence as is pertinent to the
application, after which the council shall take final action upon the
application.
('68 Code, § 5-905) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.142 EXPIRATION DATE.
   All licenses issued hereunder shall expire on July 31 following the issuance
thereof, unless sooner revoked or suspended.
('68 Code, § 5-906) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.143 LICENSE RENEWALS.
   Renewal of licenses shall be applied for and processed in the same manner as
hereinbefore provided for the original application and issuance of the original
license, except that a plot plan need not be filed unless there is a
substantial change in the premises.
('68 Code, § 5-908) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
§ 120.144 DUTIES OF LICENSEE AND EMPLOYEES.
   It shall be the duty and obligation of the licensee and his employees in the
operation of the business licensed hereunder, to comply strictly with the
following rules and regulations and the enforcement thereof:
   (A)   No vehicle regulated by the provisions of this subchapter may be
rented, leased or permitted to be used unless and until there is filed with the
licensee a written application therefor which shall contain the following:
      (1)   Name, residence, address and age of applicant;
      (2)   Number and date of applicant's valid driver's license;
      (3)   If applicant is under 21 years of age, an acknowledgment in
writing, signed by either parent of the applicant or by the applicant's legal
guardian, in the presence of and witnessed by the licensee or his duly
authorized agent, to the effect that permission is granted for the applicant to
use the vehicle and that such parent or guardian assumes full responsibility
for all acts or actions of the applicant in the use of the vehicle rented or
leased; or
      (4)   The registered motor number of the vehicle rented or leased,
together with other identifying data sufficient to readily identify the
vehicle.
   (b)   No vehicle shall be permitted to be used by any person who does not
present to the licensee or his duly authorized agent a valid and unrevoked
driver's license;
   (C)   All vehicles when not in use shall be stored within a completely
enclosed building;
   (D)   All repairs and maintenance work shall be performed within a
completely enclosed building;
   (E)   Vehicle motors shall not be permitted to be running while on the
premises, except for necessary use in connection with ingress to and egress
from the premises; or when necessary, in order to repair or maintain the
vehicle, and then only when the vehicle is within a completely enclosed
building;
   (F)   The licensee shall provide each renter or lessee of a vehicle
regulated by the provisions of this subchapter before permitting the vehicle to
leave the premises, with an operating regulation hand out as provided by the
Chief of police or his duly authorized representative.
   (G)   The licensee shall take the necessary steps to prohibit the
unnecessary assembling of vehicles or drivers of vehicles upon the licensed
premises;
   (H)   The licensee shall keep a complete and accurate file of all
applications received, contracts or agreements of rental, description of
vehicles are rented or leased, the parent or guardians's written approval of a
minor's application and his agreement to be responsible for the action of such
minor in the use of the vehicle, and all other data as may be required by the
Chief of Police or his duly authorized representative, all of which shall be
made available for inspection by the Chief of Police or his duly authorized
agent;
   (I)   The licensee shall maintain the premises licensed hereunder in a clean
and sanitary condition free of litter and debris and shall regulate and control
the actions of patrons on the premises so as to
eliminate loud, boisterous, offensive or improper conduct and the unnecessary
emission of smoke, fumes, gases or noise from the operation of the vehicles
upon the premises, or any other actions which disturb, annoy or disrupt the
comfort, rest, repose and peace of other persons or members of the public;
   (J)   No vehicle shall be rented or leased or allowed to be taken from the
premises between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (K)   The licensee shall file with the City Clerk a certificate signed by a
duly authorized officer of a company authorized to write liability insurance in
the state to the effect that a policy of insurance has been issued and is in
full force and effect, issued to the licensee, and that the premium has been
paid as required thereon, together with a true copy of the policy contract or
certificate of insurance, said policy of insurance shall be in a sum of not
less than $50,000 for damage or injury for any one person, and not less than
$100,000 for damage or injury that may result from any one accident. Failure
upon the part of the licensee to maintain such insurance in effect shall be
grounds for revocation or suspension of the license;
   (L)   All provisions of the city code, this subchapter and any applicable
ordinances of the city shall be complied with; and
   (M)   The licensee shall provide each renter, lessee and passenger of a
vehicle regulated by the provisions of this subchapter, before permitting the
vehicle to leave the premises, with a helmet. The type of helmet to be
furnished shall be designated and approved by the Chief of Police or his duly
authorized representative.
('68 Code, § 5-909) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66) Penalty, see §
120.999
§ 120.145 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE; HEARING.
   The City Council, acting upon a written complaint against any licensee
setting forth a violation of any of the terms of this subchapter, and after due
notice to the licensee of the nature of the complaint, and a hearing before the
City Council, at which the licensee shall be given the opportunity to defend
himself, may revoke or suspend the license of the operator complained of upon
satisfactory proof of the existence of the matter set forth in the complaint.
Such determination, with the reasons for the City Council's conclusions, shall
be in writing and a copy thereof shall be served upon the licensee complained
of.
('68 Code, § 5-910) (Ord. 269, passed 9-19-66)
SNOWPLOW OPERATORS
§ 120.155 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of operating a snowplow for
hire upon the streets and sidewalks of the city without having first obtained a
license therefor for each of such snowplows as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No person shall operate or permit a snowplow owned or controlled by
him to be operated as a vehicle for hire upon the streets or sidewalks of the
city without first having obtained a license from the City Manager.
('68 Code, § 5-701) (Ord. 156, passed 1-8-59) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 120.156 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   Applications for a license shall be filed with the City Manager upon forms
provided by the City Manager; and said applications shall be verified under
oath and shall furnish the following information:
   (A)   The name, age, residence, citizenship, present occupation and
fingerprints of the person applying for such license. If applicant is a
partnership, the names, addresses, citizenship and occupations of all partners
shall be given; and if the applicant is a corporation, the names, addresses and
occupations of all officers and directors thereof shall be given;
   (b)   The make, body style, year, serial and engine number, state license
plate number of each snowplow;
   (C)   Whether or not the applicant or, if a partnership or corporation, any
of the partners, officers or directors thereof, has ever been convicted of or
pleaded guilty to any felony, crime or misdemeanor, and if so, the date, nature
of the offense and the court in which such conviction was obtained or plea of
guilty was entered; together with the amounts of all unpaid judgments against
the applicant and the nature of the transaction or acts giving rise to said
judgments;
   (D)   The number of vehicles to be operated or controlled by the applicant
and the location of proposed deposits and terminals; and
   (E)   Such further information as the City Manager may require.
('68 Code, § 3-702) (Ord. 156, passed 1-8-59)
§ 120.157 LICENSE FEE.
   No license shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder
thereof has paid to the City Treasurer the sum of $10 for the right to engage
in the snowplow business. Licenses shall expire on September 30 of each year.
('68 Code, § 3-703) (Ord. 156, passed 1-8-59)
§ 120.158 ISSUANCE AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE CARD.
   the City Manager shall issue to such snow-pow licensee a license card
bearing the words: "Snowplow License No.      ", and the said card shall bear
the signature of the City Manager and the expiration date thereof. This card
must be attached to the interior of the snowplow vehicle. A separate card shall
be furnished for each vehicle to be used by the licensee.
('68 Code, § 3-704) (Ord. 156, passed 1-8-59) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 120.159 INSPECTION OF VEHICLES.
   No license shall be issued or continued in operation unless the holder
thereof has obtained an inspection of each snowplow vehicle. The inspection of
the snowplow vehicle shall be made by the City Manager or his duly authorized
representative, and the license card for such vehicle shall not be issued until
the City Manager or his duly authorized representative has completed the
inspection and the vehicle has been approved to meet safe operating conditions.
('68 Code, § 3-705) (Ord. 156, passed 1-8-59)
§ 120.160 LIABILITY INSURANCE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to operate a snowplow for hire in the city, or permit
the same to be operated, nor shall any license be issued hereunder, unless or
until the applicant for a license shall deposit with the City Manager a prepaid
policy of liability insurance for each snowplow for which a license is sought
or a blanket policy covering all such snowplows, said policy to be acceptable
to and approved by the City Manager and issued by a company authorized to do
business in this state, indemnifying the applicant in the sum of at least
$10,000 for injuries to one person: in the sum of $10,000 for injuries to more
than one person which are sustained in the same accident; and $5,000 property
damage in any one accident; or in such other sums as may be set by resolution
of the City Council; through the operation of the snowplows by the applicant.
The policy of insurance so deposited shall contain a clause obligating the
company issuing the same to give ten days written notice to the City Manager
before cancellation thereof.
('68 Code, § 3-702) (Ord. 156, passed 1-8-59)
§ 120.161 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION OF LICENSE; APPEAL.
   The City Manager is hereby given the right to suspend or revoke any license
issued hereunder for failure to comply with the provisions of this subchapter.
Any person who has such a license revoked or suspended or who has been denied
the issuance of such a license shall have the right to appeal the decision of
the City Manager.
('68 Code, § 3-707) (Ord. 156, passed 1-8-59)
§ 120.999 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of this chapter
shall, upon conviction, be subject to a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment
for a term not exceeding 90 days, or both. A separate offense shall be deemed
committed upon each day during which a violation occurs or continues.
(Ord. 319, passed 7-15-68)
CHAPTER 121: VEHICLE PARKING AND STORAGE AREAS; SERVICE STATIONS
Section
Parking Lots and Garages
   
121.01   Definitions
   
121.02   Compliance required
   
121.03   License required
   
121.04   Application for license
   
121.05   License fees
   
121.06   Bond or liability required
   
121.07   Employee identification cards; fee
   
121.08   Issuance of license
   
121.09   Licenses not transferable
   
121.10   Revocation of license
   
121.11   Schedule of rates and charges
   
121.12   Signs required
   
121.13   Refusal of vehicles prohibited
   
121.14   Claim checks; return of vehicle
   
121.15   Entrances and exits
   
121.16   Enclosure of parking lots
   
121.17   Maintenance of premises and surroundings
   
121.18   Fire protection
   
121.19   Notification of claims for damage or loss
   
121.20   Unclaimed vehicles; notification of police
   
121.21   Unauthorized use or removal of vehicles
   
121.22   Care of vehicles after closing time
   
121.23   Condition of vehicles; displaying of vehicles for sale
Used Motor Vehicle Storage Lots
   
121.35   Definitions
   
121.36   License required; application; investigations
   
121.37   Hearings; planning commission recommendations; establishing standards
   
121.38   Erection of buildings on lots prohibited
   
121.39   Fence or enclosure required
   
121.40   Storage height limitation
   
121.41   Restrictions on certain business practices
   
121.42   Record required to be kept on transactions; disposition of vehicles
   
121.43   Issuance of license; posting of license number
   
121.44   License fee; bond
   
121.45   Expiration date; renewal of license
Gasoline Filling Stations
   
121.55   Finding of necessity
   
121.56   Definitions
   
121.57   License required; fee; expiration date
   
121.58   Standards of operation; compliance with building and zoning
regulations
   
121.59   Construction of stations near residential districts; approval of
residents required
Self-Service Gasoline Filling Stations
   
121.70   Title
   
121.71   Definition
   
121.72   License required to operate self-service stations
   
121.73   Operation of pump or measuring device without license; exception
   
121.74   Dispensing devices
   
121.75   Operation of self-service station
PARKING LOTS AND GARAGES
§ 121.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE. A building, shed or enclosure, or any portion thereof, in which more
than five motor vehicles may be parked, stored, housed or kept, for which any
charge is made.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any automobile, truck, motor scooter or other self-propelled
vehicle not operated on tracks or from trolleys.
   PARKING LOT. Any outdoor space, or uncovered plot, place, lot, parcel, yard
or enclosure, or any portion thereof, where more than five motor vehicles may
be parked, stored, housed or kept, for which any charge is made.
('68 Code, § 5-701) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.02 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (B)   All parking lots and garages shall comply with all the terms and
provisions of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-723) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.03 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to conduct a business of storing motor
vehicles for hire on a parking lot or garage within the city without first
having obtained a license therefor in the manner herein after set forth.
('68 Code, § 5-702) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.04 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE.
   Applications for licenses required by this subchapter shall be made upon
forms provided by the City Clerk and shall be signed and verified under oath by
the applicant, if an individual, and by a duly authorized agent if a
partnership or corporation, and shall set forth the following:
   (A)   If a person, the name and address of the applicant;
   (B)   If a partnership, the name, residence, and business address of each
partner;
   (C)   If a corporation, the name, date and state under whose laws such
corporation was organized, and if a foreign corporation, whether authorized to
do business in the state, the names of the principal officers, directors and
local representatives, their residence and business addresses;
   (D)   A plot or drawing of said parking lot or garage, showing the location,
size, capacity, location and size of entrance and exit, kind of floor or ground
surface, location, size and construction of attendant' s station, wall or
barriers surrounding said premises;
   (E)   The hours for storage or parking of said vehicles and whether night
storage is to be maintained upon the licensed premises;
   (F)   The hours during which parking attendants will be on duty;
   (G)   A complete schedule of the rates to be charged for storing or parking
of vehicles;
   (H)   Such other information as the Chief of Police may deem necessary for
the issuance of said licenses.
('68 Code, § 5-703) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.05 LICENSE FEES.
   The license fee for the operation of a parking lot shall be in accordance
with the following schedule of capacities:
 
Number of Vehicles Fee
5 to 15            $10
16 to 23           25
26 to 50           40
Over 50            50
 
('68 Code, § 5-704) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.06 BOND OR LIABILITY REQUIRED.
   Every application for a license shall be accompanied by a bond, approved as
to form by the City Attorney, executed by a bonding or surety company
authorized to do business in this city and state, in the penal sum of $5,000
conditioned upon the payment by the licensee of any and all final judgments for
damages resulting to persons or property including the theft of any motor
vehicle or any part or accessory thereof, arising out of the operation or
maintenance of any parking lot or garage. Such bond shall run to the city for
the benefit of any person who may receive injuries, and for the benefit of any
person who may claim redress for property damage or theft, resulting from the
operation or maintenance of such parking lot or garage. Such bond shall remain
in full force and effect for the full period of time for which the license is
effective. A liability insurance policy issued by an insurance company
authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, conforming to the
requirements of this section, may be permitted in lieu of a bond.
('68 Code, § 5-714) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.07 EMPLOYEE IDENTIFICATION CARDS; FEE.
   (A)   Every person owning or operating a parking lot or garage shall file
with the City Clerk the name and address of each employee employed at such
parking lot or garage and shall obtain from the City Clerk a card showing the
name and address of each such employee and the name and address of the operator
of such parking lot or garage at which he is employed. Such card shall be
carried by the employee at all times that he is on the premises and shall be
exhibited at any time on demand.
   (B)   The annual fee for the issuance of each parking lot employee's
identification card shall be $1.
('68 Code, § 5-705) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.08 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   If, after an investigation by the Chief of Police or his duly authorized
representative, the City Council shall be reasonably satisfied that the
applicant has a good reputation, that the statements set forth in the
application are correct, that the parking lot will not create a traffic hazard,
and if the proper fee shall have been paid, the City Clerk shall issue to the
applicant a license for a parking lot or garage, which license shall continue
in full force and effect until the first day of October following the issuance
of the license, or until revoked by the City Council. The City Clerk shall keep
a record of all applications and licenses issued, indexed alphabetically and by
location.
('68 Code, § 5-706) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.09 LICENSES NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   No license issued under this subchapter shall be transferred or assigned or
used by any person other than the one to whom it is issued, or at any location
other than the one for which it is issued.
('68 Code, § 5-707) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.10 REVOCATION OF LICENSE.
   The City Council may revoke any parking lot or garage license if, upon a
hearing and investigation after at least ten days' written notice of the time
and place of such hearing, the City Council finds:
   (A)   The licensee has knowingly made any false or materially incorrect
statement in the application;
   (B)   The licensee knowingly violates or knowingly permits or countenances
the violation of any provision of this subchapter;
   (C)   The licensee has made any charge for parking or storing a vehicle
other than those set forth in his license application;
   (D)   The licensee knowingly violates or knowingly permits or countenances
the violation of any provision of any penal law of this code or any applicable
ordinance of the city regarding theft, larceny or conversion of a motor vehicle
or the operation of a motor vehicle without the owner's consent, whether such
licensee or other person has been convicted of such offense or not;
   (E)   The licensee fails to keep an attendant on duty during the times
specified on his application.
('68 Code, § 5-708) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.11 SCHEDULE OF RATES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Every licensee shall file with the City Clerk at the time of
application for license a complete schedule of rates and charges to be made for
storing or parking motor vehicles on the premises to be licensed. ('68 Code, §
5-709)
   (B)   No licensee shall make any charge for storing or parking any vehicle
in a parking lot or garage in excess of that set forth in his application for a
license unless and until he has notified the city clerk in writing of the new
schedule of rates, and posted signs showing such increase in the same manner as
required by §
121.12.
('68 Code, § 5-710) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.12 SIGNS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each licensee shall maintain at each entrance to such parking lot or
garage a permanently affixed sign suitable to apprise persons using same of the
name of the licensee; the hours of the day or night when such places are open
for parking or storing motor vehicles; the rates charged and the closing hours
of such parking lot or garage. Where more than one rate is charged for parking,
the figures for each rate shall be of the same size and dimensions, and such
figures shall measure not less than six inches in height, and the letters and
figures indicating the closing hours shall be not less than six inches in
height. All such signs shall be subject to the approval of the Building
Inspector or his authorized representative.
   (B)   Where separate rates or charges are made for day parking and night
parking, the night rate shall become effective at 6:30 p.m., and notice thereof
shall be posted on the signs described in division (A) of this section.
('68 Code, § 5-711) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.13 REFUSAL OF VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall refuse to park or store any vehicle for which there shall
be accommodation in such parking lot or garage on tender of the stated fee for
such parking.
('68 Code, § 5-712) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.14 CLAIM CHECKS; RETURN OF VEHICLE.
   (A)   When a vehicle is left for storing or parking, the licensee of the
parking lot or garage, his agent, servant or employee, shall furnish the owner
or operator of said vehicle with a distinctive claim check which shall have
printed thereon the full name and address of the parking lot or garage, a
number corresponding to a coupon placed upon the vehicle, and shall have
written or stamped thereon the date and license number of the motor vehicle.
The licensee shall not deliver any vehicle without the proper claim check being
presented, or without satisfactory proof of ownership of said vehicle. This
provision shall not apply where vehicles are stored or parked on a weekly or
monthly fee basis.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to affix any parking coupon upon any vehicle so
as to obliterate in whole or in part any portion of the license plates on such
vehicle.
('68 Code, § 5-713) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.15 ENTRANCES AND EXITS.
   Each parking lot or garage shall have one common entrance and one common
exit, which may or may not be combined, and the operator of such parking lot or
garage shall keep such entrance and exit properly attended at all times during
the period the parking lot or garage is in operation.
('68 Code, § 5-715) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.16 ENCLOSURE OF PARKING LOTS.
   Except for places of entrance and exit, every parking lot shall be
completely enclosed by barriers constructed and maintained so as to withstand
the shocks and stresses to which they will normally be subjected by vehicles
using the premises, and shall be of such height as to engage the bumper of any
motor vehicle parked on said lot so that no portion of the vehicles shall
extend over the property lines. When said lot abuts on a building, barriers
shall be erected as provided in this section to prevent motor vehicles from
striking such building.
('68 Code, § 5-716) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.17 MAINTENANCE OF PREMISES AND SURROUNDINGS.
   (A)   Sidewalks. Every operator of a parking lot or garage shall keep the
sidewalk surrounding the premises free from dirt, ice, sleet and snow, and
shall keep the sidewalk and driveways in a safe condition for the travel of
pedestrians.
   (B)   Dust and water. The ground or floor space of each parking lot or
garage, if made of dirt, sand, cinders or other loose mixture, shall at all
times be kept thoroughly sprinkled or treated with water, calcium chloride or
other means, so that the dust, sand, cinders or other substance of which said
ground or floor space is made will not be raised, carried or blown by the wind,
movement of vehicles, or other causes, into or upon public property, or the
adjacent property of others. The surface or floor of said premises shall be
constructed so as to prevent retention of water thereon.
   (C)   Handbills. It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute
literature or place handbills in or upon any vehicle while parked in a parking
lot or garage.
   (D)   Loading or unloading of vehicles. The loading or unloading of
passengers or drivers of vehicles across or upon a public sidewalk is hereby
expressly prohibited, and any operator or employee, who by receiving or
delivering vehicles other than within the property line of the parking lot or
garage, aids or assists in blocking any sidewalk or street shall be deemed to
have violated the provisions of this subchapter.
   (E)   Vendors prohibited. No licensee shall sublet, sublease or otherwise
permit any parking lot or garage or portion thereof to be used by any vendor of
goods, wares or merchandise or services for the conduct of such vendor's
business unless the same is conducted in a permanent building or structure
licensed by the city for that purpose.
('68 Code, § 5-717) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.18 FIRE PROTECTION.
   Every parking lot or garage shall be equipped with proper fire extinguishing
apparatus subject to the approval of the City Fire Department, and all vehicles
shall be so parked or stored that they may be reached readily in case of fire
or other emergency.
('68 Code, § 5-722) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.19 NOTIFICATION OF CLAIMS FOR DAMAGE OR LOSS.
   Every licensee shall immediately notify the Police Department of every claim
made by reason of loss, theft or conversion, or any damage or injury to person
or property, from the operation of a parking lot or garage and occurring during
the hours said premises are regularly open for business. The obligation created
by this section shall not extend beyond the regular posted hours of attendance
as posted upon the premises and printed upon the regular receipt furnished to
the owner or person parking said vehicle.
('68 Code, § 5-718) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.20 UNCLAIMED VEHICLES; NOTIFICATION OF POLICE.
   Every licensee shall immediately notify the Police Department, in writing,
of the license number, make, and the name of the owner, if known to him, of
every vehicle left in a parking lot or garage for a period of more than 48
consecutive hours.
('68 Code, § 5-719) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.21 UNAUTHORIZED USE OR REMOVAL OF VEHICLES.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee of a parking lot or garage to make or
permit any use for any purpose whatsoever of any vehicle parked in such place,
unless the use shall have first been expressly authorized by the owner or
person having control of such vehicle. No licensee shall transfer or cause to
be moved or transferred, any parked vehicle through or upon the streets or
alleys of the city without the written consent of the owner or person having
control of such vehicle.
('68 Code, § 5-720) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.22 CARE OF VEHICLES AFTER CLOSING TIME.
   When vehicles are not called for at closing time, the attendant shall leave
the keys and parking coupon for safekeeping at a place within a reasonable
distance of the parking lot or garage, with a responsible person whose name and
address shall be posted in a conspicuous place on said premises.
('68 Code, § 5-721) (Ord. 249, passed 10-4-65)
§ 121.23 CONDITION OF VEHICLES; DISPLAYING OF VEHICLES FOR SALE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to park or store any vehicle in any parking lot,
unless otherwise authorized pursuant to §§
121.01 through
121.45, which is not in condition ready for use, or to permit the parking of
any abandoned, junked or partially disabled vehicle in such parking lot.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to use any parking lot for storage or parking of
any motor vehicle, unless otherwise authorized pursuant to §§
121.01 through
121.45, for the purpose of displaying the same for sale, or to use any parking
lot or portion thereof as an automobile repair shop.
(Ord. 726, passed 10-4-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
USED MOTOR VEHICLE STORAGE LOTS
§ 121.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK. Any person property which is or may be salvaged for reuse, resale,
reduction or similar disposition, or which is possessed, transported, owned,
collected, accumulated, dismantled or assorted for any of the aforesaid
purposes. Without limiting the aforesaid definition of JUNK, the term shall
include used or salvaged iron, brass, lead, copper and other base meter or
metals, and their compounds or combinations; used or salvaged rope, bags,
paper, rags, glass, rubber and similar articles or used lumber, used brick,
used tile and any other used building material or fixtures.
   STORAGE OF USED MOTOR VEHICLES. The storage of any and all types of used
motor vehicles, but shall not include the storage of dismantled or disassembled
motor vehicles any kind or nature or parts thereof.
   LICENSEE. The person engaged in the business of storing used motor vehicles.
('68 Code, § 3-801) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66)
§ 121.36 LICENSE REQUIRED; APPLICATION; INVESTIGATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate a storage lot for the storage of
used motor vehicles in the city without first obtaining a license therefor.
Application for such license shall be made to the City Clerk, upon blanks to be
provided. The applications so received by the City Clerk shall be referred to
the City Manager, the Chief Building Inspector and the Police Chief, or their
duly authorized representatives, for purposes of investigation and
recommendation by said parties.
   (B)   After receipt of such recommendations, the application shall be
submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall set
a date for a public hearing in accordance with the procedure for public
hearings set forth in Act 207 of Public Acts of 1921, as amended.
('68 Code, § 3-802) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66)
§ 121.37 HEARINGS; PLANNING COMMISSION RECOMMENDATIONS; ESTABLISHING STANDARDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a hearing on whether or not a
license shall be granted and shall make a recommendation to the Council for
approval or denial of said license. The Council shall approve, deny, or may
order forth hearings if in their sole prerogative the same is deemed necessary.
The Planning Commission shall consider the recommendation or objections of the
City Manager, the Chief Building Inspector, the Chief of Police and the Fire
Chief or their duly authorized representatives, and the persons appearing at
the public hearing.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall, with the approval of the Council,
establish a set of standards governing the ingress and egress to said lot, the
fence or enclosure to be placed around said lot, the location thereof, and the
size of said lot, but in no event shall the Planning Commission recommend the
use of this property contrary to any of the provisions of this chapter, this
code or any applicable ordinance of the city.
('68 Code, § 3-803) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66; Am. Ord. 536, passed 6-18-79)
§ 121.38 ERECTION OF BUILDINGS ON LOTS PROHIBITED.
   No building of any kind or nature shall be permitted to be constructed on
the storage lot under this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-804) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.39 FENCE OR ENCLOSURE REQUIRED.
   The storage lot shall be enclosed by a fence or enclosure of a minimum of
eight feet in height, and shall be of sturdy, permanent construction.
('68 Code, § 3-805) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.40 STORAGE HEIGHT LIMITATION.
   No storage of a motor vehicle or motor vehicles shall be in a manner wherein
the height of said storage exceeds the height of the fence.
('68 Code, § 3-806) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.41 RESTRICTIONS ON CERTAIN BUSINESS PRACTICES.
   (A)   The licensee shall not engage in the business of buying, selling or
offering to buy or sell used automobile parts on the storage lot. The licensee
shall not conduct any retail or wholesale business of used automobile parts,
nor shall he advertise the sale of such parts on the premises. The licensee
shall not conduct the business of selling or disposing of used motor vehicles
except during the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 7:00 p.m. on weekdays and Saturdays.
The actual taking possession of and storing of used motor vehicles on said
premises may be conducted at any time.
   (B)   The licensee shall not burn, dismantle, disassemble or store any motor
vehicle parts on said premises.
   (C)   The licensee shall not store any junk on the premises.
('68 Code, § 3-807) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.42 RECORD REQUIRED TO BE KEPT ON TRANSACTIONS; DISPOSITION OF VEHICLES.
   (A)   The licensee shall keep a record as prescribed by state statute
governing the purchase and sale of motor vehicles stored on the storage lot.
   (B)   (1)   The licensee shall record all transactions of the storage, sale
or purchase of motor vehicles on forms provided by the City Police Department.
A copy of said form shall be deposited with the City Police Department within
24 hours after each transaction.
      (2)   The licensee shall, within 48 hours after the taking of possession
of a used motor vehicle, begin proceedings according to the appropriate state
statute for the return of said used motor vehicle to the proper owner or the
disposal of said motor vehicle.
('68 Code, § 3-809) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66)
§ 121.43 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; POSTING OF LICENSE NUMBER.
   Every licensee granted to engage in the business to operate a storage lot
for used motor vehicles shall be furnished a license on a form supplied by the
City Clerk. Every licensee receiving such a license shall post said license
number with name and address on the premises.
('68 Code, § 3-810) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.44 LICENSE FEE; BOND.
   Any person seeking to engage in the business of a storage lot for used motor
vehicles as hereinbefore defined shall pay the City Treasurer a sum of money
per annum as shall be specified from time to time by resolution of the City
Council, and shall execute a cash bond to the city in the penal sum of $500,
and in addition that said licensee will safely observe the provisions of this
subchapter. The bond shall provide that in the event the licensee shall fail to
conduct said storage in conformity with the provisions of this chapter, that it
shall be unlawful, but not mandatory, for the city to perform such obligations
of this chapter and deduct the cost of performing same from said bond.
('68 Code, § 3-811) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66; Am. Ord. 357, passed 3-2-70; Am.
Ord. 578, passed 6-7-82)
§ 121.45 EXPIRATION DATE; RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   This license shall expire May 1 of each year and may be renewed by
application to the City Clerk upon payment to the City Treasurer of the sum as
specified in the resolution of City Council and the continuation of said bond,
provided by the City Clerk, has not received any written objections are so
filed, the licensee shall apply to the Board of Zoning Appeals for renewal of
his license in the same manner as a new licensee makes his application.
('68 Code, § 3-811) (Ord. 261, passed 4-5-66; Am. Ord. 357, passed 3-2-70; Am.
Ord. 578, passed 6-6-82)
GASOLINE FILLING STATIONS
§ 121.55 FINDING OF NECESSITY.
   The city has adopted this subchapter after extensive study and on the
following determinations made by it:
   (A)   That there is a fundamental conflict between the operation of filling
and/or service stations, as defined in this subchapter, and the quiet, peaceful
enjoyment of adjacent areas;
   (B)   That the unrestricted and unregulated operation of a service station
and/or filling station, in the finding of the Council, constitutes a public
nuisance, and is detrimental to the general health, welfare and safety of the
people of the city;
   (C)   That, among other things, the noise, odor, lights, fumes, vibration,
dust, danger of fire and/or explosion, traffic problems, incidental to the
operation of filling and/or service stations, are factors peculiar to this
business which warrant its being the subject of regulation as set forth in this
subchapter; and
   (D)   That the City Council has determined, after study and review of
complain to received by it, that it is necessary in the public interest and for
the reasons hereinbefore mentioned to regulate all filling or service stations
operating in the city, and to establish uniform rules for the location,
equipping and operation of the same within the city.
('68 Code, § 3-201) (Ord. 150, passed 6-24-58)
§ 121.56 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the fthe distance of the width of the
said thoroughfare.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lot boundary running along the front of a lot and
wholly within the lot.
   LOT LINE, REAR. The lot boundary opposite and most distant from the front
lot line, and wholly within the lot.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. The lot boundary running from the front lot line to the rear
lot line of either side and wholly within the lot.
   PLACES OF PUBLIC ASSEMBLY. Schools, public libraries, churches, auditoriums,
institutions, hospitals, public playgrounds, parks and similar uses.
   SERVICE STATION. (See FILLING STATION.)
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the upper surface of any
floor and the upper surface of any floor above.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare, 40 feet or more in width, which
affords the principal means of access to abutting property; provided that this
definition shall include any street dedicated and of record prior to the
enactment of this subchapter.
   STRUCTURES. Any combination of materials, including buildings, constructed
or erected, the use of which requires location on the ground, including but not
limited to signs, billboards and fences.
('68 Code, § 3-202) (Ord. 150, passed 6-24-58)
§ 121.57 LICENSE REQUIRED; FEE; EXPIRATION DATE.
   (A)   All filling or service stations in the city must obtain a license to
operate said filling of service station by making application for same to the
office of the City Clerk on forms furnished by the Clerk for said license
application. Said license shall be effective for one year and shall be renewed
on January 1, annually, of each year.
   (B)   Before the City Clerk shall deliver such license, the applicant
therefor shall pay the City Treasurer the sum of $5. When the said license is
issued to a new filling or service station for a period of less than six
calendar months next preceding January 1, the City Treasurer shall collect a
total of one-half of the license fee hereinbefore provided; in all other
instances the City Treasurer shall collect the full amount hereinbefore
provided.
('68 Code, § 3-204) (Ord. 150, passed 6-24-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.58 STANDARDS OF OPERATION; COMPLIANCE WITH BUILDING AND ZONING
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No filling or service station shall hereafter be erected in the city
unless said building, structure or premises, to be used for such business,
shall conform and comply with all the provisions of the Building Code and the
Zoning Code of the city;
   (B)   No filling or service station shall hereafter be erected in the city
unless there is constructed a five- foot fence, masonry, on the property line
or property lines along and abutting residential property, and said masonry
fence shall have face brick on the residential side thereof;
   (C)   All permanent storage of material, merchandise and equipment shall be
within the principal building or within permanent stationary containers located
within the setback lines, with the exception of refuse and trash which shall be
located in an enclosed or screened area;
   (D)   Approach aprons, service areas and parking areas shall be provided
with pavement having an asphaltic or portland cement binder so as to provide a
permanent, durable and dustless surface, and shall be so graded and drained as
to dispose of all surface water accumulated within the area;
   (E)   Parking, with the exception of cars at the pumps or waiting for
immediate service, shall be limited to three cars for each service bay,
attendants vehicles, and other vehicles incidental to service, except that any
partially dismantled or wrecked vehicles shall not be stored for more than a
total of 48 hours outside the building on said premises. Proper parking space
shall be provided on the premises for the above number of vehicles;
   (F)   No accessory buildings shall be allowed except by permission of the
Board of Zoning Appeals;
   (G)   Fixed lighting shall be arranged to prevent direct beams or glare into
the surrounding areas or public streets;
   (H)   Gasoline or other inflammable mixtures shall not be used to wash down
the premises;
   (I)   Drains located on the premises without approved separators in the trap
shall be prohibited;
   (J)   All repair work herein allowed shall be done within the principal
building located on the premises;
   (K)   All filling or service stations must construct a fixed, permanent
curb, six inches in height and four inches in width, running parallel with the
sidewalk at the front and the side of said building, and said curb shall be one
foot from the property line. In lieu of such a curb, a fence may be used,
subject to the approval of the Chief Building Inspector;
   (L)   No sign, post or object shall be placed in or upon the area between
the curb as stated in division (H) and the edge of the sidewalk nearest the
street, either permanent or temporary, nor shall any motor vehicle be parked or
driven wholly or partly upon the area between the said curb and the street;
   (M)   No filling or service station shall hereafter be constructed on any
plot of ground containing less than 15,000 square feet; and
   (N)   No filling or service station shall hereafter be constructed with a
minimum frontage of less than 140 feet on the font lot line.
('68 Code, § 3-203) (Ord. 150, passed 6-24-58) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.59 CONSTRUCTION OF STATIONS NEAR RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS; APPROVAL OF
RESIDENTS REQUIRED.
   Any person desirous of obtaining a permit for the construction of a gasoline
service station within 400 feet of a district zoned residential must receive
approval of 65% of the residents within said zoning district within a radius of
500 feet of the boundary line of the proposed service station property. Said
approval must be obtained in writing addressed to the office of the City Clerk.
('68 Code, § 3-203.1) (Ord. 383, passed 4-5-71)
SELF-SERVICE GASOLINE FILLING STATIONS
§ 121.70 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Self-Service Gasoline Filling Station
Regulations.
('68 Code, § 3-1801) (Ord. 522, passed 2-6-78)
§ 121.71 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SELF-SERVICE GASOLINE FILLING STATION. Any premises or portion of premises
open to the public where gasoline or other flammable liquid fuel for self-
propelled vehicles or portable internal combustion machines is dispensed into
fuel tank of such equipment by persons other than a licensed pump operator.
('68 Code, § 3-1802) (Ord. 522, passed 2-6-78)
§ 121.72 LICENSE REQUIRED TO OPERATE SELF-SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   The City Clerk is hereby authorized to issue a license to operate a
self-service gasoline filling station upon application as provided herein.
Before the City Clerk may issue any license, the applicant shall file an
application on forms furnished for such purpose and the Fire Department shall
conduct an investigation to determine whether the proposed self-service
gasoline filling station complies with all applicable state flammable liquid
regulations, and any applicable provisions of this code and applicable
ordinances and regulations of the city concerning the operation of self-service
stations. After the completion of such investigation, the fire department shall
certify to the City Clerk its findings and recommendations as to whether a
license to operate a self-service station should be issued to the applicant.
   (B)   There shall be furnished to each licensee under this section, a
certificate of such form and style as the Fire Department shall prescribe,
which shall be displayed on the premises where the licensee is engaged in such
operation.
   (C)   The original license fee shall be $50 and such license shall expire
July 1 of each year, and the annual renewal of such license fee shall be $25
thereafter. Notwithstanding the granting of a license to operate a self-service
gasoline filling station, a license is required for retail sales pursuant to §
121.57.
('68 Code, § 3-1803) (Ord. 522, passed 2-6-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.73 OPERATION OF PUMP OR MEASURING DEVICE WITHOUT LICENSE; EXCEPTION.
   No person engaged in the retail business of selling flammable liquids shall
employ, allow or delegate any person to operate a pump or device used to
dispense gasoline, oil or other flammable liquids, unless such person has an
operator's license as provided herein, and unless the license or certificate is
displayed on the premises as provided herein. However, that this section shall
not apply to a member of the public operating any such pump or device at a
licensed self-service gasoline filling station.
('68 Code, § 3-1804) (Ord. 522, passed 2-6-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.74 DISPENSING DEVICES.
   (A)   Dispensing devices for motor fuels shall be securely mounted on
concrete foundations located, designed or protected to normally prevent damage
by vehicles. Such devices shall be so located that vehicles being fueled will
be entirely off sidewalks, streets, alleys or thoroughfares.
   (B)   Dispensing devices for flammable liquids shall be of a fixed type
taking supply through the top of the tank. Systems requiring pneumatic pressure
on a tank or container are prohibited.
   (C)   Pumps shall be so arranged as to control the flow of liquid at the
point of discharge and, if any other than hand-operated, they shall be provided
with secondary means of shutting off the power in the event of accident or
fire.
   Pumps and all piping and fittings in connection therewith shall be
maintained free from leaks.
   (D)   Devices that will permit the flow of a liquid through a dispensing
hose or nozzle when the hand of the operator has been removed from the nozzle
are prohibited, unless the pump is manually operated or the nozzle is approved
by Underwriters Laboratories, Inc. Such a nozzle shall have the latch open
device as an integral part of the assembly and shall shut off the liquid
reliably and positively when the gasoline tank is filled when it falls from the
filling neck of an automobile tank, when it is subject to rough usage such as
dropping or lack of proper lubrication, or when an automobile is driven away
while the nozzle is still in the tank. During the entire delivery operation by
such approved automatic nozzle, an operator may perform other services on the
vehicle being filled but he shall remain at such vehicle until the delivery
operation is completed and the hose nozzle has been replaced in its hanger.
   (E)   Dispensing devices for the dispensing of flammable liquids at a self-
service gasoline filling station, including but not limited to coin-operated,
card-operated and remote-controlled types, shall be subject to the approval of
the Fire Department. Hose nozzle valves used at a self-service station for the
dispensing of flammable liquids shall be automatic closing types without a
latch-open device. Pumps and other devices handling flammable liquids shall be
subject to the Fire Chief. Listing by a recognized inspection or testing
laboratory having a re-examination service may be accepted, unless the use of
such pump or device is in conflict with the intent of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 3-1805) (Ord. 522, passed 2-6-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 121.75 OPERATION OF SELF-SERVICE STATION.
   (A)   Self-service stations shall have at least one attendant on duty while
such station is open to the public. The attendant's primary function shall be
to supervise, observe and control the dispensing of flammable liquids while
such liquids are actually being dispensed.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the attendant to:
         (a)   Prevent the dispensing of flammable liquids into containers
inappropriate for that purpose.
         (b)    Control sources of ignition.
         (c)   Immediately handle accidental spillage fire extinguishers when
needed.
         (d)   Upon request, assist an unaccompanied physically-handicapped
person in the dispensing of flammable liquid into that persons' vehicle,
provided that the attendant shuts off the power to the remaining self-service
dispensing devices.
      (2)   The attendant shall be mentally and physically capable of
performing the functions and assuming the responsibilities prescribed in this
section.
   (C)   A clearly identified and easily accessible switch or circuit breaker
shall be provided at the location remote from the dispensing devices including
remote pumping systems, to shut off the power to all dispensing devices in the
event of any emergency. Such emergency controls shall be installed at a
location acceptable to the Fire Department, but such controls shall not be more
than 100 feet from the dispensing devices.
   (D)   Permanent signs and placards printed in not less than one-half inch
block letters on a contrasting background shall be conspicuously posted at each
self-service device so as to give complete and clear operational directions.
Permanent signs and placards printed in not less than three inch block letters
on a contrasting background shall be conspicuously posted in the dispensing
areas incorporating the following or equivalent wording:
      (1)   WARNING — IT IS UNLAWFUL AND DANGEROUS TO DISPENSE GASOLINE INTO
UNAPPROVED CONTAINERS
      (2)   NO SMOKING
      (3)   STOP ENGINE
   (E)   The dispensing area shall be at all times in clear view of the
attendant and the placing or allowing of any obstacle to come between the
dispensing area and the attendant control area shall be prohibited. The
attendant shall at all times be able to communicate with persons in the
dispensing area.
   (F)   Self-service dispensing devices shall not occupy the same pump island
as attended dispensing devices. Pump islands with self-service dispensing
devices shall be separated from pump islands with attending dispensing devices
by a distance of not less than ten feet.
   (G)   No member of the public shall use or operate any flammable liquid
dispensing equipment at any service station except if the service station is a
licensed self-service filling station as defined in §
121.71.
('68 Code, § 3-1806) (Ord. 522, passed 2-6-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 122: VENDORS; GARAGE SALES
Section
Street and Food Vendors
   
122.01   Definition
   
122.02   License required
   
122.03   Application for license; contents; investigations and reports
   
122.04   Issuance of license; prerequisites
   
122.05   License fees
   
122.06   Expiration date
   
122.07   Exemptions
   
122.08   Standards of operation restricted
   
122.09   Vehicles to be kept in clean, sanitary condition
   
122.10   Compliance with sanitary regulations
Ice Cream Vending Vehicles
   
122.20   Definition
   
122.21   Licensing provisions
   
122.22   Equipment requirements
   
122.23   Parking required while vending
   
122.24   Vending from curb side
   
122.25   Motorists passing vending vehicles
   
122.26   Obstructing traffic prohibited
Christmas Tree Vendors
   
122.35   License required
   
122.36   Application for license; contents
   
122.37   Inspection fee; deposit required
   
122.38   Duty to restore premises; deposit and refund
   
122.39   Expiration date; revocation
   
122.40   Sales on licensed premises required
   
122.41   Use of electricity; permit required
   
122.42   Exceptions
Garage Sales
   
122.55   Title
   
122.56   Definition
   
122.57   Permit required
   
122.58   Duration of sale
   
122.59   Signs; display of merchandise
   
122.60   Limitations of sales
   
122.61   Exception
 
   
122.99   Penalty
STREET AND FOOD VENDORS
§ 122.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FOOD VENDOR. Any person who sells, offers for sale or distributes from any
wagon, truck, pushcart or other vehicle or temporary foodstand, any article of
food or food products to be used for human consumption in the city.
   PERISHABLE FOOD. Food which tends to decompose or deteriorate within three
hours at a temperature above 50° F and thereby rendering in unwholesome or
unsafe for human consumption.
   REFRIGERATION. Refrigeration at 50° F or below in closed vehicles shall be
provided and maintained for all perishable food during transportation.
   STREET VENDOR. Any person, whether principal or agent, who shall go in and
upon the public streets, alleys, ways, parks and places of the city, traveling
from place to place or from door to door of homes, offices, stores, hotels,
restaurants or other places of business, engaged in selling at retail, or
offering or taking orders to sell, barter, canvass or peddle to members of the
public or to regular customers any article of goods, wares or merchandise or
other products, not produced, manufactured or made by such person; however,
merchants having established places of business with a stock of goods, engaged
in making deliveries only thereof, shall not be deemed to come within the scope
of this subchapter. Any person who, in the operation and conduct of his
business, shall manufacture, produce or distribute any products, goods, wares
or merchandise, and shall as an established course of business employ agents
who shall go in and about the streets of the city displaying and offering such
goods, wares or merchandise for sale, or who shall take orders for sale or who
shall sell at retail to the public or to established customers, shall each be
deemed to be street vendors and subject to all the terms and conditions of this
subchapter. The term STREET VENDOR shall also include HUCKSTER and PEDDLER as
such words are commonly used.
('68 Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52)
§ 122.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use the public streets or public
places for the purpose of engaging in the occupation or business of street
vendor and/or food vendor in the city without first having obtained a license
to do so as hereinafter provided. Furthermore, it shall be unlawful for any
person to operate as a street vendor and/or food vendor in the city without
first having obtained a license for each piece of vehicular equipment or
container used in connection therewith. However, a person who is a street
vendor and does not use a vehicle or container in connection therewith, but who
carries the merchandise being sold in his hands or his pockets, shall be
required to obtain a license as though he sold from a container.
('68 Code, § 3-301) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.03 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS; INVESTIGATIONS AND REPORTS.
   (A)   Every person who desires to operate as a street vendor and/or food
vendor as defined in §
122.01 shall file an application in writing with the City Clerk, which
application shall set forth the name, residence address and age of applicant;
the name and address of the principal owner of the business if the applicant is
acting as an agent; the kind and description of the articles to be sold or
offered for sale; type of vehicular equipment to be used; the number of
vehicles to be licensed; whether the applicant is a citizen of the United
States or has applied for citizenship; whether the applicant has ever been
convicted of violating the law of any state or the United States, or the code
or any applicable ordinance of this city or any other municipality in the
country; and if such is a fact, shall give the details pertaining to such
violation.
   (B)   Each applicant for a street vendor and/or food vendor's license shall
as a condition precedent to the issuing of such license, submit the applicant's
fingerprints to and file them with the Police Department.
   (C)   Every applicant shall at the time of making such application pay the
prescribed license fee as hereafter set forth to the City Treasurer with the
understanding that if such license application is denied, such fee shall be
refunded to the applicant. Such applicant shall be referred to the Police
Department and the Health Department of the city for investigation and report
as to whether such applicant complies with the code and any applicable
ordinance of the city, including this subchapter. If, after such investigation,
said departments determine that the applicant has complied with the
requirements of any applicable provision of this code and any applicable
ordinance of this city, including this subchapter, a report in writing to that
effect shall be submitted to the City Clerk who shall thereupon issue the
license applied for, but if said departments, or either of them, determine that
the applicant has not qualified for a license as herein specified, such
application shall not be approved, and in connection with such denial the
reasons therefor shall be submitted.
('68 Code, § 3-302) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52)
§ 122.04 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE; PREREQUISITES.
   (A)   No license shall be issued to an applicant as a food vendor who
proposes to sell food products, who has not received from the Department of
Health a health card issued by the Health Officer to the effect that the bearer
of the card has had a physical examination by a reputable physician, has met
all the requirements of the Health Department of the city, and is a suitable
person to carry such a card.
   (B)   Before such license is issued, information shall be furnished by the
applicant to the Police Department as to the kind, condition, ownership and
place of storage of the vehicle he will use in carrying on the business of
street vendor and/or food vendor, the nature and scope of his business, the
route or routes which he follows, and other similar information as may be
deemed necessary to protect the general welfare of the public.
   (C)   The license for a street vendor and/or food vendor as herein
authorized shall be in such form as to contain a true photograph of the
licensee, his name, address, physical description, fingerprints, and the class
of license as designated in this chapter. Such license shall be delivered to
the licensee when he takes out his license, but additional copies of the
license to replace ones lost, spoiled or destroyed shall be charged at the rate
of $.50 for each license lost, spoiled or destroyed. Every licensee shall carry
with him at all times while operating as street vendor and/or food vendor the
license above described. It shall be unlawful for any licensee to change,
remove or obliterate any entry made on such license.
   (D)   (1)   If a license is issued, there shall be delivered to each
licensee with a handcart, small wagon, bicycle, motorcycle or other similar
small conveyance two metal license plates bearing the works "Inkster Licensed
Vendor No.        , Class 2:" and the date of expiration, in easily legible
works and figures. The color of such plates shall be changed each year. The
licensee shall attach such plates, one on each side and towards the forward end
of the vehicles he operates, in as conspicuous a place as possible, and shall
not use any vehicle as a street vendor and/or food vendor on which such plates
are not so displayed.
      (2)   Every street vendor licensee, whether using a vehicle or not, shall
be given a metal badge bearing the same date as is required by this chapter on
the license plates, with the license number in easily readable figures at least
one-half inch, and such badge shall be worn constantly by the licensee in a
conspicuous place on the front of his coat or hat during the time he operates
as a street vendor.
      (3)   A street vendor and/or food vendor licensee shall not transfer his
license, badge or plates to another person, nor shall plates for small vehicles
be used on vehicles drawn by horse or propelled by motor or vice versa.
('68 Code, § 3-303) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52)
§ 122.05 LICENSE FEES.
   The following fees shall be charged for operating as a street vendor and/or
food vendor:
   (A)   Class 1. For every person engaged in the business of street vendor
and/or food vendor, whether traveling by foot without the aid of any vehicle or
who uses a vehicle referred to in either of the following classes, the fee
shall be $2 per year per person.
   (B)   Class 2. Street and/or food vendors who travel by foot or who use a
bicycle, pushcart or hand- drawn wagon or other similar small conveyance,
carrying any basket, box or container not exceeding two cubic feet, the fee for
each conveyance or container shall be $2 per day up to and including ten days,
and $25 for one year, which fee shall be in addition to fee provided in Class 1
above.
   (C)   Class 3. For every street vendor and/or food vendor who shall use any
horse-drawn or motor- propelled vehicle in his operations, the fee for each
vehicle shall be $3 per day up to and including ten days, with a maximum of $40
per year for each vehicle, which fee shall be in addition to fee provided in
Class 1 above.
('68 Code, § 3-304) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52)
§ 122.06 EXPIRATION DATE.
   Each license hereafter issued shall expire on midnight following the first
Tuesday in May of each year, unless previously terminated by operation of law.
('68 Code, § 3-305) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52)
§ 122.07 EXEMPTIONS.
   No license fee shall be charged to any person or for any vehicle which he
operates who proposes to sell produce which he has raised himself or to any
person who has attained the age of 65 years, or to any mechanic selling
articles made by himself, or to any person operating as a street vendor and/or
food vendor who has been honorably discharged as a war veteran from any of the
armed services of the United States. At the time that any of the persons above
named claim such exemption from license fee, such person shall swear by
affidavit setting up facts which entitle him to such exempting, and such
affidavit shall be filed with the City Clerk along with the application for
license.
('68 Code, § 3-306) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52; Am. Ord. 278, passed 7-3-67)
§ 122.08 STANDARDS OF OPERATION RESTRICTED.
   (A)   No licensee hereunder shall use any scales which have not been
approved by the State Bureau of Weights and Measures, and no person who
operates as a street vendor and/or food vendor shall create any disturbance by
any instrument, horn, bell, radio, electrical appliance or device in connection
with such business.
   (B)   No licensee shall stop in any one place longer than is necessary to
make a sale, or in any event shall not stop on private property without the
consent of the owner, and shall not stop for a period longer than 30 minutes at
any time. No licensed food vendor shall stop for the purposes of selling or
offering to sell any food products within a distance of 500 feet from any
public, private or parochial school building, or the lands on which such school
buildings are located in the city on any day during which such school is in
session.
   (C)   No licensee operating as a street vendor and/or food vendor shall
unreasonably interfere with traffic or cause or permit large numbers of
persons, especially children, to congregate upon the public streets.
('68 Code, § 3-307)
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to call out or make any noise of
any kind whatsoever or to use a bell, horn or other noise-making device with a
view of attracting persons to buy the goods said licensee has for sale. ('68
Code, § 3-308)
(Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52; Am. Ord. 110.1, passed 5-13-58) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.09 VEHICLES TO BE KEPT IN CLEAN, SANITARY CONDITION.
   All vehicles used in the sale of food products must be kept in a clean and
sanitary condition at all times, and when containing loads or parts of loads of
food products they must be kept only in places and operated only in a manner
which in the opinion of the Health Officer are sanitary and wholesome.
('68 Code, § 3-308) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52; Am. Ord. 110.1, passed 5-13-58)
Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.10 COMPLIANCE WITH SANITARY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Because of the unusual exposure to the dust of the street, to insects
and the elements, that food product suffer when carried in vehicles used by
food vendor, the Health Officer from time to time may direct, through
regulations mailed to licensees and in other ways, that certain kinds of
product which are not cooked or washed before eating, or which are not
protected by a natural covering that is removed before eating, must be covered
or carried in a closed receptacle of the approved kind.
   (B)   No person shall transport on any highway, street, alley or
thoroughfare in the city any meat, meat food products, milk, based good, ice
cream and the like, or any food intended for sale or intended for sale for
human consumption in the city, unless the transporting vehicle is so covered as
to protect it from dust, dirt, insects, human contamination or any other
substance that will render it unclean, unwholesome or detrimental to public
health. Every container and every vehicle shall be maintained in a sanitary
manner and in good repair at all times.
   (C)   All baked goods shall be transported in covered containers. From May 1
to October 1, all custard or cream-filled pastry will not be offered for sale
or distribution from any place or vehicle unless it has been refrigerated at a
temperature not over 50° F from the time of manufacture until the time of
delivery to the consumer.
   (D)   Ice cream cones (dipped) or ice cream sandwiches will not be sold on
the street in the city unless previously wrapped or packaged at an approved
place of manufacture. All ice cream products shall be separately packaged, and
shall be protected from any possible contamination of the refrigerant.
   (E)   Delivery of milk and milk products for human consumption in bulk, or
in open containers, or that have not been properly pasteurized, will not be
permitted in the city.
   (F)   Delivery of meat from meat places and abattoirs to retail meat markets
shall be made in closed vehicles and during the same day as said vehicles are
prepared for meat delivery.
   (G)   No person shall sell or deliver or have in his possession for sale in
the city any meat, milk or other food products which are improperly labeled or
contain any unhealthful ingredient, constituent or substance, or which have
been transported, handled or stored in an unclean manner.
   (H)   All utensils associated with the sale or transportation of food
products shall be kept clean and protected from flies, dust, splash or other
contamination.
   (I)   No person with a contagious or infectious disease shall be permitted
to operate a vehicle for the purpose of selling or transporting food. Such
persons are subject to a health examination at the discretion of the County
Board of Health.
   (J)   All vehicles used for the purpose of selling or transporting meat,
milk, pastry, ice cream and all other food products for human consumption in
the city shall be inspected and approved by the County Board of Health
Department before a license is granted. The holder of a license under which a
food- vending vehicle is operated shall be the person responsible for all the
above conditions and requirements of this subchapter.
   (K)   Failure to maintain the standards and requirements of the city for
sale or transportation of food will constitute cause of revocation of the
license under which such vehicles are operated.
   (L)   Every food vendor and the operator of every food vending vehicle shall
furnish, upon demand, such information as the Health Officer may require to
determine compliance with the requirements and standards for food-vending
vehicles.
('68 Code, § 3-309) (Ord. 110, passed 10-7-52) Penalty, see §
122.99
ICE CREAM VENDING VEHICLES
§ 122.20 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ICE CREAM VENDING VEHICLE. Any vehicle used for the carrying and selling of
ice cream, snow-cones, and similar confectionery products, including but not
limited to, cotton candy, popcorn, caramel corn, peanuts and candy apples, upon
public streets or parks.
('68 Code, § 5-1001) (Ord. 516, passed 6-20-77)
§ 122.21 LICENSING PROVISIONS.
   All vehicles as defined in this subchapter shall be licensed in accordance
with the provisions of §§
122.01 through
122.10.
('68 Code, § 5-1002) (Ord. 516, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.22 EQUIPMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every vehicle as defined in this subchapter shall, in addition to any
other equipment required by applicable law, be equipped with signal lamps
mounted as high and widely spaced laterally as practicable, which shall be
capable of displaying to the front, two alternating flashing amber lights
located at the same level; and to the rear, two alternately flashing amber
lights located at the same level. Said lights shall have sufficient intensity
to be visible from a distance of at least 300 feet in normal sunlight and shall
be actuated by the driver of said vehicle whenever said vehicle is stopped on a
residential street for the purpose of vending its products, or is about to stop
for that purpose.
   (B)   Each ice cream vending vehicle, when operating on a residential
street, shall be required to letter upon the vehicle itself, or to
predominantly display a sign attached to the vehicle, warning other approaching
motor vehicles to stop and then proceed with caution when said signal lamps are
actuated. The warning required by this division shall be located both on the
front and the rear of said ice cream vending vehicle.
   (C)   Every vehicle as defined by this subchapter must be equipped with
convex mirrors affixed to the front fenders of said vehicle which allow the
vehicle operator to be able to view all pedestrian buyers.
('68 Code, § 5-1003) (Ord. 516, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.23 PARKING REQUIRED WHILE VENDING.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle defined by this subchapter to sell or
offer for sale any food or other product unless said vehicle is legally parked
at the nearest curb and has come to a complete stop.
('68 Code, § 5-1004) (Ord. 516, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.24 VENDING FROM CURB SIDE.
   It shall be unlawful for any vehicle as defined by this subchapter to sell
or offer for sale any products from other than the curb side of a legally
parked vehicle as defined by this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 5-1005) (Ord. 516, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.25 MOTORISTS PASSING VENDING VEHICLES.
   Motorists shall not pass an ice cream vending vehicle as defined by this
subchapter until after they have come to a complete stop within a safe
distance. After coming to a complete stop and determining that it is safe to
proceed, motorists shall proceed with caution.
('68 Code, § 5-1006) (Ord. 516, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.26 OBSTRUCTING TRAFFIC PROHIBITED.
   Any ice cream vending vehicle operating in an otherwise appropriate manner
shall not block or obstruct the orderly flow of traffic.
('68 Code, § 5-1007) (Ord. 516, passed 6-20-77) Penalty, see §
122.99
CHRISTMAS TREE VENDORS
§ 122.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, society, club, firm, partnership or
corporation to sell, offer for sale, or keep for sale upon any vacant lot or
portion thereof in the city, any Christmas trees without first having obtained
a license therefor from the City Clerk.
('68 Code, § 3-1301) (Ord. 173, passed 2-14-61) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.36 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   Application for such license shall be made in writing upon forms furnished
by the City Clerk and shall be filed with the Clerk. Such applications shall
give the full name of the applicant, his residence and the place where he
intends to do business. If said applicant is a partnership, the names of all
partners and their street addresses shall be given; and if a corporation, the
names and addresses of all officers shall be given.
('68 Code, § 3-1302) (Ord. 173, passed 2-14-61)
§ 122.37 INSPECTION FEE; DEPOSIT REQUIRED.
   The applicant for a license under this subchapter shall pay an inspection
fee of $15 for each location where the sale of Christmas trees is to be
conducted, and shall likewise make a cash deposit of $100 for each location
within the city for the purpose of guaranteeing the cleaning up of the premises
and the removal of any unsold trees, debris or any temporary structures
therefrom within ten days after Christmas of the year which the license was
taken out.
('68 Code, § 3-1303) (Ord. 173, passed - - )
§ 122.38 DUTY TO RESTORE PREMISES; DEPOSIT AND REFUND.
   It shall be the duty of any licensee under this subchapter to clean up the
premises where the Christmas tree business was conducted within ten days after
Christmas, and to remove left-over trees, all debris and temporary structures
therefrom. Upon a finding by the Chief Inspector, or his duly authorized
representative, that the premises have been properly cleaned, the Chief
Inspector shall authorize, in writing, the City Treasurer to refund the cash
deposit, after deducting therefrom any cost which the city has incurred in
cleaning up the premises after the expiration of the aforesaid ten-day period.
If any such cost has been incurred by the city, an itemized statement therefor
shall accompany the authorization to refund. Said deposit, or the balance
thereof, shall be refunded within 30 days by authorization of the Chief
Inspector.
('68 Code, § 3-1304) (Ord. 173, passed 2-14-61)
§ 122.39 EXPIRATION DATE; REVOCATION.
   Licenses issued under the provisions of this subchapter shall expire on
January 1 following their issuance, and shall be revocable by the Chief of
Police for a violation of any law of the state or any applicable provision of
this code or any applicable ordinance of this city.
('68 Code, § 3-1305) (Ord. 173, passed 2-14-61)
§ 122.40 SALES ON LICENSED PREMISES REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any licensee to engage in business at any place
other than that place designated in the license.
('68 Code, § 3-1306) (Ord. 173, passed 2-14-61) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.41 USE OF ELECTRICITY; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   If electricity is to be used in connection with the premises, an electrical
permit must be secured by a licensed contractor who will be making the
installation in a safe manner, as prescribed by the City Building Department.
('68 Code, § 3-1307) (Ord. 173, passed 2-14-61) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.42 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to establishments
presently engaged in the sale of nursery products at their present location.
('68 Code, § 3-1308) (Ord. 173, passed 2-14-61)
GARAGE SALES
§ 122.55 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City Garage Sale
Regulations.
('68 Code, § 4-1601) (Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82)
§ 122.56 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Includes the terms BASEMENT SALE, ATTIC SALE, YARD SALE  or
other types of so-called residential sales of used tangible personal property
such as clothing, household effects, tools, garden implements, toys, recreation
equipment or other used or second hand items customarily found in and about the
home and advertised in a manner whereby the public at large is or can be, aware
of such a sale.
('68 Code, § 4-1602) (Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82)
§ 122.57 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Before a garage sale can be conducted, the homeowner or occupant of the
premises at which said sale shall be held shall obtain a permit from the City
Clerk. In addition to other information that may be required by the City Clerk,
the permit shall contain the name of the applicant and the duration of the
sale. No more than three permits each calendar year may be issued for the
conducting of a garage sale; in addition, at least 30 days must elapse between
the maximum of three permitted garage sales on the premises covered by the
permit. Fee for such permit will be established by resolution of the City
Council.
('68 Code, § 4-1603) (Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.58 DURATION OF SALE.
   Each garage sale shall be limited to five consecutive days of operation and
shall not be conducted before 8:00 a.m. of each day.
('68 Code, § 4-1604) (Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.59 SIGNS; DISPLAY OF MERCHANDISE.
   (A)   At the time the garage sale is conducted, the homeowner or occupant
who obtained the garage sale permit shall prepare a garage sale sign not to
exceed four square feet in area which shall be used to advertise the garage
sale. Such sign shall contain the street address of the premises on which said
sale is conducted, the permit number and the expiration date of the permit.
Such sign shall be placed within the property line of said premises. The permit
is to be clearly visible on the property for the entire duration of said sale.
Any additional signs which are used shall be placed at a location other than
the premises at which the garage sale is being held and shall contain the
words: "Warning: Not to be placed in a public right-of-way or on private
property without the owner's consent." Additional signs shall be prepared and
contain the same information as the sign which is placed on the premises where
the garage sale is being conducted. It shall be the duty and responsibility of
the permittee to remove such sign or signs within 24 hours after the garage
sale ends in accordance with the permit. Any other sign pertaining to the
garage sale is prohibited.
   (B)   Outside display of merchandise may be allowed on the premises at which
said sale is being held.
('68 Code, § 4-1605) (Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.60 LIMITATIONS OF SALES.
   The garage sale shall be conducted only by the homeowners or occupants.
Joint garage sales may be held with other homeowners or occupants of the
neighborhood provided that the permit lists all homeowners or occupants
involved in the sale and further provided that an additional fee may be
assessed for each additional homeowner or occupant. Fees for additional
homeowners or occupants may be established by resolution. No merchandise of any
nature shall be brought in from any other source in connection with such sale.
The limitations of this section shall not be applicable, however, when the
permit is obtained and the sale conducted by a church, school veterans
organization, fraternal or religious societies, or other civil or charitable
non-profit organization.
('68 Code, § 4-1606) (Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82) Penalty, see §
122.99
§ 122.61 EXCEPTION.
   The term GARAGE SALE shall not apply to the homeowner or occupant who,
during the normal course of housekeeping, advertises or otherwise offers for
sale individual pieces of furniture or an appliance being replaced or no longer
needed.
('68 Code, § 4-1607) (Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82)
§ 122.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter for which
another penalty has not been provided shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor,
and upon conviction thereof shall be subject to a fine not exceeding $500 for
each offense or to imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both such fine
and imprisonment in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
122.55 through
122.61 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by
imprisonment for not more than five days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
('68 Code, § 4-1608)
(Ord. 592, passed 12-20-82)
CHAPTER 123: BUSINESS REGISTRATION
Section
   
123.01   Title
   
123.02   Purpose
   
123.03   Definition
   
123.04   Certification of registration
   
123.05   Revocation and/or suspension
   
123.06   Termination
 
   
123.99   Penalty
§ 123.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the City Business Registration regulations.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 866, passed 3-5-18)
§ 123.02 PURPOSE.
   All businesses shall be registered annually within the city:
   (A)   To assist the city with information to help provide:
      (1)   More adequate police and fire protection;
      (2)   More equal and equitable real and personal property taxation;
      (3)   Better efficiency and economy in furnishing public utility
services; and
      (4)   More comprehensive and informed planning and zoning uses of land
and structures.
   (B)   To establish a registry of businesses operating within the city for
the general information of the public and for the promotion of the city.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 866, passed 3-5-18)
§ 123.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, work, commerce or other activity owned or
operated for profit by any person within the city, except the word BUSINESS
shall not include home occupations, as defined in
Chapter 155, Zoning Code.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 866, passed 3-5-18)
§ 123.04 CERTIFICATION OF REGISTRATION.
   (A)   Requirement established. It shall be unlawful for any person to
operate a business within the city without having first obtained a certificate
of registration.
   (B)   Registration form. In order to register, the owner or operator of a
business shall submit registration information on a form prepared by the City
Clerk. The information on the registration form shall be true and accurate. The
business and the person signing the form shall be responsible for the accuracy
of the information.
   (C)   Fees. The owner or operator of a business shall pay an annual fee for
business registration. The registration fee shall be paid annually on or before
December 31 of each year in an amount as may be set from time to time by
resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   Security cameras shall be installed and maintained; and are subject to
approval by the city Police Chief. Commercial businesses 2,000 square feet or
less may use the “Sengled Snap Integrated HD Camera and Outdoor LED Floodlight”
as an option for their primary security system. The Sengled Snap HD camera
shall be in operation 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and shall be set to
maintain the record of the prior 24 hours of continuous operation. Commercial
businesses over 2,000 square feet, as well as any size convenience stores,
liquor store, automobile service station, or medical marijuana facility shall
use security cameras with a minimum resolution of 1080p,and at least 120
concurrent hours of digitally recorded documentation. The security cameras
shall be in operation 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and shall be set to
maintain the record of the prior 120 hours of continuous operation. All
commercial businesses must have an alarm system operated and monitored by a
recognized security company.
   (E)   Prohibition. No certificate of registration shall be issued by the
City Clerk, whereupon written recommendation of any city department or
official, the existing or proposed business would be illegal under any law or
ordinance.
   (F)   Issuance of a certificate. Upon receipt of the form, and upon
determining compliance with the requirements of this chapter, the City Clerk
shall issue a certificate of registration for the current year.
   (G)   Duration. The certificate of registration shall be effective until the
following December 31.
   (H)   Renewals. By November 1 of each year, every owner or operator of a
business shall renew the registration information with the City Clerk by
indicating with a signed statement that the information has not changed and is
correct as of that date, or with the addition of whatever information is needed
to correct the registration form.
   (I)   Issuance of a new certificate. If there is a necessity for the
issuance of a new certificate due to a name change, or other reason, the City
Clerk shall issue a new certificate of registration.
   (J)   Transfer. No certificate of registration may be transferred by the
holder to any other person.
   (K)   Inspection. No certificate of registration shall be issued by the city
until the place of business has been inspected. The city shall have the right
of inspection of the premises to assure compliance with this chapter, either
before or after the issuance of a certificate of registration.
   (L)   Display. The certificate of registration shall be prominently
displayed in the place of business.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 866, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
123.99
§ 123.05 REVOCATION AND/OR SUSPENSION.
   (A)   Noncompliance. In the event of any noncompliance with the provisions
of this chapter after a certificate of registration has been issued, the
certificate may be revoked or suspended by order of the city until the
noncompliance has been corrected as determined by the city.
   (B)   Written notice. Upon any revocation and/or suspension, the city shall
notify in writing the business of the action taken and shall specify the nature
of any violations.
   (C)   Hearing. Any business aggrieved of the action taken by the city may
request a hearing before the Mayor to be held within 21 calendar days of the
request.
   (D)   Final determination. The Mayor shall determine whether or not a
violation has occurred, and if so, shall determine whether the revocation and/
or suspension should be continued and, if so, under what conditions.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 866, passed 3-5-18)
§ 123.06 TERMINATION.
   Any business covered by this chapter which is discontinued or terminated,
shall notify the City Clerk to such effect personally or by certified mail, and
when the discontinuance or termination is voluntary, such notice shall precede
the same by 30 days.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 866, passed 3-5-18)
§ 123.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be punished by a
fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by imprisonment for not
more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 721, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 866, passed 3-5-18)
CHAPTER 124: MEDICAL MARIJUANA BUSINESS LICENSE
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-058R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Section
   
124.01   Purpose
   
124.02   Adoption of state rules and regulations
   
124.03   License required for the operation of a medical marijuana facility
   
124.04   Definitions and legislative findings and intent
   
124.05   Issuance of license
   
124.06   Appeal of Clerk’s denial
   
124.07   Fees
   
124.08   Non-renewal or revocation
   
124.09   Civil forfeiture
   
124.10   License not transferable
   
124.11   Hours of operation
 
   
124.99   Penalty
§ 124.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to establish standards and procedures
for the issuance, renewal and/or revocation of licenses for medical marijuana
facilities in order to:
      (1)   Serve and protect the health, safety and welfare of the general
public;
      (2)   Establish a set of rules and regulations which are fair and
equitable for those interested in operating a medical marijuana facility in
compliance with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Medical Marihuana
Facilities Licensing Act and State of Michigan regulations;
      (3)   To provide reasonable regulation pursuant to the city's general
police power granted to cities by the Michigan Constitution of 1963 and the
Home Rule City Act, MCL § 117.1 et seq., as amended.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter, or in any companion regulatory provision
adopted in any other provision of the Code of Inkster, is intended to grant,
nor shall they be construed as granting, immunity from criminal prosecution for
growing, sale, consumption, use, distribution, or possession of marijuana not
in strict compliance with the Code of Inkster and state and federal laws. The
provisions provided herein do not protect users, caregivers or the owners/
operators of a medical marijuana facility where the medical use of marijuana is
occurring from federal prosecution, or from having their property seized by
federal authorities under the Federal Control Substances Act.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.02 ADOPTION OF STATE RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   All activities related to medical marijuana shall be in compliance with the
General Rules of the Michigan Department of Community Health and the Michigan
Medical Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008, MCL § 333.26421 et seq.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.03 LICENSE REQUIRED FOR THE OPERATION OF A MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITY.
   (A)   Each operator of a medical marijuana facility shall apply for a
license with the Inkster City Clerk ("Clerk"). An annual fee schedule for the
initial license and annual renewal fees shall be set by City Council and such
fees shall be reasonably calculated to reimburse the city for the costs
associated with the enforcement of this chapter and the continued regulation of
establishments licensed hereunder.
   (B)   Licenses are non-transferrable and shall only apply to the person/
entity listed on the license at the address listed on the application.
Licensees in good standing with the city, have no code violations and/or unpaid
taxes or fees, are permitted to transfer licenses to new addresses or locations
provided all necessary city approvals are obtained prior to requesting the
transfer.
   (C)   Licenses shall expire at the end of each calendar year from the date
of issuance.
   (D)   Applications to renew a license to operate a medical marijuana
facility shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the date of expiration. Such
renewal shall be annual and shall be accompanied by the annual fee and any
other fee(s) required under this chapter. All provisions and requirements of
this chapter apply to renewals in the same manner as the original application.
   (E)   The license requirements set forth in this chapter shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other licensing and permitting
requirements imposed by any other federal, state or local law.
   (F)   The issuance of any license pursuant to this chapter does not create
an exception, defense or immunity to any person in regard to any potential
criminal liability the person may have for production, distribution or
possession of marijuana, possession of drug paraphernalia or presence in a
place where drugs are being used, stored or kept.
   (G)   Applications for a license required by this chapter shall be made with
forms provided by the Clerk, which shall be signed and verified under oath by
the applicant, if an individual, or by the authorized agent for any firm,
partnership, association, corporation, company or organization and shall set
forth and/or provide at a minimum, the following information and documentation:
      (1)   If the applicant is an individual he/she must provide their: name,
address and telephone number, master driving record and criminal complaint
history (CCH). If the individual intends to operate an unincorporated
individual proprietorship, they must also obtain a general business license as
provided for under the Inkster City Code;
      (2)   If the applicant is a partnership, or an employee, it must provide:
the name of the organization and each partner, residential and business address
and telephone number of each partner and the business, and each partner's CCH
and master driving record, along with a copy of the partnership's city of
Inkster business license;
      (3)   If the applicant is a corporation, it must provide: the name of the
organization, date of organization and certificate of good standing from the
state under which the corporation was organized, a copy of the corporation's
City of Inkster business license, the names of the principal officers,
directors and local representatives of their organization, their residential
and business addresses, telephone numbers, their CCH and master driving record;
      (4)   The length of time for which the right to do business as a medical
marijuana facility is sought;
      (5)   A recent color photograph of the applicant or the agent for the
applicant who is to do the actual assessments and/or certification for the
medical marijuana facility. The photograph shall be two inches by two inches
showing head and shoulders of applicant or agent and shall be supplied by the
applicant or agent;
      (6)   A brief description of the product, products or services involved
at the medical marijuana facility;
      (7)   The name, address and telephone number of the organization's
registered agent or the party that has the full power and authority to accept
service of process for and on behalf of applicant in respect to any matters
connected with or arising out of the business transacted under said license
with full acknowledgment that service on said agent shall be valid when
personally served on him/her.
      (8)   The location and mailing address and all telephone numbers where
the medical marijuana facility will be located.
      (9)   The operator of the medical marijuana facility shall be required to
submit proof, in a form acceptable to the Clerk, of ownership of the property
where the medical marijuana facility is to be operated. If the location/
property/premises of the medical marijuana facility to be licensed hereunder is
not owned by the operator of the medical marijuana facility, the operator shall
submit alternate written proof in a form acceptable to the Clerk that the
titled owner of the location/property/premises to be licensed has given
notarized written consent to the operator to use the premises for the licensed
use.
      (10)   A copy of approvals from the City Planning and Building Department
including: special conditions use, site plan and building permits.
      (11)   A copy of the certificate of occupancy from the city for the
location of the medical marijuana facility.
      (12)   Proof that all fees imposed hereunder have been paid in full and
that the applicant is not otherwise indebted to the City or in default of any
other provision of the Inkster City Code.
      (13)   A signed release from the applicant permitting the police
department to perform a criminal background check to ascertain whether the
applicant and operator named on the application have been convicted of a
felony.
      (14)   A binding release of liability and agreement to hold harmless the
City of Inkster from any liability arising out of the operation of the medical
marijuana facility.
      (15)   Proof of insurance providing coverage for fire and loss liability
and claims arising out of conditions, activities, structures and facilities
maintained in relation to the medical marijuana facility, in an amount of no
less than one million dollars umbrella coverage.
      (16)   A copy of the applicant's computerized criminal history (CCH).
      (17)   A history of the applicant's ordinance and state law license and
permit revocation and ordinance violations.
   (H)   The Clerk may not issue a license under this chapter until the
applicant has completed the application, provided all the information and
documentation required herein and paid all fees.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.04 DEFINITIONS AND LEGISLATIVE FINDINGS AND INTENT.
   (A)   Any term set forth herein shall have the meaning assigned to it by §
10.05 of the Inkster City Code. The legislative findings and intent of this
chapter shall be identical to those set forth in §
10.02 of the Inkster City Code.
   (B)   An annual license is required for any of the following entities to
operate a marijuana facility:
      (1)   Growers - licensees that cultivate, dry, trim, or cure and package
marijuana for sale to a processor or provisioning center. Registered patients
and primary caregivers who lawfully cultivate marijuana in the quantities and
for the purposes permitted under the Michigan Marihuana Act are not considered
"growers" under the new legislation.
      (2)   Processors - licensees that purchase marijuana from a grower and
exact resin from the marijuana or create a marijuana-infused product for sale
and transfer in packaged form to a provisioning center.
      (3)   Provisioning centers - licensees that purchase marijuana from a
grower or processor and sell, supply, or provide marijuana to patients,
directly or through the patient's caregiver.
      (4)   Secure transporters - licensees that store marijuana and transport
it between marijuana facilities for a fee.
      (5)   Safety compliance facilities - licensees that receive marijuana
from a marijuana facility or primary caregiver and test it for contaminants and
other substances.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.05 ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Clerk shall issue a license hereunder to the applicant unless the
Clerk finds a reason for denial, as stated in division (C), below. The license
shall be for no more than one year in length.
   (B)   In the event a licensee does not commence operations within 180 days
after being issued a license, the license shall be deemed forfeited and the
business may not commence operations.
   (C)   There shall not be more than three provisioning center licenses issued
by the city at any given time.
   (D)   The standards for denial of a license are as follows:
      (1)   The application is not completely filled out or information is not
provided as required by the prior sections herein.
      (2)   The applicant's CCH shows a conviction or convictions for
activities that pose a threat or a danger to the residents of the city should a
license be granted including, but not limited to: drunk driving, disturbing the
peace, assault and battery, domestic violence, theft, dishonesty or deception,
fraud, criminal sexual conduct, felonious assault, murder, and violations of
the Controlled Substance Act.
      (3)   Verification of any of the information required by §
124.03 shows the information provided by the applicant to be fraudulent, a
misrepresentation, or a false statement.
      (4)   An investigation through the City Police Department or any other
law enforcement agency that shows a pattern and history of conduct which would
justify a revocation of the applicant's permit under §
124.08.
      (5)   The applicant or any of the proposed employees/partners/members of
the applicant have a habitual history of business license/permit violations,
revocations, or a habitual history of ordinance violations.
      (6)   Failure to pay the nonrefundable licensing application fee herein
or the application fee.
      (7)   No license shall be issued to any applicant until such applicant
shall have obtained the age of 21 years.
      (8)   The applicant's medical marijuana facility license has previously
been revoked.
      (9)   The building/premises where the medical marijuana facility is to be
located is in violation of any city building, fire, electrical or health codes.
      (10)   The applicant and/or business has outstanding taxes, fines, fees
or liens owed to the city.
      (11)   Failure to comply with the Inkster Zoning Ordinance or any other
Inkster City Codes.
      (12)   Any other competent, material and substantial evidence indicating
the applicant or any of the applicant's proposed employees/partners/members
pose an apparent danger to the health, safety and welfare of the people of the
city and/or the activity proposed to be permitted constitutes an apparent
danger to the health, safety and welfare of the people of the city.
      (13)   The designated maximum number of licenses have already been
granted by the city.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.06 APPEAL OF CLERK'S DENIAL.
   (A)   Any applicant for a license to operate a medical marijuana facility
under this chapter may appeal the clerk's denial of the license to the Mayor,
provided however that:
      (1)   The applicant has paid all permitting, licensing and application
fees related to the operation of a medical marijuana facility pursuant to §
124.07, below;
      (2)   Within seven days of the applicant's receipt of the Clerk's denial,
the applicant made a written objection of the Clerk's denial to the Mayor that;
         (a)   Has a valid and verifiable date of service of process;
         (b)   Sets forth with particularity the grounds on which the objection
is based;
         (c)   Seeks consideration of the appeal to the Mayor.
   (B)   Should the Mayor deny the applicant's appeal, the applicant my appeal
to the City Council and the Council shall:
      (1)   Allow the applicant or its representative an opportunity to speak
and present any affidavits and documentary evidence in support of the appeal so
long as the presentation shall be reasonably limited in time;
      (2)   Sustain the Clerk's determination unless it finds the Clerk's
denial of the license to have been an abuse of discretion hereunder;
      (3)   Issue a formal written Resolution deciding the appeal within 30
days of the hearing set forth herein;
   (C)   The Mayor shall preside over any appellate hearing and employ a
relaxed evidentiary standard for the admission of evidence.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.07 FEES.
   The city shall assess fees as follows:
   (A)   Each applicant for a license to operate a medical marijuana facility
shall pay an application fee which shall be fixed annually by resolution of the
Inkster City Council as part of its statutory budgeting process and at such
other times as the City Council, in its discretion and by resolution, believes
is necessary to defray the costs associated with the licensing regulation and
enforcement activities contemplated hereunder.
   (B)   In addition and the same manner, Inkster City Council shall impose an
annual licensing fee by resolution as part of its statutory budgeting process
and at such other times as the City Council, in its discretion and by
resolution, believes is necessary to defray the costs associated with the
licensing regulation and enforcement activities contemplated hereunder.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.08 NON-RENEWAL OR REVOCATION.
   The operation of a medical marijuana facility shall be a revocable privilege
and not a right in the city; the city may choose not to renew or to revoke a
license based on any of the following:
   (A)   Failure to meet or maintain the conditions and requirements
established by this chapter or any related provisions of Inkster City Code or
state, federal or local laws;
   (B)   One or more violations of any city ordinance on the premises;
   (C)   Nuisance or blight violations on the premises;
   (D)   A demonstrated history of excessive calls for public safety (police,
fire, and EMS) originating from the premises, being three or more calls in any
30-day period; or
   (E)   Nonpayment or real or personal property taxes, fines, fees or liens
owed to the city;
   (F)   Any fraud, misrepresentation, or false statement contained in the
application for a license;
   (G)   Any fraud misrepresentation, or false statement made in connection
with services and/or merchandise;
   (H)   Conviction of the licensee of a felony;
   (I)   Conducting business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as to
constitute a breach of peace.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.09 CIVIL FORFEITURE.
   Any marijuana or drug paraphernalia used, sold or possessed with intent to
sell in violation of this chapter shall be seized and forfeited to the City of
Inkster along with any proceeds received from any such illegal sales.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.10 LICENSE NOT TRANSFERABLE.
   Any license granted hereunder may not be sold or otherwise transferred from
the person or entity that made the application to any other person or entity.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.11 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   Permissible hours of operation for a medical marijuana facility shall be:
   (A)   Monday - Friday: 9:00 a.m. through 9:00 p.m.
   (B)   Saturdays: 9:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
   (C)   Sundays: 10:00 a.m. through 6:00 p.m.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
§ 124.99 PENALTY.
   Any violations of this chapter shall be punishable in accordance with §
10.99 of the Inkster Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 856, passed 3-7-16; Am. Ord. 858, passed 7-17-17)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
      
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
      
134.   GAMBLING
      
135.   WEAPONS
      
136.   DRUG CONTROL
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Larceny
   
130.02   Fraudulently procuring books and the like from public libraries
   
130.03   Drawing upon insufficient funds for payments
   
130.04   Avoiding charges for telecommunications service
   
130.05   Damaging park or public property
   
130.06   Use of or right to property in illegal occupations; forfeiture
   
130.07   Unauthorized use of, or damage to, motor vehicle of another
Shopping Carts
   
130.20   Definitions
   
130.21   Removal from store premises prohibited
   
130.22   Abandonment of carts
   
130.23   Identification of carts; posting signs on premises
   
130.24   Impoundment or reclamation of abandoned carts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 LARCENY.
   Any person who shall steal the property of another, any money, goods or
chattels, or any bank note, bank bill, bond, promissory note, due bill, bill of
exchange or other bill, draft, order or certificate, or any book of accounts
for or concerning money or goods due or to become due, or to be delivered, or
any deed or writing containing a conveyance of land, or other valuable contract
in force, or any receipt, release or defeasance, or any writ, process or public
record, if the property stolen shall be of a value of $100 or less, shall be
guilty of larceny.
('68 Code, § 8-107) (Ord. 18, passed 4-5-38 ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.02 FRAUDULENTLY PROCURING BOOKS AND THE LIKE FROM PUBLIC LIBRARIES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person or persons within the city who
shall procure or take in any way from any public library or the library of any
literary, scientific, historical or library society or association, whether
incorporated or unincorporated, any book, map, chart, painting, pamphlet,
picture, photograph, periodical, newspaper, magazine, manuscript or exhibit or
any part thereof, with intent to convert the same to his own use, or with the
intent to defraud the owner thereof, or who having procured or taken any such
book, pamphlet, map, chart, painting, photograph, periodical, picture,
newspaper, magazine, manuscript or exhibit or any part thereof, shall
thereafter convert same to his own use or fraudulently deprive the owner
thereof.
('68 Code, § 8-107A(a)) (Ord. 643, passed 1-5-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.03 DRAWING UPON INSUFFICIENT FUNDS FOR PAYMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, draw, utter or deliver any
check, draft or order for the payment of money to apply on account or otherwise
upon any bank or other depository who shall not have sufficient funds for the
payment for same when presentation for payment is made to the drawee.
('68 Code, § 8-116(b)) (Ord. 437, passed 11-20-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.04 AVOIDING CHARGES FOR TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICE means any
service, transmission, emission or reception of signs, signals, writings,
images and sound or intelligence of any nature by wire, cable television
system, or closed circuit coaxial cable communications system.
('68 Code, § 8-1301)
   (B)   Any person who makes, possesses, uses, or knowingly participates in
the use by another of any instrument, apparatus, equipment or device designed
or adapted for use to fraudulently avoid the lawful charge for any
telecommunications service in violation of this chapter or to conceal the
existence or place of origin or destination of any telecommunications service,
or sells, gives, or otherwise transfers to another, or offers or advertises to
sell, give, or otherwise transfer, any instrument, apparatus, equipment or
device described herein, or instructions or plans for making or assembling any
instrument, apparatus, equipment or device described herein, is guilty of a
misdemeanor, if the person engages in that conduct under circumstances
evidencing an intent to use or employ the instrument, apparatus, equipment or
device, or to allow the same to be used or employed for a purpose described
herein, or knowing or having reason to believe that the same is intended to be
so used, or that the plans or instructions are intended to be used for making
or assembling that instrument, apparatus, equipment or device.
('68 Code, § 8-1302)
   (C)   Any person who, with the intent to fraudulently avoid the lawful
charge to any person, alters or participates in the alteration of
telecommunications service equipment or knowingly uses or participates in the
use by another of altered telecommunications service equipment which is owned,
controlled or operated by any other person.
('68 Code, § 8-1303) (Ord. 628, passed 3-3-86) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.05 DAMAGING PARK OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to maliciously destroy,
damage, injure, mar or deface any building, monument, sign or structure, or
fence, tree, shrub, plant, park or public property of any kind, or to commit
any act of vandalism on or in any such property.
('68 Code, § 8-108) (Ord. 124, passed 10-28-54; Am. Ord. 309, passed 4-1-68)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.06 USE OF OR RIGHT TO PROPERTY IN ILLEGAL OCCUPATIONS; FORFEITURE.
   No person shall have any property right in or to any money, personal
property or paraphernalia whatsoever found by the court to have been used in
connection with the operation or carrying on of an illegal occupation, and such
property may be declared forfeited.
('68 Code, § 8-102) (Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.07 UNAUTHORIZED USE OF, OR DAMAGE TO, MOTOR VEHICLE OF ANOTHER.
   No person shall, intentionally and without authority from the owner, start
or cause to be started the motor of any motor vehicle, or maliciously shift or
change the starting device or gears of a standing motor vehicle to a position
other than that in which it was left by the owner or driver of said motor
vehicle; or intentionally cut, mark, scratch or damage the chassis, running
gear, body, sides, top, covering or upholstery of any motor vehicle, the
property of another; or intentionally cut, mark, mash, destroy or damage such
motor vehicle or any of the accessories, equipment, appurtenances or
attachments thereof or any spare or extra parts thereon being or thereto
attached, without the permission of the owner thereof; or intentionally release
the brake upon any standing motor vehicle with intent to injure said machine or
cause the same to be removed without the consent of the owner. This section
shall not apply in case of moving or starting of motor vehicles by the Police
or Fire Department members in case of emergencies in the vicinity of a fire.
('68 Code, § 8-110) (Ord. 19, passed 3-5-38) Penalty, see §
10.99
SHOPPING CARTS
§ 130.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CART. Any rolling or nonrolling basket or container commonly used in
supermarkets or self-service stores.
   PROPERTY. Such term shall mean and include any cart.
   STORE. Any individual store, of whatever nature or type, chain store or
supermarket.
('68 Code, § 8-1001) (Ord. 491, passed 4-7-75)
§ 130.21 REMOVAL FROM STORE PREMISES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to take or use, without authority, any
cart from the premises of any store, whether such taking be with the intent or
without the intent to steal the same cart. The premises of any such store shall
include the actual building and parking lot within which such store is located
and the surrounding parking area servicing such store.
('68 Code, § 8-1002) (Ord. 491, passed 4-7-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.22 ABANDONMENT OF CARTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to abandon any cart of any store or
supermarket on any street, highway, alley, boulevard or public right-of-way or
place within the city.
('68 Code, § 8-1003) (Ord. 491, passed 4-7-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 IDENTIFICATION OF CARTS; POSTING SIGNS ON PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to provide carts for patrons' use on the
store premises unless such carts bear some form of permanent identification
denoting the name of the owner, and said owner shall post a sign in a
conspicuous location. The sign shall indicate that it shall be unlawful for
remove the shopping cart without the express permission of owner.
('68 Code, § 8-1004) (Ord. 491, passed 4-7-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.24 IMPOUNDMENT OR RECLAMATION OF ABANDONED CARTS.
   Whenever any cart is found abandoned on any street, highway, boulevard or
any public place within the city, the property, including the cart and anything
contained therein, may be impounded by the police or any city official, who
shall notify the owner thereof, who may reclaim the same by the payment of $5.
If the property is not reclaimed in a reasonable time, not to exceed 30 days,
it shall be disposed of as unclaimed property in the manner provided by law.
('68 Code, § 8-1005) (Ord. 491, passed 4-7-75)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND SAFETY
Section
   
131.01   Disorderly conduct; offenses enumerated
   
131.02   Disturbance of religious worship
   
131.03   Disorderly conduct on and around school property
   
131.04   Public intoxication on public or park property
   
131.05   Obstruction of public ways
   
131.06   Obstruction of justice
   
131.07   Curfew for minors
   
131.08   Abandoned refrigerators
   
131.09   False police reports
   
131.10   Placement of outdoor pay telephones on public rights-of-way regulated
§ 131.01 DISORDERLY CONDUCT; OFFENSES ENUMERATED.
   (A)   Any person found guilty of the following offenses in the city shall be
deemed a disorderly person and punished as in this code provided.
   (B)   The following offenses shall be, but are not limited to:
      (1)   Any person of sufficient ability who shall fail, refuse or neglect
to support his wife and/or minor children.
      (2)   Any parent, guardian or other person having the care or charge of a
minor child or children, who shall neglect, abandon or fail to care for
properly; or any person who shall permit, allow or encourage a child to become
a delinquent or fail to send to school a child or children of school age during
all regular school days.
      (3)   Any window peeper.
      (4)   Any prowler.
      (5)   Any common prostitute.
      (6)   Any person who engages in an illegal occupation or business,
directly or indirectly, or permits any other person to engage in an illegal
occupation upon his premises in any place within the city; (proof or recent
reputation for engaging in an illegal occupation shall be prima facie evidence
of being engaged in an illegal occupation or business.)
      (7)   Any person commits the crime of loitering if he:
         (a)   Loiters, remains or wanders about in a public place for the
purpose of begging;
         (b)   Loiters or remains in a public place for the purpose of gambling
with cards, dice or other gambling paraphernalia;
         (c)   Loiters or remains in a public place for the purpose of engaging
or soliciting another person to engage in prostitution, deviate sexual
intercourse, or other sexual behavior of a deviate nature; or
         (d)   Being masked or in any manner disguised by unusual or unnatural
attire, loiters, remains or congregates in a public place with other persons so
masked or disguised, or knowingly permits or aids persons so masked or
disguised to congregate in a public place. This division (B)(7) (d) shall not
apply to the pranks of children on Halloween, to those going to and from
masquerade parties, to those participating in any public parade of an
educational, religious or historical character, or to those participating in
the parades of minstrel troupes, circuses or other amusement or dramatic shows.
(Am. Ord. 337, passed 6-2-69)
      (8)   Any person who shall loiter in or about any police station or
police headquarters building, jail, hospital, court building, school, or any
street, alley or other public building.
      (9)   (a)   Any person who shall be drunk or intoxicated or under the
influence of narcotics or other drugs to the degree he may endanger himself or
other persons, or property, or annoy persons in his vicinity, or any person
engaged in indecent, immoral or obscene conduct in any public or private place,
or shall expose himself indecently in any place by reason of which the public
peace and good order of the neighborhood is disturbed.
         (b)   Any vagrant or beggar or person who is unable to give a
satisfactory account of himself, or his actions, or is without any lawful means
of support.
(Am. Ord. 337, passed 6-2-69)
      (10)   Any person who shall make or assist in making any noise,
disturbance, trouble or improper diversion or any rout or riot, by which the
peace and good order of the city are disturbed.
(Am. Ord. 351, passed 1-5-70)
      (11)   Any person found loitering in a house of ill fame or prostitution
or place where prostitution or lewdness is practiced, encouraged or allowed.
      (12)   Any person who shall be found jostling or roughly crowding people
unnecessarily in any public or private place.
      (13)   All persons who shall collect in a crowd or group resulting in the
annoyance or inconvenience to a person or persons, or the obstruction of any
street, way or passage, or shall interfere with the peaceful conduct of any
lawful meeting, gathering or assembly of persons.
      (14)   Any person who shall willfully or carelessly injure or assault
another or engage in any fight or quarrel, or who shall use vile, indecent,
obscene, profane or threatening language in any public or private place by
reason of which the peace and good order of the neighborhood is disturbed.
      (15)   Any person who shall improperly or loudly or wrongfully accost,
solicit, ogle, insult, whistle, wolf call, molest, follow, pursue, lay hands
on, or by gesture or movement of body, or otherwise, willfully annoy any person
in any place in the city for any purpose.
      (16)   Any person having in his possession any policy slips, tip sheets,
dice, cards or any device used for gambling, or other gambling paraphernalia.
      (17)   Any person having in his possession any instrument or tool
commonly used for gambling, burglary, robbery or stealing; or illegal knife,
razor, pistol, blackjack or other article or instrument which may be used as a
dangerous weapon, or used for carrying on any illegal occupation.
      (18)   Any person who shall have in his possession, either at home, car,
person or otherwise, any pistol, revolver or firearm less than 30 inches in
length without the same having been registered with the Police Department.
      (19)   Any person who sells, gives, loans or furnishes another with a
pistol or firearm less than 30 inches in length.
      (20)   Any person who shall have in his possession, sell or offer for
sale, show or exhibit any indecent or obscene picture, engraving, drawing,
book, pamphlet or other indecent printed matter, or is in possession of any
drug, poison or other narcotic contrary to the state law.
      (21)   Any person who shall mark, deface or otherwise willfully or
maliciously remove or damage the buildings, goods, chattels, trees, shrubs,
plants or other property of another, or any public property.
      (22)   Any person resisting lawful arrest or interfering directly or
indirectly with an officer making an arrest, or refusing to assist an officer
upon being commanded by said officer to give assistance or refusing to disperse
upon the command of an officer.
(Am. Ord. 337, passed 6-2-69)
      (23)   Any person who shall seek or obtain any money or other valuable
thing by any trick, fraudulent scheme, device, false pretense or by gambling or
any game of chance.
(Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46)
      (24)   Any person who shall be found in any public place dressed in the
attire of the opposite sex for the purpose of disguising himself or herself to
be of the opposite sex, shall be deemed a disorderly person. However, this
division (B)(24) shall not apply to the pranks of children on Halloween, to
those going to and from masquerade parties, to those participating in any
public parade of an educational, religious or historical character, and to
those participating in the parades of minstrel troupes, circuses or other
amusement or dramatic shows.
(Ord. 179, passed 10-2-61)
      (25)   Any person who has attained the age of majority and who shall
purchase alcoholic beverages for any person or persons under the age of
majority, or who shall furnish alcoholic beverages to a person or persons under
the age of majority in the city, shall be deemed a disorderly person.
(Ord. 445, passed 3-5- 73)
      (26)   Any person who shall be found drinking an alcoholic beverage in a
public building, park, street or alley or other public place in the city shall
be deemed a disorderly person. However, this division (B)(26) shall not apply
where properly authorized by law or by special permission of the city manager.
(Ord. 305, passed 4-1-68)
      (27)   Any person who shall be found trespassing on the premises of
another wherein he knowingly enters and remains unlawfully in a building or
upon premises which are enclosed in a manner designed to exclude intruders or
knowingly enters and remains unlawfully in or upon any premises.
      (28)   Any person who knowingly deposits on the land, or in a building or
upon a vehicle of another, without the consent of the owner, or in any public
place, any stink bomb, tear gas or other device, irritant or offensive smelling
substance, with the intent to interfere with another's use of the land,
building or vehicle, or any person found in possession of a noxious substance
as hereinbefore defined or manufactures, sends or transports any noxious
substance.
      (29)   Any person who intentionally receives stolen property, retains,
conceals or disposes of stolen property knowing that it has been stolen or
believing that in all likelihood it has been stolen, unless the property is
received, retained or disposed of with intent to restore it to the owner.
(Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46; Am. Ord. 337, passed 6-2-69)
      (30)   Any person or persons who shall make or assist in making any
noise, disturbance, trouble or improper diversion or any rout or riot, by which
the peace and good order of the city are disturbed.
(Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46; Am. Ord. 352, passed 1-5-70)
      (31)   Any person who telephones any other person or causes any other
person to be telephoned and uses any vulgar, indecent, obscene, threatening or
offensive language, or suggesting any lewd or lascivious act over any
telephone.
(Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46; Am. Ord. 353, passed 1-19-70)
      (32)   Any person who falsely assumes or pretends to be a judge, sheriff,
conservation officer, coroner, constable, police officer or member of the state
police, and shall take upon himself to act as such, or to require any person to
aid and assist him in any matter pertaining to the duty of a judge, sheriff,
deputy sheriff, conservation officer, coroner, constable, police officer or
member of the state police, or shall falsely take upon himself to act or
officiate in any office or place of authority.
(Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46; Am. Ord. 355, passed 3-2-70)
      (33)   Any person who shall, for money or gain, tell fortunes or predict
future events, by any means whatsoever; or attempt to enable anyone to get or
recover lost or stolen property; or to gain success in business, enterprise,
speculation or games of chance; or to make one person dispose of property,
business or valuable thing, in favor of another, based on some fortune-telling
device; or to publish by card, circular, sign, newspaper or any other means
whatsoever that he or she shall, or will, predict future events in any manner
whatsoever.
(Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46; Am. Ord. 366, passed 10-19-70)
      (34)   Any person, firm or corporation who persuades, entices, induces or
attempts to persuade, entice or induce a homeowner to list or sell his property
based upon the allegation that if said homeowner fails to list or sell his
property through said person, firm or corporation, said homeowner will be
forced to accept a lower price, at a later date, because persons of a minority
group are allegedly purchasing a home, or homes, within the immediate
neighborhood (such offense being known as blockbusting).
(Ord. 80, passed 11-6-46; Am. Ord. 368, passed 11-16-70)
('68 Code, § 8-101)
      (35)   It shall be unlawful to operate or play a compact disc player,
musical instrument, radio, tape player, boom-box, or any other device,
equipment or instrument that amplifies, produces or reproduces a sound from any
parked or moving vehicle in such a manner as to be plainly audible at a
distance of greater than ten feet from the motor vehicle.
(Ord. 803, passed 9-20-04)
§ 131.02 DISTURBANCE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.
   Any person who, on the first day of the week or at any other time, shall
willfully interrupt or disturb any assembly of people met for worship of God,
within the place of such meeting or out of it, shall be guilty of disorderly
conduct and shall, upon conviction, be punished as in this code is provided.
('68 Code, § 8-106) (Ord. 70, passed 11-6-45) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.03 DISORDERLY CONDUCT ON AND AROUND SCHOOL PROPERTY.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   PRINCIPAL. Any principal of any elementary or secondary school or
the chief administrative officer of any elementary or secondary school or
college.
      (2)   SCHOOL. Any pre-elementary (grades K-6), secondary (grades 7-12)
school, any college or combination thereof.
   (B)   Unauthorized persons not to enter or trespass on school property. No
person who is not a regularly enrolled student or parent or guardian thereof or
a school official, teacher or other public or school employee shall enter or
trespass upon or loiter in or upon any public, private or parochial school
building or school property in the city for any reason whatever, unless such
person has received written permission from the principal or other person
designated by the principal to be in or upon or to remain in or upon such
public, private or parochial school building or school property; provided, that
such written permission need not be secured by persons engaging in or attending
a school or Recreation Board authorized activity, or by persons using school
playground or playground equipment after school hours or when school is not in
session, unless such entry or use shall have been otherwise prohibited by a
rule or regulation of the School Board, school principal or other person, board
or committee with the authority to prohibit such use or entry.
   (C)   Disturbing schools. No person shall willfully or maliciously make or
assist in making any noise, disturbance or improper diversion by which the
peace, quietude or good order of any public, private or parochial school is
disturbed.
   (D)   Duty of person creating disturbance to leave premises. Any person,
whether lawfully or unlawfully in or upon any public, private or parochial
school building or school property, who is found to be creating a disturbance
in or upon any such school building or property, shall leave immediately when
so directed by the principal or by any other person designated by the
principal.
   (E)   Extortion. No person shall, by violence, threat of violence or other
form of coercion, force or attempt to force any public, private or parochial
school student or other person to give or to lend any money or other thing of
value to any person at any time.
   (F)   Unauthorized borrowing of money or thing of value from students in the
school or traveling to or from school. No person shall borrow or attempt to
borrow any money or thing of value from any student in or upon any public,
private or parochial school building or school property in the city or during
any time when such student is engaging in, going to or returning from any
regularly scheduled session or activity of any such school, without first
obtaining the written approval of the principal of such school or other person
designated by the principal to issue such written approval. However, this
division shall not apply to college students who borrow money or things of
value from other college students or adults.
   (G)   Destruction of school property. No person shall damage, destroy or
deface any public, private or parochial school building or the grounds,
outbuildings. fences, trees or other appurtenances or fixtures belonging
thereto.
('68 Code, § 8-109) (Ord. 312, passed 4-15-68) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.04 PUBLIC INTOXICATION ON PUBLIC OR PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to drink intoxicating
beverages or to bring intoxicating beverages on public or park property where
unauthorized to do so by law.
('68 Code, § 8-108) (Ord. 124, passed 10-28-54; Am. Ord. 309, passed 4-1-68)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.05 OBSTRUCTION OF PUBLIC WAYS.
   No person shall obstruct any public street, public highway, public sidewalk,
or any other public place or building by hindering or impeding or tending to
hinder or impede the free and uninterrupted passage of vehicles, traffic or
pedestrians.
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.06 OBSTRUCTION OF JUSTICE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly obstruct, resist or
oppose any police officer, sheriff, fire fighter, coroner, city treasurer,
constable or other officer or public official, directly or indirectly, in
making or attempting to make an arrest, or in the discharge or attempt to
discharge of any of his lawful duties.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the words OBSTRUCT, RESIST or OPPOSE
shall include but not be limited to the giving of false information, the
concealing or attempting to conceal or the giving of false information
concerning the identity of any person or persons when the same is requested by
any of the above named officials, or any other physical action or actions or
words, comments, representations or verbal statements which prevent or tend to
prevent such officer, sheriff, firefighter, coroner, City Treasurer, constable
or other public official from the discharge of his lawful duties.
('68 Code, § 8-120) (Ord. 486, passed 1-6-75) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.07 CURFEW FOR MINORS.
   No child under the age of 17 years shall be and no child shall be permitted,
caused or suffered to be upon the public streets or in any public place within
the city between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless such child is
accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or some adult delegated by the
parent or guardian to accompany such child.
(Am. Ord. 667, passed 12-19-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.08 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building
or dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded ice box, refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an
air-tight door or lock which may not be released for opening from the inside of
said ice box, refrigerator or container.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building
or dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded ice box, refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an
airtight snap-lock or other device thereon, without first removing the said
snap- lock or doors from said ice box, refrigerator or container.
('68 Code, § 8-111) (Ord. 116, passed 10-2-53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.09 FALSE POLICE REPORTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully and knowingly make to any
member of the Police Department or any other peace officer of the city a
fictitious report of the commission of any crime or a fictitious report of any
accident.
('68 Code, § 8-117) (Ord. 465, passed 6-21-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 131.10 PLACEMENT OF OUTDOOR PAY TELEPHONES ON PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY REGULATED.
   (A)   The City Manager shall have the authority to enter into negotiations
subject to the approval of the City Council, that grant one or more persons,
subject to the conditions set forth in the contract and this section, the
privilege of installing and maintaining pay telephones on the public way. Any
such contract must be approved as to form and legality by the City Attorney.
The City Manager may at any time cause to be advertised a request for proposals
relating to such contracts.
   (B)   Such contracts and the method of awarding such contracts shall, to the
greatest extent possible, be designed to:
      (1)   Discourage illegal drug sales and other criminal activity that are
sometimes associated with and facilitated by pay telephones on the public
right-of-way;
      (2)   Reduce the disturbances that pay telephones may tend to promote in
residential areas;
      (3)   Reduce visual clutter on the public right-of-way;
      (4)   Reduce the unnecessary obstruction of pedestrian and vehicular
traffic;
      (5)   Ensure the availability of pay telephones where there are needed
for lawful purposes;
      (6)   Provide adequate access to pay telephones by disabled persons; and
      (7)   Generate revenue for the city.
   (C)   Any contract entered into pursuant to this section shall provide that
the privileges granted by the contract are subject to the City Council's
authority to order the removal of a pay telephone pursuant to division (F) of
this section. Any such contract shall also permit the City Council or the City
Manager to require pay telephones on the public right-of-way to have special
features to reduce criminal activity. No person shall be awarded a contract
under this section unless the person is in full compliance with all laws of the
state, city ordinance, and the rules and regulations of the Michigan Public
Service Commission.
   (D)   No person may install a pay telephone on the public right-of-way on or
after the effective date of this section unless the installation is made
pursuant to a contract entered into under this section. Beginning October 1,
1993, no pay telephone may remain on the public right-of-way other than
pursuant to a contract entered into under this section. Any telephone installed
or maintained in violation of this section shall be subject to immediate
removal by the city at the owner's expense.
   (E)   No later than 30 days after the effective date of this section, every
person who owns or maintains a pay telephone on the public right-of-way must
file with the City Manager a list of the locations of all such telephones owned
or maintained by that person. Any pay telephone that does not appear on such a
list shall be subject to immediate removal at the owner's expense by the city
beginning 31 days after the effective date of this section.
   (F)   The City Council may at any time by resolution order the removal of a
particular pay telephone that is on the public right-of-way. Such a resolution
must identify the location of the telephone to be removed. Any pay telephone
that is not removed within 14 days after a resolution ordering its removal is
adopted shall be subject to immediate removal at the owner's expense by the
city.
   (G)   Any pay telephone removed by the city pursuant to this section may be
reclaimed by its owner within 30 days after its removal. The owner must
reimburse the city for its removal and storage costs before any such telephone
may be reclaimed. Such costs shall also include the cost of removing any
installation ancillary to the pay telephone, the costs of restoring the public
way to its original condition and any administrative costs that are incurred.
Any telephone not so reclaimed by its owner may be disposed of by the city
subsequent to 31 days after its removal as unclaimed property.
   (H)   As used in this section, PAY TELEPHONE means any self-service coin or
credit card operated telephone; and PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY has the legal meaning
ascribed to the term.
   (I)   The City Manager shall have the authority to promulgate rules and
regulations to implement this section.
   (J)   No provisions of this section or may contract issued pursuant to this
section may be applied to any transaction in interstate commerce to the extent
to which such business may not, under the constitution and statutes of the
United States, be made the subject of regulation by the city.
(Ord. 723, passed 8-16-93) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
132.01   Assault and battery
   
132.02   Parental neglect
   
132.03   Contributing to delinquency of minor
   
132.04   Responsibility of parents or guardians
   
132.05   Compulsory school attendance
§ 132.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person within the city to attempt or offer,
with force and violence, to do a corporal hurt to another, or assault and/or
batter any other person or persons, or without provocation to threaten another
person so as to create fear in said threatened person.
('68 Code, § 8-115) (Ord. 436, passed 11-20-72) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.02 PARENTAL NEGLECT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      (1)   CRIMINAL ACT. Any act which violates the statutes of the state or
the ordinances of the city, and shall include habitual traffic offenders.
      (2)   HABITUAL TRAFFIC OFFENDER. A minor who is guilty of four or more
moving traffic violations within any 12-month period.
      (3)   PARENTAL NEGLECT. The failure on the part of a parent, legal
guardian, or any other person having the care or custody of a minor, or such
other adult with whom a minor may be found residing, to exercise reasonable
control over such minor, to prevent the minor from committing a criminal act or
becoming a juvenile delinquent.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit parental neglect, as
defined in this section.
   (C)   Whenever a minor shall be arrested or detained for the commission of
any criminal act within the city, the parent, legal guardian or any other
person having the care or custody of the minor, or such other adult with whom a
minor may be found residing, shall be immediately notified by the Police
Department, advising the parent or such other person of the arrest or detention
of said minor, the reason therefor, and the parent's or person's responsibility
under this section. A record of such notification shall be kept by the Police
Department.
('68 Code, § 8-304) (Ord. 358, passed 4-7-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.03 CONTRIBUTING TO DELINQUENCY OF MINOR.
   In all cases where any child shall be a delinquent child, or a juvenile
delinquent person, as defined by the statutes of this state, a parent or
parents, legal guardian or person having the custody of such child, or any
other person responsible for or by any act encouraging, causing or contributing
to the delinquency of such child, shall be deemed a disorderly person and, upon
conviction hereunder, shall be punished as provided in this code.
('68 Code, § 8-114) (Ord. 165, passed 10-31-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.04 RESPONSIBILITY OF PARENTS OR GUARDIANS.
   The parent or guardian of the child, person having the custody of such child
or any other person responsible for or, by act, encouraging, causing,
contributing, permitting or suffering the delinquency of such child, shall be
deemed a disorderly person and in violation of this title.
('68 Code, § 8-302) (Ord. 83, passed 3-11-47; Am. Ord. 419, passed 7-5-72)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 132.05 COMPULSORY SCHOOL ATTENDANCE.
   (A)   Except as provided by law, being MCL 320.1561 et seq., every parent,
guardian, or other person in this state having control and charge of a child
from the age of six to the child's sixteenth birthday shall send that child to
the public or state approved nonpublic schools, during the entire school year.
The child's attendance shall be continuous and consecutive for the school year
which shall be fixed by the school system in which the child is enrolled.
   (B)   No child who is required to attend a public or state approved
nonpublic school pursuant to the provisions of this section and/or state law
shall be present upon or about any public streets, public places, public places
of amusement and/or entertainment, or any other places open to the general
public within the city during the hours and/or times when said child is
required to be in attendance at a public or state approved nonpublic school.
   (C)   Except as provided by law, it shall be unlawful for any parent,
guardian, or other person in this state having control and charge of a child
under the provisions of this section to assist, encourage, or otherwise aid
said child in not attending or returning to school pursuant to the provisions
of this section and/or state law.
   (D)   Any child who violates the provisions of this section shall be
identified along with the parent, guardian, or other person in this state
having control and charge of said child, and the public or state approved
nonpublic schools which said child attends or is supposed to attend shall be
notified of the child's failure to adhere to the provisions of this section
and/or state law.
(Ord. 758, passed 1-6-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST MORALS
Section
Offensive Sexually Explicit Material
   
133.01   Title
   
133.02   Definitions
   
133.03   Responsibility of owners or managers
 
   
133.99   Penalty
OFFENSIVE SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL
§ 133.01 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be cited as the Offensive Sexually Explicit Material
Control Subchapter.
('68 Code, § 8-1101) (Ord. 499, passed 12-15-75)
§ 133.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OFFENSIVE. The work in which the representations appear, taken as a whole,
appeals to the prurient interest and patently depicts or portrays the
prohibited sexually explicit material in a manner which, taken as a whole,
lacks serious literary, artistic, political or scientific value.
   PUBLIC DISPLAY. In the context of films or motion pictures, means the
projection of said films or motion pictures on any viewing screen outside a
completely enclosed building or theater. In the context of photographs,
drawings, sculptures, or other visual representations, PUBLIC DISPLAY shall
mean the placing of materials within the definitions of offensive and sexually
explicit material on or in a newsstand, display rack, window, showcase, display
case or similar place so that said material is easily visible from public
thoroughfare, from the property of others, from a common walk or mall, or from
that portion of the interior of places of business generally open to minors at
the time of such placing.
   SEXUALLY EXPLICIT MATERIAL. Any picture, photograph, drawing, sculpture,
motion picture, film or other visual representation or image depicting
uncovered, or less than opaquely covered, pre- or post pubertal human genitals
or pubic areas in a lewd fashion, or depicting human sexual intercourse, human
or animal masturbation, bestiality, oral intercourse, anal intercourse, human-
animal intercourse, excretory functions, homosexual acts, direct physical
stimulation or touching of unclothed genitals or pubic areas of the human male
or female, flagellation or torture by or upon a person who is nude or clad in
revealing  or bizarre costumes in the context of a sexual relationship or
sexual stimulation. The material shall be judged without regard to any covering
which may be affixed or printed over the material in order to obscure genital
areas in a depiction otherwise falling within the definition of these
subsections. Works of art or of anthropological significance are not included
within the scope of this definition.
('68 Code, § 8-1103) (Ord. 499, passed 12-15-75)
§ 133.03 RESPONSIBILITY OF OWNERS OR MANAGERS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person acting in a managerial capacity or being
the owner, proprietor, operator or manager of a business to knowingly place
offensive sexually explicit material upon public display, for purposes of sale,
entertainment, or distribution, or fail to take prompt action to remove such a
display from property in his possession or under his control after learning of
its existence. The prohibition of this section shall not apply to broadcasts or
telecasts through facilities licensed under the Federal Communications Act.
('68 Code, § 8-1103) (Ord. 499, passed 12-15-75) Penalty, see §
133.99
§ 133.99 PENALTY.
   Every person who violates or refuses to comply with any section of §§
133.01 through
133.03 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. Upon conviction thereof, he may be
punished by a fine of not to exceed $100 or by imprisonment for not to exceed
90 days, or both. Each day during which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. In addition to the criminal sanctions herein provided, the
city may institute injunctive proceedings, or other appropriate civil
proceeding to prevent, enjoin, abate or remove any violation of §§
133.01 through
133.03.
('68 Code, § 8-1104) (Ord. 499, passed 12-15-75)
CHAPTER 134: GAMBLING
Section
   
134.01   Gaming prohibited; frequenting or attending gaming places
   
134.02   Exceptions
   
134.03   Conflict with state or federal statutes
§ 134.01 GAMING PROHIBITED; FREQUENTING OR ATTENDING GAMING PLACES.
   (A)   No person or his agent or employee shall, directly or indirectly,
take, receive or accept from any person any money or valuable thing with the
agreement, understanding or allegation that any money or valuable thing will be
paid or delivered to any person where such payment or delivery is alleged to be
or will be contingent upon the result of any race, contest or game, or upon the
happening of any event not known by the parties to be certain.
('68 Code, § 8-103)
   (B)   No person shall attend or frequent any place where gaming or gambling
is suffered or permitted, or any place operated or occupied as a common gaming
or gambling house or room.
('68 Code, § 8-104) (Ord. 48, passed 6-2-42) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 134.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to any charitable gaming activity permitted
pursuant Michigan Public Act 382 of 1972, as amended.
(Ord. 835, passed 2-21-11)
§ 134.03 CONFLICT WITH STATE OR FEDERAL STATUTES.
   This chapter shall not be construed as to conflict with any state or federal
statute.
(Ord. 835, passed 2-21-11)
CHAPTER 135: WEAPONS
Section
General Provisions
   
135.01   Use or possession of air guns or slingshots by minors; sale to minors
prohibited
   
135.02   Carrying or discharge of firearms prohibited
Carrying, Transporting or Public Display of Firearms
   
135.15   Definition
   
135.16   Loaded firearms
   
135.17   Drawing or flourishing firearm
   
135.18   Hunting; target purposes
   
135.19   Exemption
Transporting Firearms Within a Vehicle
   
135.30   Definition
   
135.31   Transporting firearms
   
135.32   Hunting; target purposes
   
135.33   Exemption
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 135.01 USE OR POSSESSION OF AIR GUNS OR SLINGSHOTS BY MINORS; SALE TO MINORS
PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Use or possession by minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
minor under the age of 18 years to use or have in his possession, unless
accompanied by his parent or guardian or other authorized person, an air gun,
slingshot or pellet gun. Any police officer shall have the authority and it
shall be his duty to confiscate such air gun, slingshot or pellet gun found in
the possession of any minor under the age of 18 years not accompanied by a
parent or guardian or other authorized person.
   (B)   Parents, guardians; duty. It shall be unlawful for the parents or
guardian of any such minor in his charge or custody to knowingly permit any
such minor to use or have in his possession, when not properly accompanied, an
air gun, slingshot or pellet gun.
   (C)   Sales to minors prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
association or corporation, or his, her or their agents or employees, to sell,
offer for sale, give away or distribute an air gun, slingshot or pellet gun to
any minor under the age of 18 years.
('68 Code, § 8-112) (Ord. 163, passed 10-31-60) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.02 CARRYING OR DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person, except a police or other peace officer in the discharge of
his duty, shall fire or discharge a revolver, pistol, shot gun, rifle, air
rifle or other similar device capable of propelling a missile, in or across any
public or private property within the city.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a police or other peace
officer in the discharge of his duty, to carry any firearm enumerated in
division (A) hereof within the city, without first securing a written permit to
do so from the Chief of Police.
   (C)   All weapons, guns, pistols or firearms carried, possessed or used
contrary to the preceding divisions hereof are hereby declared forfeited to the
city.
('68 Code, § 8-113) (Ord. 164, passed 10-31-60; Am. Ord. 174, passed 3-28-61)
Penalty, see §
10.99
CARRYING, TRANSPORTING OR PUBLIC DISPLAY OF FIREARMS
§ 135.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Any pistol, revolver, long gun, or other dangerous weapon from
which a dangerous projectile may be propelled by using explosives, gas or air
as a means of propulsion, or any other means of propulsion.
('68 Code, § 8-901) (Ord. 473, passed 9-3-74)
§ 135.16 LOADED FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to carry, transport or display any such
firearm, when loaded with bullets or any other dangerous projectile which such
firearm is designed to employ, in any place or locale other than his own
domicile or place of business, whether such carrying, transporting or
displaying be concealed on or about his person or otherwise.
('68 Code, § 8-902) (Ord. 473, passed 9-3-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.17 DRAWING OR FLOURISHING FIREARM.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to draw, handle or flourish any such
firearm, whether loaded or not, in any public street, avenue, public park,
alley or other public space in the city.
('68 Code, § 8-903) (Ord. 473, passed 9-3-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.18 HUNTING; TARGET PURPOSES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent the concealed
carrying of any type of firearm whatsoever, when unloaded and properly encased,
to or from any shooting range or gallery or to or from any area where hunting
is allowed by law.
('68 Code, § 8-905) (Ord. 473, passed 9-3-74)
§ 135.19 EXEMPTION.
   Police officers, peace officers and persons in the military services, in
pursuit of their official duty, and persons duly authorized by federal or state
law, to carry firearms are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 8-904) (Ord. 473, passed 9-3-74)
TRANSPORTING FIREARMS WITHIN A VEHICLE
§ 135.30 DEFINITION.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FIREARM. Any pistol, revolver, long gun or other dangerous weapon from which
a dangerous projectile may be propelled by using explosives, gas or air as a
means of propulsion, or any other means of propulsion.
('68 Code, § 8-907) (Ord. 474, passed 9-3-74)
§ 135.31 TRANSPORTING FIREARMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to transport or to have in possession in
or upon any vehicle a firearm unless the same is unloaded in both barrel and
magazine and carried in the luggage compartment of the vehicle, or luggage or
storage area; if there is no such luggage compartment in the vehicle, it shall
further be necessary that such firearm be placed inside of a protective case;
and it shall further be necessary that any bullets or other projectiles
designed for use in such firearms shall be at all times contained in a separate
container in the luggage compartment of the vehicle, or luggage or storage area
if there is no such luggage compartment in the vehicle.
('68 Code, § 8-908) (Ord. 474, passed 9-3-74) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 135.32 HUNTING; TARGET PURPOSES.
   Nothing contained herein shall be construed to prevent the concealed
carrying of any type of firearm whatsoever when unloaded and properly encased
to or from any shooting range or gallery or to or from any area where hunting
is allowed by law.
('68 Code, § 8-910) (Ord. 474, passed 9-3-74)
§ 135.33 EXEMPTION.
   Police officers, peace officers, and persons in the military services, in
pursuit of their official duty, and persons duly authorized by federal or state
law, to carry firearms are exempt from the provisions of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 8-909) (Ord. 474, passed 9-3-74)
CHAPTER 136: DRUG CONTROL
Section
Use of Alcohol and Drugs
   
136.01   Council intent
   
136.02   Definitions
   
136.03   Duty of owners or occupants
   
136.04   Prevention of access
   
136.05   Exceptions
Model Glues
   
136.15   Definition
   
136.16   Aiding or abetting violations
   
136.17   Possession or purchase by minors restricted
   
136.18   Sale to minors; written parental consent; record
   
136.19   Inhalation of substances prohibited
   
136.20   Exemption
Drug Paraphernalia
   
136.30   Definitions
   
136.31   Determination of object as drug paraphernalia
   
136.32   Possession, sale, etc. of drug paraphernalia
   
136.33   Possession of hypodermic syringes, needles, etc.
   
136.34   Possession, sale, etc. of controlled substances
   
136.35   Fraud and deceit in sale
   
136.36   Loitering; prohibitions
   
136.37   Exceptions
   
136.38   Loitering to engage in illegally related drug activities
USE OF ALCOHOL AND DRUGS
§ 136.01 COUNCIL INTENT.
   The City Council finds that the unregulated use of alcohol and drugs by
minors creates social problems in many communities throughout the United
States, including the city, and that the use of alcohol and drugs by minors can
have devastating effects on not only the minors, but on the public at large,
including, but not limited to, injuries and death caused by vehicles operated
by persons under the influence of alcoholic beverages or drugs; and that
persons who own, possess or control premises in the city could significantly
alleviate such alcohol and drug-caused problems by assuming responsibility for
the consumption or use of alcohol or drugs by minors on their premises.
('68 Code, § 8-309) (Ord. 651, passed 6-15-87)
§ 136.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 1/2 of 1% of alcohol
by weight. The percentage of alcohol by weight shall be determined in
accordance with the provisions of M.C.L.A. § 436.2, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
   CONTROL. Any form of regulation or dominion including a possessory or
management right or duty.
   DRUG. A controlled substance as defined now or hereafter by the Public Acts
of the state. Currently, such controlled substances are defined by Act 196 of
the Public Acts of 1971, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 335.301 through 335.367.
   MINOR. A person not legally permitted by reason of age to possess alcoholic
beverages pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 436.33b, as the same may be amended from time
to time.
('68 Code, § 8-310) (Ord. 651, passed 6-15-87)
§ 136.03 DUTY OF OWNERS OR OCCUPANTS.
   A person who has the ownership, possession or control of any premises in the
city and who permits the consumption, possession or use of alcoholic beverages
or drugs in any form by any minor on said premises, and who fails to make
diligent inquiry as to whether such person is a minor, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. In an action for violation of this section, proof that the
defendant demanded and was shown, before permitting such minor to consume such
alcoholic beverages, a motor vehicle operators license, or other bona fide
documentary evidence that such person is not a minor, shall be a defense to an
action under this section.
('68 Code, § 8-312) (Ord. 651, passed 6-15-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.04 PREVENTION OF ACCESS.
   A person who has the ownership, possession or control of any premises in the
city and who stores or displays, or allows to be stored or displayed, alcoholic
beverages or drugs in any form on said premises, shall take reasonable steps to
prevent any minor on said premises from obtaining possession of such alcoholic
beverages or drugs for any purpose whatsoever, and any such person who fails to
take such reasonable steps shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
('68 Code, § 8-313) (Ord. 651, passed 6-15-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to a person related to a
minor as a parent or guardian, or to a person placed in the position of a
parent or guardian of the minor, or to legally protected religious observances,
educational activities or medical treatments.
('68 Code, § 8-311) (Ord. 651, passed 6-15-87)
MODEL GLUES
§ 136.15 DEFINITION.
    For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MODEL GLUE. Any glue, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, plastic solvent or
other adhesive of the type commonly used in the construction of model
airplanes, automobiles, boats and other unassembled model kits, containing
toluene, acetone, xylene, butyl alcohol, hexane, tricresyl phosphate or other
toxic ingredient.
('68 Code, § 8-601) (Ord. 255, passed 3-15-56)
§ 136.16 AIDING OR ABETTING VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall, for the purpose of violating or aiding another to
violate any provision of this subchapter, intentionally possess, buy, sell,
transfer possession or receive possession of any model glue.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to assist, aid, abet or encourage
any minor to violate any provision of this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 8-602) (Ord. 255, passed 3-15-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.17 POSSESSION OR PURCHASE BY MINORS RESTRICTED.
   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) hereof and §
136.18, no person under 21 years of age shall possess or buy any model glue.
   (A)   Except as provided in divisions (B) and (C) hereof and §
136.18, no person shall sell or transfer possession of any model glue to
another person under 21 years of age.
   (B)   A person may sell or transfer possession of model glue to a person
under 21 years of age for model building or other lawful use where said
juvenile has in his possession and exhibits the written consent of his parent
or guardian.
   (C)   That a person may sell or transfer possession of, to a person under
the age of 21 years, not more than one assembly kit which contains not more
than one container of model glue not to exceed one fluid ounce, as a necessary
part of model assembly.
('68 Code, § 8-603) (Ord. 255, passed 3-15-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.18 SALE TO MINORS; WRITTEN PARENTAL CONSENT; RECORD.
   A person making a sale or transfer of possession of model glue to a person
under 21 years of age who exhibits the written consent of his parent or
guardian, shall record the name, address, sex and age of the juvenile and the
name and address of the consenting parent or guardian. All data required by
this section shall be kept in a permanent type register available for
inspection by the Police Department for a period of at least six months.
('68 Code, § 8-604) (Ord. 255, passed 3-15-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.19 INHALATION OF SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall inhale, drink, eat or otherwise introduce into his
respiratory or circulatory system any compound, liquid, chemical or any
substance known as glue, adhesive cement, mucilage, dope, plastic solvent or
any other material or substance or combination thereof with elated, dazed,
paralyzed, irrational or in any manner changing, distorting or disturbing the
eyesight, thinking process, judgment, balance or coordination of such person.
For the purpose of this section, any such condition so induced shall be deemed
to be an intoxicated condition.
('68 Code, § 8-605) (Ord. 255, passed 3-15-56) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.20 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not pertain to any person who
inhales, drinks, eats or otherwise introduces into his circulatory or
respiratory system such material or substance pursuant to the direction or
prescription of any doctor, dentist or other person authorized to so direct or
prescribe.
('68 Code, § 8-606) (Ord. 255, passed 3-15-56)
DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
§ 136.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COCAINE SPOON. A spoon with a bowl so small that the primary use for which
it is reasonably adapted or designed is to hold or administer cocaine, and
which is so small as to be unsuited for the typical, lawful uses of a spoon. A
cocaine spoon may or may not be merchandised on a chain and may or may not be
labeled as a "cocaine" spoon or "coke" spoon.
   CONTROLLED SUBSTANCE. Any drug, substance or immediate precursor as defined
and enumerated in the Controlled Substance Act, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§
333.7101 et seq.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products and materials of any kind which
are used, intended for use, or designed for use, implanting, propagating,
cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing, compounding, converting,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introducing into the human body a controlled substance as defined in M.C.L.A. §
333.7201 et seq., as amended. It includes, but is not limited to:
      (1)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
      (2)   Kits used, intended for use or designed for use in manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing controlled
substances;
      (3)   Isomerization devices, intended for use or designed for use in
increasing the potency of any species of plant which is a controlled substance;
      (4)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying, detecting or analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
      (5)   Scales and balances used, intended for use, or designed for use in
weighing or measuring controlled substances;
      (6)   Dilutants and adulterants such as quinine, hydrochloride, mannitol,
minnite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
      (7)   Separation gins and sifters used or intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
      (8)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
      (9)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used, intended
for use or designed for use in packaging small quantities of controlled
substances;
      (10)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
      (11)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, other objects used, intended for use
or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances into the
human body, except where such instruments are used by persons suffering from
diabetes, asthma or other medical conditions requiring self-injections, as
evidenced by a physician's prescription;
      (12)   Objects used, intended for use or designed for use in ingesting or
otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or hashish oil into the human
body, such as:
         (a)   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes,
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads, or punctured metal
bowls;
         (b)   Water pipes;
         (c)   Carburetion tubes and devices;
         (d)   Smoking incarburetion masks;
         (e)   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold material such as a
marijuana cigarette that has become too small or too short to be held in the
hand;
         (f)   Chamber pipes;
         (g)   Carburetor pipes;
         (h)   Electric pipes;
         (i)   Air-driven pipes;
         (j)   Chillums;
         (k)   Bongs; and
         (l)   Ice pipes or chillers.
   MARIJUANA or HASHISH PIPE. A pipe characterized by a bowl which is so small
that the primary use for which it is reasonably adapted or designed is the
smoking of marijuana, hashish or other controlled substances, rather than
lawful smoking tobacco, and which may or may not be equipped with a screen.
('68 Code, § 8-201(a)) (Ord. 644, passed 2-2-87; Am. Ord. 700, passed 4-15-91)
§ 136.31 DETERMINATION OF OBJECT AS DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   In determining whether an object is drug paraphernalia, a court or other
authority shall consider, in addition to all other legally relevant factors,
the following:
   (A)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the object
concerning its use;
   (B)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner or of anyone in control of the
object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled substance;
   (C)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of the owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver to persons whom he knows or has
reason to believe intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of the
Controlled Substances Act;
   (D)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
   (E)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the object;
   (F)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of an owner, or of
anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons who he knows or has
reason to believe intend to use the object to facilitate a violation of this
Act; the innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a
direct violation of this Act should not prevent a finding that the object is
intended for use or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
   (G)   Instructions, oral or written, provided with the object concerning its
use;
   (H)   Descriptive material accompanying the object which explain or depict
its use;
   (I)   National or local advertising concerning its use;
   (J)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
   (K)   The existence and scope of legitimate use for the object in the
community; and
   (L)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
('68 Code, § 8-201(b)) (Ord. 644, passed 2-2-87; Am. Ord. 700, passed 4-15-91)
§ 136.32 POSSESSION, SALE, ETC. OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale,
distribute, dispense, use or give away any cocaine spoon, marijuana pipe,
hashish pipe, or any other drug paraphernalia or materials of any kind which
are adapted for the use of introducing into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of the Controlled Substance Act, as amended, MCL
333.7101 et seq.
   (B)   Cocaine spoons, marijuana pipes, hashish pipes, and other drug
paraphernalia are hereby declared to be contraband and forfeited to the city.
(Ord. 700, passed 4-15-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.33 POSSESSION OF HYPODERMIC SYRINGES, NEEDLES, ETC.
   No person shall at any time have or possess a hypodermic syringe or needle
or any other instrument or implement adapted for the use of controlled
substances by subcutaneous injection or intracutaneous injection or any other
manner or method of introduction and which is possessed for that purpose,
unless such possession is authorized by the certificate of a licensed medical
doctor or osteopathic physician issued within the period of one year.
(Ord. 700, passed 4-15-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.34 POSSESSION, SALE, ETC. OF CONTROLLED SUBSTANCES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, sell, offer for sale,
distribute, administer, dispense, prescribe or give away opium or its common
derivatives, heroin, codeine or morphine, or coca leaves, or their common
derivatives, cocaine, or cannabis commonly called marijuana; or barbituric acid
or any of its salts, or any other derivative, salt, compound, preparation or
mixture of the narcotic drugs as aforestated or any other controlled substance
as is defined in Act 368 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1978 (MCL 33.7101 et
seq.) as amended, except as may be authorized by this subchapter.
§ 136.35 FRAUD AND DECEIT IN SALE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or use any fraud, scheme,
device, trick, deceit, misrepresentation, subterfuge or nay other form of
concealment for the purpose of obtaining money or any other thing of value by
the sale, furnishing, supplying, or giving away of any substance which by its
appearance or which is represented to be a drug as is defined in Act No. 368 of
the Public Acts of Michigan of 1978 (MCL 333.7101 et seq., MSA 14.15 (7101) et
seq.) as amended, when the same may or may not be the same.
(Ord. 700, passed 4-15-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.36 LOITERING; PROHIBITIONS.
   No person shall knowingly loiter about, frequent, or live in any building,
apartment, store, dwelling, automobile, boat, boathouse, aeroplane, or other
place of any description whatsoever where controlled substances, drug
paraphernalia, hypodermic syringes, needles, empty gelatin capsules or other
instruments or implements as are defined in this subchapter are manufactured,
administered, delivered, possessed, distributed, sold, dispensed, furnished,
stored, given away, or kept illegally.
(Ord. 700, passed 4-15-91) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.37 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter shall not apply to manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers,
licensed medical technicians, technologists, nurses, hospitals, research
teaching institutions, clinical laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic
doctors, dentists, chiropodists, veterinarians, pharmacists and embalmers in
the normal legal course of their respective business or profession, nor to
persons suffering from diabetes or asthma or any other medical condition as
evidenced by a prescription of a licensed physician.
('68 Code, § 8-202) (Ord. 644, passed 2-2-87; Am. Ord. 700, passed 4-15-91)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 136.38 LOITERING TO ENGAGE IN ILLEGALLY RELATED DRUG ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   LOITER. To delay or linger without a lawful purpose while being in a public
place, as is hereinafter defined, and for the purpose of committing a crime as
may be discovered.
   PUBLIC PLACE. An area open to the general public or exposed to public view
and includes streets, sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways,
parking lots, motor vehicles, whether moving or not, and buildings open to the
general public, including those which serve food or drinks, or provide
entertainment, and the doorways and entrances to buildings or dwellings and the
grounds enclosing them.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to knowingly loiter in any
public place in a manner and under circumstances manifesting the purpose of
engaging in any illegally related drug activities and in particular contrary to
any of the provisions of Act 368 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1978, being
MCL 333.7101 et. seq., as amended.
      (2)   Among circumstances that may be considered in determining whether
such purpose is manifested are that the person:
         (a)   Is a known drug user, possessor, or seller. For purposes of this
chapter, a "known unlawful drug user, possessor, or seller" is a person who
has, within the knowledge of the arresting officer, been convicted in any court
within this state of any violation involving the use, possession or sale of any
of the substances referred to in Act 368 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1978
being MCL 333.7101 et seq., as amended, or such person has been convicted of
any violation of any of the provisions of said sections or substantially
similar laws of any political subdivision of this state or of any other state;
or a person who displays physical characteristics of drug intoxication or
usage, such as "needle tracks"; or a person who possesses drug paraphernalia
pursuant to §§
136.30 et seq. of this Code;
         (b)   Is currently subject to an order prohibiting his or her presence
in a high drug activity geographic area;
         (c)   Behaves in such a manner as to raise a reasonable suspicion that
he or she is about to engage in or is then engaged in an unlawful drug-related
activity, including by way of example only, acting as a "lookout" or hailing or
stopping cars.
         (d)   Is physically identified by the officer as a member of a "gang",
or association which has as its purpose illegal drug activity;
         (e)   Transfers small objects or packages for currency in a furtive
fashion;
         (f)   Takes flight upon the appearance of a police officer;
         (g)   Tries to conceal himself or herself or any object which
reasonably could be involved in an unlawful drug-related activity;
         (h)   Is in an area that is known for unlawful drug use and
trafficking;
         (i)   Is on or in premises that have been reported to law enforcement
personnel as a place suspected of unlawful drug activity;
         (j)   Is within or near any vehicles registered to a known unlawful
drug user, possessor, or seller, or a person for whom there is an outstanding
warrant for a crime involving drug-related activity.
         (k)   Uses signals or language indicative of summoning purchasers of
illegal drugs.
         (l)   Repeatedly beckons to, stops, attempts to stop, or engage in
conversations with passersby, whether or not on foot or in a motor vehicle,
indicative of summoning purchasers of illegal drugs.
         (m)   Repeatedly passes to or receives from passersby, whether or not
on foot or in a motor vehicle, money or small objects.
      (3)   The list of circumstances, as aforestated, is not exclusive. The
aforestated circumstances should be particularly salient if they occur in an
area that is known for unlawful drug use and trafficking, or if they occur on
premises that have been reported to law enforcement personnel as a place
suspected of unlawful drug activity. Any other relevant circumstances may be
considered in determining whether a person is engaging in a drug related
activity. Moreover, no one circumstance or combination of circumstances is in
itself determinative of whether a person is engaging in drug related activity.
Whether or not a person is loitering for the purpose of engaging in any
illegally related drug activities must be determined based on an evaluation of
the particularized circumstances of each case.
(Ord. 754, passed 7-1-96) Penalty, see §
136.99
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of §
136.38 may be punished by a fine of not more than $50 or imprisonment of not
more than 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of
the Court.
(Ord. 754, passed 7-1-96)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
151.   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FEES
      
152.   EXCAVATIONS AND QUARRYING OPERATIONS
      
153.   SIGNS
      
154.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
          APPENDIX: SUBDIVISION PLAT PROCEDURE DIAGRAM
      
155.   ZONING CODE
      
156.   BLIGHT VIOLATIONS
      
157.   VACANT AND NEGLECTED PROPERTY REGISTRATION
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
Building Code
   
150.001   Adoption of building code by reference
Refrigerating Systems Code
   
150.110   Adoption of code by reference
   
150.111   Fees
Unsafe or Dangerous Buildings
   
150.140   Definitions
   
150.141   Notice of dangerous building; contents; board of appeals; service
   
150.142   Hearing; testimony; determination to close proceedings or order
building or structure demolished, made safe, or properly maintained; failure to
appear or noncompliance with order; hearing; enforcement; reimbursement and
notice of cost; lien; remedies
   
150.143   Enforcement of judgment; lien for judgment amount; priority
   
150.144   Failure or refusal to comply with order; misdemeanor
   
150.145   Appeals
Fences
   
150.160   Definition
   
150.161   Compliance with requirements and restrictions
   
150.162   Permit required; application; fee
   
150.163   Specifications and restrictions
   
150.164   Maintenance of nuisance; notification
   
150.165   Appeals and hearings; authority
Swimming Pools
   
150.175   Definitions
   
150.176   Permit required for construction; fee
   
150.177   Construction standards
   
150.178   Water pressure; floor and wall requirements
   
150.179   Walkways required; specifications
   
150.180   Fences required; exception
   
150.181   Filtration system required
   
150.182   Authority to inspect
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone Inspection
   
150.200   Title
   
150.201   Definitions
   
150.202   Conditions required
   
150.203   Issuance of certificate of approval and inspection reports;
inspection fees
   
150.204   Validity of certificate of approval; responsibility of city for
defects
House Moving
   
150.210   Definitions
   
150.211   Notice of move; cancellation
   
150.212   Cleanup; repairs
   
150.213   Violation
   
150.214   Permit required
   
150.215   Application
   
150.216   Inspection
   
150.217   Conditions for granting permit
   
150.218   Timely completion of move
   
150.219   Duration
   
150.220   Refund of deposits
Rental Dwellings and Rental Units
   
150.230   Purpose
   
150.231   Definitions
   
150.232   Registration required
   
150.233   Registration forms
   
150.234   Registration term and renewal
   
150.235   Responsible resident agent
   
150.236   Transfer of ownership
   
150.237   Certificate of compliance required
   
150.238   Certificate of compliance application form and fee
   
150.239   Posting of certificate of compliance
   
150.240   Disclaimer of liability
Cross-reference:
   Blight violations, see
Chapter 156
BUILDING CODE
§ 150.001 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Building codes.
      (1)   State Building Code. The State Building Code, and any amendments
and/or supplements thereto, as promulgated by the State Construction Code
Commission in accord with Public Act 230 of 1972, Section 8b(6), as amended,
shall be administered and enforced by the city, and shall govern and be
observed and followed in all buildings and structures throughout the city.
Notice is hereby given that complete copies of the State Building Code, and any
amendments and/or supplements thereto, are available for public use and
inspection at the Clerk’s office for the city.
      (2)   State Residential Building Code. The State Residential Building
Code, and any amendments and/or supplements thereto, as promulgated by the
State Construction Code Commission in accord with Public Act 230 of 1972,
Section 8b(6), as amended, shall be administered and enforced by the city, and
shall govern and be observed and followed in all one- and two-family dwellings
throughout the city. Notice is hereby given that complete copies of the State
Residential Building Code, and any amendments and/or supplements thereto, are
available for public use and inspection in the Clerk’s office for the city.
      (3)   International Property Maintenance Code. A certain document, a copy
of which is on file in the office of the City Clerk, the most recent edition of
the International Property Maintenance Code, as published by the International
Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property Maintenance Code of the
city for regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all
property, buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied
utilities and facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to
ensure that structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and
the condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use,
and the demolition of such structures as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor and each and all of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of the City Clerk are hereby referred
to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with
the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, prescribed herein as follows:
         (a)   Title. These regulations shall be known as the Property
Maintenance Code of the City of Inkster, hereinafter referred to as "this
Code."
         (b)   Building Official. The Building Official shall be designated as
the code official and shall be the official in charge of the enforcement of
this Code.
         (c)   Fees. The fees for activities and services performed by the
Building Official and/or his or her designee in carrying out their
responsibilities under this Code shall be approved by resolution of the City
Council from time to time and shall be filed in the office of the City Clerk.
         (d)   Failure to comply. Any person who shall violate a provision of
this Code or continue any work after having been served with a stop work order,
except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a violation of
unsafe conditions, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be liable for a
fine of not less than $100 nor more than $500.
   (B)   Fee schedule. A fee for each plan examination, permit, and/or
inspection required by the State Building Code, the State Residential Building
Code and/or the 2000 International Property Maintenance Code, as amended, shall
be paid in accordance with the fee schedule adopted by resolution of the City
Council from time to time and shall be posted in the Building Department.
   (C)   Violation; penalty. A violation of the provisions of the State
Building Code, the State Residential Building Code, and/or the most current
edition of the International Property Maintenance Code in the city shall be a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not less than $100 nor in excess of $500, or
imprisonment not in excess of 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment in
the discretion of the court, together with the costs of prosecution. A separate
offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during which a violation occurs
or continues.
(Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
REFRIGERATING SYSTEMS CODE
§ 150.110 ADOPTION OF CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The Refrigerating Systems Code, published by the Reciprocal Refrigeration
Council on March 18, 1959, is hereby enacted and adopted by reference. Copies
of such code are on file in the office of the City Clerk and are available for
inspection by and distribution to the public. The said code is hereby adopted
with the same force and effect as if fully set forth herein, and all persons
installing and repairing refrigerating systems shall conform to all such code
provisions and regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2001) (Ord. 243, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 247, passed - - ; Am.
Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.111 FEES.
   The fee for permits, licenses, examinations and inspections shall be set by
resolution by the City Council, except as set forth in the Refrigerating
Systems Code.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2002) (Ord. 243, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Cross-reference:
   Community development fees, see §
151.105 through
151.108
UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.140 DEFINITIONS.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. A building or structure that has one or more of the
following defects or is in one or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit does not
conform to the fire code of the city.
      (2)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood or other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the
building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the occurrence of
the causal event and does not meet the minimum requirements of the building
code of the city for a new building or structure, purpose, or location.
      (3)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse and injure persons or damage property.
      (4)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural parts of the building or structure have
materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by the building code of the city.
      (5)   The building or structure, or part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or
for other reasons, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way.
      (6)   The building, structure, or a part of the building or structure is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
      (7)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children, or
becomes a harbor for persons, enabling them to resort thereto to commit an
unlawful act.
      (8)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit
for human habitation, or is in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or
disease, or is likely to injure the health, safety, or general welfare of
people living in the dwelling.
      (9)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building or structure exposed to the
elements or accessible to entrance by trespassers.
      (10)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease, or rent with a real estate broker licensed by the state of Michigan. For
the purposes of this subchapter, BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes, but is not
limited to, a commercial building or structure. This subchapter shall not apply
to either of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both
of the following:
            1.   Notifies the city Building Department in writing that the
building or structure will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive
days. The notice shall be given not more than 30 days after the building or a
structure becomes unoccupied.
            2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds in accordance with the Building Code and Property Maintenance
Code of the city.
         (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied
for a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies the city
Building Department in writing that the dwelling will remain unoccupied for a
period of 180 consecutive days or more each year. An owner who has given the
notice prescribed by this subchapter shall notify the city Building Department
not more than 30 days after the dwelling no longer qualifies for this
exception. As used in this subchapter, SECONDARY DWELLING means a dwelling such
as a vacation home, hunting cabin or summer home, that is occupied by the owner
or a member of the owner’s family during part of a year.
      (11)   A building or structure which is partially completed unless such
building or structure is in the course of construction in accordance with a
valid and subsisting building permit issued by the city and unless such
construction is completed within one year. The City Council may, upon a showing
of good cause, extend the time for completions of such building or structure.
(‘68 Code, § 6-901) (Ord. 624, passed 8-1-85; Am. Ord. 783, passed 12-6-99; Am.
Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.141 NOTICE OF DANGEROUS BUILDING; CONTENTS; BOARD OF APPEALS; SERVICE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this act, if a building or
structure is found to be a dangerous building, the city shall issue a notice
that the building or structure is a dangerous building.
   (B)    The notice shall be served on the owner, agent, or lessee that is
registered with the city under the provisions of this section, as is
hereinafter stated. If an owner, agent, or lessee is not registered pursuant to
the provisions of this section, the notice shall be served on each owner of or
party in interest in the building or structure in whose name the property
appears on the last local tax assessment records. Posting of notice upon
structure in conjunction with service upon each owner or party in interest in
the building, shall also constitute proper service.
   (C)   A registry of owners and premises shall be maintained by the city.
   (D)   The owners of dwelling houses, rooming houses or other units which
will be offered to let, or to hire for more than 60 days of a calendar year,
shall register their names and places of residence or usual places of business
and the location of the premises regulated by this subchapter with the city.
The owners shall register within 60 days following the day on which any part of
the premises is offered for occupancy at the time this subchapter becomes
effective shall register within 90 days after the effective date of this
subchapter.
   (E)   (1)   The notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the
person to whom the notice is directed either personally or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in interest at the
address shown on the tax records. If a notice is served on a person by
certified mail a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a conspicuous
part of the building or structure. The notice shall be served upon the owner or
party in interest at least ten days before the date of the hearing included in
the notice.
      (2)   If the premises are managed or operated by an agent, the agent’s
name and place of business shall be placed with the name of the owner in the
registry.
   (F)   The notice shall specify the time and place of a hearing on whether
the building or structure is a dangerous building. The person to whom the
notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show cause at the hearing why
the Construction Board of Appeals, as established pursuant to and in compliance
with the State Building Code, MCL 125.1501 et seq., as amended, should not
order the building or structure to be demolished, otherwise made safe, or
properly maintained.
   (G)   (1)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the City
Council, and shall serve at its pleasure. The Construction Board of Appeals
shall consist of the following members:
         (a)   A building contractor;
         (b)   A registered architect or engineer;
         (c)   Two members of the general public; and
         (d)   An individual registered as a building official, plan reviewer,
or inspector under the Building Officials and Inspectors Registration Act, Act
No. 54 of the Public Acts of 1986, being MCL 338.2301 to 338.2313. The
individual may be an employee of the city.
      (2)   Construction Board of Appeals members shall be appointed for three
years, except that of the members first appointed, two members shall serve for
one year, two members shall serve for two years, and one member shall serve for
three years. A vacancy created other than by expiration of a term shall be
filled for the balance of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original
appointment. A member may be reappointed for additional terms.
      (3)    The Construction Board of Appeals annually shall elect a
chairperson, vice-chairperson, recording secretary and other officers that the
Board considers necessary.
      (4)   A majority of the Construction Board of Appeals members appointed
and serving constitutes a quorum. Final action of the Board of Appeals shall be
only by affirmative vote of a majority of the board members appointed and
serving.
      (5)   The City Council may fix the amount of any per diem compensation
provided to the members of the Construction Board of Appeals. Expenses of the
Construction Board of Appeals incurred in the performance of official duties
may be reimbursed as provided by law for employees of the City of Inkster.
      (6)   A meeting of the Construction Board of Appeals shall be held
pursuant to the Open Meetings Act, Act No. 267 of the Public Acts of 1976,
being MCL 15.261 to 15.275. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the
meeting shall be given in the manner required by Act No. 267 of the Public Acts
of 1976.
      (7)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained
by the Construction Board of Appeals in the performance of an official function
shall be made available to the public pursuant to the Freedom of Information
Act, Act No. 442 of the Public Acts of 1976, being MCL 15.231 to 15.246.
(‘68 Code, § 6-902) (Ord. 624, passed 8-1-85; Am. Ord. 783, passed 12-6-99; Am.
Ord. 833, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15; Am. Ord. 865, passed 12-
20-17)
§ 150.142 HEARING; TESTIMONY; DETERMINATION TO CLOSE PROCEEDINGS OR ORDER
BUILDING OR STRUCTURE DEMOLISHED, MADE SAFE, OR PROPERLY MAINTAINED; FAILURE TO
APPEAR OR NONCOMPLIANCE WITH ORDER; HEARING; ENFORCEMENT; REIMBURSEMENT AND
NOTICE OF COST; LIEN; REMEDIES.
   (A)    All hearings prescribed by §
150.141 shall comply with the State Building Code, MCL 125.1501 et seq., as
amended, and the Construction Board of Appeals shall take testimony of the
city, the owner of the property, and any interested party. Upon completion of
the hearing, the Construction Board of Appeals shall render a decision either
closing the proceedings or ordering the building or structure demolished,
otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (B)   (1)   If the Construction Board of Appeals determines that the
building or structure should be demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly
maintained, the Construction Board of Appeals shall so order, fixing a time in
the order for the owner, agent, or lessee to comply with the order. If the
building is a dangerous building under § 150.140, the order may require the
owner or agent to maintain the exterior of the building and adjoining grounds
owned by the owner of the building including, but not limited to, maintenance
of lawns, trees, and shrubs.
      (2)   In the event the Board agrees to an owner’s intent to rehabilitate
a structure, the owner must secure a base building permit from the Building
Department within 90 days of ruling.
   (C)   The cost of demolition includes, but is not limited to, fees paid to
hearing officers, costs of title searches or commitments used to determine the
parties in interest, recording fees for notices and liens filed with the county
register of deeds, demolition and dumping charges, court reporter attendance
fees, and costs of the collection of the charges authorized under this act. The
cost of the demolition, of making the building safe, or of maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure incurred by the city, village, or township to bring the property into
conformance with this act shall be reimbursed to the city, village, or township
by the owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears.
   (D)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last local tax assessment records shall be notified by the assessor of the
amount of the cost of the demolition, of making the building safe, or of
maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the
building or structure by first class mail at the address shown on the records.
If the owner or party in interest fails to pay the cost within 30 days after
mailing by the assessor of the notice of the amount of the cost, the city,
village, or township shall have a lien for the cost incurred by the city,
village, or township to bring the property into conformance with this act. The
lien shall not take effect until notice of the lien has been filed or recorded
as provided by law. A lien provided for in this division does not have priority
over previously filed or recorded liens and encumbrances. The lien for the cost
shall be collected and treated in the same manner as provided for property tax
liens under the General Property Tax Act, 1893 PA 206, MCL 211.1 to 211.157.
   (E)   In addition to other remedies under this section, the City of Inkster
may bring an action against the owner of the building or structure for the full
cost of the demolition, of making the building safe, or of maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure. A city, village, or township shall have a lien on the property for
the amount of a judgment obtained under this division. The lien provided for in
this division shall not take effect until notice of the lien is filed or
recorded as provided by law. The lien does not have priority over prior filed
or recorded liens and encumbrances. A performance bond may be required and set
by the board in either case of required demolition or rehabilitation.
(‘68 Code, § 6-903) (Ord. 624, passed 8-1-85; Am. Ord. 773, passed 5-18-98; Am.
Ord. 783, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 833, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-
20-15; Am. Ord. 865, passed 12-20-17)
§ 150.143 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT; LIEN FOR JUDGMENT AMOUNT; PRIORITY.
   (A)   A judgment in an action brought pursuant to §
150.142(E) may be enforced against assets of the owner other than the building
or structure.
   (B)   The city shall have a lien for the amount of a judgment obtained
pursuant to §
150.142(E) against the owner’s interest in all real property located in this
state that is owned in whole or in part by the owner of the building or
structure against whom the judgment is obtained. A lien provided for in this
section does not take effect until notice of the lien is filed or recorded as
provided by law, and the lien does not have priority over prior filed or
recorded liens and encumbrances.
(‘68 Code, § 6-904) (Ord. 624, passed 8-1-85; Am. Ord. 783, passed 12-6-99; Am.
Ord. 833, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15 ; Am. Ord. 865, passed
12-20-17)
§ 150.144 FAILURE OR REFUSAL TO COMPLY WITH ORDER; MISDEMEANOR.
   A person who fails or refuses to comply with an order approved by the
Construction Board of Appeals under §
150.142 within the time prescribed by that section is guilty of a misdemeanor,
punishable by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or a fine of not more
than $500 or both.
(‘68 Code, § 6-905) (Ord. 624, passed 8-1-85; Am. Ord. 783, passed 12-6-99; Am.
Ord. 833, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15 ; Am. Ord. 865, passed
12-20-17)
§ 150.145 APPEALS.
   An owner aggrieved by a final decision or order of the Construction Board of
Appeals may appeal the decision or order to the circuit court by filing a
petition for an order of superintending control within 20 days from the date of
the decision.
(‘68 Code, § 6-906) (Ord. 624, passed 8-1-85; Am. Ord. 783, passed 12-6-99; Am.
Ord. 833, passed 8-7-06; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15 ; Am. Ord. 865, passed
12-20-17)
FENCES
§ 150.160 DEFINITION.
   FENCE. Any fence, partition, structure, hedge or gate erected as a diving
marker, barrier or enclosure.
(‘68 Code, § 7-301) (Ord. 267, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.161 COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to have
constructed any fence, as defined in §
150.160, upon any property within the corporate limits of the city, except in
accordance with the requirements and restrictions provided in this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-301) (Ord. 267, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Cross-reference:
   Fences required for swimming pools, see §
150.180
§ 150.162 PERMIT REQUIRED; APPLICATION; FEE.
   Any person desiring to build or cause to be built a fence upon property
within the corporate limits of the city shall first apply to the department of
building for a permit to so do. Application for such permit shall contain any
and all information required and necessary for the determination of whether the
erection of such fence would be contrary to this subchapter or the laws of the
state. A fee of $5 shall be paid for such permit.
(‘68 Code, § 7-303) (Ord. 267, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Community development fees, see §
151.120 and
151.121
§ 150.163 SPECIFICATIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   The following requirements shall be observed:
   (A)   Fences located in residential districts:
      (1)   Shall not exceed 30 inches in height in the required front yard or
set-back;
      (2)   Shall not exceed six feet in height from the front of the house or
the set-back to the rear line; and
      (3)   Shall not be of complete closed construction.
   (B)   Fences located in other than residential districts or on the boundary
line between such districts shall not exceed eight feet in height.
   (C)   Fences located within 25 feet of an intersection shall not be more
than 30 inches in height.
   (D)   No fences shall have attached, affixed or placed any spike, nail,
barb. including barbed wire, or other pointed instrument, and all cleaved
salvages and sharp points on wire fences shall be removed or bent to eliminate
any sharp extrusions. In the case where the security of industrial and
commercial property is concerned, an eight foot fence with barbed wire may be
erected, provided that said fence, barbed wire or any portion thereof shall not
encroach upon any public right-of-way or upon any public or private property.
   (E)   No fence shall be constructed or maintained which is charged or
connected with an electrical current.
(‘68 Code, § 7-304) (Ord. 267, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 596, passed 1-18-83; Am.
Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.164 MAINTENANCE OF NUISANCE; NOTIFICATION.
   Fences shall be maintained so as not to endanger life or property. Any
fence, through lack of repair, type of construction or one that otherwise
endangers life or property, is hereby deemed a nuisance. If an unsafe condition
exists with regard to a fence, the Building Inspector or his or her duly
authorized representative shall serve on the owner, agent or person in control
of the property upon which such fence is located, a written notice describing
the unsafe condition and specifying the required repairs or modifications to be
made to render the fence safe or requiring the unsafe fence or any portion
thereof to be removed, and shall provide a time limit for such repair,
modification or removal.
(‘68 Code, § 7-305) (Ord. 267, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.165 APPEALS AND HEARINGS; AUTHORITY.
   Upon appeal in writing by any person directly or indirectly affected hereby,
the Construction Board of Appeals of the city may, after a hearing in
accordance with the established procedure of the Board, in its sound discretion
and in the interests of the public health, safety or welfare of the inhabitants
of the community, reduce or remit the requirements of the section in individual
cases. The Construction Board of Appeals may make such rules and regulations to
effectuate the purposes of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 7-306) (Ord. 267, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 150.175 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation as well as an individual.
   SWIMMING POOL. Any artificially constructed nonportable pool, capable of
being used for swimming or bathing, having a depth of at least two feet or
more.
(‘68 Code, § 7-1801) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.176 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION; FEE.
   (A)   No swimming pool shall be hereinafter erected unless and until a
permit shall be issued from the Building Department before the commencement of
any construction. All applications for permits shall be accompanied by a
complete and detailed set of plans and specifications of the swimming pool,
including recirculation, filtration and chlorination system, details, and
before any permit shall be issued, the plans and specifications must be
approved by the Building Department of the city, and before any swimming pool
shall be put to use, a final inspection and approval must be had from the
Building Department of the city.
   (B)   All applications for a permit for the construction of a swimming pool
shall be accompanied by a permit fee of $15 to cover the cost of processing and
inspection.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1802) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.177 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   (A)   All swimming pools shall be erected in the rear yard or in the rear
portion of the lot behind the principal building. No swimming pool shall be
nearer than six feet from the side or rear lot line, nor shall any swimming
pool be erected any nearer than eight feet from any house, building or
residence.
   (B)   This provision shall not prevent the installation of electrical
underwater lighting provided that said installation shall comply with the
minimum requirements of the National Electrical and Safety Code and be
inspected and approved by the Building Department.
   (C)   No electric wires shall be nearer than five feet from the water’s
edge, except as provided in division (B) of this section, nor shall any
electric wires be installed less than ten feet above the grade level of the lot
unless otherwise approved by the Building Inspector. No electrical wire of any
type shall cross over the surface of the water.
   (D)   There shall be no direct connection of the drain line of the pool with
the city sewer system. The residue from the filtered discharge must drain
through an indirect connection to a sanitary sewer and be approved by the
Building Department.
   (E)   There shall be no cross-connection of the city water supply with any
other source of water supply for the pool. There shall be provided an air gap
delivery connection at least six inches above the flood rim of the pool or
make-up tank.
   (F)   No swimming pool shall be filled, or water added from the city water
system when the temperature as officially predicted by the U.S. Weather Bureau
is 80° F, or more, nor shall any swimming pool be filled, or water added, at
any time, between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
   (G)   All pools shall be constructed in a manner to prevent scum, splash,
deck water and any other matter from returning to the pool except through the
filter system.
   (H)   All pools shall be kept free from floating material, sediment and
debris by the use of an automatic surface skimmer, scum gutter or any other
means approved by the Building Department of the city, The bottom of the pool
shall be kept free of debris and other foreign material and shall be maintained
in a clean condition.
   (I)   Every private swimming pool shall be equipped with an approved
filtration system and the entire circulating system shall be capable of
filtering and recirculating the entire volume content of the pool during a 12-
hour period. The rate of application of pool water on the filters shall not be
greater than three gallons per minute per square foot of filter area unless the
Building Department of the city shall approve other rates of recirculation or
rates of application of water on the filters.
   (J)   All pools shall be controlled for germicidal or bacterial content by
the use of chlorine, bromine or such other disinfectants as shall be approved
by the Building Department of the city.
      (1)   Such disinfecting agents shall be applied to the pool water at a
uniform rate.
      (2)   Provision shall be made for adjusting the application thereof so as
to keep the germicidal or bacterial protection of the water in the pool equal
to a standard of 0.5 parts per million to 1.0 parts per million.
      (3)   Testing devices capable of accurately measuring such residual shall
be provided.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1802) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.178 WATER PRESSURE; FLOOR AND WALL REQUIREMENTS.
   Swimming pools shall be designed and constructed to withstand the water
pressure from within when full and to resist the pressure of the earth when the
pool is empty if built below grade. The floor of the pool shall have a nonslip
surface and the floor and walls shall have an impervious finish.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1803) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.179 WALKWAYS REQUIRED; SPECIFICATIONS.
   All swimming pools shall have walkways not less than three feet in width
extending entirely around the pool. The walkways shall be of impervious
material, of nonslip construction for a width of at least one foot at the edge
of the pool, and shall slope away from the pool.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1804) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.180 FENCES REQUIRED; EXCEPTION.
   All swimming pools shall be enclosed by a fence which shall be at least four
feet in height and which fence shall have a gate of a self-closing and latching
type with a latch on the inside for the purpose of locking. However, if the
entire premises of the residence is enclosed with a gate of the self-closing
and latching type which latches on the inside, then this requirement shall be
waived. All swimming pools constructed prior to the passage of this subchapter
shall be brought into conformance with the fencing, health and safety
requirements of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1806) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Fences, see §§
150.160 through
150.165
§ 150.181 FILTRATION SYSTEM REQUIRED.
   All swimming pools shall be required to have a filtration system which shall
be inspected and approved by the Building Department of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1808) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.182 AUTHORITY TO INSPECT.
   The inspectors of the Building Department shall have the right, at any
reasonable hour, to inspect any swimming pools for the purpose of determination
whether or not conformance has been had with the provisions of this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1807) (Ord. 157, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
NEIGHBORHOOD ENTERPRISE ZONE INSPECTION
§ 150.200 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the City Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Inspection regulations.
(Ord. 720, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.201 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL. A certificate issued by the city pursuant to §
150.203(A) and for a rehabilitated facility or a certificate issued by the
Department pursuant to §
150.203(C) for a new facility.
   COMMISSION. The State Tax Commission created by Act 360 of the Public Acts
of 1927, being MCL 209.101 through 209.107.
   DWELLING. A new or rehabilitated facility or a unit in a new or
rehabilitated facility for which a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone certificate is
in effect.
   NEIGHBORHOOD ENTERPRISE ZONE CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the
Commission pursuant to Sections 4, 5, and 6 of the Neighborhood Enterprise Zone
Act.
   NEW FACILITY. A structure that has as its primary purpose, residential
housing consisting of one or two units, one of which is or will be occupied by
an owner as his or her principal residence. NEW FACILITY includes a new
individual condominium unit, in a structure with one or more condominium units,
that has as its primary purpose residential housing and that is or will be
occupied by an owner as his or her principal residence. NEW FACILITY does not
include apartments.
   OWNER. The record title holder of, or the vendee of the original land
contract pertaining to, a new facility or a rehabilitated facility for which a
Neighborhood Enterprise Zone certificate is applied for or issued.
   REHABILITATED FACILITY. An existing structure with a current true cash value
of $60,000 or less per unit that has or will have as its primary purpose
residential housing consisting of one to eight units, the owner of which
proposes improvements that if done by a licensed contractor would cost in
excess of $5,000 per owner-occupied or 50% of the true cash value, whichever is
less, or $7,500 per non-owner occupied unit or 50% of the true cash value,
whichever is less, and will bring the structure into conformance with minimum
local building code standards for occupancy or improve the livability of the
units while meeting minimum local building code standards. REHABILITATED
FACILITY also includes and individual condominium units which proposes the
above described improvements. REHABILITATED FACILITY does not include a
facility rehabilitated with the proceeds of an insurance policy for property or
casualty loss.
   SALE or TRANSFER. To convey any interest in a dwelling except by lease,
mortgage, gift, device, bequest or lien foreclosure. The SALE or TRANSFER shall
be deemed to occur upon the transfer of title, the execution of a land
contract, or the exercise of an option to purchase a dwelling.
(Ord. 720, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.202 CONDITIONS REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful to sell or transfer, or act as a broker for a sale or
transfer, of a dwelling for which a Neighborhood Enterprise Zone certificate is
in effect unless a valid certificate of approval is tendered to the purchaser
or transferee at the time of the sale.
(Ord. 720, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.203 ISSUANCE OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL AND INSPECTION REPORTS;
INSPECTION FEES.
   (A)   The City Building Section shall issue a certificate of approval on a
rehabilitated facility only after it has inspected the dwelling and found it
conforms with the city’s building construction, safety, and/or other codes and
ordinances; provided, that in the absence of any hazardous conditions a
certificate may be issued when an amount of money equal to twice the estimated
cost of required repairs is placed in escrow pursuant to city guidelines, the
approval to be annotated to indicate this basis for issuance. A certificate of
occupancy shall be issued only after the city has inspected the dwelling and
found that it conforms with the city’s building construction, safety, and/or
other codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Applications for certificates of approval or certificates of occupancy
shall be available at the Building Section or other designated department and
shall be filed with the Building Section. The City Resolution Council shall,
from time to time, set reasonable fees for inspections made pursuant to this
subchapter.
   (C)   The City Building Section shall issue a certificate of approval on a
new facility only after it has inspected the dwelling and determined that it
conforms with all applicable building construction, safety, and/or other codes
and ordinances.
(Ord. 720, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.204 VALIDITY OF CERTIFICATE OF APPROVAL; RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY FOR
DEFECTS.
   A certificate of approval shall be valid for six months from the date of
issuance, except for any dwelling for which a certificate is issued that was
occupied at the time of issuance. In which case, the certificate shall be valid
during the period of continuous occupancy, but not to exceed 24 months. A
certificate of approval is not a warranty or guarantee that there are no
defects in the dwelling, nor shall the city be held responsible for defects not
noted.
(Ord. 720, passed 5-3-93; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
HOUSE MOVING
§ 150.210 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in the section, except when the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE. Includes, but is not limited to, site-build units but
shall not include preassembled units having a manufacturing facility as a site
of origin.
   CLEANUP.
      (1)   With respect to the site of origin, the removal of all structures
on the site in accordance with the approved site of origin, the removal of all
structures on the site in accordance with the approved site of origin plan,
including the breaking up of the foundation or basement foundations three feet
below grade including backfilling to existing grade and the removal of all
materials used in the move, all equipment used and any debris and/or garbage on
the site.
       (2)   With respect to the site of destination, the removal of all
equipment and materials related to the actual moving of the house and shall not
include material and/or equipment related to the construction of the dwelling
for which a building permit has been issued.
   COMPLETION OF THE MOVE.
      (1)   With respect to a move to a site within the city, the permanent
placement of the building structure on its foundation and the detachment from
the building or structure of all equipment and materials used in the move.
      (2)   With respect to a move from or through the city, the final
departure of the building or structure and all equipment attached thereto from
within the city limits.
   INITIATION OF THE MOVE. With respect to all buildings or structures to be
moved to, from or through the city, the entry of the building or structure, or
equipment attached thereto, into a public right-of-way within the city limits.
   SITE OF DESTINATION. The zoning lot, as defined in the city zoning
ordinance, to which the building or structure is to be moved.
   SITE OF ORIGIN. The zoning lot, as defined in the city zoning ordinance,
from which the building or structure is to be moved.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.211 NOTICE OF MOVE; CANCELLATION.
   Notice of the move of a building or structure shall be given to the city
prior to initiation of the move as follows:
   (A)   Written notice of the date and time of the initiation of the move
shall have been received by the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee no
later than 72 hours prior to initiation of the move and shall be accompanied
by:
      (1)   Written approval or permit from all utility companies;
      (2)   Permits as required by all other interested governmental agencies
(e.g., county road commission; state department of transportation); and
      (3)   An approved building permit that the foundation has been
constructed and is suitable to receive the structure.
   (B)   Verbal commitment of the date and time as set forth in division (A)
above shall have been received by the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee no later than 48 hours prior to such date and time.
   (C)   Notice of the cancellation of any move for which written notice of the
date and time has been given pursuant to division (A) above shall have been
received by the Director of Public Services or the Director’s designee no later
than 24 hours prior to such date and time.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-
20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.212 CLEANUP; REPAIRS.
   Cleanup and repairs of any damage or debris caused within the city by the
move of a building or structure at the site of origin, at the site of
destination or along the route of travel shall be completed by the permittee to
the satisfaction of the city in a timely fashion as follows:
   (A)   With respect to a route of travel, cleanup shall be completed
immediately.
   (B)   With respect to the site of origin, cleanup shall be completed within
seven days of the initiation of the move.
   (C)   With respect to the site of destination, cleanup shall be completed
within seven days of completion of the move and shall include removal of all
equipment and materials used in moving the building or structure.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-
20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.213 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
be subject to the following:
   (A)   For knowingly giving false information in the application for permit,
the penalty as provided in §
150.213 and immediate revocation of any permit issued in response to the
fraudulent application.
   (B)   For initiation or participation in the moving of any building or
structure from, to or through the city without a valid permit issued pursuant
to the provisions of this subchapter, the penalty as provided in §
150.213.
   (C)   For initiating or participating in the moving of any building or
structure from, to or through the city without having given the written notice
required pursuant to §
150.211(A), the payment to the city of costs and expenses incurred by the city
as a result of such failure, hereby determined to be $2,000.
   (D)   For failure to give verbal confirmation required pursuant to §
150.211(A), the payment to the city of costs and expenses incurred by the city
as a result of this failure, hereby determined to be $500.
   (E)   For failure to give notice of cancellation required pursuant to §
150.212(C), the payment to the city of costs and expenses incurred by the city
as a result of this failure, hereby determined to be $500.
   (F)   For failure to provide satisfactory cleanup pursuant to §
150.212, the payment to the city of costs and expenses incurred by the city to
accomplish the cleanup.
   (G)   For failure to accomplish timely completion of the move, reimbursement
to the city of the costs and expenses incurred by the city to complete the
work. Reimbursement shall be made from the deposit made pursuant to §
150.217(C). If these costs and expenses could reasonably be expected to exceed
$6,000, then the city shall have the option to demolish the structure. Should
the city elect this option, the city shall send a notice to the owner of the
structure as designated in the application outlining the violations and the
intent of the city to demolish the structure. If theses violations are not
cured within 30 days of the notice, the city shall immediately cause the
demolition to be accomplished. In this event, the costs and expenses incurred
by the city to accomplish the demolition shall be reimbursed to the city from
the deposit made pursuant to §
150.217(C).
   (H)   Any sums due to the city pursuant to the enforcement provisions of
this subchapter may first be charged against the applicable cash deposits or
irrevocable letter of credit deposited with the city pursuant to the provisions
of this subchapter.
   (I)   A previous violation of any provision of this subchapter shall, in the
discretion of the City Manager or the City Manager’s designee, be a basis for
the denial of subsequent applications for permits under this subchapter.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-
20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.214 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No building or structure of any kind shall be moved from or to a parcel of
property within the city or through the city by way of streets within the city
limits, unless a permit for such move shall have been issued by the city and a
notice of such move is given to the city pursuant to the provisions of this
subchapter. The city shall require the permittee to obtain liability insurance
in an amount not less than $100,000, or in an amount equal to the value of the
structure moved, whichever amount is greater. The afore stated amount may be
changed, from time to time, by resolution of the City Council. The liability
insurance policy obtained by the permittee shall name the city as an additional
named insured.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-
20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.215 APPLICATION.
   A fully and accurately completed application for a permit under this
section, in form approved by the Department of Building and Structural Safety,
shall be made to the Department of Public Services and shall be accompanied by
an inspection fee as established by resolution of the City Council. The
application shall be signed by the contractor proposed to do the moving, by the
owner of the structure and by the applicant (if other than the contractor
proposed to do the moving or the owner of the structure) and shall contain at
least the following information:
   (A)   The name and address of the owner of the building or structure to be
moved.
   (B)   The name and address of the contractor proposed to do the moving.
   (C)   A site of origin plan which shall designate the present location and
description of the building site or structure to be moved and all other
buildings or structures as on the site of origin, including, but not limited
to, swimming pools, sheds, outbuildings, underground storage tanks, including
the name and address of the owner of the property on which the building is
located if it is within the city.
   (D)   A description of the lot or parcel to which the building or structure
will be moved, including the name and address of the owner of the lot or parcel
if it is within the city.
   (E)   A certified copy of any building or use restrictions applicable to the
site of destination.
   (F)   A statement as to whether or not the contractor proposed to do the
moving has ever previously acknowledged, admitted or been judicially determined
to have violated one or more provisions of this subchapter or similar
provisions of another governmental unit.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-
20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.216 INSPECTION.
   Within ten days after a fully and accurately completed application is filed
under this subchapter, the site of origin and the building or structure to be
moved shall be inspected by representatives of the Department of Public
Services. A report of the inspection shall be filed with the Director of Public
Services or the Director’s designee within five days after the inspection.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.217 CONDITIONS FOR GRANTING PERMIT.
   If it appears from the fully and accurately completed permit application and
the inspection report that the building or structure and the site of origin
plan meet all of the building and zoning requirements, a permit shall be
issued. The applicable requirements include the building, electrical, plumbing,
heating and refrigeration codes and the requirements of the zoning ordinance
applicable to the site of origin and the site of destination. In addition, if
the building or structure does not meet the requirements of the various codes
and ordinances referred to above but in the opinion of the City Manager, can be
improved so as to meet these requirements, a permit shall be issued. In any
event, however, a permit to move the building or structure shall be issued by
the Department of Structural Safety only if the applicant establishes the
following to the satisfaction of the Department of Structural Safety:
   (A)   Application has been made for applicable permits required under the
building, electrical, plumbing, heating and refrigeration codes and all fees
required are paid. The site of origin will, after the move, comply with the
zoning ordinance.
   (B)   A valid building permit has been issued for the proposed location of
the building or structure, if the location is within the city and the
foundation plan approved along with an approved building permit and certified
written evidence that the foundation will be constructed prior to the actual
physical moving of the structure proceeding to its destination.
   (C)   A cash deposit or irrevocable letter of credit, the form and content
of which shall have been approved by the City Attorney, has been deposited with
the city guaranteeing the completion of the move of the building or structure
to, from or through the city within ten days of the initiation of the move of
the building or structure and further guaranteeing timely cleanup as is
elsewhere in this subchapter specifically provided, the deposit to be in an
amount as established by resolution of the City Council.
   (D)   A cash deposit for inspection of the physical move in an amount
established by resolution of the City Council has been deposited with the city.
   (E)   If the moving of the structure or building requires transportation on
city streets, an oversize and/or overweight permit shall be required in
accordance with law and/or ordinances.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.218 TIMELY COMPLETION OF MOVE.
   The completion of the house move will be accomplished within the specified
60-day time period. The completion of the house move will include the necessary
cleanup of both; the site of origin and the site of destination as outlined in
this subchapter.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-
20-15) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.219 DURATION.
   The moving permit shall be issued for a 60-day period, and shall expire at
the end of such period; provided, however, if initiation of the move shall not
occur within 50 days of issuance of the permit, the permit shall expire at the
end of the 50-day period.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.220 REFUND OF DEPOSITS.
   Upon satisfactory completion of all work required pursuant to this
subchapter and after all costs, fees and expenses authorized in this subchapter
have been deducted, the balance of the cash deposits set forth in §
150.217 shall be refunded to the applicant.
(Ord. 782, passed 12-6-99; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
RENTAL DWELLINGS AND RENTAL UNITS
§ 150.230 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to maintain quality structures for the
public health, safety, and welfare. This subchapter will set safeguard controls
for the rental of one- and two-family dwellings, multiple dwellings, apartment
units, boarding houses, rooming houses, group homes, hotels, motels and flats.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15)
§ 150.231 DEFINITIONS.
   As used in this subchapter, the following terms shall have the following
meanings respectively ascribed to them in this section:
   CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE. A certificate issued by the Building Department
which certifies compliance with the provisions of this code.
   LEASE. Any written or oral agreement that sets forth any and all conditions
concerning the use and occupancy of rental dwellings or rental units.
   NEW RENTAL DWELLING. Any structure, building or other facility promised and/
or leased to a residential tenant or tenants for use as a home, residence, or
sleeping unit which has never been occupied and excluding any addition or
modification of an existing structure. This definition includes but without
limitation one- and two-family dwellings, multiple dwellings, apartment units,
boarding houses, rooming houses, group homes, hotels, motels and flats.
   NOTICE OF VIOLATION. A notice issued to the owner or responsible resident
agent stating that there has been a violation of a provision of this subchapter
or any other applicable codes, ordinances, rules or regulations concerning the
premises.
   OCCUPANCY. Includes all tenants, lessees and persons residing within a
rental dwelling or rental
unit.
   OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal or equitable
interest in the premises.
   OWNER OCCUPIED. Any part of a structure used as a living quarters by the
owner of the structure where other parts or part of structure are used as
rental unit(s). Examples: two-family dwelling, owner occupies one flat; rooming
house, owner occupies one unit, etc.
   PREMISES. Any lot or piece of land inclusive of the rental dwelling or
rental unit.
   RENTAL DWELLING. Any structure, building or other facility promised and/or
leased to a residential tenant or tenants for use as a home, residence or
sleeping unit. This definition includes but without limitation one- and two-
family dwellings, multiple dwellings, apartment units, boarding houses, rooming
houses, group homes, hotels, motels and flats.
   RENTAL UNIT. Any one area, room, structure, flat, apartment or facility of a
rental dwelling that is being leased or rented to only one tenant, group of
tenants, or family under one lease.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15 ; Am. Ord. 864, passed
12-20-17)
§ 150.232 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
    The owner of any rental dwelling or rental unit shall register each rental
dwelling and all rental units contained within the rental dwelling with the
city and shall designate a person, as defined in §
150.235, as the responsible resident agent who shall be legally responsible for
operating the registered rental dwelling or rental unit and shall also be
responsible for providing access to such premises for making the inspections
necessary to insure compliance with the terms of this subchapter and all
applicable codes and ordinances adopted by the city. In the event the owner is
a corporation, partnership, firm, joint venture, trust, association,
organization or other entity, such entity must be authorized to conduct
business in the State of Michigan. Each owner or responsible resident agent
shall maintain a current list of the number of occupants of each rental unit
for which he or she is responsible. A certificate of compliance shall not be
issued if the registration provisions of this subchapter are not complied with.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed
2-20-15; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-20-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.233 REGISTRATION FORMS.
   (A)    Applications for registration shall be made in such form and in
accordance with such instructions as may be provided by the Building Department
and shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, telephone number, date of birth and copy of
government issued identification of owner and resident agent (if applicable);
      (2)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of all owners of the
rental dwelling;
      (3)   The name, address and telephone number of the responsible resident
agent; and
      (4)   The number of rental units in each rental dwelling.
   (B)   No post office box will be accepted as a legal address. The
registration shall be kept in the Building Department with a copy provided to
Code Enforcement. Applicants will also be informed of certificate of compliance
requirements at the time of registration.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 796, passed 11-4-02; Am. Ord. 810, passed
3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-20-17)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 150.234 REGISTRATION TERM AND RENEWAL.
   Registration shall be made within 90 days of the enactment of this
subchapter. The term of the registration shall be valid as long as the owner
remains unchanged. In the event of a transfer of ownership the registration and
any certificate of compliance shall expire and no longer be valid. Any new
owner shall register and make application for a certificate of compliance for
each rental dwelling and rental unit within ten days of the date of transfer to
a new unit.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed
2-20-15 ; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-20-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.235 RESPONSIBLE RESIDENT AGENT.
   The responsible resident agent shall be a person or representative of a
corporation, partnership, firm, joint venture, trust, association, organization
or other entity, and shall be designated by the owner as responsible for
operating such premises in compliance with all the provisions of the city code.
All official notices of the city may be issued to the responsible resident
agent, and any notice so issued shall be deemed to have been issued upon the
owner of record. A resident agent must be designated at the time of application
and the resident agent designation shall be kept current at all times.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15; Am. Ord. 864, passed
12-20-17)
§ 150.236 TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner of any rental dwelling or rental unit who
has received a notice of violation to transfer, convey, lease or sell
(including by land contract) his or her ownership and/or interest in any way to
another, unless the owner shall have first furnished to the grantee, lessee or
vendee, or transferee a true copy of any notice of violation and shall have
furnished to the Building Official a signed and notarized statement from the
grantee, vendee or lessee, or transferee acknowledging the receipt of the
notice of violation.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed
2-20-15 ; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-20-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.237 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall lease, rent or cause to be occupied a rental
dwelling or rental unit unless there is a valid certificate of compliance
issued by the Building Department in the name of the owner/responsible resident
agent and issued for the specific rental dwelling and rental unit. The
certificate shall be displayed in a conspicuous place in each rental dwelling
and rental unit at all times or in a common area shared by all occupants of a
rental dwelling and rental unit. The certificate shall be issued after making
application with the Building Department and an inspection is made to dwelling
and rental unit complies with the provisions of this code. An inspection must
be completed within 30 days of application. An inspection report shall be
completed by the inspector after completing the inspection of dwelling and
rental unit.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of
advertising or actively renting or leasing property without first registering
and obtaining a valid certificate of occupancy and certificate of compliance
from the Building Department for each residential rental property.
   (B)   Before a certificate of compliance is issued all violations must be
corrected and approved. Said violations shall be corrected and compliance
obtained within 90 days of application, except in dangerous conditions which
must be remedied immediately. (Note: $200 fee should be established in
accordance with terms listed in §
150.238(B)).
      (1)   Failure to comply with inspection and compliance timeline will
result in the cancellation of application as well as the issuance of a citation
and required court appearance.
         (a)   Note: $375 reapplication fee/penalty and $400 CofO/CofC fee
should be established in accordance with terms listed in §
150.238(B).
         (b)   Note: Second time failure fee of $500 should be established in
accordance with terms listed in §
150.238(B).
         (c)   Note: Third time failure fee of $750 should be established in
accordance with terms listed in §
150.238(B).
      (2)   Failure to comply with inspection and compliance timeline for a
third time will result in the cancellation of application requiring
reapplication as well as the issuance of a citation, required court appearance
and the potential of 15 days in jail.
      (3)   Failure to comply with inspection and compliance timeline for a
fourth time will result in cancellation of application, issuance of a citation,
required court appearance and the potential of 30 days in jail.
   (C)   A certificate of compliance may be issued to an applicant after the
dwelling has been inspected by the city or its designated representatives and
the inspection discloses to the satisfaction of the city that:
      (1)   The interior of the dwelling is free from refuse, garbage, waste,
and that the interior walls, ceilings and woodwork are free of major cracks or
crevices or have been sealed by the application of paint or other materials
which are designed to prevent the accumulation of dust, dirt or residue.
      (2)   The dwelling shall be equipped with a functioning hot water system
capable of delivering water at a temperature of 120°F which system shall be
free of leaks and which shall utilize valves which completely stop the passage
of water when so operated.
      (3)   The dwelling shall be equipped with a functioning water closet,
lavatory and bathtub or shower, all of which shall present a clean, sanitary
appearance, free of permeable cracks, crevices or porous areas.
      (4)   The dwelling shall be equipped with a sink which shall be located
in the room designated as the kitchen, and which shall be connected to a
functioning cold water system and a functioning hot water system, as described
above. The sink shall drain into a freely-running sewer system. The area
surrounding the sink, as well as the sink itself, shall present a non-porous
surface for water, and shall be free of cracks and crevices, and shall present
a clean, sanitary appearance.
      (5)   The dwelling shall be equipped with a sanitary sewage disposal
system that drains freely at all times into the municipal sewage system.
      (6)   The dwelling shall be equipped with a heating system that maintains
all occupied rooms at a temperature of at least 70°F at a distance of three
feet above the floor level under ordinary minimum winter conditions.
      (7)   The dwelling unit shall have an electrical service consistent with
the appropriate regulating codes and ordinances of the city.
         (a)   Each entrance/exit shall be illuminated by exterior lights
controlled by interior wall switches. Each public hallway, stairwell, laundry
room, furnace room shall contain at least one supplied ceiling or wall type
electric light fixture.
         (b)   If a kitchen outlet is within six feet of water or any other
outlet, the outlet shall be a GFI (Ground Fault Interrupter). There shall also
be a GFI outlet in the bathroom not more than 48 inches from the basin. The
outlet shall be at least 30 inches and not more than 60 inches above the floor.
         (c)   Tenants shall have access to their own fuse box (example: fuse
box in each unit or in basement that tenant has access to). Service (fuse box)
shall be closed, having no live parts exposed.
         (d)   All electrical outlets and fixtures shall be kept in good and
safe working order.
         (e)   If electrical service does not meet these minimum standards, it
shall be brought up to the required standards, consistent with the appropriate
regulating codes and ordinances of the city, by a licensed electrical
contractor with a city permit.
      (8)   All floors, steps, porches, and stairways inside and outside of
dwelling shall be sound, and free of loose or cracked coverings, holes,
depressions or defects which may tend to present a danger to persons.
      (9)   The outer roof surface of the dwelling shall present an impervious
surface to rain water, and shall present no deformations or voids.
      (10)   The gutters/rain pipes and down spouts shall be properly secured
to the house and be free from deterioration (example: rotting or missing
pieces).
      (11)   All interior and exterior windows of the dwelling shall be
equipped with panes of glass or approved materials sealed from water and wind.
All windows shall be equipped with a storm window and screen, as may be
required by the appropriate regulating codes and ordinances of the city. All
windows shall be openable from the inside of dwelling. Any window that is
designed to be openable shall have storm windows and screens. Window shall not
be held up with a prop. Each window shall be capable of being locked or secured
from inside the dwelling.
      (12)   All exterior doors of the dwelling shall be capable of being
secured from the inside by a locking device, and shall be openable by actuating
a latch or similar device. All doors shall be maintained such that they present
a barrier to persons and animals. All entrance and exit doors immediately
connected to unit shall have a screen/storm door that is in good working order.
      (13)   The exterior of the dwelling shall be coated with a material that
seals out moisture, and which presents a continuous uninterrupted surface
except where there are doors or windows.
      (14)   The dwelling shall be free of insects and rodents.
      (15)   The exterior lot shall be free of debris, rubbish, trash, garbage
or wastes, abandoned/unused vehicles, and shall bear no evidence of rodent
infestation.
      (16)   Any garage shed or storage structure shall be in good condition,
free of deterioration and free of debris and shall have a rat wall measuring at
least two feet in depth.
      (17)   Smoke alarms shall be required in locations and in numbers in the
unit as prescribed by the Fire Inspector and any applicable ordinance.
      (18)   If the inspection discloses any evidence of structural,
electrical, mechanical or sanitation conditions that may prove detrimental to
the safety and health of the occupants, the city reserves the right to conduct
the necessary trade inspections to determine the extent of any violations and
the corrective actions required.
      (19)   The dwelling meets any other requirements as may be provided for
in the appropriate regulating codes and ordinances of the city.
   (D)   A certificate of compliance is valid for a period of three years from
its date of issuance or change of occupancy, provided that the rental dwelling
and rental units remain in compliance with all applicable codes and ordinances
and are not sold or transferred. For a new rental dwelling, a certificate of
compliance shall be issued simultaneously with the certificate of occupancy and
shall remain valid for three years provided that the rental dwelling and rental
units remain in compliance with all the applicable codes and ordinances and are
not transferred. When the rental dwelling or rental units are going to be sold
or transferred, a new inspection and a new certificate of compliance shall be
required. Any new owner shall make application for a certificate of compliance
for each new rental dwelling and rental unit within ten days of the date of any
change of ownership. The inspection fees will follow the same guidelines as
stated in this subchapter. The Building Director may revoke a certificate of
compliance for a violation of any code, ordinance or rule regulation of the
city and said certificate must be renewed every two years. The initial
certificate of compliance shall be applied for in accordance with this
subchapter within 90 days of the enactment of this subchapter.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 796, passed 11-4-02; Am. Ord. 810, passed
3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-20-17)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 150.238 CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE APPLICATION FORM AND FEE.
   (A)   An application for certificate of compliance shall be made in such
form and in accordance with such instructions as may be provided by the
Building Director and shall include at least the following information:
      (1)   Name, address, telephone number and date of birth of the owner(s);
      (2)    Name, address and telephone number of responsible resident agent;
and
      (3)   Address and number of units applied for under the certificate of
compliance.
   (B)   The inspection fee for a certificate of compliance shall be
established by resolution of the City Council. These fees may be changed from
time to time by resolution of the City Council.
   (C)   All owner occupied rentals shall follow the same inspection fee. The
owner’s own unit shall not be inspected unless there is an indication that
there is a safety or health problem located in the unit. The owner’s unit will
not be inspected without permission of the owner. All command areas should be
inspected, including furnace, water heaters, etc. If an inspection of the
owner’s unit is necessary, no fee will be charged for owner’s unit.
   (D)   If the date of the certificate of compliance falls within 90 days of
the owner having received a certificate of occupancy, then the fee may be
waived.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 796, passed 11-4-02; Am. Ord. 810, passed
3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-20-17)  Penalty,
see §
10.99
§ 150.239 POSTING OF CERTIFICATE OF COMPLIANCE.
    The following information shall be posted in a conspicuous place either
within each rental dwelling and rental unit or in a common area shared by all
occupants of a rental dwelling and rental unit:
   (A)   A copy of the current certificate of compliance; and
   (B)   The name, address, and telephone number of the responsible resident
agent.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 851, passed
2-20-15; Am. Ord. 864, passed 12-20-17)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.240 DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   (A)   A certificate of compliance is not a warranty or guarantee that there
are no defects in the rental dwelling or unit and the city shall not be held
responsible for defects not noted in the inspection report.
   (B)   This inspection of the land use, exterior posture and interior
accessories of the structure is limited to visual inspection only. The city
does not guarantee or approve by inference any latent, structural or mechanical
defects thereto, or such other items that are not apparent by such visual
inspection.
   (C)   The city shall not assume any liability to any person by reason of the
inspections required by the subchapter or the code adopted herein or the
issuance of a certificate of compliance or a certificate of occupancy.
(Ord. 788, passed 11-29-00; Am. Ord. 851, passed 2-20-15 ; Am. Ord. 864, passed
12-20-17)
CHAPTER 151: COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT FEES
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Scope
   
151.003   Annual registration of contractors required
   
151.004   Fees not covered
   
151.005   Inspection charges
   
151.006   Refunds
   
151.007   Amendments
Building Code
   
151.020   Scope
   
151.021   Cost factors; unit cost per gross square footage and construction
cost
   
151.022   Plan examination fee
   
151.023   Construction permits; residential and commercial buildings and
structures
   
151.024   Temporary construction permits
   
151.025   Fees for duplicate plans and permits
   
151.026   Water and hydrant fees
   
151.027   Tree planting
   
151.028   Concrete flatwork on private property
   
151.029   Parking lots
   
151.030   Demolition permits
   
151.031   Moving permits
   
151.032   Annual maintenance permit when required
   
151.033   Annual inspection
Mechanical Code
   
151.045   Scope
   
151.046   Installation permits
   
151.047   Inspection charges
   
151.048   Special permits
   
151.049   Equipment and system fees
   
151.050   Alternate systems; fees and charges
   
151.051   Registration
Electrical Code
   
151.060   Scope
   
151.061   Permit fees for electrical work
   
151.062   Inspection charges
Plumbing Code
   
151.075   Scope
   
151.076   Installation permits
   
151.077   Inspection charges
   
151.078   Registration charges
   
151.079   Laboratory tests
Property Maintenance Code
   
151.090   Scope
   
151.091   Reoccupancy application
   
151.092   Annual inspection of multi-family dwelling
   
151.093   Additional inspections
   
151.094   Special inspections
   
151.095   Fees for copies
Refrigerating Systems Code
   
151.105   Scope
   
151.106   Installation permits
   
151.107   Inspection charges
   
151.108   Registration charges
Fences
   
151.120   Scope
   
151.121   Permit fees
Signs
   
151.135   Scope
   
151.136   Permit fees
Cutting of Public Curbs
   
151.150   Scope
   
151.151   Permit fees
Zoning and Planning
   
151.160   Scope
   
151.161   Planning Commission fees
   
151.162   Report and document fees
Economic Development Corporation
   
151.175   Scope
   
151.176   Application fee
   
151.177   Bonding costs
Residential Rehabilitation Programs
   
151.190   Scope
   
151.191   Loan processing fees
Homeowner Permits
   
151.205   Scope
   
151.206   Application for permit; approval; fee
Fire Inspection Fees
   
151.220   Scope
   
151.221   Permit application; fees
Engineering and Special Project Fees
   
151.235   Scope
   
151.236   Inspection and consultation fees
   
151.237   Amounts expended by city for engineering services; reimbursement by
developer
City-Owned Property Disposition
   
151.250   Scope
   
151.251   Administrative fee
Board of Appeals
   
151.265   Scope
   
151.266   Application; transcriptions
Property Maintenance Fees; Emergency
   
151.275   Scope
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as Community Development Fees.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2301) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.002 SCOPE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to incorporate, include and regulate any and
all fees and charges authorized and directed to be collected for permits and
services by the Community Development Department, the Charter and resolutions
of the city, as well as by state statute, and modified in the future by City
Council resolutions.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2302) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.003 ANNUAL REGISTRATION OF CONTRACTORS REQUIRED.
   The city requires all contractors doing business in the city to annually
register with the building division. A current state license will be required
for all contractors unless modified by city ordinance. Unregistered contractors
will not receive permits for work.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2303) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.004 FEES NOT COVERED.
   Any and all fees and charges authorized and directed to be collected for
permits and services provided by the Community Development Department by the
ordinances, codes, Charter and resolutions of the city, as well as the state
statutes, which are not included in this chapter, are declared to continue in
existence and remain in full force and effect.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2304) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.005 INSPECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The permit fee for each building permit shall normally include only
those called inspections specifically enumerated in the Building Regulations
and any applicable ordinance of the city. The permit fee for all other permits
shall normally include no more than one rough and/or one final inspection. All
additional inspections necessitated by the work not being ready or not being
properly completed at the time inspection was called for, all reinspection of
violation corrections, all inspections of repairs and/or alterations not
covered in the various permit fee schedules, all overtime inspection, and all
special inspections not otherwise provided for, including all extra inspections
made at the request of the owner or the contractor, will be charged for as
specified below:
      (1)   Additional Inspections (during normal working hours):
         Monday-Friday 8:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
         First hour or fraction thereof, $20.
      (2)   Overtime Inspections (Saturday or Sunday, or after normal working
hours before 8:30 a.m. or after 4:30 p.m. on any working day), per hour rate:
         First half hour or fraction thereof, $22.
         Each additional half hour or fraction thereof, $18.
   (B)   The charge for such inspections when performed shall be determined on
an individual basis and shall reflect the entire cost to the city for the
services provided, including but not limited to wages, double time, minimum
reporting time, fringe benefits, car allowance and office clerical time
necessitated by the service provided.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2305) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.006 REFUNDS.
   Requests for refunds must be within 90 days of the date of issuance of a
permit unless specifically approved otherwise by the Building Inspector, and
shall be subject to deductions as follows:
   (A)   A minimum of $10 shall be deducted to cover the cost of overhead.
   (B)   If any inspections have been made prior to cancellation of permit, an
amount equal to the hourly rate for such inspection, as specified in §
151.005, shall also be deducted.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2306) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.007 AMENDMENTS.
   All future amendments to fees may be accomplished by resolution of the City
Council.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2377) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
BUILDING CODE
§ 151.020 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges for permits to be
used relative to the provisions of the Building Code set forth in §
150.001 and any applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2307) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.021 COST FACTORS; UNIT COST PER GROSS SQUARE FOOTAGE AND CONSTRUCTION
COST.
   (A)   The unit cost factors which shall be used in the computing of fees
shall be as established annually by the Building Officials and Code
Administrators Association in bulletin form, Building Valuation Data Report.
   (B)   The construction cost of all new buildings and additions to buildings
shall be determined by multiplying the gross square footage of the proposed
structure by the proper factor as given in the latest copy of the publication
referred to in division (A) of this section. The construction cost of
alterations, rehabilitation and of miscellaneous structures shall be determined
by sworn statements of the applicant and contracts signed by the owner, for
permit, and the statement shall be verified by the building inspector.
   (C)   The unit costs are applied to the gross square footage of a building
and include all structural, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, interior finish,
normal site preparations, including excavation and backfill, overhead and
profit. Architectural fees, cost of land and off-site costs are not included.
   (D)   The construction cost as determined above shall serve as the basis for
the charging of permit fees and for statistical records.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2308) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.022 PLAN EXAMINATION FEE.
   For all structures, including new residential and commercial buildings and
additions and alterations, the plan examination fee shall be paid at the time
of submission of plans for review and shall be paid in addition to any permit
fees. This fee shall be $200.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2309) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.023 CONSTRUCTION PERMITS; RESIDENTIAL AND COMMERCIAL BUILDINGS AND
STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Building permit fees for new buildings, additions, alterations to
existing buildings and miscellaneous structures, including garages, sheds,
accessory buildings, and fire repair, shall be based on the following schedule
and calculated as described in §
151.021.
      (1)   Building permits:
         Less than $1,000 valuation, $25.
         Over $1,000 but not over $10,000, $25.
         (Plus $7 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over and above the
first $1,000 valuation.)
         Over $10,000 but not over $50,000, $75.
         (Plus $3 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over and above the
first $10,000 valuation.)
         Over $10,000, $195.
         (Plus $2 for each additional $1,000 or part thereof over and above the
first $50,000 valuation.)
      (2)   Garages (detached or attached), $25.
      (3)   Swimming pools:
         Below ground, $60.
         Above ground if filter is used, $35.
   (B)   Walls, when used as fences, shall be erected, altered or repaired
under a building permit with fees calculated as specified in §
151.021.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2310) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.024 TEMPORARY CONSTRUCTION PERMITS.
   (A)   The fees for temporary permits issued to begin construction of
foundations or site work or other preliminary construction work pending
issuance of regular full permit shall be as follows:
      (1)   For residential work, $25.
      (2)   For commercial or industrial work minimum, $50.
Or may be determined by using the construction cost for the work involved as
specified in §
151.021.
   (B)   Temporary structure permits. The fee for temporary permits for
construction related to temporary structures, such as barricades, fences,
public obstructions, construction shanties, storage sheds, equipment yards or
trailers shall be for each unit, $25.
   (C)   Other temporary permits. The fee for temporary permits for maintaining
or using other temporary structures or facilities or the temporary use of
property as authorized by the Building and Safety Division, the Building Board
of Appeals, the Zoning Board of Appeals, or the City Council shall be for each
permit, $25.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2311) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.025 FEES FOR DUPLICATE PLANS AND PERMITS.
   (A)   Duplicate of plans. The fee for duplicate sets of approved plans shall
be $3 for each sheet, but in no case shall exceed 50% of the fee charged for
the original permit. The permit fees for increased costs of the project based
on the construction cost as per §
151.023 with a minimum fee of $10 for residential plans and a minimum of $20
for commercial plans.
   (B)   Duplicate of revised permits. The fee for duplicate or revised permits
shall be as follows:
      (1)   Residential permits, $10 plus $5 for each $1,000 of increased
construction cost or fraction thereof, if any.
      (2)   Commercial permits, $20 plus $5 for each $1,000 of increased
construction cost or fraction thereof, if any.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2312) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.026 WATER AND HYDRANT FEES.
   (A)   Water fee. The water fee for construction work estimated at $500,000
or less shall be 0.03% of the estimated construction cost. The water fee for
construction work estimated at a cost in excess of $500,000 shall be $150 plus
0.01% of the estimated cost in excess of $500,000. Applications are available
from the Building Division and approved by the Department of Public Service.
   (B)   Use of hydrant fee. The permit is available at the fire station at a
charge of $50.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2313) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.027 TREE PLANTING.
   The permit fee for tree planting, based on the requirement of one tree
between sidewalk and curb for each 40 feet or major fraction thereof, shall be
$45 per tree. Any owner or contractor who finds it inadvisable or impossible to
plant the required number and species of trees because of weather or other
considerations may pay to the city the sum equal to the number of trees
required multiplied by the unit fee per tree and such sum shall be used for the
cost of purchasing and the labor for planning such tree or trees when the
season of the year will permit it to be done, and shall be determined to have
been met for the purpose of issuance of a certificate of occupancy for the
premises involved.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2314) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.028 CONCRETE FLATWORK ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   The permit fee for concrete walks, drives, patios and other flatwork
shall be computed at the rate of $3 for each 100 square feet of concrete to be
installed, with a minimum fee of $25.
   (B)   Sidewalks and approaches on public property. The permit fee for
sidewalks and approaches on public property shall be computed at the rate of
$.30 per lineal foot of sidewalk or apron for a side drive to be constructed;
provided, however, that in no case shall such permit fee be less than $25.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2315) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.029 PARKING LOTS.
   The permit fees for paving all parking lots shall be as follows:
      (1)   5,000 square feet or under, $75.
      (2)   Each additional 1,000 square feet, $5.
   (B)   The above fees are in addition to fees for catch basins, manholes,
sewer lines, approaches or curb cuts.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2316) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.030 DEMOLITION PERMITS.
   The permit fees for the demolition of buildings or structures shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Residential garage, $35.
   (B)   Structures 1,000 cubic feet or under, $50.
   (C)   Structures over 1,000 cubic feet, $50, plus $1 per 1,000 sq. ft. over
1,000 square feet.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2317) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.031 MOVING PERMITS.
   The permit fees for moving a building or structure from its location on a
parcel of land to some other location with or without passing over or going
upon a public street or way shall be as follows:
   (A)   Structure moved one-quarter mile or under, $150.
   (B)   Over one-quarter mile, $150, plus $50 for each additional one-quarter
mile.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2318) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.032 ANNUAL MAINTENANCE PERMIT WHEN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Industrial buildings, warehouses, engineering laboratories and large
office buildings where qualified licensed tradesmen are employed on a full-time
basis shall apply for an annual maintenance permit. The fees charged for annual
maintenance permits shall be in lieu of regular permit fees for the
maintenance, repair and alteration to existing buildings or systems only and
shall be paid in addition to any appropriate annual inspection fee for the said
buildings or premises. Work on new buildings, additions, and the like, or major
alterations, shall require separate building permits as specified in §
151.023.
   (B)   Permit fees. The fees for annual maintenance permits for buildings
over 1,000 square feet in floor area shall be as follows:
 
Permits                                   Per 1,000 Square Feet in Floor Space
Building maintenance                      $30
Plumbing maintenance                      20
Electrical maintenance                    20
Heating maintenance                       20
High pressure boiler and unfired pressure 10
vessel maintenance
Refrigeration main                        10
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2319) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.033 ANNUAL INSPECTION.
   All commercial and industrial buildings and facilities, all multiple
dwellings (three and over), all places of public assembly, and all public
establishments when required to be inspected annually to comply with the city’s
business registration and licensing ordinance and the city’s building code
shall be subject to the following fee schedule:
Buildings and Facilities Fees
Buildings and Facilities                                             Fees
Assembly halls:
Not over 100 seats or 2,000 square feet                              $30
Over 100 seats or 2,000 square feet                                  40
Auto dealerships                                                     40
Auto parking structures                                              25
Barber and beauty shops                                              25
Barber colleges and beauty schools                                   40
Bowling alleys                                                       40
Car washes                                                           25
Churches                                                             No Charge
Commercial establishments not otherwise provided for                 $30
Drive-in restaurants                                                 40
Drive-in theatres                                                    40
Dry cleaning establishments                                          30
Funeral homes                                                        25
Government buildings                                                 No Charge
Hospitals and institutional buildings:
Not over 50,000 square feet in area                                  40
10,000 square feet to 50,000 square feet                             50
Over 50,000 square feet                                              60
Plus $7 for each additional 25,000 square feet
Instructional institutions and business schools (karate, dance and   30
the like)
Junk Yards and open storage yards, per acre                          75
Laboratories (medical, engineering, research):
Each floor, not over 2,000 square feet                               20
Each floor, over 2,000 square feet                                   25
Laundries                                                            30
Lumber yards and coal yards:
Up to 10,00 square feet                                              30
Over 10,000 square feet                                              30
Plus $12 for each additional 25,000 square feet
Malls and enclosed shopping centers (public areas,
Each 10,000 square feet                                              25
Motor supply stations                                                25
Multiple dwellings, condominiums, townhouses, co-op apartments, four 75
to five-family units
Office buildings:
Each floor not over 2,000 square feet                                20
Each floor over 2,000 square feet                                    30
Pool halls
Public establishments (bar and restaurants):                         30
Not exceeding 2,000 square feet                                      35
Over 2,000 square feet                                               50
Retail stores and tenant spaces:
Not exceeding 2,000 square feet                                      20
2,000 square feet to 5,000 square feet                               25
5,000 square fee to 10,000 square feet per floor                     35
Over 10,000 square feet per floor                                    50
Rooming houses:
4 to 10 rooms                                                        20
11 to 20 rooms                                                       40
Over 20 rooms                                                        40
Plus $2 per room
Schools, primary and secondary                                       No charge
Service garages                                                      30
Storage garages                                                      30
Theaters, each auditorium:
Not exceeding 400 seats                                              $50
Over 400 seats                                                       75
Used car lots                                                        30
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2320) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 151.045 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges for permits to be
used relative to the provisions of the Mechanical Code set forth in
Chapter 150 and any applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2321) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.046 INSTALLATION PERMITS.
Installation Permits Fees
Installation Permits                                                    Fees
Unfired pressure vessels:
Unfired pressure vessels (not heated), each                             $40
Unfired pressure vessels (heated by steam or other media), each         40
Major repairs to existing pressure vessels, each                        40
Anhydrous ammonia storage equipment:
Systems using I.C.C. cylinders, each system:
5 cylinders or less                                                     20
6 to 10                                                                 25
11 to 15                                                                40
16 or more                                                              55
Systems using A.S.M.E. containers, each system:
1,000 pounds capacity or less                                           25
1,001 to 2,500 pounds                                                   40
2,501 to 5,000 pounds                                                   55
Over 5,000 pounds                                                       60
Vehicles transporting anhydrous ammonia cargoes in A.S.M.E. containers:
Each vehicle                                                            55
Boilers:
Boilers up to and including 1,000 square feet of heating surface        40
Boilers over 1,000 square feet of heating surface                       40
Plus $5 for each 1,000 square feet of heating surface.
(No license required for low pressure boilers not exceeding 300 square feet of
heating surface.)
Alteration permit                                                       40
Hazardous gases - storage:
Chlorine, sulphur dioxide and methyl chloride:
Total quantity on premises:
500 pounds or less                                                      28
Over 500 pounds to 1 ton                                                35
Over 1 ton to 15 tons                                                   47
Over 15 tons                                                            80
Other hazardous gases, systems with connected containers:
Hospitals:
20 outlets or less                                                      45
21 to 30 outlets                                                        55
Over 30 outlets                                                         80
Occupancies other than hospitals:
2,500 cubic feet or less                                                30
2,501 to 5,000 cubic feet                                               35
5,001 to 10,000 cubic feet                                              47
Over 10,000 cubic feet                                                  80
Other hazardous gases, total storage on premises, not connected to a system or
appliance:
2,500 cubic feet or less                                                28
Over 2,500 to 5,000 cubic feet                                          35
Over 5,000 to 10,000 cubic feet                                         48
Over 10,000 cubic feet                                                  80
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2322) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.047 INSPECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The permit fee for each installation permit shall normally include no
more than one rough inspection and/or one final inspection. All additional
inspections necessitated by the work not being ready or not being properly
completed at the time inspection was called for, all reinspection of violation
corrections, all inspections of repairs and/or alterations not covered in the
permit fee schedule, all overtime inspections, all special inspections not
otherwise provided for and all extra inspections made at the request of the
owner or the contractor shall be charged for as specified in §
151.005.
      (1)   Low pressure steam or hot water boilers (under 300 square feet
heating surface, when inspection is requested):
         Each location, $45.
      (2)   Shop inspections of boilers and pressure vessels:
         Each location visit, each unit, $45.
      (3)   Secondhand boilers and secondhand pressure vessels:
         Each inspection visit, each unit, $45.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2323)
   (B)   The permit fee for each heating permit shall normally include no more
than one rough inspection and/or one final inspection. All additional
inspections necessitated by the work not being ready or not being properly
completed at the time inspection was called for, all reinspection of violation
corrections, all inspections of repairs and/or alterations not covered in the
permit fee schedules, all overtime inspections, all special inspections not
otherwise provided for, and all extra inspections made at the request of the
owner or the contractor shall be charged for as specified in §
151.005.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2331) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.048 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The fee for special permits will be based on inspection charges as described
in §
151.005.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2324) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.049 EQUIPMENT AND SYSTEM FEES.
   Permit fees for the following equipment and systems shall be as follows:
   (A)   Fuel, oil fired equipment.
 Fee
                                                         Fee
Burners (new or replacement):
Portable heaters, each                                   $20
All other oil burners, new or replacement, including aboveground fuel oil
storage not exceeding 550 gallons
Five GPH and under, each                                 35
Over 50 GPH, each                                        45
Combination gas-oil burners                              80
Alterations to existing installations                    30
Storage tanks or drums:
Total drums, not exceeding four in number, each location $15
Not exceeding 550 gallons:
Above ground, each installation                          19
Under ground, each tank                                  27
Over 550 to 5,000 gallons, each tank                     46
Over 5,000 to 20,000 gallons, each tank                  60
Over 20,000 to 50,000 gallons, tach tank                 75
Over 50,000 to 200,000 gallons, each tank                90
(Note: Permit fee shall be the sum of burner or heater fees, plus tank and/or
drum fee.)
 
   (B)   Gas fired equipment.
 Fee
                                                                Fee
Burners (new or replacement):
Burners with input rating not exceeding and including
75,000 BTU per hour, each                                       $30
75,001 - 500,000 BTU per hour, each                             35
Over 500,000 BTU per hour, each                                 53
Combination gas-oil burner, each                                80
Alterations to existing burner or furnace installations, each   35
Preliminary inspections, each unit                              25
Homeowner permit (includes burner, gas piping and examination):
Central heating unit, conversion burner, floor furnace, each    42
Room heater, wall heater, baseboard-type unit                   30
Each additional unit at same address                            15
Gas piping system permit, each system                           30
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2326)
   (C)   Liquified petroleum gas equipment.
 Fee
                                 Fee
Burners (new or replacement):
Each system, including appliances, having an aggregate connected water
capacity of:
30 gallons or less               $30
Over 30 to 60 gallons            35
Over 60 to 500 gallons           47
Over 500 to 1,200 gallons        70
Over 1,200 gallons               80
Storage tanks:
Total storage on premises, not connected to a system or appliance, having a
water capacity of:
60 gallons or less               $30
Over 60 gallons to 1,200 gallons 50
Over 1,200 gallons               70
Alteration permit                35
 
(Note: Permit fee shall be the sum of burner or heater fee plus storage tank
fee.)
(‘68 Code, § 6-2328)
   (D)   Electric heating equipment.
 Fee
                                                       Fee
Residential:
Furnace or boiler for central system                   $35
Residential unit heaters covered by electrical permit:
Commercial:
Unit heater                                            30
Furnace or boiler for central system                   50
Make-up air units, each                                35
 
   (E)   Ductwork and distribution systems.
 Fee
                                                                            Fee
Residential:
Addition or alteration to existing system                                   10
Installation of flue dampers (furnaces)                                     10
Installation of flue dampers (hot water tanks)                              5
Installation of humidifier with new furnace                                 5
Installation of humidifier without new furnace                              20
Commercial and industrial:
Ductwork, steam and hot water distribution systems fees shall be based on
the cost of the work and shall be calculated as follows:
Less than $1,000 valuation                                                  30
Over $1,000 but not over $10,000 plus $3 for each additional $1,000 or part 30
thereof over and above the first $1,000 valuation.
Over $10,000 but not over $50,000 plus $3 for each $1,000 or part over and
above the first $10,000 valuation plus $2 for each additional $1,000 or     60
part over and above the first $50,000 valuation
Fan coil units (in addition to distribution system fees), each unit         15
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2329) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.050 ALTERNATE SYSTEMS; FEES AND CHARGES.
   Permit fees and inspection charges for alternate systems using fuels or
energy sources other than those specified above shall be based on like charges
for systems of equivalent capacity of complexity as determined by the
mechanical inspector.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2330) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.051 REGISTRATION.
   Registration fee for mechanical contractor, $15.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2332) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 151.060 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges for permits to be
used relative to the provisions of the Electrical Code set forth in
Chapter 150 and any applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2333) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.061 PERMIT FEES FOR ELECTRICAL WORK.
   (A)   A minimum fee of $20 shall be charged for any one permit.
   (B)   Permit fees for all electrical work shall be as follows:
Circuits:
Each circuit, $4.
Fixtures:
Each lamp or tube, $0.25.
Floodlights or lamps of 1,000 watts capacity each or over shall be considered as
power units.
Each cluster of floodlights consisting of lamps, each 1,000 watts or over, shall
be considered as  one power unit of sum of lamp wattage.
Each neon type gas-tube lamp shall be counted as one unit.
Electrical power units:
Includes motors, transformers, heating units, furnaces, power plug, generators,
rectifiers, capacitors, welders, flood lamps 1,000 watts or over, heating and/or
power units based on horsepower, KW or KVA rating. one-quarter horse power, KW
or KVA to 30 horse power, KW, KVA or power plugs, each unit, $5.
31 to 100 horse power, each unit, $10.
Over 100 horse power, each unit, $30.
(Above fees include branch circuit wiring to the equipment.)
Fees for motors of less than one-quarter horsepower on other heating units shall
be based on the number of circuits supplying such motors.
Electrical ranges, ovens, dryers and water heaters - each unit, $6.
A built-in oven and range top shall be considered as one unit in determining
permit fee.
Service:
New or change of service:
100 amperes to 600 amperes, $25.
Over 600 amperes, $50.
Temporary primary service, $30.
Temporary secondary service, $15.
Plus charge for each circuit in these as set forth in this division.
Connection of service for new single and two-family dwellings only may be
granted without charge on a temporary secondary service, if requested when
making application for the original wiring permit, and provided temporary is
ready at the time of first inspection.
Transfer of permits, each permit, $20.
Outdoor meter cabinets (in existing services), each location, $20.
Feeders:
First 100 feet or less, $10.
Each additional 100 feet, $5.
Underfloor raceways, headers for cellular floors, and the like:
First 100 feet or less, $10.
Each additional 100 feet, $5.
Residential electrical space heating:
Each room, $5.
For supplemental heating and other occupancies, use KW rating per unit described
in the electrical power units.
Motion picture apparatus, each machine, $25.
Industrial and commercial buildings:
(General maintenance and installation of electrical equipment in existing
buildings based on power units, generators, motors, welders, transformers,
feeders, circuits, fixtures, and the like.)
1 to 25 power units, each, $15.
26 and over, each, $8.50
Sign connection, only:
Each sign, first circuit, $20.
(Provided inspection is made at the same time and same location.)
Each additional circuit, $5.
Outline tubing, (connection), each 25 feet, $20.
Hospital or convalescent home generator sets:
0 to 30 total KW or KVA, $50.
Over 30 total KW or KVA, $100.
Permits for generator sets shall be on a separate permit form. One hour’s time
will be  computed separately and not in combination with other items:
Standby generator (any occupancy):
0 to 30 total KW or KVA, $35.
Over 30 total KW or KVA, $70.
Fire alarm systems:
The fees for the various elements of fire alarm systems shall be as specified in
the following list  with a minimum permit fee for any one job to be $40.
Permits for fire alarm systems shall be on a separate permit application listing
only fire alarm  items.
City pull box (Gamewell), each box, $15.
Drill station, $10.
Pull stations:
First station, $10.
Each additional station, $5.
Telephone stations (2-way communication units), each, $5.
Combination pull and telephone station, $9
Fire alarm signal devices (horn, bell or voice):
First device, $10.
Each additional device, $3.
Heat or smoke detectors:
First detector, $10.
Each additional detector, $3.
Fire door holders, each doorway, $3.
Combination door holders and smoke detector, each doorway, $10.
Building master panels, each, $20.
Telephone control panel, each circuit or zone, $3.
Exitway door electrical unlocking systems:
First door, $10.
Each additional door, $5.
Sprinkler system flow switches, each switch, $10.
Sprinkler valve tamper switches, each switch, $10.
Sub-panel, annunciator, each zone (floor), $3.
Ventilation fan dampers, $10.
Data gathering and reporting panel, each panel, $15.
Central computer, $15.
Fans controlled by fire alarm system, each fan, $10.
 
   Alterations or additions to existing systems is considered new work and the
above fees apply to all times, old or new, on the system.
   Electric motors, circuits, fixtures, heater units, service changes, etc.,
will be charged at the rates established by the applicable fee schedules on a
separate permit application.
   (C)   All self-service fuel pumps or dispensing system, together with
central systems for same, shall be subject to a minimum installation permit fee
of $75 plus $10 for each nozzle connected to the pump or system.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2334) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.062 INSPECTION CHARGES.
   The permit fee for each electrical permit shall normally include no more
than one rough inspection and/or one final inspection. All additional
inspections necessitated by the work not being ready or not being properly
completed at the time inspection was called for, all reinspection of violation
corrections, all inspections or repairs and/or alterations not covered in the
permit for schedules, all overtime inspections, all special inspections not
otherwise provided for, and all extra inspections made at the request of the
owner or the contractor shall be charged for as specified in §
151.005.
Special Inspections:
Shop inspection of equipment:
Each unit, each visit, $50.
Theatrical road shows, $50.
Temporary wiring:
Conventions, displays, exhibits, and the like, including lighting, meters, and
other electrical equipment:
Up to 100,000 square feet of display area, $50.
Over 100,000 to 200,000, $100.
Over 200,000 to 300,000, $150.
Over 300,000 to 400,000, $200.
Over 400,000, $250.
Temporary outdoor decorative display, $50.
Electrical sign tag inspection:
Field inspection of signs necessitated by lack of Underwriter’s Laboratories,
Inc. inspection label shall be charged for on an hourly rate basis as specified
above and shall be in addition to the following schedule:
Each sign (including one circuit), $10 (provided inspection is made at the same
time and at the same location).
Each additional circuit, $4.
Registration of electrical contractor’s license, $15.
Journeyman’s license, $15.
Electrical contractor’s license, $50.
Master electrician, $15.
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2335) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 151.075 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges to be used relative
to the provisions of the Plumbing Code set forth in
Chapter 150 and any applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2336) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.076 INSTALLATION PERMITS.
   The total permit fee shall be calculated by multiplying the fee for each
unit being installed, replaced, altered or repaired by the total number of all
such units, with the provision that the minimum fee for any one permit shall be
$20. The unit fees shall be as follows:
   (A)   Fixtures. Each water closet, bathtub, shower, lavatory, sink (of any
description), urinal, bidet, laundry tray, floor drain, hot water tank,
drinking fountain, soda fountain, bar waste, grease interceptor, garbage
disposal, conductor trap, sump, dental chair, washing machine, air conditioner,
dishwasher, yard drain, manhole catch basin, heating coil, or special fixture,
and each stack (coil, waste, vent and inside conductor), pump or water lift, or
other connected device or piece of equipment, $8.50 per fixture.
   (B)   Water distribution systems:
 
Size (inches) Fee
3/4 to 1      $15
1¼ to 1½    25
2 to 4        50
Exceeding 4   60
 
   Replacement of piping, no increase in size, when made in conjunction with
installation or replacement of fixtures, $20.
   Fees for complete new systems shall be based on the size of the distribution
pipe at meter.
   Fees for alterations, enlargements and extensions shall be charged for each
new branch or extension according to its size at its connection with an
existing water distribution system, except that the total fees for water
distribution piping shall not exceed $75 for one permit; however, if the cost
of inspectional services rendered exceeds the permit fee, the excess shall be
charged at the hourly rate as specified in §
151.005.
   (C)   Fire or lawn sprinkler system. System installation fee shall include
fee for water distribution system plus an additional fee of $2 per head for the
first 100 sprinkler heads and $1 per sprinkler head over the first 100
sprinkler heads. Connection of the sprinkler system to the potable water system
shall be made by a master plumber under a separate permit.
   Exhaust hood fire control system, each hood or system, $20.
   (D)   Sewer taps:
         Each sewer tap, lateral, $20.
         Each sewer tap, truck, $75.
         Each sewer tap, connection outside city, $350, in public streets or
alleys.
   (E)   Pavement breaks. When pavement or sidewalk break is required to make
sewer tap or other connection, the permit fee for the saw-cut of pavement break
and filling in with sand and asphaltic patch shall be as follows:
         First 15 square feet, $30.
         Each additional square feet, $4.
         Fees for replacement of pavement by the city shall be:
          Pavement, first square yard, $200.
          Each additional square yard as needed for proper installation, $60.
         Sidewalk, first 25 square feet, $125.
         Each additional square foot, $5.
   (F)   Sewers (Drainage Permits):
      (Sewer installations outside of buildings)
         Lines 6 inches to 14 inches in diameter, $50.
         Lines over 14 inches in diameter, $75.
         Manholes, catch basins, each, $25.
   (G)   Drains:
         Storm drains inside of buildings underground or above ground (Plumbing
Permit)
         Storm drains outside of buildings (Drainage Permit):
         Lines 6 inches to 14 inches in diameter, $50.
         Manholes, batch basins, each, $25.
   (H)   Building sewer to building drain connection (Plumbing Permit):
         Crock to iron
         For each connection, when a new sewer and/or main drain is installed
         Minimum permit fee, $50.
   (I)   Transfer of permits:
         Each permit, $20.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2336) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.077 INSPECTION CHARGES.
   The permit fee for each plumbing permit shall normally include no more than
one rough inspection and/or one final inspection. All additional inspections
necessitated by the work not being ready or not being properly completed at the
time inspection was called for, all reinspection of violation corrections, all
inspections of repairs and/or alterations not covered in the permit fee
schedules, all overtime inspections, all special inspections not otherwise
provided for, and all extra inspections made at the request of the owner or the
contractor shall be charged for as described in §
151.005.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2333) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.078 REGISTRATION CHARGES.
   Registration fee for plumbing contractor is $1.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2339) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.079 LABORATORY TESTS.
   For the testing of materials, devices and various equipment not specifically
listed herein, to cover the cost of service incidental to the laboratory
testing involved; the charge for such service shall be $24 for each man hour or
fraction thereof.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2340) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.090 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges to be used relative
to the provisions of the Property Maintenance Code set forth in
Chapter 150 and pertinent sections of the Building Regulations and any
applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2341) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.091 REOCCUPANCY APPLICATION.
   Reoccupancy application fees include initial inspection, one reinspection of
corrections, if any required, and issuance of a full certificate of occupancy
when all corrections have been completed and reinspected.
   (A)   Single family, $75.
   (B)   Two or three family, per unit, $45.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2342) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.092 ANNUAL INSPECTION OF MULTI-FAMILY DWELLING.
   (A)   Annual inspections of multiple family dwellings of four or more units
will be conducted to assure compliance with the certificate of occupancy
requirements and resolve problems experienced with high turnover of
occupancies. Inspection charges shall be based on the fees listed in §
151.033.
   (B)   Common areas of apartment buildings and condominiums (other than
hallways and vestibules) shall be charged the following:
      (1)   Laundry rooms, $15.
      (2)   Recreation or meeting rooms, $15.
      (3)   Maintenance or equipment areas, $15.
      (4)   Swimming facilities, $25.
      (5)   Outdoor sports or activity areas, $15.
      (6)   Parking structures or garages - per level, $15.
      (7)   Commercial building - each unit, $50.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2343) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.093 ADDITIONAL INSPECTIONS.
   The following inspections not covered herein shall be charged the following
fees:
   (A)   Recall. Unable to gain entry at time of inspection, each building,
$20.
   (B)   Correction not completed at time of inspection, each unit, $20.
   (C)   Temporary certificate of occupancy - each unit, $15.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2344) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.094 SPECIAL INSPECTIONS.
   All special inspections, overtime inspections or informational inspections
made at the request of an owner or agent shall be charged for as specified in §
151.005.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2345) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.095 FEES FOR COPIES.
   The following fees for copies shall be as set forth below:
   (A)   Xerox copy of letter or certificate, per page, $.50.
   (B)   Retype certificate of occupancy, $2.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2346) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
REFRIGERATING SYSTEMS CODE
§ 151.105 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges to be used relative
to the provisions of the Refrigerating Systems Code as set forth in §§
150.110 through 151.112 and any applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2347) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.106 INSTALLATION PERMITS.
   The following charges for installation permits shall be as set forth below:
   (A)   Residential window air conditioners and through-the-wall models:
      First unit, $15.
      Additional units at the same location, each unit, $7.
   (B)   Self-contained systems activated by motors or engines:
         Five horsepower or less, each system, $27.
   (C)   Remote systems activated by motors or engines of five horsepower or
less, each system, $27.
   (D)   Systems and/or compressors activated by motors or engines:
         Over five horsepower to 50 horsepower, each, $45.
         Over 50 horsepower to 100 horsepower, each, $80.
         Over 100 horsepower, each, $100.
         Alterations to each system, $20.
      (This does not include additional compressors, such requiring
installation permits based on their horsepower.)
   (E)   Ductwork and air distribution systems, residential.
      Installation of complete system, $30.
      Addition to or alteration of existing system, $20.
   (F)   Ductwork and air distribution systems, alteration or repair, for
commercial or industrial installations shall have fees based on the unit costs
as specified in §
151.021)
(‘68 Code, § 6-2348) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.107 INSPECTION CHARGES.
   (A)   The permit fee for each refrigeration permit shall normally include no
more than one rough inspection and/or one final inspection. All additional
inspections necessitated by the work not being ready or not being properly
completed at the time inspection was called for, all reinspection of violation
corrections, all inspections of repairs and/or alterations not covered in the
permit fee schedules, all overtime inspections, all special inspections not
otherwise provided for, and all extra inspections made at the request of the
owner or the contractor shall be charged for as specified in §
151.005.
   (B)   The fee for special or shop inspections of refrigeration equipment,
each unit, each visit, shall be $75.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2349) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.108 REGISTRATION CHARGES.
   The registration fees for mechanical contractors shall be $15.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2350) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
FENCES
§ 151.120 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges to be used relative
to the provisions of the §§
150.160 through
150.165 and any applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2351) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.121 PERMIT FEES.
   (A)   Residential fences, erection, alteration, relocation or repair, each
line of fence, $20.
   (B)   Commercial and industrial fences. For the erection, alteration,
relocation or repair, permit fees shall be based upon the cost of the work
specified in §
151.023.
   (C)   Walls, when used as fences, shall be erected, altered or repaired
under a building permit with fees calculated as specified in §
151.023.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2352) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
SIGNS
§ 151.135 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges for permits to be
used relative to the provisions set forth in the Zoning Code and and any
applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2353) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.136 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees for the erection, relocation, alteration or repair of all signs
shall be as follows:
   (A)   Signs. Minimum fee for sign permits, $25.
   (B)   Erection permits:
      (1)   Billboards (not over 100 square feet in area), $25.
         Over 100 square feet in area or fraction thereof up to 200 square feet
per square foot, $6.
         Over 200 square feet in area or fraction thereof, up to 300 square
feet per square foot, $12.
      (2)   Wall signs:
         Not over 16 square feet in area, $25.
         Greater than 16 square feet in area but less than or equal to 100
square feet, $50.
      (3)   Projecting signs and marquees:
         Not over 16 square feet in area, $25.
         Greater than 16 square feet in area but less than or equal to 32
square feet, $50.
         Each additional 32 square feet in area or fraction thereof up to 50
square feet maximum, $4.
            Roof signs (not over 100 square feet in area), $25.
            Ground signs (not over 16 square feet in area), $25.
         Greater than 16 square feet in area but less than or equal to 100
square feet, $20.
         Each additional 100 square feet of display area or fraction thereof up
to 200 square feet, $6.
         See-through surface (same as ground sign up to 50% of the window area)
   (C)   Temporary signs and banners. All temporary signs, banner displays,
pennant strings or similar decorations shall be subject to a deposit, in
addition to the permit fee, to guarantee removal upon expiration of the
temporary permit. The fees and deposits will be as follows:
 
Size                    Permit
(square or lineal feet) Fee Deposit
150 or under            $20 $35
Over 150                40  35
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2354) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
CUTTING OF PUBLIC CURBS
§ 151.150 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges for permits to be
used relative to the provisions of §§
97.030 and
97.031 and any applicable ordinance of the city.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2355) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.151 PERMIT FEES.
   The permit fees for the cutting of all public curbs in the city shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Each lineal foot of curb to be cut and removed, $1.50
   (B)   Minimum fee for any one curb cut, $15.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2356) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
ZONING AND PLANNING
§ 151.160 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees and charges for applications for
rezonings, site plan reviews, special use permits and appeals under the Zoning
Code and Subdivision Control Regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2357) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.161 PLANNING COMMISSION FEES.
   Planning Commission fees for site plan review, subdivision review, rezoning
petitions, special use permits shall be the following:
   (A)   Site plan review:
      Commercial and industrial, $200, plus $20 per acre.
      Multiple dwelling, $200, plus $2 per unit.
      Subdivision review, $200, plus $2 per lot.
      Planned Central District, $300.
   (B)   Rezoning petitions and hearings, $300.
   (C)   Special use permits/conditions:
      Commercial and industrial, $200, plus $20 per acre.
      Special uses: hospitals, nursing homes, large group residential
facilities, $200.
   (D)   Board of zoning appeals
   Hearing at regular meeting, $250.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2358) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.162 REPORT AND DOCUMENT FEES.
   Fees for reports and documents shall be as follows:
Reports and Documents Fee
Reports and Documents                  Fee
Zoning ordinance                       $3.00
Zoning map                             1.00
Street map                             1.00
U.S.G.S. Map of the city               2.00
Comprehensive plan reports             4.00
Census data (over ten pages), per page .50
Tax maps/Address maps, per page        1.00
 
(BOCA publications may be obtained directly from BOCA, International.)
(‘68 Code, § 6-2359) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION
§ 151.175 SCOPE.
   This subchapter establishes fees for applications for assistance from the
Economic Development Corporation and any additional fee related to business
development assistance.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2360) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.176 APPLICATION FEE.
   Application for Economic Development Corporation bond inducements shall be
$300.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2361) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.177 BONDING COSTS.
   Bonding costs will include but not limited to fees for bond counsel,
trustees, public hearings, title insurance, consultants, travel and other
direct project expenses eligible under P.A. 338, Economic Development
Corporation Act of Michigan. These costs are the responsibility of the bond
recipient.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2362) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
RESIDENTIAL REHABILITATION PROGRAMS
§ 151.190 SCOPE.
   This subchapter establishes loan processing fees for residential
rehabilitation programs managed by the Community Development Department.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2363) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.191 LOAN PROCESSING FEES.
   The following fees will be charged for all services connected with
processing rehabilitation loans and assistance per dwelling unit:
 
Services          Fees
Inspection        $50
Credit report     30
Title search      27
Specifications    75
Mortgage recorded 15
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2364) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
HOMEOWNER PERMITS
§ 151.205 SCOPE.
   This subchapter establishes a policy to enable owner-occupants of
residential structures to apply for homeowner permits and adhere to the
established fee structure.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2365) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.206 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT; APPROVAL; FEE.
   Owner-occupants, owners of residential structures may apply for homeowner
permits if they are the primary resident. The applications are approved by the
department inspectors and subject to the fees described in this subchapter.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2366) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
FIRE INSPECTION FEES
§ 151.220 SCOPE.
   This subchapter establishes fees for handling, maintaining, and monitoring
processes which produce conditions hazardous to life and property.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2367) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.221 PERMIT APPLICATION; FEES.
   (A)   Applications for permits to install flammable liquid tanks and bulk
storage tanks and fire alarm systems are obtained from the Building Division
and approved by the Fire Department.
   (B)   The following fees for services and permits shall be as set forth
below:
Services and Permits Fees
Services and Permits                                                  Fees
Fire alarm system                                                     $125
Fire protection system                                                20
Fire suppression system:
Carbon dioxide system                                                 25
Dry chemical system                                                   25
Halogenated system                                                    25
Limited area sprinkler system                                         15
Automatic sprinkler system                                            25
Flammable and combustible liquids installation of storage tanks:
Not exceeding 550 gallons                                             25
Over 550 to 20,000 gallons                                            50
20,000 or more gallons                                                110
Removal, repair, testing, alter stationary tanks                      25
Storage                                                               10
Storage - Use of Class II or Class III                                15
Hazardous materials and chemicals                                     20
Liquified petroleum gases                                             50
Magnesium                                                             10
Matches                                                               10
Organic coatings                                                      10
All other permits                                                     10
Application of flammable fluids                                       15
Dry cleaning plants                                                   20
Dust explosion hazards                                                20
Fruit ripening processes                                              20
Fumigation and thermal insecticide                                    20
Lumber yards and woodworking plants                                   20
Ovens and furnaces                                                    20
Places of assembly                                                    20
Service stations and garages                                          20
Tents and air-supported structures                                    20
Vehicle tire rebuilding plants                                        $20
Vehicle wrecking yards, junk yards and waste material handling plants 20
Cellulose nitrate plastics                                            20
Combustible fibers                                                    20
Compressed gases                                                      25
Cellulose nitrate motion picture film                                 10
Cryogenic liquids                                                     25
Explosives, ammunition and blasting agents                            25
Fireworks                                                             25
 
(‘68 Code, § 6-2367) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
ENGINEERING AND SPECIAL PROJECT FEES
§ 151.235 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule for fees and charges for plan reviews,
consultations and inspections required to administer the Zoning Code and
Building Regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2368) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.236 INSPECTION AND CONSULTATION FEES.
   Fees covering the actual costs will be charged to obtain the contractual
services of landscape architects, architects, civil engineers and other
specialized consultant services (soil testing, materials testing, design
reviews, and the like) by the Community Development department will be the
responsibility of the recipient.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2369) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.237 AMOUNTS EXPENDED BY CITY FOR ENGINEERING SERVICES; REIMBURSEMENT BY
DEVELOPER.
   In addition to all other fees set forth in other ordinances of the city, the
following fee schedule shall apply to engineering services for planning and
inspection and for the cost of obtainment of easements in multi-family
projects, commercial developments and subdivisions: Whenever the city is
required to expend money for engineering services for planning or inspections
in connection with multi-family projects, commercial developments and
subdivisions, the developer shall be required to reimburse the city the amount
expended by the city for such services prior to final inspection or approval of
a subdivision plat.
(‘68 Code, § 6-1101) (Ord. 362, passed 6-1-70)
CITY-OWNED PROPERTY DISPOSITION
§ 151.250 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a schedule of fees to offset the cost of selling,
managing and administering the selling and disposition of city-owned
properties.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2370) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.251 ADMINISTRATIVE FEE.
   An administrative of $400 is charged for the sale of each city-owned
property in addition to charges for board-ups, utilities, property maintenance,
demolition, and the like.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2371) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 151.265 SCOPE.
   This subchapter provides a fee to offset the cost of advertising, posting
and preparing appeals to the Building Code, Property Maintenance Code,
Mechanical Code, Plumbing Code, Refrigerating Systems Code and Fence
regulations.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2372) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.266 APPLICATION; TRANSCRIPTIONS.
   An application to the Board of Appeals shall be accompanied by a fee of $25.
Transcriptions of the Board meeting is $25 per appeal for the entire meeting.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2373) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE FEES/ EMERGENCY
§ 151.275 SCOPE.
   Charges incurred by the city to perform emergency property maintenance and
repairs, such as board- ups, yard and building clean-ups, weed cuttings and
other actions will be the responsibility of the property owner.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2374) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Double permit fees an fine of $50 will be charged where installation
has been instituted prior to a permit being secured.
   (B)   Second violations of this chapter will involve the revocation of
registration of the contractor and issuance of any permits from the city to the
contractor until proper permits are obtained.
(‘68 Code, § 6-2376) (Ord. 646, passed 2-2-87)
CHAPTER 152: EXCAVATIONS AND QUARRYING OPERATIONS
Section
   
152.01   Permit required
   
152.02   Application for license; contents
   
152.03   Investigation required for application
   
152.04   Permit fee; expiration date
   
152.05   Bond; filing prerequisite
   
152.06   Regulations to be observed; prohibitions
   
152.07   Stagnant water; abatement notice required
   
152.08   Director of Public Services; duty to inspect
   
152.09   Completion of operations; restoration of land required
§ 152.01 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, exclusive of
governmental agencies, within the city, to engage in or carry on any excavating
operations, as a result of which the ground is removed below the natural level,
without a permit therefor issued by the city for each location or place where
such operations are not contemplated. However, temporary excavations for
building construction purposes shall not be deemed to be excavating or
quarrying where such excavation is made under a building permit issued under
the Building Code, and, no permit shall be granted for excavating or quarrying
operations as a commercial business in any area zoned as residential.
('68 Code, § 6-1601) (Ord. 92, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.02 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONTENTS.
   Application for a permit to engage in excavation or quarry operations shall
be made in writing to the City Council and filed with the City Clerk. It shall
give the name and address of the applicant, which, if it is a partnership or
corporation, shall be signed by the president or chief officer, and shall
contain the names of all partners and officers. It shall designate the location
of the proposed operation and a description of the extent of the operations to
be conducted. It shall also contain an agreement that the applicant, if granted
a permit, will comply with each and every provision and regulation imposed
herein or by the City Council for the safe and sanitary conduct of such
operations.
('68 Code, § 6-1602) (Ord. 92, passed - - )
§ 152.03 INVESTIGATION REQUIRED FOR APPLICATION.
   Such applications shall be referred to the Director of Public Services or
City Engineer, or both, who shall investigate the premises where any excavating
or quarrying is contemplated, and make recommendations to the City Council as
to adequate requirements and safeguards to be observed as a condition to the
granting of such permit.
('68 Code, § 6-1603) (Ord. 92, passed - - )
§ 152.04 PERMIT FEE; EXPIRATION DATE.
   The City Council upon receipt of an application properly certified to may
issue a permit for not more than one year to engage in or carry on excavating
or quarrying operations at the place specified in the application upon payment
to the City Treasurer of the sum of $100. Such permit shall expire as the City
Council may direct. Such permit fee shall be paid to the City Treasurer, at the
time of filing the application, who shall issue a receipt for the deposit only
of said fee.
('68 Code, § 6-1604) (Ord. 92, passed - - )
§ 152.05 BOND; FILING PREREQUISITE.
   Prior to the issuance of any license hereunder the licensee shall furnish a
surety bond in the sum of $1,000 in favor of the city, conditioned upon prompt
observance of all the terms and provisions of this chapter and conditions of
the permit.
('68 Code, § 6-1605) (Ord. 92, passed - - )
§ 152.06 REGULATIONS TO BE OBSERVED; PROHIBITIONS.
   Every permit holder hereunder shall observe the following regulations in
addition to special conditions of his permit.
   (A)   No excavating, quarrying or ground surface excavation shall be made
within ten feet of any public street or alley. However, where any excavating or
quarrying shall be made adjoining or adjacent to any public street or alley or
any building which shall be dangerous in the opinion of the Director of Public
Services, then upon notice thereof by said commissioner the parties shall be
required to shore up with timbers said excavation or otherwise make safe such
dangerous condition.
   (B)   Water, snow or ice shall not be permitted to stand or accumulate in
any excavation. Every licensee hereunder shall provide proper facilities for
removing, pumping and/or draining, as the case may be, all excavations where
snow, water or ice may accumulate within 24 hours after such snow, water or ice
accumulates.
   (C)   Any excavation in excess of six feet in depth as a result of
excavating or quarrying operations now existing or hereafter created shall be
properly fenced with a woven wire of at least ten gauge wire, masonry, concrete
or wood structure at least six feet high from the level of the ground. Where a
watchman is stationed 24 hours a day to exclude trespassers from such premises
excavated no fencing shall be required.
('68 Code, § 6-1606) (Ord. 92, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.07 STAGNANT WATER; ABATEMENT NOTICE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Water in excess of one foot permitted to accumulate and stand in any
excavation below the surface of the ground whether as a result of surface
excavating, quarrying, building or any other operation 24 hours after due
notice in writing thereof by the Director of Public Services shall be a public
nuisance. Such notice shall be forwarded by registered mail to the owner or
owners and/or lessee, tenants, permit holder or persons in charge of or
responsible for such excavation, provided, that if any or all of the aforesaid
cannot be located such notice shall be posted upon the premises where such
nuisance exists.
('68 Code, § 6-1607)
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Director of Public Services within three
days after giving of notice of such nuisance to proceed forthwith to abate the
same by removing or causing to be removed such accumulated water from any
excavation. The cost of abating said nuisance shall be forwarded to the owner
or owners of said premises which if not paid at the expiration of 60 days shall
be forwarded to the City Treasurer who shall proceed to assess the same against
the property on the miscellaneous assessment roll.
('68 Code, § 6-1608) (Ord. 92, passed - - )
§ 152.08 DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC SERVICES; DUTY TO INSPECT.
   The Director of Public Services is charged with the duty of making an
inspection of all premises, where excavating or quarrying operations are
permitted as often as may be deemed necessary. In and about such inspections
duly authorized agents of such department are authorized and permitted to enter
upon and inspect the said premises.
('68 Code, § 6-1609) (Ord. 92, passed - - )
§ 151.09 COMPLETION OF OPERATIONS; RESTORATION OF LAND REQUIRED.
   Upon the completion of any excavating or quarrying operation, land shall be
filled or left in a level condition providing for proper drainage suitable for
the growing of turf or other land uses permitted under the Zoning Code in the
district in which such removal occurs.
('68 Code, § 6-1610) (Ord. 92, passed - - )
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definition
   
153.02   Permit required
   
153.03   Application for permit
   
153.04   Fees
   
153.05   Billposting prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITION.
   SIGN. The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs or
trademarks by which anything is made known such as are used to show an
individual firm, profession or business, and are visible to the general public.
('68 Code, § 7-533) (Ord. 304, passed - - )
§ 153.02 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to erect, alter,
relocate, reassemble, display or maintain any sign as defined in this
subchapter within the city without having complied with all the terms and
provisions of this subchapter and obtained a permit therefor from the Building
Department.
('68 Code, § 7-531) (Ord. 304, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.03 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Applications shall be obtained from the Building Department for
permits to erect or maintain any sign, and shall be on forms prescribed by it,
and shall contain: the name and address of the applicant; the location of each
sign; and if a new sign, the name of the person, firm or corporation to engage
in or to be employed as sign hanger; the written consent of the owner or lessee
of the property upon which any sign is to be placed; a sufficient plan or
sketch of the sign and specifications of the material to be used in the
construction of such sign shall be submitted for approval if the sign is to be
electrically illuminated, the name of the electrician who is to connect the
wiring to the supply line must be specified, and it shall have an approved
Underwriter's Laboratory label number, together with an electrical permit
number.
   (B)   Electrical clocks, thermometers or similar devices shall, for the
purpose of this subchapter, be deemed to be signs.
   (C)   The Building Department shall require that all signs be constructed
and maintained in such a manner to safeguard the safety of persons and
property, and no permit shall be issued unless any existing sign, or the plans
for any new sign, meets such structural requirements as the Chief Building
Inspector shall determine as being necessary to insure safe and proper
construction and maintenance.
('68 Code, § 7-534) (Ord. 304, passed - - )
§ 153.04 FEES.
   All fees chargeable for the installation or erection of signs under this
subchapter shall be determined by City Council resolution.
('68 Code, § 7-535) (Ord. 304, passed - - )
§ 153.05 BILLPOSTING PROHIBITED.
   No placard, poster, circular, showbill, handbill, card, leaflet or other
advertising matter whatsoever except as herein defined shall be posted, pasted,
nailed, placed, printed, painted, stamped or in any way attached to any fence,
wall, post, tree, sidewalk, pavement, platform, pole, tower, curbstone surface
or in or upon any public property in the city.
('68 Code, § 7-532) (Ord. 304, passed - - ) Penalty, see §
10.99
Cross-reference:
   Handbills and circulars, see §§
110.01 through
110.10
CHAPTER 154: SUBDIVISION CONTROL REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.01   Title
   
154.02   Purpose
   
154.03   Definitions
Plat Procedure
   
154.15   Preliminary investigation
   
154.16   Preliminary plat; procedure
   
154.17   Information to be filed
   
154.18   Review by Planning Commission
   
154.19   Final approval of preliminary plat
   
154.20   Final plat approval
Design Standards
   
154.21   Development guidelines
   
154.22   Streets, alleys and rights-of-way
   
154.23   Lots
   
154.24   Blocks
   
154.25   Pedestrian ways
Required Improvements and Utilities
   
154.35   Required financial guarantee arrangements
   
154.36   Minimum standards for improvements
Public Reservations and Special Developments
   
154.50   Public sites and open spaces
   
154.51   Planned unit developments
Lot Splitting
   
154.60   Lot divided into two
   
154.61   Division into three or four lots
   
154.62   Fees; council resolution
   
154.63   Hearings
Administration
   
154.75   Variances
   
154.76   Fees, charges and deposits
 
   
154.99   Penalty
   
Appendix:   Subdivision plat procedure diagram
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Subdivision Control Regulations
of the city.
('68 Code, § 6-1401) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the orderly growth and
harmonious development of the community; to secure adequate traffic circulation
through coordinated street systems with relation to major thoroughfares,
adjoining subdivisions and public facilities; to achieve individual property
lots of maximum utility and livability; to secure adequate provisions for water
supply, drainage and sanitary sewer facilities, and other health requirements;
to secure adequate provisions for recreational areas, school sites and other
public facilities; and to provide logical procedures for the achievement of
these purposes.
('68 Code, § 6-1402) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSION. The City Planning Commission.
   COUNCIL. The City Council.
   CITY PLANNER or PLANNER. The staff planner or consulting planner of the
city.
   CITY ENGINEER or ENGINEER. The staff engineer or consulting engineer for the
city.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by the public,
a corporation or persons, for specific uses and purposes, and shall be
designated a public or private easement, depending on the nature of the user
and in conformance with the Subdivision Control Act of the state.
   LOT. A parcel or portion of land separated from other parcels or portions by
descriptions as in a subdivision or on a record survey map or by metes and
bounds for purposes of sale, lease, or separate use.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A composite of the graphic and written proposals
recommending the physical development of the community which shall have been
duly adopted by the Commission.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, culverts,
bridges, utilities and other additions to the natural state of land, which
increases its value, utility or habitability.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. That part of the general development plan which
sets forth the location, alignment and dimensions of existing and proposed
major thoroughfares.
   PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE. Any security which may be accepted by the Council in
lieu of a requirement that certain improvements be made prior to approval of a
final plat, including performance bonds, escrow agreements, and other similar
collateral or surety agreement.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE ONE) is a map showing the proposed
layout of the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate basis for
review and assistance by the appropriate city officials.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE TWO) is a map showing the salient feature
of a proposed subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of
preliminary consideration, prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Control
Act.
      (3)   FINAL PLAT is a map prepared in conformance with the requirements
of the Subdivision Control Act 288 of 1967, as amended, and this chapter, and
suitable for recording by the County Register of Deeds.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. A firm, corporation, co-partnership or municipal authority
providing gas, electricity, water, steam, telephone, sewer, transportation or
other services of a similar nature.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, land, parkway, viaduct, alley
or other way which is an existing state, county or municipal roadway; or a
street or way shown on a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved
by official action; or a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in the
office of the County Register of Deeds; and including the land between the
street lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement,
shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, lawn areas, and other areas,
within the street lines.
      (1)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARES.  Arterial streets of considerable continuity
which carry a large volume of both private and commercial vehicles.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREETS. Streets carrying traffic from minor streets to
major streets, including principal entrance streets of a residential
development.
      (3)   MINOR STREETS. Streets which are used primarily for access to
abutting residential properties.
      (4)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS. Minor streets which are parallel and
adjacent to major thoroughfares and highways, and which provide access to
abutting properties and protection from through traffic.
      (5)   CUL-DE-SACS. Short streets having one end permanently terminated by
a vehicular turn- around.
      (6)   ALLEYS.  Minor ways which are used primarily to provide vehicular
access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a street.
   SUBDIVIDER. Any individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation,
trust, or any other legal entity presenting a subdivision plat for approval.
   SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof, or by his heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns, for the purposes of sale or lease of
more than one year, or of building development, where the act of division
creates five or more parcels of land, each of which is ten acres or less in
area are created by successive divisions within a period of ten years.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. The Subdivision Control Act 288, Michigan Public
Acts of 1967, as amended.
   ZONING CODE. The Zoning Code of the city.
('68 Code, § 6-1403) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
PLAT PROCEDURE
§ 154.15 PRELIMINARY INVESTIGATION.
   Prior to the preparation of a preliminary plat, the subdivider shall meet
informally with the City Planner and/or City Engineer and other representatives
of the public service departments to investigate the procedures and standards
of the city, State Subdivision Control Act and the master plan or any other
proposals which affect the area of the proposed subdivision. It is the
responsibility of the subdivider to:
   (A)   Familiarize himself with the Zoning Ordinance Subdivision Control Act,
engineering specifications, and other ordinances or controls relative to the
subdivision and improvement of land, so as to acquaint himself with the
requirements of the city.
   (B)   Investigate the adequacy of existing schools, open space, recreation
areas and other public facilities to serve the proposed subdivision.
   (C)   Review the relationship of the proposed subdivision with the existing
street system.
   (D)   Investigate the standards for sewage disposal, water supply and
drainage of the city, the health standards of the county and the state, and the
standards of the public utility companies.
   (E)   Review Act 288, Public Acts 1967, and the requirements of the state
and county agencies which are required by the said Act to review and approve
the plat.
('68 Code, § 6-1404) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.16 PRELIMINARY PLAT; PROCEDURE.
   The procedure under this stage for preparation and submittal of a
preliminary plat of the land area to be subdivided shall be as set forth in
this subchapter.
('68 Code, § 6-1405) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.17 INFORMATION TO BE FILED.
   (A)   Ten copies of the preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
together with written application in triplicate, shall be submitted to the City
Clerk to be distributed as follows:
      (1)   City Clerk shall retain two copies.
      (2)   Five copies to the Planning Commission and City Planner.
      (3)   Two copies to the City Engineer.
      (4)   One copy to the appropriate school district superintendent.
   (B)   Information required. The following information shall be shown on the
preliminary plat or submitted with it:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision.
      (2)   Location of subdivision giving the metes and bounds description
according to section, township, range, and the name of the city and county.
      (3)   Names and addresses of the proprietor, owner, land planner and
sealed by a registered civil engineer, or registered surveyor who is
responsible for the layout of the subdivision.
      (4)   The preliminary plat shall be on paper and shall not be less than
24 inches by 36 inches at a scale of not less than 100 feet to one inch,
showing date and north direction indicated.
      (5)   Ten copies of the proposed protective covenant and deed
restrictions, if any.
      (6)   Layout of streets indicating proposed street names, right-of-way
widths and connections with adjoining platted streets and also the location of
streets and alleys, easements and public walkways. This shall also include
parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside for public use or for the
use of property owners in the subdivision.
      (7)   Location of existing and proposed sanitary sewers, water mains,
storm drains and other underground facilities and public utilities.
      (8)   An indication of the ownership, and existing and proposed use of
any parcels identified as excepted on the preliminary plat. If the proprietor
has an interest or owns any parcel so identified as excepted, the preliminary
plat shall indicate how this property could be developed in accordance with the
requirements of the existing zoning district at which it is located and with an
acceptable relationship to the layout of the proposed preliminary plat.
      (9)   Contours shall be shown at two-foot intervals where slope is
greater than 10% less. Contours shall extend 20 feet from lot line onto
adjacent property.
      (10)   It shall contain data for streets, water, sewers, sidewalks and
other utilities where possible. The engineering plans contain enough detail to
enable the City Engineer to make a determination as to the general conformance
of the proposed improvements to applicable municipal regulations and standards.
      (11)   Location of 50-year flood contour with relation to either a river,
county drain and/or natural water source where more than one square mile of
drain basin exists upstream or where required by the City Engineer.
      (12)   In the case where the proprietor wishes to subdivide a given area,
but wishes to begin with only a portion of the total area, the preliminary plat
shall include the proposed general layout for the entire area. The part which
is proposed to be subdivided first shall be clearly superimposed upon the
overall plan in order to illustrate clearly the method of development which the
proprietor intends to follow. Each subsequent plat shall follow the same
procedure until the entire area controlled by the proprietor and/or developer
is subdivided.
      (13)   Soil borings when required by the City Engineer.
('68 Code, § 6-1405(a)) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.18 REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The preliminary plat shall be placed on the agenda of the next
regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. Written recommendation
from the City Planner and City Engineer and public service department may also
be submitted to the Commission for review.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat and
recommend approval, provisional approval or denial.
      (1)   If approval is granted, the Chairperson of the Planning Commission
shall sign three copies of the preliminary plat and retain one copy for
permanent record. One copy shall be returned to the proprietor and one copy
forwarded to the City Council with a written report of the findings by the
Planning Commission and its recommendation for approval.
      (2)   If provisional approval is granted, it shall be the responsibility
of the proprietor to resubmit amended plans conforming to the specified
modifications within 15 days of the date of this provisional approval. Failure
to respond or notify will automatically mean disapproval. When the modified
plan is submitted, the City Planner and the City Engineer shall review the plan
to determine if it conforms to the modifications required. If the preliminary
plat does conform, it shall then be submitted to the City Council with a
recommendation of tentative approval.
      (3)   If the Planning Commission disapproves the preliminary plat, the
minutes of the meeting shall explicitly record the reasons for disapproval and
the copy forwarded to the proprietor. The City Council shall receive a copy of
the minutes and shall act to accept or reject the recommendation of the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall give its report to the City Council
within 60 days after submission of the preliminary plat. This 60-day period may
be extended if the proprietor/developer consents, but in no case over an
additional 30 days.
('68 Code, § 6-1405(b)) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.19 FINAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   (A)   Final approval of the preliminary plat shall confer upon the
subdivider for a period of one year from date of approval, the conditional
right that the general terms and conditions under which the preliminary plat
was approved will not be changed. The one-year period may be extended if
applied for by the proprietor/developer and granted by the City Council, in
writing.
   (B)   Submittals. The proprietor/developer shall submit evidence of approval
of the preliminary plat by:
      (1)   County Road Commission.
      (2)   Wayne County Drain Commission.
      (3)   State Highway Department if state highways or trunk lines are
involved.
      (4)   The State Conservation Department, if land abuts a lake, stream,
channel or lagoon.
      (5)   State Water Resources Commission, if it lies within a flood plain,
or proof from said commission if it does not.
      (6)   County Health Department.
      (7)   County Plat Board.
      (8)   All public utilities servicing the area to be subdivided.
      (9)   All railroad companies abutting the proposed subdivision.
      (10)   Copy of the receipt from the City Treasurer that all engineering
inspection fees, and other charges and deposits, as provided in §
154.76, have been paid.
      (11)   Final engineering construction plans for all improvements to be
constructed in connection with the proposed plat in accordance with the
standards and specifications of the City Engineer and City Council.
   (C)   Procedures. The City Council, after receipt of the necessary approved
copies of the preliminary plat, shall:
      (1)   Consider the review and recommendations of the City Planner and
City Engineer for compliance with tentative approved preliminary plat and
engineering design standards.
      (2)   Consider the preliminary plat at its next meeting or within 20 days
from the date of the submission of all necessary approved plats.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat conforms substantially to the plan approved
tentatively by the City Council and has met all conditions specified for
tentative approval, the City Council shall give the final approval to the
preliminary plat.
      (4)   The City Clerk shall notify the proprietor/developer of approval or
rejection in writing, and if rejected, shall give the reasons.
      (5)   Construction of improvements and up to five model homes may
commence by the proprietor/developer if he has:
         (a)   Received notice of final approval of the preliminary plat by the
City Council, and engineering plans have been approved by the City Engineer.
         (b)   Entered into a subdivision agreement with the city for
constructing all required subdivision improvements.
         (c)   Deposited with the city a performance guarantee and cash escrow
as required under §
154.35.
         (d)   No certificate of occupancy shall be issued until such time as
the plat has been installed and accepted by the city.
('68 Code, § 6-1405(c)) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.20 FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   Following final approval of the preliminary plat by the city council, the
proprietor/developer shall cause a survey and five true plats thereof to be
made by a surveyor.
   (A)   Submittal. Five wash-off mylar copies and five paper prints of the
final plat shall be filed by the proprietor/developer with the City Clerk and
shall deposit such sums of money as the City Council may require herein or by
other ordinances. Submittal to the City Clerk shall be at least ten days prior
to a regularly scheduled meeting of the City Council, which meeting shall be
considered as the date of filing.
   (B)   All final plats of subdivided land shall comply with the provisions of
the State Subdivision Control Act of 1967, and shall conform to the approved
preliminary plat.
   (C)   Procedure.
      (1)   The final plat shall be reviewed by the City Planner and City
Engineer as to compliance with the approved preliminary plat and final
construction plans for utilities and other improvements.
      (2)   The City Council shall review all recommendations and take action
of the final plat within 20 days of its date of filing and shall:
         (a)   Approve the plat if it conforms to all provisions of this Act
and instruct the City Clerk to certify on the plat the City Council's approval,
showing the date of approval.
         (b)   Reject the plat, instruct the City Clerk to give the reasons in
writing as set forth in the minutes of the meeting, and return the plat to the
proprietor/developer.
      (3)   The City Clerk shall transcribe a certificate of approval of the
City Council on the plat and deliver all copies to the Clerk of the County Plat
Board, together with filing and recording fee required by the Plat Act.
('68 Code, § 6-1401(d)) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
DESIGN STANDARDS
§ 154.21 DEVELOPMENT GUIDELINES.
   The following design standards are intended as development guidelines to
sound land planning and should be considered as the minimum standards for
subdivision development within the city.
('68 Code, § 6-1401(d)) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.22 STREETS, ALLEYS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   Streets shall conform to, at least, all minimum requirements of the general
specifications of this article of this chapter and shall conform to the right
of standards of the City and the County Planning Commission.
   (A)   Layout. The layout of a proposed street shall provide for the
continuation of existing streets in surrounding areas and/or shall conform to a
plan for the neighborhood approved by the Planning Commission in codes where
topographical or other natural or unnatural conditions preclude the
continuation of existing streets. Such streets shall be of width as great as
that of the street so extended. Local residential streets shall be laid out as
to discourage their use by through traffic.
   (B)   Major thoroughfares. When a subdivision abuts or contains an existing
or proposed major thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may require marginal
access streets, reverse frontage or such other treatment as may be necessary
for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.
   (C)   Private streets and alleys. Private streets and alleys shall be
prohibited unless located at the rear of commercial or industrial uses.
   (D)   Access to property. Each residential lot within a subdivision shall be
provided with a satisfactory means of access. Building permits shall not be
issued for the construction of buildings which do not have access on a public
street. There shall be no reserve strips controlling access to a street except
where the control of such streets is definitely dedicated to the city.
   (E)   Intersections. Intersecting streets shall be laid out so that the
intersection angle is as nearly possible to 90°. Streets converging at one
point shall be reduced to the least practicable number.
   (F)   Dead-end streets. When adjoining and not platted, the arrangements of
streets in new subdivisions shall be extended to the boundary lines of the
tract to make provision for the future projection of streets into adjacent
areas. A one-foot public reserve may be required to be placed between stub
streets and subdivision boundaries.
   (G)   Street names. Street names shall not be permitted which might cause
confusion for purposes of assessing mail delivery, or locating by the public
with names of existing streets in or near the city. Streets that will be
continuations of existing streets shall be called by the same names of such
existing streets.
   (H)   Building lines and setback lines. Building lines and setback lines
shall conform to the requirements of the Zoning Code.
   (I)   Street alignment.
      (1)   (a)   Minimum horizontal centerline radii of curvature shall be:
            1.   Major thoroughfares, 700 feet radius.
            2.   Collector streets, 450 feet radius.
         (b)   A minimum 50 feet tangent shall be introduced between reverse
curves on local streets, 100 hundred feet on major thoroughfares, except that
upon recommendation of the City Engineer an exception may be granted by the
City Council.
      (2)   Visibility requirements.
         (a)   Minimum vertical visibility (measured from 4½ feet eye level to
18 inch taillight) shall be:
            1.   Five hundred feet on major thoroughfares.
            2.   Three hundred feet on secondary streets or collection streets.
            3.   Two hundred feet on local streets.
            4.   One hundred feet on local streets.
      (3)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 150
feet shall be avoided.
      (4)   Intersection. Curved streets intersecting with major or secondary
thoroughfares shall do so with a tangent section of centerline 100 feet in
length measured from the right-of-way of the major collection thoroughfares and
at 90°, except that upon recommendation of the City Engineer, an exception may
be granted by the City Council.
   (J)   Surface drainage. Adequate and safe disposal of all yard drainage
shall be provided in accordance with specifications prescribed by the City
Engineer.
   (K)   Street right-of-way widths.
      (1)   Street right-of-way widths shall conform to, at least, the
following minimum requirements:
Rights-of-Way Feet
Rights-of-Way                           Feet
Major thoroughfares                     120
Collector streets                       86
Industrial, commercial and multi-family 86
Service streets                         60
Local residential streets               60
Marginal access streets                 34
Alleys                                  20
Turn-around (loop) streets              120
Cul-de-sac streets                      60, radius
 
      (2)   Maximum length of residential and industrial cul-de-sac shall not
exceed 600 feet and shall end in a circle 120 feet in diameter.
('68 Code, § 6-1406) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.23 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivision shall conform to the following standards:
   (a)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed for
residential uses shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
   (B)   Lot areas, widths, yards, percentage of lot coverage shall conform, at
least, to the minimum requirements of the Zoning Code for the district in which
the subdivision is proposed.
   (C)   Corner lots in single-family plats shall be platted at least ten feet
wider than the minimum width permitted by the Zoning Code.
   (D)   Excessive lot depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A depth to
width ratio of three to one shall normally be considered maximum.
   (E)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, setbacks and other requirements in accordance with the
Zoning Code.
   (F)   Arrangements of lot size:
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut a street.
      (2)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible.
('68 Code, § 6-1407) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.24 BLOCKS.
   The size and shape of blocks shall be appropriate for the type of lots and
land use proposed. Blocks shall be designed so as to permit good lot
orientation, safe street design and economical use of land.
   (A)   Maximum length. Maximum length of blocks, measured between
intersecting street centerlines, shall not exceed 1,320 feet. If, however, 51%
of subdivided lots are twice the minimum width in zoning district, then the
Planning Commission may grant an exception.
   (B)   Minimum length. Minimum block length shall not be less than 500 feet.
   (C)   Width. Width of blocks shall be equal to two tiers of lots and shall
not be less than 240 feet.
   (D)   Nonresidential blocks. Blocks intended for purposes other than
residential shall be especially designed for such purposes, shall have adequate
provision for off-street parking and loading in accordance with the
requirements of the Zoning Code.
('68 Code, § 6-1408) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.25 PEDESTRIAN WAYS.
   (A)   Crosswalks. Right-of-way for pedestrian crosswalks in the middle of
blocks exceeding 1,000 feet in length may be required, where necessary, to
obtain convenient pedestrian circulation to schools, parks, commercial centers,
and the like. This crosswalk shall be, at least, ten feet wide and shall extend
completely across the block.
   (B)   Surfacing. The walkway surface shall be five feet in width and shall
be constructed to meet city concrete sidewalk specifications. A four-foot chain
link fence shall be erected along the right-of-way lines.
('68 Code, § 6-1409) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
154.99
REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS AND UTILITIES
§ 154.35 REQUIRED FINANCIAL GUARANTEE ARRANGEMENTS.
   The proprietor/developer shall be required to provide financial security in
one or a combination of the following arrangements, whichever the proprietor/
developer decides.
   (A)   Escrow fund. A deposit by certified check, sufficient to cover the
cost of the contemplated improvements as estimated by the city, shall be
deposited with the City Treasurer. The escrow deposit shall be for the
estimated time period necessary to complete the required improvements.
   (B)   Irrevocable letter of credit.
      (1)   An irrevocable letter of credit issued by a bank authorized to do
business in the state in an amount to cover the cost of the contemplated
improvements as estimated.
      (2)   The City Council may rebate or release to the proprietor/developer,
as the work progresses, amounts commensurating to the ratio of the contemplated
and accepted work of the total project.
   (C)   In case the subdivider shall fail to complete the required public
improvements work within such time periods, the City Council may proceed to
have such work completed and reimburse itself for the cost thereof by
appropriating the cash deposit, certified check, surety bond, or by drawing
upon the letter of credit.
   (D)   Prior to the acceptance by the city of improvements, a one-year
maintenance bond in an amount equal to 100% of the total cost shall be
deposited by the proprietor/developer.
('68 Code, § 6-1410) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.36 MINIMUM STANDARDS FOR IMPROVEMENTS.
   The improvements set forth under this article should be considered as the
minimum acceptable standards.
   (A)   Requirements for underground wiring. This proprietor/developer shall
make all arrangements necessary for all utility lines (electric, telephone, to
be cable television or other services distributed by wire or cable) placed
underground entirely throughout a subdivided area. Where a major thoroughfare
is affected, such conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements
provided to such service companies by the developer or within dedicated public
ways. Overhead lines shall only be permitted upon the approval of the Planning
Commission and City Council where there is no harm to the health, safety,
welfare, plat design and character of subdivision. All facilities placed in
dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other
underground utilities. All facilities should be constructed as per the
requirements of the State Public Service Commission. All drainage and
underground utilities which traverse privately owned property shall be
protected by easements granted by the proprietor/developer.
   (B)   Street pavement. Street improvements shall be provided by the
proprietor/developer in accordance with standards and specifications of the
city engineer and the Wayne County Road Commission where jurisdiction is
involved.
Street Type Pavement Width (measured in feet from face to curb to face to curb)
Street Type               Pavement Width (measured in feet from face to curb to
                          face to curb)
Major thoroughfare        60
Collector streets         33
Multi-family residential:
Dedicated                 31
Undedicated               24
Minor residential streets 27
Alley                     20
 
   (C)   Sewage disposal. A sanitary sewer system, including all appurtenances,
shall be required in all subdivisions which shall connect and outlet into the
City's sanitary sewer system and shall meet all requirements of the City
Engineer.
   (D)   Water supply. A public water supply system shall be required and water
mains, fire hydrants and necessary water system appurtenances shall be
constructed in such a manner as to adequately serve all lots shown on the plat,
both for domestic use and fire protection. Standards and specifications shall
be prescribed by the City Engineer.
   (E)   Curbs and gutters. Roll or batter curbs shall be constructed on all
streets shown on the plat in accordance with standards and specifications of
the City Engineer.
   (F)   Sidewalks. Five-foot concrete sidewalks shall be constructed along
both sides of all streets shown on the plat. Sidewalks should be located in the
street right-of-way on streets, including major thoroughfares, collector
streets and minor streets.
   (G)   Street trees. Existing trees near street rights-of-way shall be
preserved by the proprietor, where possible; street trees shall be provided at
least one per lot line in the street right-of-way between the sidewalk and the
curb, when possible.
   (H)   Street signs. For the proper identification of streets, the
proprietor/developer shall provide and erect signs that are of permanent
weather-resistant construction at each intersection. Location of signs shall
also be approved by the Chief of Police.
   (I)   Street lights. Street lights shall be provided in accordance with the
standards of the Detroit Edison Company.
   (J)   Storm drainage. An adequate storm drainage system, including necessary
storm sewers, catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges, and other
appurtenances, shall be required in all subdivisions. Adequate provision shall
be made for proper drainage of storm water run-off from residential rear yards.
('68 Code, § 6-1411) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
154.99
PUBLIC RESERVATIONS AND SPECIAL DEVELOPMENTS
§ 154.50 PUBLIC SITES AND OPEN SPACES.
   (A)   Where a site for a park, playground, playfield, school, library, fire
station or other public uses deemed necessary by the Planning Commission to
fulfill the objectives of the Comprehensive Development Plan, the Commission
may recommend the reservation of such areas within the subdivisions.
      (1)   Upon determination by the respective public agency that space for
the public facility is required, the agency involved shall, within 90 days,
enter into an agreement to purchase the site,
      (2)   Acquisition of the site shall be accomplished within three years.
   (B)   Reservation of other public open spaces may be required where deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission for preservation of historic sites and
scenic areas or for a particular type of development proposed in the
subdivision but not anticipated in the Comprehensive Plan.
   (C)   Dedication of greenbelts or buffer parks may be required by the
Planning Commission in areas where they are desirable to separate and protect
residential subdivisions from adjacent commercial developments, highways,
streets and railroads or any obnoxious use.
('68 Code, § 6-1413) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.51 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENTS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission will consider plats designed for special
developments which may require modification or adjustment of these design
standards. Modifications may be made to allow:
      (1)   Cluster housing which need not front on a public street.
      (2)   Reduced lot size to accommodate the sale of townhouse units.
      (3)   Common private open spaces.
      (4)   Condominium or cooperative developments.
   (B)   Application for the development under this section shall be made in
writing and shall be supplemented with maps, plans, or other additional data
which may aid the Planning Commission and City Council in the analysis of the
proposed plat.
('68 Code, § 6-1414) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
LOT SPLITTING
§ 154.60 LOT DIVIDED INTO TWO.
   Such a lot, outlot or parcel may be divided into not more than two new lots,
outlots or parcels upon application to and approval of the City Assessor. The
fact of such division shall be noted upon the assessment roll and thereafter
each separate parcel shall be considered to be a single lot, outlot or parcel
for tax assessment purposes and all other purposes. No such division shall be
permitted unless each separate parcel meets the minimum requirements of the
Zoning Code, including the requirements as to width, area and open spaces. In
those cases where water, sewer or other services have been installed within the
plat by special assessment and the lot, outlot or parcel proposed to be divided
has been assessed therefor, no division shall be permitted unless the applicant
agrees, in writing, to pay into the special assessment district an additional
amount to be determined by the assessor representing the increased share of the
cost of the special assessment district which should be borne by said lot,
outlot or parcel as the result of increased benefit received by said lot,
outlot or parcel when divided into two separate lots, outlots or parcels.
('68 Code, § 6-1417) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.61 DIVISION INTO THREE OR FOUR LOTS.
   (A)   Such lot, outlot or parcel may be divided into more than two but not
more than four separate lots, outlots or parcels upon application to and
approval by the Planning Commission. A survey showing such proposed divisions
prepared by a registered civil engineer or land surveyor and including a proper
legal description of each separate lot, outlot or parcel proposed shall be
submitted with the application. The application shall be filed with the Clerk
at least ten days prior to the regular commission meeting at which time the
applicant is scheduled to appear. A copy of the application and the survey
shall be forwarded to the City Planner for recommendation. Should the
Commission approve the requested division, it shall notify the assessor and the
fact of such a division shall be noted upon the assessment roll and thereafter,
the divided portions of the lot, outlot or parcel shall be considered to be
separate lots, outlots or parcels for tax assessment and all other purposes.
   (B)   No such division shall be permitted unless each of the parts into
which such lot, outlot or parcel is to be divided meets the minimum
requirements of the Zoning Code, including requirements as to width, area and
open spaces. In those cases where water, sewer or other services have been
installed within the plat by special assessment and the lot proposed to be
divided has been assessed therefor, no division shall be permitted unless the
applicant agrees in writing to pay into the special assessment district which
should be borne by said divided lot, outlot or parcel due to increased benefits
received by said lot, outlot or parcel when divided into three or four such
lots, outlots or parcels.
('68 Code, § 6-1418) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73) Penalty, see §
154.99
§ 154.62 FEES; COUNCIL RESOLUTION.
   The City Council shall, by resolution, determine the fees to be charged in
connection with such applications.
('68 Code, § 6-1419) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.63 HEARINGS.
   Any person aggrieved by any action of the City Assessor or Planning
Commission shall be entitled to a hearing before the City Council. Such hearing
shall be requested in writing to the City Clerk and shall be held at the next
regular meeting of the City Council, occurring not less than ten days after
filing of the request. The City Council may, after the hearing, modify or
reverse any decision of the Assessor or Planning Commission.
('68 Code, § 6-1420) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 154.75 VARIANCES.
   The Planning Commission may recommend to the City Council a variance from
the provisions of this chapter on a finding that application of such provision
or requirement is impracticable. The Planning Commission shall only recommend
variances that it deems necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In
making its findings, as required herein below, the Planning Commission shall
take into account the nature of the proposed use of land and the existing use
of land in the vicinity, the number of persons to reside or work in the
proposed subdivision, and the probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon
traffic conditions in the vicinity. No variance shall be recommended unless the
Planning Commission finds after a public hearing:
   (A)   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impracticable or unreasonable. In such cases, the subdivider shall
first state his reasons in writing as to the specific provision or requirement
involved and submit them to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   That the granting of the specified variance will not be detrimental to
the public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated.
   (C)   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the State
Subdivision Control Act.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall include its findings and the specific
reasons therefor in its report of recommendations to the City Council, and
shall also record its reasons and action in its minutes.
   (E)   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the interest
and purpose of this chapter and the Comprehensive Development Plan.
('68 Code, § 6-1412) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.76 FEES, CHARGES AND DEPOSITS.
   (A)   At the time of submission of the preliminary plat, and prior to
consideration or review thereof by the city, the proprietor shall deposit a
review fee with the Clerk of the city, such fee to be computed as follows:
      (1)   In the case of a subdivision of one-family lots, $300 plus $4.25
per lot or acre, whichever is higher;
      (2)   In the case of residential subdivision designed to contain at
least, in part, lots for residential buildings other than one-family
residences, $400 plus $4.25 per dwelling unit or acre, whichever is higher; or
      (3)   In the case of a planned unit development or other subdivision
containing residential and nonresidential lots, $300 plus $4.25 per lot or
dwelling unit or acre, whichever is higher.
('68 Code, § 6-1415) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
   (B)   Final plat fees and charges. At the time of submission of the final
plat, the proprietor shall deposit with the city fees computed as follows:
      (1)   A fee of $20 as provided in Section 241 of Act 288, Public Acts of
Michigan of 1967, or such other amount as may hereafter be provided by statute;
      (2)   Such fees and charges for water and sewer connections, inspection
fees, fee for special meetings of governmental agencies, engineering fees for
field work on site, and other official fees and charges as may be established
by ordinance or resolution of the city; and
      (3)   Such fees, charges or deposits as may be required pursuant to
Section 125, 182, 188 or 192 of Act 288, Public Acts of Michigan of 1967.
('68 Code, § 6-1415) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
§ 154.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter,
whether such person be the owner or agent of the owner of the property, shall
be fined not to exceed the sum of $500 and the cost of prosecution, or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both, at the discretion of the
court.
   (B)   Each day such violation shall exist shall constitute a separate
offense. Furthermore, all persons shall be subject to the penalties set forth
in Section 264 of the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, Act 288, Public Acts of
1967.
('68 Code, § 6-1421) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
APPENDIX: SUBDIVISION PLAT PROCEDURE DIAGRAM
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3763.jpg]
 
('68 Code, Appendix) (Ord. 434, passed 1-24-73)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING CODE
Publisher's Note: This Chapter has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
Section
General Provisions
   
155.011   Title
   
155.012   Enactment
   
155.013   Applicability and jurisdiction
   
155.014   Intent
   
155.015   Rules of interpretation and application
   
155.016   Conflicting provisions
   
155.017   Transitional provisions
   
155.018   Construction of language
   
155.019   Reconstruction of damaged properties
   
155.020   Vested rights prohibited
   
155.021   Conflict of laws and prohibited land uses
   
155.022   Reserved through §
155.028
   
155.029   Definitions
Districts and Boundaries; Maps; Schedule of Land Uses
   
155.031   Districts established
   
155.032   Zoning map
   
155.033   Interpretation of district boundaries
   
155.034   Zoning of vacated areas
   
155.035   Zoning of annexed areas
   
155.036   Schedule of land uses
   
155.037   Reserved through § 155.039
Zoning District Regulations
   
155.041   R-1A through R-1C One-Family Residential Districts
   
155.042   RM Restricted Multiple-Family Dwelling District
   
155.043   RM-1 Multiple-Family Dwelling District
   
155.044   O-1 Office Building District
   
155.045   B-1 Local Business District
   
155.046   B-2 Thoroughfare Mixed-Use District
   
155.047   B-3 General Business District
   
155.048   M-1 Light Industrial District
   
155.049   TCD Town Center District
   
155.050   Reserved through § 155.059
Schedule of Regulations
   
155.061   Schedule of regulations
   
155.062   Reserved through § 155.069
General Development Standards
   
155.071   Intent
   
155.072   Architectural features
   
155.073   Site design features
   
155.074   Walls
   
155.075   Waste receptacle (dumpster), storage screening, or collection bins
   
155.076   Exterior lighting and security cameras
   
155.077   Off-street parking
   
155.078   Accessible parking for physically disabled persons
   
155.079   Off-street loading and unloading
   
155.080   Parking lot landscaping
   
155.081   Use restriction
   
155.082   Height, area and use exceptions
   
155.083   Required site development
Special Land Use Standards
   
155.111   Intent
   
155.112   Child and adult foster care facilities
   
155.113   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers (not including
dormitories)
   
155.114   Nursing and convalescent homes
   
155.115   Religious institutions
   
155.116   Senior housing, assisted living facility and similar types of housing
for the elderly
   
155.117   Private noncommercial recreation area; institutional or community
recreation centers
   
155.118   Golf courses
   
155.119   Colleges, universities and other institutions of higher learning
   
155.120   Business, trade, vocational and similar learning institutions
   
155.121   Townhomes and duplexes
   
155.122   Multiple-family dwellings (three stories or less)
   
155.123   Multiple-family dwellings (four stories or greater)
   
155.124   Mixed-use business and residential buildings
   
155.125   General hospitals
   
155.126   Automobile service stations
   
155.127   Vehicle washing facilities
   
155.128   Minor vehicle repair facilities
   
155.129   Major vehicle repair facilities
   
155.130   Carry-out, fast food, drive-through or drive-in restaurants
   
155.131   Motels or hotels
   
155.132   Self-storage facilities
   
155.133   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of new or pre-owned vehicles
or house trailers
   
155.134   Outdoor sales of automobiles and other vehicles
   
155.135   Greenhouse and florist operations involving the growing, wholesaling,
and/or retailing of plant materials
   
155.136   Open air business
   
155.137   Research and development facilities
   
155.138   Junk yards
   
155.139   Contractors’ offices and yards
   
155.140   Manufactured housing communities
   
155.141   Outdoor theaters
   
155.142   Floodplain zones; National Flood Insurance Program
   
155.143   Standards for processing bio-diesel fuels
   
155.144   Tattoo establishments
   
155.145   Charitable gaming room
   
155.146   Standards for all medical marijuana facilities
   
155.147   Commercial warehouse and wholesale operations
   
155.148   Medical marijuana provisioning centers
   
155.149   Temporary pop-up commercial use
   
155.149A   Mobile food vending
   
155.149B   Mobile food court or park
   
155.150   Medical marijuana processing facilities
   
155.150A   Medical marijuana testing facilities
   
155.150B   Medical marijuana transportation facilities
   
155.150C   Medical marijuana cultivation facilities
Alternative Development Options
   
155.151   Condominium development
   
155.152   Planned unit development
   
155.153   Lot averaging for one-family developments
   
155.154   Reserved through § 155.159
Performance Standards
   
155.161   Intent
   
155.162   Scope of application
   
155.163   Submission of additional data
   
155.164   Performance standards
   
155.165   Procedures for determining compliance
   
155.166   Continued violation
   
155.167   Appeals
   
155.168   Reserved through § 155.179
Nonconforming Uses and Structures
   
155.181   Intent
   
155.182   Nonconforming lots
   
155.183   Nonconforming uses of land
   
155.184   Nonconforming structures
   
155.185   Nonconforming uses of structures
   
155.186   Repairs and maintenance
   
155.186A   Preferred class designations
   
155.187   Change of tenancy or ownership
   
155.188   Reserved through § 155.199
Regulated Uses
   
155.201   Intent
   
155.202   Establishment
   
155.203   Review and action procedures
   
155.204   Invalidation of regulated use permits
   
155.205   Massage establishments
   
155.206   Reserved
   
155.207   Appeals procedure
   
155.208   Reserved
   
155.209   Reserved
Wireless Communications Towers and Antennas
   
155.211   Intent
   
155.212   Definitions
   
155.213   Applicability
   
155.214   General requirements
   
155.215   Permitted uses
   
155.216   Special land use permits
   
155.217   Insurance obligation
Location Restrictions
   
155.218   Theaters, assembly halls, concert halls, clubs and similar
organizations
   
155.219   Reserved through § 155.229
Signs
   
155.231   Intent
   
155.232   Scope of requirements
   
155.233   Definitions
   
155.234   Review, action and inspection
   
155.235   Obsolete signs
   
155.236   Nonconforming signs
   
155.237   Alteration of signs
   
155.238   Compliance with the zoning code
   
155.239   Appeal to the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
155.240   Registration of sign contractors; licensing and bonding
   
155.241   General limitations and provisions
   
155.242   Structural requirements and mounting
   
155.243   Motorist visibility
   
155.244   Illumination
   
155.245   Measurement
   
155.246   Reserved
   
155.247   Reserved
   
155.248   Reserved
   
155.249   Reserved
   
155.250   Residential district signs
   
155.251   Business and office district signs
   
155.252   Industrial district signs
   
155.253   Tables and figures
   
155.254   Reserved
   
155.255   Severability clause
   
155.256   Waiver process
   
155.257   Reserved through § 155.259
Public Art
   
155.261   Murals
   
155.262   Mural regulations
   
155.263   Reserved through § 155.269
Powers and Duties of Boards and Departments
   
155.271   City Council
   
155.272   City Planning Commission
   
155.273   Community Development Department
   
155.274   Building Department
   
155.275   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
155.276   Reserved through § 155.279
Administration, Enforcement and Penalties
   
155.281   Enforcement authority
   
155.282   Duties of the Building Official or other official responsible for
code enforcement
   
155.283   Plot plan
   
155.284   Permit requirements
   
155.285   Certificate of occupancy and re-occupancy
   
155.286   Site plan review (all districts)
   
155.287   Standards for site plan approval
   
155.288   Procedures for special land use review
   
155.289   Standards for special land use approval
   
155.290   Special meetings
   
155.291   Public hearing notification requirements
   
155.292   Fee structure   
   
155.293   Performance guarantee
   
155.294   Changes and amendments
   
155.295   Final inspection
   
155.296   Public nuisance and abatement
   
155.297   Owner’s liability to punishment
   
155.298   Rights and remedies are cumulative
   
155.299   (Reserved)
   
155.300   Imposition of penalty does not exempt compliance with requirements
   
155.301   Severability
   
155.302   Savings
   
155.303   Validity
   
155.304   Time limitations on orders
   
155.305   Reserved through § 155.319
Repeal and Effective Date
   
155.321   Repeal
   
155.322   Effective date
 
   
155.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Blight violations, see
Chapter 156
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.011 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and officially cited as the “Zoning Code of the
City of Inkster, Michigan.” It may be referred to in this document as the
“Zoning Code.”
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.012 ENACTMENT.
   This zoning code is enacted pursuant to the powers granted and limitation
imposed by the laws of the State of Michigan, including statutory authority
granted in the City and Village Zoning Public Act 207 of 1921, as amended. See
§
155.322 for terms of enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.013 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all land within the city,
including land owned by local, county, state or federal agencies.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.014 INTENT.
   This chapter is adopted to guide and regulate the orderly location, use and
development of lands to promote public health, safety, morals, comfort,
convenience, character and general welfare. The regulations are intended to:
   (A)   Classify all property into districts to reflect its suitability for
particular uses and to protect all areas of the city from harmful encroachment
by incompatible land uses;
   (B)   Provide for adequate light, air, privacy and convenient access to
property, prevent overcrowding of land with buildings and avoid undue
congestion of population;
   (C)   Lessen undue congestion in public streets by providing for off-street
parking of motor vehicles and off-street loading and unloading of commercial
vehicles;
   (D)   Facilitate adequate and efficient provision for transportation
systems, sewage disposal, water, energy, education, recreation and other public
service and facility needs;
   (E)   Conserve property values;
   (F)   Regulate the location, construction, reconstruction, alteration and
use of buildings, structures and land; and, set reasonable standards to which
buildings, structures and uses shall conform;
   (G)   Provide for the elimination of nonconforming buildings and structures,
property, uses of land and uses of buildings and structures;
   (H)   Protect natural resources and environmentally sensitive areas;
   (I)   Promote a desirable visual and socially active environment through
creative development techniques and good civic design;
   (J)   Define the powers and duties of administrative officials and bodies,
legislative bodies and Zoning Board of Appeals; and
   (K)   Provide for enforcement and penalties for violations of the zoning
code and subsequent amendments.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.015 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application, the provisions of this chapter shall
be held to be minimum requirements adopted for the promotion of the public
health, morals, safety, comfort, convenience, character or general welfare.
This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way to impair
or interfere with any existing provision of law or ordinance other than
previous zoning code and all amendments thereto which are hereby repealed, or
with any rules, regulations or permits previously adopted or issued or which
shall be adopted or issued pursuant to the law relating to the use of buildings
or premises.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.016 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted or construed to give
rise to any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any particular use,
district, zoning classification or any permissible activities therein; and they
are hereby declared to be subject to subsequent amendment, change or
modification as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of public
health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   Where the provisions of this chapter are more restrictive than imposed
by private agreement, including but not limited to deed restrictions, the
provisions of this chapter shall prevail. If the provisions of private
agreement are more restrictive than imposed by this chapter, the provisions of
the private agreement shall prevail.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.017 TRANSITIONAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Violations of the previous zoning code will continue to be a violation
under this chapter and be subject to enforcement and penalties under §§
155.281 through
155.303, Administration, Enforcement and Penalties, unless the use,
development, construction or other activity complies with the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Legal nonconformities under the previous zoning code will continue to
be a legal nonconformity under this chapter if the situation that resulted in
the nonconforming status continues to exist. If nonconformity under the
previous zoning code becomes conforming under this chapter, then the
nonconforming situation will be removed.
   (C)   Permits and approvals that are valid prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall remain valid until their expiration date. Projects with
valid approvals or permits may be completed in accordance with standards and
regulations in effect at the time of approval, provided permit or approvals are
valid and not expired.
   (D)   Completed permit applications and other approvals, submitted before
the effective date of this chapter and pending approval at the time of the
effective date of this chapter may, at the applicant’s request, be reviewed and
completed in accordance with the previous zoning code. Re-application for an
expired permit shall meet the standards in effect at the time of re-
application.
   (E)   Projects that have not been accepted as complete shall be subject to
all requirements and standards of this chapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.018 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules of construction apply to this chapter:
   (A)   The particular shall control the general;
   (B)   The text shall control any difference in meaning or implication
between the text of this chapter and any caption or illustration;
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in present tense shall include the future and words used in
singular number shall include the plural, unless clearly indicated to the
contrary;
   (E)   The word “person” includes an individual, a corporation, a
partnership, an unincorporated association or other similar entity;
   (F)   Two or more conditions, provisions or events connected by a
conjunction shall be interpreted as follows, unless the context clearly
indicates the contrary:
      (1)   “And” indicates that connected conditions, provisions and events
shall apply;
      (2)   “Or” indicates that connected conditions, provisions and events may
apply singularly or in combination;
      (3)   “Either/or” indicates that connected conditions, provisions and
events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (G)   Terms not defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned to them.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.019 RECONSTRUCTION OF DAMAGED PROPERTIES.
   (A)   Regulations and standards in this chapter shall not prevent the
reconstruction, repairing or rebuilding and continued use of buildings or
structures damaged by fire, total collapse, explosion or act of God which
requires the approval of the Community Development Department or any Board or
Commission, provided that the cost of reconstruction shall not exceed 50% of
the assessed valuation of the building at the time such damage occurred. Any
such activity exceeding the 50% assessed valuation may be reestablished upon
approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Any previously zoned residential properties which have been rezoned to
a business zoning classification shall be allowed to be reconstructed, repaired
or rebuilt and the use of the property shall be continued as a residential use
in the event that the structure is damaged by fire, total collapse, explosion
or other act of God to 100% of the assessed valuation of the structure at the
time such damage occurred, provided all of the following conditions are
complied with:
      (1)   A plan for the reconstruction, repair, rebuilding and/or continued
use of the structure shall be submitted and approved by the Building
Department;
      (2)   That the structure shall only be reconstructed, repaired and/or
rebuilt for use as a single family residence;
      (3)   That the structure shall be reconstructed, repaired and/or rebuilt
within six months of the time such damage to the structure occurred. The owner
of the structure may petition the City Council for an extension of the six-
month period provided that he or she can establish that reasonable progress has
been made to reconstruct, repair and/or rebuild the structure;
      (4)   That a liability and fire and casualty insurance policy shall be
continuously maintained for the full assessed value of the structure;
      (5)   That a letter or other documentation, acceptable to the city, shall
be submitted to the city by the property owner’s mortgage lender indicating
that any proceeds received from any loss occasioned by fire, collapse,
explosion or other act of God shall be utilized to reconstruct, repair and/or
rebuild the structure; and
      (6)   That the owner(s), lender(s) and/or insurer(s) of the structure
shall comply with all other codes, ordinances and regulations of the city.
   (C)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of this section
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon the conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 and the costs of prosecution or by
imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 798, passed 3-3-03; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-
17)
§ 155.020 VESTED RIGHTS PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this chapter should be interpreted or construed to give rise to
any permanent vested rights in the continuation of any particular use,
district, zoning classification or any permissible activities therein; and they
are hereby declared to be subject to subsequent amendment, change or
modification as may be necessary to the preservation or protection of public
health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.021 CONFLICT OF LAWS AND PROHIBITED LAND USES.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   Uses not expressly permitted are prohibited. Uses for enterprises or
purposes that are contrary to federal, state or local laws or ordinances are
prohibited.
   (B)   This prohibition shall not apply to the following:
      (1)   A qualifying patient engaged in the medical use of marijuana in his
or her own residence in accordance with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act.
      (2)   A primary caregiver assisting a qualifying patient with whom he or
she is connected through the Michigan Department of Community Health’s
registration process with the medical use of marijuana in accordance with the
Michigan Medical Marihuana Act.
      (3)   A facility licensed by the city and the State of Michigan in
compliance with Public Act 281 of 2016, the Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act, as amended.
(Ord. 852, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.022 through § 155.028 RESERVED.
§ 155.029 DEFINITIONS.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUT OR ABUTTING. Having a common border with.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. A building or structure clearly incidental
to, customarily found in connection with, and located on the same zoning lot or
site (groups of lots used together) as the principal structure to which it is
related. An ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE includes, but is not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Any detached building/structure or any building/structure which
does not share a common footing wall with the main structure on the premises.
      (2)   Any structure attached to the main building on the premises via a
roof overhang, breezeway, porch, or other similar form of attachment.
      (3)   Barns, sheds and similar structures.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use clearly incidental to, customarily found in connection
with, and (except in the case or accessory off-street parking spaces or
loading) located on the same zoning lot as the principal use to which it is
related. An ACCESSORY USE includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Swimming pools for use of the occupants of a residence or their
guests;
      (2)   Domestic or agricultural storage in a barn, shed, tool room or
similar accessory building or other structure;
      (3)   A newsstand primarily for the convenience of the occupants of a
building, which is located wholly within such building and has no exterior
signs or displays;
      (4)   Storage of merchandise normally carried in stock in connection with
a business or industrial use, unless such storage is excluded from the
applicable district regulations;
      (5)   Storage of goods used in or produced by industrial uses or related
activities, unless such storage is excluded in the applicable district
regulations;
      (6)   Accessory off-street parking spaces, open or enclosed, subject to
all requirements of this chapter;
      (7)   Accessory off-street loading, subject to all requirements of this
chapter;
      (8)   Accessory signs, subject to the sign regulations of this chapter;
      (9)   Garden plots subject to all requirements of this chapter; and
      (10)   Similar incidental uses.
   ADDITION. Construction or alteration of a building or structure that
increases the square footage, number of dwelling units, bulk or other extent.
   ADJACENT. Same as ABUT or ABUTTING.
   ADULT AMUSEMENT DEVICE CENTER. An enclosed building containing coin-operated
amusement devices or machines for presenting material for observation by
patrons therein, distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing, or relating to “specific sexual activities” or specified
anatomical areas”, as defined below.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE. A business having as its principal activity the sale of
books, magazines, newspapers, and motion picture films which are characterized
by their emphasis on portrayals of human genitals and pubic regions or acts of
human masturbation, sexual intercourse or sodomy.
   ADULT BUSINESS ACTIVITY. A business whose principal service or activity is
one of the following types of businesses: adult live conduct business, adult
bookstore, adult motion picture theater, adult mini-motion picture theater,
adult personal service business.
   ADULT LIVE CONDUCT ACTIVITY. Any work or entertainment activity carried on
in a business where the physical human body is nude, as defined below.
      (1)   NUDE. Having less than completely and/or opaquely covered human
genitals, pubic region, buttock, or female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola.
      (2)   NUDE MODELING STUDIO. A business where an employee or entertainment
personnel appears in nude (as defined below) and is also provided or allowed to
be observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted, photographed, or similarly
depicted to customers.
      (3)   SEXUAL ACTIVITIES AND ANATOMICAL AREAS. For the purposes of this
chapter, “specified sexual activities” shall include:
         (a)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
         (b)   Acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, or sodomy.
         (c)   Fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttock, or female breast. For the purposes of this section, “specified
anatomical areas” is defined as:
            1.   Less than complete and/or opaquely covered human, pubic
region, buttock, or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola.
            2.   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   ADULT LIVE CONDUCT BUSINESS. A business, any part of whose service or
function consists of adult live conduct activity (as defined above) whether as
work assignment or entertainment.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity for
less than 50 persons used for presenting material for observation by patrons
therein, distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting,
describing, or relating to “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas,” as defined in this section.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An enclosed building with a capacity of 50 or
more persons used for presenting material, for observation by patrons therein,
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter depicted, described, or
relating to “specific sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas,” as
defined below.
   ADULT OUTDOOR MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An exterior area used for presenting
material, for observation by patrons, distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on matter depicted, described, or relating to “specific sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas,” as defined.
   ADULT PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS. A business whose activities include a
person, while nude (as defined above) providing personal services for another
person on an individual basis in a closed room. It includes, but is not limited
to, the following activities and services: massage parlors, exotic rubs,
modeling studios, body painting studios, wrestling studios, individual
theatrical performances. It does not include activities performed by persons
pursuant to, and in accordance with, licenses issued to such persons by the
state.
   ADULT SUPPLY STORE. A business selling or offering merchandise that is
characterized by emphasis on the act of human masturbation, sexual intercourse
or sodomy or portrayal of human genitals and pubic regions.
   AGRICULTURE. Farms and general farming, including horticulture,
floriculture, dairying, livestock and poultry raising, farm forestry and other
similar enterprises or uses, but no farm shall be operated as piggeries or for
the disposal of garbage, sewage, rubbish, offal or rendering plants, or for the
slaughtering of animals, except such animals as have been raised on the
premises or have been maintained on the premises for at least a period of one
year immediately prior thereto and for the use and consumption of persons
residing on the premises.
   ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction or type of
occupancy, any change in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as altered or reconstructed.
   APARTMENT. A room or suite of rooms in a multiple-family building arranged
and intended for a place of residence of a single-family or group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
      (1)   LOFT. A dwelling unit in a building originally constructed for
other than primarily residential use containing one or more rooms or enclosed
floor space arranged for living, eating, sleeping and/or home occupations; such
units shall include bathroom and kitchen facilities as required by applicable
codes.
      (2)   EFFICIENCY STUDIO APARTMENT. A dwelling unit containing not over
500 square feet of floor area, and consisting of not more than one room in
addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities, and for the
purposes of computing density shall be considered as a one-room unit.
      (3)   ONE-BEDROOM UNIT. A dwelling unit containing a minimum floor area
of at least 600 square feet per unit, consisting of not more than two rooms in
addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities and for the
purposes of computing density shall be considered a two-room unit.
      (4)   TWO-BEDROOM UNIT. A dwelling unit containing a minimum floor area
of at least 750 square feet per unit, consisting of not more than three rooms
in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities, and for the
purpose of computing density shall be considered as a three-room unit.
      (5)   THREE OR MORE BEDROOM UNIT. A dwelling unit containing wherein for
each room, in addition to the three rooms permitted in a two-bedroom unit,
there shall be provided for the first additional room, an additional area of
150 square feet and 200 square feet for the second or more additional rooms to
the minimum area of 750 square feet. For the purpose of computing density, said
three-bedroom unit shall be considered a four-room unit, and each increase in a
bedroom over three shall be an increase in the room count by one over the four.
   ARCADE. A place, premises or establishment or room set aside in a retail or
commercial establishment in which three or more coin-operated amusement devises
are located, defined herein as a machine or devise operated by means of the
insertion of a coin, token or similar object, for the purpose of amusement or
skill and for the playing of which a fee is charged.
   ARENA. An enclosed structure with tiers of seats rising around a sports
field, playing court or public exhibition area.
   ASSEMBLY HALL. An enclosed space of assembly for the exclusive use of the
owners of the facility or by the members of the association controlling the
premises.
   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility providing responsible adult supervision
of or assistance with routine living functions of an individual in an instance
where the individual’s condition necessitates that supervision or assistance.
Permitted services include but are not limited to staff-supervised meals,
housekeeping and personal care, medication supervision and social activities.
Facilities providing regular care under supervision of physicians are not
considered assisted living facilities.
   AUTOMOBILE. All passenger cars, as well as light duty trucks, vans and sport
utility vehicles.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in
underground tanks), kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease (for
operation of automobiles) are retailed directly to public on premises,
including sale of minor accessories and minor services for automobiles.
   BASEMENT. That portion of a building, which is partly or wholly below grade,
but so located that, the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor
below is greater than the average grade to the ceiling. A basement shall not be
counted as a story.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4075.jpg]
 
   BED AND BREAKFAST INN. A single-family residential structure that meets the
following criteria:
      (1)    Has eight or fewer sleeping rooms, including sleeping rooms
occupied by the innkeeper, one or more of which are available for rent to
transient tenants.
      (2)    Serves breakfast at no extra cost to its transient tenants.
      (3)    Has a smoke detector in proper working order in every sleeping
room and a fire extinguisher in proper working order on every floor.
   BLOCK. The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets (crossing or terminating) or between the nearest
such street and railroad right-of-way unsubdivided acreage, river or live
stream, or between the foregoing and any other barrier to development, or
corporate boundary lines of the city.
   BLOCK FACE. All lots abutting both sides of a street between two
intersecting points.
   BOARD. The Zoning Board of Appeals.
   BOARDING HOUSE OR ROOMING HOUSE. A building other than a hotel where for
compensation and by pre-arrangement for definite periods, meals or lodging and
meals are provided for three or more persons, but not exceeding ten sleeping
rooms. A rooming house or a furnished room house shall be deemed a BOARDING
HOUSE for the purposes of this chapter.
   BREWPUB. A facility licensed by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission, in
conjunction with a Class “C” tavern, Class “A” hotel, or Class “B” hotel, that
annually manufactures and sells not more than 2,000 barrels of beer only for
consumption therein.
   BUFFER ZONES. A strip of land reserved for plant material, berms, walls, or
fencing to serve as a visual and/or sound barrier between properties, often
between abutting properties and properties in different zoning districts.
Landscaping berms, fencing or open space can also be used to buffer noise,
light and related impacts from abutting properties.
   BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof and
used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind. This shall include tents, awnings or vehicles situated on
private property and used for purposes of a building. The word BUILDING
includes the word structure, and dwelling includes residence. A BUILDING or
structure includes any part thereof.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established grade
to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line of
mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable, hip
and gambrel roofs. Where a building is located on sloping terrain, the height
may be measured from the average ground level of the grade at the building
wall.
   BUILDING LINE. A line formed by the face of the building, and for the
purposes of this chapter a minimum BUILDING LINE is the same as a front setback
line.
   BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the principal
use of the lot which it is situated.
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. An individual established by the city to administer and
enforce the provisions of all building codes as adopted and amended.
   CARPORT. A partially open structure, intended to shelter one or more
vehicles. Such structures shall comply with all yard requirements applicable to
garages.
   CHANGE OF OCCUPANCY. A discontinuance of an existing use and the
substitution or the addition thereto of a use of a different kind or class.
   CHARITABLE GAMING ROOM. A building or space within a building used, owned,
rented, or leased by non-profit qualified organizations for gaming activities
permitted pursuant to Michigan Public Act 382 of 1972, as amended.
   CHURCH. A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship
and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship, together with all accessory buildings and uses customarily
associated with such primary purpose. Includes churches, synagogue, temple,
mosque, or other such place for worship and religious activities.
   CLINIC. An establishment where human patients, who are not lodged overnight,
are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians, dentists
or similar professions.
   CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature, politics or the like, but
not operated for profit.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. All motor vehicles used for the transportation of
passengers for hire, or constructed or used for the transportation of goods,
wares or merchandise or all motor vehicles designed and used for drawing other
vehicles.
   COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Inkster.
   COMMON AREA, GENERAL. That portion of a site condominium project designed
and intended for joint ownership and maintenance by the condominium association
as described in the condominium master deed.
   COMMON AREA, LIMITED. That portion of a site condominium project designed
and intended for separate ownership, but outside the building setbacks for the
zoning district the property is located in as described in the condominium
master deed.
   COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT. Includes the Community Development
Director, the City Planner, and other City Official(s) authorized to administer
the Zoning Regulations on a day-to-day basis, including but not limited to
processing applications, granting ministerial approvals, maintaining the
records of Planning Commission actions, ending notices of public hearings, and
similar work.
   CONDOMINIUM. Ownership in common with others of a parcel of land and certain
parts of a building thereon which would normally be used by all of the
occupants, such as yards, foundations, basements, floors, walls, hallways,
stairways, elevators and all other related common elements, together with
individual ownership in fee of a particular dwelling unit in such building.
Condominiums shall be subject to the regulations set forth in Michigan Public
Act 59 of 1978, as amended.
   CONDOMINIUM MASTER DEED. The document recorded as part of a condominium
subdivision to which are attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the
approved bylaws for the condominium subdivision and the condominium subdivision
plan.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. A division of land on the basis of condominium
ownership, pursuant to the Condominium Act and which is not subject to the
provisions of the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended. Also
known as a site condominium.
   CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. The drawings attached to the master deed for a
condominium subdivision project which describe the size, location, area,
horizontal and vertical boundaries and volume of each condominium unit
contained in the condominium subdivision project, as well as the nature,
location and size of common elements.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. That portion of a condominium project or condominium
subdivision project which is designed and intended for separate ownership and
use, as described in the master deed, regardless of whether it is intended for
residential, office, industrial, business, recreational use as a time-share
unit, or any other type of use. A CONDOMINIUM UNIT may consist of either vacant
land or space which either encloses or is enclosed by a building structure. Any
CONDOMINIUM UNIT consisting of vacant land shall be equivalent to the term
“lot” for the purposes of determining compliance of a condominium subdivision
project with the provisions of this chapter pertaining to minimum lot size,
minimum lot width, maximum lot coverage and maximum floor area ratio.
   CONVALESCENT AND NURSING HOME. An installation other than a hospital or
private home where two or more persons afflicted with illness, injury or an
infirmity are housed or lodged, and furnished with 24 hour nursing care.
Restorative therapies may be provided as an accessory use and clearly
incidental to the facility’s primary function.
   CONVENIENCE RETAIL STORE. A one story, retail store that is designed and
stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to
customers who purchase only a relatively few items (in contrast to a
“supermarket”). CONVENIENCE RETAIL STORES are designed to attract a large
volume of stop-and-go traffic.
   COUNCIL. The City Council of the City of Inkster.
   COURT. An open, unoccupied space, other than a yard, and bounded on at least
two sides by a building. A court extending to the front yard or front lot line
or to the rear yard or rear lot line is outer court. Any other court is an
inner court.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street ending in a turn-around designed and intended as a
permanent or temporary terminus.
   DAY CARE.
      (1)   CHILD DAY CARE (HOME). A private home in which more than six but
not more than 12 minor children are given care and supervision for periods of
less than 24 hours unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. The
state shall license these facilities.
      (2)   CHILD DAY CARE. A facility other than a private residence,
receiving one or more minor children for care periods of less than 24 hours a
day, and where the parents or guardians are not immediately available to the
child. The facility is generally described as child care center, day care
center, day nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative preschool, play group,
or drop-in center. Childcare center or day care center does not include a
Sunday school conducted by a religious organization where children are cared
for during short periods of time while persons responsible for such services
are attending religious activities. The state shall license these facilities.
      (3)   ADULT DAY CARE. A facility, whether in a private home or
institutional setting, providing temporary care and supervision for persons 18
years of age or older. Care is provided for periods of less than 24 hours a
day. The state shall license these facilities.
      (4)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A licensed day care center in a private home
as an accessory use in which more than 6 but less than 12 minor children are
given care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours per day and for
more than four weeks during a calendar year.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units situated on or to be developed on a
net acre (or smaller unit) of land, which shall be calculated by taking the
total gross acreage and subtracting surface water, undevelopable lands (e.g.,
wetlands) and the area in rights-of-way for streets and roads.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction of a new building or other structures on a
zoning lot, the relocation of an existing building on another zoning lot, or
the use of open land for a new use. Development also means any man-made change
to improved or unimproved real estate, including but not limited to parking,
fences, pools, signs, temporary uses, clearing of land, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the incorporated area of the city within which
certain regulations and requirements or various combinations thereof apply
under the provisions of this chapter.
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is primarily dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking
spaces for motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle
rather than within a building or structure.
   DRIVE-THROUGH. A business establishment, or portion thereof, developed to
serve patrons in motor vehicles from a designated lane providing access to a
service window.
   DRIVEWAY. A means of access for vehicles from a street or approved alley
across a lot or parcel to a parking or loading area, garage, dwelling or other
structure or area on the same lot, that is located and constructed in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter and any requirements of the
city or state.
   DRY CLEANING PLANT. A building, portion of a building, or premises used or
intended to be used for cleaning fabrics, textiles, wearing apparel, or
articles of any sort by immersion and agitation, or by immersions only, in
volatile solvents including, but not by way of limitation, solvents of the
petroleum distillate type, and/or the chlorinated hydrocarbon type, and the
processes incidental thereto.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building or portion thereof designed for
occupancy by three or more families living independently of each other.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by one
family.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by two
families, independent of each other, such as a duplex dwelling unit.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or a portion thereof, designed for occupancy by
one family for residential purposes and having cooking and sanitary facilities.
   EASEMENT. A right, distinct from the ownership of the land, to cross
property with facilities such as, but not limited to, driveways, roads, utility
corridors, sewer lines, water lines, and transmission lines, or the right,
distinct from the ownership of the land, to reserve and hold an area for open
space, recreation, drainage or access purposes.
   EMERGENCY SHELTER. A facility providing congregate style temporary lodging
with or without meals and ancillary services to primarily the homeless for more
than four weeks in any calendar year. An emergency shelter does not provide
lodging to any individual who is required because of age, mental disability or
other reason to reside in a private or public institution or to any individual
who is imprisoned or otherwise detained pursuant to federal or state law. An
EMERGENCY SHELTER shall be considered a different land use than an adult foster
care facility or nursing homes.
   ENCLOSED. Surrounded on all sides.
   ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon or any
physical operations on the premises which are required for the construction.
Excavation, fill, drainage and the like shall be considered a part of erection.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance by
public utilities or municipal departments or commissions of underground,
surface or overhead gas, electrical, steam, fuel or water transmission or
distribution systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems,
including mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm
boxes, police call boxes, traffic signals, hydrants, towers, poles and other
similar equipment and accessories in connection therewith, reasonably necessary
for the furnishing of adequate service by such public utilities or municipal
departments or commissions for the public health, safety or general welfare,
but not including buildings other than such primary enclosures or shelters for
the above essential service equipment.
   EXCAVATION. Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening and
ground care.
   FAMILY. One or two persons or parents, with their direct lineal descendants
and adopted children (and including the domestic employees thereof) together
with not more than two persons not so related, living together in the whole or
part of a dwelling comprising a single housekeeping unit. Every additional
group of two or less persons living in such housekeeping unit shall be
considered a separate FAMILY for the purpose of this chapter.
   FILLING. The depositing or dumping of any matter onto or into the ground,
except common household gardening and ground care.
   FIREARMS SALES ESTABLISHMENT. A place of business of a firearms dealer. A
firearms dealer is any person engaged in the wholesale or retail sale of
firearms, the repair of firearms, or the creation or fitting of special
barrels, stocks, or trigger mechanisms for firearms. A FIREARMS SALES
ESTABLISHMENT shall be defined as only those establishments principally engaged
in the display or sale of firearms or ammunition. A FIREARMS SALES
ESTABLISHMENT is not a store of a generally recognized retail nature, which may
include firearms or ammunition as an incidental and accessory use.
   FLOODPLAIN. See §
155.142, National Flood Insurance Program, for specific definitions.
   FLOOR AREA, GROSS. The sum total of all floors of a building as measured
from the interior faces of the exterior walls. Stairwells and elevator shafts
are excluded from this definition for the purpose of area calculations.
   FLOOR AREA, RESIDENTIAL. For the purposes of computing the minimum allowable
FLOOR AREA in a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of
each story of the building measured from the interior faces of the exterior
walls. The FLOOR AREA measurement is exclusive of areas of basements,
unfinished attics, attached garages, breezeways, and enclosed and unenclosed
porches.
   FOOD TRUCK. A self-contained, motorized vehicle, identified generically as a
MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT, which is used for the preparation and distribution or
sale of food.
   FOSTER CARE FACILITIES.
      (1)   ADULT FOSTER FAMILY HOME. An establishment that provides
supervision, assistance, protection or personal care, in addition to room and
board, to seven or more adults. An adult foster care facility is other than a
home for the aged or a nursing home or a mental hospital for mental patients or
a pre-release adjustment center. The state shall license these facilities.
      (2)   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A private home in which more than four
but fewer than seven minor children, who are not related to an adult member of
the household by blood, marriage, guardianship or adoption, are provided care
for 24 hours a day, for four or more days a week, for two or more consecutive
weeks, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
      (3)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A private home in which one but not more than
four minor children, who are not related to an adult member of the household by
blood, marriage, guardianship or adoption, are given care and supervision for
24 hours a day, or four or more days a week, of two or more consecutive weeks,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE. An accessory building for parking or storage of not more
than that number of vehicles as may be required in connection with the
permitted use of the principal building. In residential areas the storage of
not more than one commercial vehicle of a rated capacity not exceeding three-
fourths ton is permitted.
   GARAGE, PUBLIC. Any garage other than a private garage available to the
public, operated for gain, and used for storage, repair, rental, greasing,
washing, sales, servicing, adjusting or equipping of automobiles or other motor
vehicles.
   GRADE. A ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of the building. The building GRADE shall be
the level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished
grade is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the GRADE shall be
determined by averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the
building.
   GROSS LEASABLE AREA. The gross floor area minus deductions for public
lobbies, common mall areas, atriums, courtyards, and permanently designated
corridors which are not subject to relocation by specific lease requirements.
(Attributed to interior mall parking calculations. May not be needed in
Inkster).
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE. A chemical or other material which is or may become
injurious to the public health, safety or welfare or to the environment.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE. Waste or a combination of waste and other discarded
material including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material that
because of its quantity, quality, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics may cause or significantly contribute to an increase
in mortality, serious irreversible illness, serious incapacitating but
reversible illness or pose a substantial present or potential hazard to human
health or the environment if properly treated, stored, transported, disposed
of, or otherwise managed.
   HAZARDOUS WASTE FACILITY. A facility or part of a facility that is used for
the treatment, storage or disposal of hazardous waste.
   HEALTH CLUB. Gymnasiums (except public), private athletic, health or
recreational clubs, reducing salons and weight control establishments, but
excluding “adult personal service establishments”.
   HEIGHT. The vertic al dista nce meas ured from the establ ished grade at the
front of the buildi ng to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs;
to the deck line of mansard roofs; and to the average HEIGHT between eaves and
ridge for gable, hip and gambrel roofs. Where a building is located on sloping
terrain, the height may be measured from the average ground level of the grade
at the building wall. The HEIGHT of an accessory building or structure shall be
determined as the vertical distance from the average finished grade to the
highest point of the roof surface.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4077.jpg]
 
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation or profession carried on by an occupant of a
dwelling unit as a secondary use, which is clearly subservient to the use of
the dwelling for residential purposes. Any such use shall not be visible or
noticeable in any manner or form from outside the walls of the dwelling.
   HOSPITAL. A building, structure or installation in which mentally ill, or
sick or injured persons are given medical or surgical treatment and operating
under license by the Health Department and the state, including such related
facilities as laboratories, out-patient departments, central service
facilities, and staff offices.
   HOTEL. A building, part of a building or group of buildings containing
rooming or dwelling units, with a common entrance and lobby, accessed from the
interior, used for transient occupancy by the public traveling in a motor
vehicle, offered to the public for compensation and in which one or more of the
following services are offered:
      (1)   Maid service.
      (2)   Furnishing of linen.
      (3)   Telephone, secretarial or desk service.
      (4)   Room service.
   Units shall not be re-rented, sub-rented or rented again within a 24-hour
period following a room rental. A HOTEL may include a restaurant or cocktail
lounge, public banquet halls, ballrooms, or meeting rooms. A HOTEL shall not be
considered or construed to be a multiple family dwelling, transient housing for
persons transitioning from emergency shelters or an emergency shelter.
   HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY. A building or group of buildings containing
dwellings intended to be occupied by, elderly persons as defined by the Federal
Fair Housing Act, as amended. HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY may include independent
and/or assisted living arrangements but shall not include convalescent or home
for the aged facilities regulated by the state. Independent and assisted living
HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY are defined as follows:
      (1)   INDEPENDENT LIVING FOR THE ELDERLY. Housing that is designed and
operated for elderly people in good health who desire and are capable of
maintaining independent households. Such housing may provide certain services
such as meals, linkages to health care, transportation, security, housekeeping
and recreational and social activities.
      (2)   ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY. A facility providing responsible adult
supervision of or assistance with routine living functions of an individual in
an instance where the individual’s condition necessitates that supervision or
assistance. Permitted services include but are not limited to staff-supervised
meals, housekeeping and personal care, medication supervision and social
activities. Facilities providing regular care under supervision of physicians
are not considered ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES.
   INGRESS AND EGRESS. As used in this chapter, INGRESS AND EGRESS generally is
used in reference to a driveway which allows vehicles to enter or leave a
parcel of property, or to a sidewalk which allows pedestrians to enter or leave
a property, a building, or another location.
   JUNK. Any motor vehicles, machinery, appliances, products, or merchandise
with parts missing or scrap metals or other trash, solid waste, refuse or scrap
materials that are damaged or deteriorated, except if in a completely enclosed
building. It includes any inoperable or abandoned motor vehicle which is not
licensed for use upon the highways of the state for a period in excess of 48
hours and shall also include whether so licensed or not, any motor vehicle
which is inoperative for any reason for a period in excess of 48 hours and
which is not in a completely enclosed building.
   JUNK YARD. An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are bought
and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled, including
but not limited to: scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber tires, and
bottles. A JUNK YARD includes automobile wrecking yards and includes any area
of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping or abandonment of junk, but
does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
   KENNEL, COMMERCIAL. Any lot or premises on which more than three dogs or
cats or other household pets are either permanently or temporarily boarded.
KENNEL shall also include any lot or premises where household pets are bred
and/or sold.
   LANDSCAPING. The treatment of the ground surface with live plant materials
such as, but not limited to grass, ground cover, trees, shrubs, vines, and
other man-made material. In addition, a landscape design may include other
decorative man-made materials, such as woodchips, crushed stone, boulders, or
mulch. Structural features such as fountains, pools, statues, and benches shall
also be considered a part of LANDSCAPING, but only if provided in combination
with live plant material. Artificial plant materials shall not be counted
toward meeting requirements for LANDSCAPING. Various LANDSCAPING-related terms
are defined as follows:
      (1)   BERM. A continuous, raised earthen mound with a flattened top and
sloped sides, capable of supporting live LANDSCAPING materials, and with a
height and width that complies with the requirements of this chapter.
      (2)   GRASS. Any of a family of plants with narrow leaves normally grown
as permanent lawns. Also referred to as “turf”.
      (3)   GREENBELTS. A strip of land of definite width and location reserved
for the planting of a combination of shrubs, trees, and ground cover to serve
as an obscuring screen or buffer for noise or visual enhancement, in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter.
      (4)   GROUND COVER. Low-growing plants that form a dense, extensive
growth after one complete growing season, and tend to prevent weeds and soil
erosion.
      (5)   HEDGE. A row of closely planted shrubs or low-growing trees which
commonly form a continuous visual screen, boundary or fence.
      (6)   INTERIOR LANDSCAPING AREA. A landscaped area located in the
interior of a parking lot in such a manner as to improve the safety of
pedestrian and vehicular traffic, guide traffic movement, and improve the
appearance of the parking area.
      (7)   NURSE GRASS. Any of a variety of rapidly-growing annual or
perennial rye grasses used to quickly established ground cover to prevent dust
or soil erosion.
      (8)   SCREEN OR SCREENING. A wall, wood fencing, or combination of
plantings of sufficient height, length, and opacity to form a visual barrier.
If the SCREEN is composed of nonliving material, such materials shall be
compatible with materials used in the construction of the main building, but in
no case shall include wire fencing.
      (9)   SHRUB. A self-supporting, deciduous or evergreen woody plant
normally branched near the base, bushy and less than 15 feet in height.
      (10)   SOD. An area of grass-covered surface soil held together by matted
roots.
      (11)   TREE. A self-supporting, woody deciduous or evergreen plant with a
well-defined central stem which normally grows to a mature height of 15 feet or
more in Wayne County, Michigan. Types of TREES are defined as follows:
         (a)   DECIDUOUS TREE. A variety of TREE that has foliage that is shed
at the end of the growing season.
         (b)   EVERGREEN TREE. A variety of TREE that has foliage that persists
and remains green throughout the year.
         (c)   ORNAMENTAL TREE. A deciduous tree which is typically grown
because of its shape, flowering characteristics, or other attractive features,
and which grows to a mature height of about 25 feet or less.
         (d)   SHADE TREE. For the purposes of this chapter, a SHADE TREE is a
deciduous tree which has a mature crown spread of 15 feet or greater in Wayne
County, Michigan, and having a trunk with at least five feet of clear stem at
maturity.
         (e)   VINE. A plant with a flexible stem supported by climbing,
twining, or creeping along the surface, and which may require physical support
to reach maturity.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building or group
of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading and
unloading merchandise or materials.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or intended to be occupied, by a main
building or group of such buildings and accessory buildings, or utilized for
the principal use and uses accessory thereto, together with such open spaces as
are required under the provisions of this chapter.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle or two adjacent sides at the
intersection of two streets is less than 135º. A lot abutting upon a curved
street or streets shall be considered a CORNER LOT for the purposes or this
chapter if the area is of less radius than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the two points where the lot lines meet the curve or at the straight
street line extended, form an interior angle of less than 135º.
   LOT COVERAGE. That part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
   LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any interior lot having frontages on two more or less
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
DOUBLE FRONTAGE LOTS, all sides of said lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required.
   LOT INTERIOR . Any lot other than a corner lot.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4081.jpg]
 
   LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein:
      (1)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, that line
separating said lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot or double
frontage lot, FRONT LOT LINE shall mean that line separating said lot from that
street which is designated as the front street in the plat and in the
application for a zoning compliance permit. In the case of a cul-de-sac, the
front setback line shall be determined by drawing a straight line from points
established at the front setback depth along the side property lines.
      (2)   REAR LOT LINE. That lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than ten feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
      (3)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot line other than the front lot line or rear
lot line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from a street is a side street lot
line. A SIDE LOT LINE separating a lot from another lot or lots is an interior
side lot line.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4079.jpg]
 
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
recorded plat on file with the County Register of Deeds, at the time of
inception of this chapter, or in common use by city or county officials, and
which actually exists as so shown, or any part of such parcel held in
recognizing ownership separate from that of the remainder thereof.
   LOT WIDTH. The straight line distance between the side lot lines, measured
at the two points where the minimum building line or setback intersects the
side lot lines.
   LOT, ZONING. A single tract of land located within a single block, which at
the time of filing for a building permit is designated by its owner or
developer as a tract to be used, developed or built upon as a unit under single
ownership or control. A ZONING LOT shall satisfy this chapter with respect to
area, size, dimensions and frontage as required in the district in which the
zoning lot is located. A ZONING LOT, therefore, may not coincide with a lot of
record as filed with the County Register of Deeds.
   MAIN BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the lot
upon which it is situated.
   MAIN USE. The principal use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exist.
   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street which is intended to serve as a large
volume traffic way for both the immediate area and the region beyond, and may
be designated as a MAJOR THOROUGHFARE, parkway or equivalent term to identify
those streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan. Any street
with a width, existing or proposed, of 120 feet or greater shall be considered
a MAJOR THOROUGHFARE.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY. A parcel or tract of land upon which three
or more mobile homes are located on a continual, nontransient basis together
with any building, structure, enclosure, street, equipment, or facility used or
intended for use incident to the occupancy of a mobile home.
   MANUFACTURED HOUSING UNIT. A transportable, factory-built structure that is
manufactured in accordance with the federal Manufactured Housing Construction
and Safety Standards Act of 1974. Such structure is designed to be used as a
single-family dwelling unit.
   MARGINAL ACCESS DRIVE. A service roadway parallel to a major thoroughfare
intended to provide access to abutting properties and protection from through
traffic.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment in which a licensed or certified
massage therapist provides such services in compliance with provisions of this
chapter. This does not include establishments which routinely provide services
performed by a licensed physician, chiropractor, osteopath, nurse, or other
medical professional. This also does not include establishments in which the
martial arts or organized athletic activities take place, hospitals, nursing
homes, medical clinics or offices, barbershops or beauty parlors which offer
massages to the scalp, face, neck or shoulders only, or those in which a
licensed operator performs electrolysis.
   MASTER PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan including graphic and written proposals
indicating the general location for streets, parks, schools, public buildings
and all physical development of the city, and includes any unit or part of such
plan, and any amendment to such plan or parts thereof.
   MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICE. Any machine containing no automatic payoff
device which may, on the insertion of a coin or slug, operate or be operated or
used as a game, contest or amusement of any sort or description and which may
or may not consist of electronic play appearing on a video screen and which is
so constructed that it may not be converted into an automatic payoff device for
the return or discharge of money, tokens, coins, checks or merchandise, or
which provides no such payoff by any means whatsoever, provided that the term
shall not include any coin-operated device used solely for the playing of music
and provided further that the term shall include mechanical, electrical and
electronic video games.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITY.  A licensed commercial grower that
cultivates, dries, trims, cures, and packages marijuana for sale to a processor
or provisioning center, as defined by Public Act 281 of 2016, the Medical
Marijuana Facilities Licensing Act, as amended.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROVISIONING CENTERS. A commercial entity that acquires,
possesses, delivers, transfers, or transports medical marijuana and sells,
supplies, or provides to registered qualifying patients, directly or through
the patients’ registered primary caregiver, to the extent that is authorized by
State of Michigan regulations. Provisioning center includes any commercial
property where medical marijuana is sold to registered qualifying patients or
registered primary caregivers. A noncommercial location used by a primary
caregiver to assist a qualifying patient connected to the caregiver in
accordance with State of Michigan regulations is excluded from this definition.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITY. A licensed commercial processing
facility that purchases marijuana from a grower and extracts resin from the
marijuana or creates a marijuana-infused usable product for sale and transfer
in packaged form to a provisioning center, as defined by Public Act 281 of
2016, the Medical Marijuana Facilities Licensing Act, as amended.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITY. A licensed commercial safety compliance
facility that receives marijuana from a marijuana facility or registered
primary caregiver, tests it for contaminants and for tetrahydrocannabinol and
other cannabinoids, returns the test results, and may return the marijuana to
the marijuana facility, as defined by Public Act 281 of 2016, the Medical
Marijuana Facilities Licensing Act, as amended.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA TRANSPORTATION FACILITY. A licensed commercial entity that
stores and/or transports marijuana between marijuana facilities for a fee,
defined by Public Act 281 of 2016, the Medical Marijuana Facilities Licensing
Act, as amended.
   MEZZANINE. An intermediate or fractional story between the floor and ceiling
or main story occupying not more than one-third of the floor area of such main
story. See graphic for “story.”
   MICRO BREWERY. A facility licensed by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission
that annually produces less than 20,000 barrels of beer.
   MOBILE FOOD COURT/PARK. A permanent land use subject to site plan approval
where two or more mobile food vendors congregate to offer edible goods for sale
to the public and amenities are provided for all vendors’ customers.
   MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNIT. Any motorized or non-motorized vehicle, trailer,
food truck, or other device designed to be portable and not permanently
attached to the ground from which food is vended, served, or offered for sale.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in one or more sections, which is
built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation, when connected to the required utilities, and includes
the plumbing, heating, air conditioning, and electrical systems contained in
the structure. The term MOBILE HOME shall not include pick-up campers, travel
trailers, motor homes, modular homes, recreational vehicles, converted buses,
tent trailers, or other transportable structures designed for temporary use.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Same as MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITY.
   MODULAR HOUSING UNIT. A dwelling unit constructed solely within a factory,
as a single unit, or in various sized modules or components, which are then
transported to a site where they are assembled on a permanent foundation to
form a dwelling unit, and meeting all codes and regulations applicable to
conventional single-family home construction.
   MOTEL. A building, part of a building or group of buildings containing ten
or more rooming or dwelling units with 25% or more of the units having
individual exterior room entrances, primarily used for transient occupancy by
the public traveling in a motor vehicle, offered to the public for compensation
and in which one or more of the following services are offered:
      (1)   Maid service.
      (2)   Furnishing of linen.
      (3)   Telephone, secretarial or desk service.
      (4)   Room service.
   Units shall not be re-rented, sub-rented or rented again within a 24-hour
period following a room rental. The term MOTEL shall include buildings
designated as auto courts, tourist courts, motor courts, motor hotel, and
similar titles which are designed as integrated units of individual rooms under
common ownership. A MOTEL shall not be considered or construed to be a
multiple-family dwelling, transient housing for persons transitioning from an
emergency shelter or a rooming house.
   MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A structure, located on a single lot, containing
three or more dwelling units, which is designed for or occupied by one family
only, with housekeeping and cooking facilities for each.
      MURAL.
      (1)   TYPE ONE. A design or representation which does not contain
promotional or commercial advertising painted or drawn on a wall.
      (2)   TYPE TWO. An original, one-of-a-kind unique design or
representation which contains limited references to the establishment, product,
or service provided on the site which is painted or drawn on a wall on that
site.
   NIGHTCLUB. An establishment, excluding an “adult business activity,” where
live entertainment is provided, presented, permitted or performed, including,
but not limited to, a dance, comic, theatrical, or musical performance and
alcoholic beverages are consumed on premises.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof, existing at the
effective date of this chapter or amendments thereto, and that does not conform
to the provisions of this chapter relative to height, bulk, area or yards for
the district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING LOT. A lot which was lawfully in existence at the effective
date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and which does not now conform to
the lot size, lot width, or other regulations pertaining to lots in the zoning
district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this chapter or amendments thereto, and that does not conform
to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   NON-PROFIT. An organization recognized by the United States Internal Revenue
Service as holding a NON-PROFIT tax-exempt status.
   NON-PROFIT QUALIFIED ORGANIZATION. A bona fide religious, educational,
service, senior citizens, fraternal, or veterans’ organization that operates
without profit to its members and that either has been in existence
continuously as an organization for a period of five years or is exempt from
taxation pursuant to Michigan Public Act 382 of 1972, as amended.
   NUISANCE. This term shall be held to embrace public NUISANCE as known at
common law or in equity jurisprudence; and whatever is dangerous to human life
or detrimental to health; whatever dwelling is overcrowded with occupants or is
not provided with adequate ingress and egress to or from the same, or is not
sufficiently supported, ventilated, sewered, drained, cleaned or lighted;
whatever is unwholesome; whatever renders or makes an unusual noise, sound,
racket or vibration sufficient to annoy and destroy the usual peace and quiet
of any persons of the city; whatever pollutes the air to create an ill-smelling
condition so offensive as to annoy the public; whatever is conducive to the
harboring of insects, vermin, rats or rodents; all ponds of stagnant water, any
yard or area housing old and useless or nearly useless automobiles or parts
thereof, or other waste, machinery, logs, old lumber, rubbish or construction
rubbish, so that the same is offensive to the general public.
   NURSERY, PLANT MATERIAL. A space, building or structure, or combination
thereof, for the storage of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for wholesale
or retail sale on the premises, including products used for gardening or
landscaping. The definition of NURSERY within the meaning of this chapter does
not include any space, building or structure used for the sale of fruits,
vegetables or Christmas trees.
   NURSING HOME. Same as CONVALESCENT AND NURSING HOME.
   OFF-STREET PARKING LOT. A facility other than for single-family dwellings
providing vehicular parking spaces along with adequate drives and aisles, for
maneuvering, so as to provide access for entrance and exit for the parking of
more than three vehicles.
   OPEN FRONT STORE. A business establishment so developed that service to the
patron may be extended beyond the walls of the structure onto a dedicated
outdoor seating area and not requiring the patron to enter the structure. The
term OPEN FRONT STORE shall not include automobile repair stations or
automobile service stations,
   OPEN SPACE. The part of the zoning lot, including courts and/or yards. Which
is open and unobstructed from its lowest level to the sky, and is accessible to
all residents upon the zoning lot.
   OUTDOOR RECREATION FACILITY. The use of land for the purposes of a golf
course, skating rink, park, playfield, playground, swimming pool, tennis court
and similar recreation uses.
   OWNER. The owner of the premises or lesser estate in the premises, a
mortgagee or vendee in possession, an assignee of rents, receiver, executor,
trustee, leasee, or any other person, sole proprietorship, partnership,
association, or corporation directly or indirectly in control of a building,
structure, or real property, or his or her duly authorized agent.
   PARK. A parcel of land, building or structure used for recreational purposes
including but not limited to playgrounds, sport fields, game courts, beaches,
trails, picnicking areas, and leisure time activities.
   PARKING. The temporary placement of operable motor vehicles having valid and
current license plate or registration sticker as required by the Secretary of
State.
   PARKING SPACE. An area exclusive of drives, aisles or entrances giving
access thereto and shall be fully accessible for the storage or parking of
permitted vehicles. Such space shall meet the requirements of this chapter.
   PAWNSHOP. A shop that lends money in exchange for valuable personal property
as security. This definition includes the sale of such securities after
repossession and the sale of new merchandise generally found in retail stores.
   PERSON. An individual a corporation, a partnership, an incorporated
association or any other similar entity.
   PIERCING PARLOR. A personal service establishment at which body piercing is
provided. For purposes of this chapter, jewelry stores, other retail stores or
clinics that provide this service as an incidental and accessory use shall be
classified as PIERCING PARLORS.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A tract of land or lot, developed under single
ownership or management as a separate neighborhood or community unit. The
development shall be based on an approved site plan which allows flexibility of
design not available under normal zoning district requirements. The plan may
contain a mixture of housing types, commercial and industrial uses, common open
space and other land uses as provided in this chapter.
   PLANNER, CITY. The person or firm designated by the City Council and
Planning Commission to advise the City Council, City Manager, City Planning
Commission, and city staff on planning, zoning, land use, housing, and other
related planning and development issues. The CITY PLANNER may be a consultant
or an employee of the city.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The PLANNING COMMISSION of the city.
   PORCH. A covered or uncovered entrance to a building or a roofed structure
projecting from the exterior wall or walls of a principal structure and
supported by piers, posts or columns and commonly open to the weather.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. The main building on a lot in which the principal use
exists or is served by.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the main
purpose for which the premises exist.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An association, incorporated or unincorporated, organized for
a common purpose, goals, interest or activities, but not commercial or
business. A PRIVATE CLUB is characterized by membership qualifications, payment
of fees and dues, regular meetings, a constitution and bylaws.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm or corporation, municipal department, board
or commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal, state or
municipal regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity, sewage disposal,
communication, telegraph, transportation or water.
   RECREATION EQUIPMENT. Includes equipment such as boats and boat trailers,
snowmobiles, horse trailer, dune buggies, “pickup campers”, trailer coach,
folding tent trailer and other similar items.
   RECREATION, INDOOR COMMERCIAL. Includes indoor commercial uses such as
bowling centers, basketball courts, archery ranges, golf domes and ranges,
tennis facilities and skating rinks. For the purposes of this chapter, firearms
target practice ranges shall not be included.
   RECREATION VEHICLE. A vehicle intended for temporary human habitation,
sleeping and/or eating, mounted upon a chassis with wheels, and self-propelled
or capable of being pulled by another vehicle.
   REGULATED USE. A classification of uses, as specified in this ordinance,
that is considered nuisances and negatively impact public health, safety and
welfare when located in close proximity to one another.
   RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS. See CHURCH.
   RESTAURANT.
      (1)   BAR LOUNGE. An establishment operated primarily for the dispensing
of alcoholic beverages, although the sale of prepared food or snacks may also
be permitted. If a bar or lounge is part of a larger banquet facility, it shall
be defined as that part of the structure so designated or operated.
      (2)   CARRY-OUT RESTAURANT. Any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverage to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose design, or method of operation includes both of the
following characteristics:
         (a)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are usually served in edible
containers or in paper, plastic or other disposable containers.
         (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within
the restaurant building is secondary to food consumed off premises.
      (3)   DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. Any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen dessert or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose design or method of operation, includes one or both of
the following characteristics:
         (a)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are served directly to the
customer in a motor vehicle, either by a carhop, or by other means which
eliminate the need for the customer to exit the motor vehicle.
         (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within a
motor vehicle parked upon the premises, or at other facilities on the premises
outside the restaurant building is permitted.
      (4)   DRIVE-THRU RESTAURANT. A business establishment serving food and/or
beverages to patrons in a motor vehicle for consumption off the premises.
      (5)   FAST FOOD RESTAURANT. Any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen desserts or beverages to the customer in a ready-to-
consume state for consumption either within the restaurant whose design or
principal method of operation includes both of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Foods, frozen desserts or beverages are usually served in edible
containers or in paper, plastic, or other disposable containers.
         (b)   The consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within a
motor vehicle parked upon the premises is posted as being prohibited and the
restaurateur strictly enforces such prohibition.
      (6)   STANDARD RESTAURANT. An establishment whose principal business is
the sale of foods, frozen desserts, beverages to a customer in a ready-to-
consume state, and whose design or principal method of operation includes one
or both of the following characteristics:
         (a)   Customers, normally provided with an individual menu, are served
their foods, frozen desserts or beverages by a restaurant employee at the same
table or counter at which said items are consumed.
         (b)   A cafeteria type of operation where foods, frozen desserts,
beverages generally are consumed within the restaurant building.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A street, alley, or other thoroughfare or easement permanently
established for passage of persons, vehicles, or the location of utilities. The
RIGHT-OF-WAY is delineated by legally established lines or boundaries.
   ROOMING, LODGING AND BOARDING HOUSE. A dwelling having one kitchen and used
for the purpose of providing meals and/or lodging for pay or compensation of
any kind, computed by day, week, or month to persons other than members of the
family occupying such dwellings.
   SCREENING. A method of reducing the impact of noise and/or unsightly visual
intrusions with less offensive and more harmonious elements such as plants,
trees, berms, fences, walls or any appropriate combination.
   SECONDHAND STORE. A building, structure, or premises used solely or
partially for the sale of secondhand clothing, furniture, books, jewelry,
household goods or appliances.
   SELF-STORAGE FACILITY. A building or groups of buildings divided into
separate units or compartments used to meet the temporary storage needs of
businesses, apartment dwellers and other individuals or firms, and is also
known as a miniwarehouse.
   SENIOR HOUSING. See ASSISTED LIVING, and HOUSING FOR THE ELDERLY.
   SETBACK. The required minimum horizontal distance between the nearest part
of a building line or structure and the related front, side or rear yard lot
lines. SETBACK are open from ground to the sky, except as otherwise allowed by
this chapter.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4083.jpg]
 
   SIGN. See §§
155.231 through
155.252 for specific definitions.
   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached dwelling unit located on a single-lot
with no other dwelling units designed or occupied by one family.
   SPECIAL LAND USE. A use of land, permitted within certain zoning districts,
whose characteristics may create nuisance-like impacts on adjoining lands
unless carefully sited according to standards established in this chapter.
Approval for establishing a special land use is indicated by issuance of a
special use permit.
   SPECIALLY DESIGNATED DISTRIBUTOR (SDD). A retail establishment licensed by
the State Liquor Control Commission to distribute alcoholic liquor in the
original package for consumption off the premises.
   SPECIALLY DESIGNATED MERCHANT (SDM). A retail establishment licensed by the
State Liquor Control Commission to sell beer and/or wine for consumption off
premises.
   STORY. That part of a building, except a mezzanine as defined in this
section, included between the surface of one floor and the surface of the next
floor, or if there is no floor above, then the ceiling next above. A STORY thus
defined shall not be counted as a STORY when more than 50%, by cubic content is
below the height level of the adjoining ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4085.jpg]
 
   STORY, HALF. An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof, the usable floor
area of which, at height of 4 feet above the floor, does not exceed 2/3 of the
floor area in the STORY direct below, and the height above at least 200 square
feet of floor space is seven feet, six inches.
   STREET. A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access to
abutting property.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATIONS. Any change in the supporting members of a building,
such as bearing walls, columns, beams or girders, or any substantial change in
the roof or in exterior walls.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
   TATTOO PARLOR. An establishment offering tattoo services including the
creation of marks or figures upon the human body, by insertion of pigment under
the skin or by the production of scars or otherwise.
   TEMPORARY USE. A use or building permitted by the Zoning Board of Appeals to
exist during periods of construction of the main building or use, or for
special events.
   TOWNHOME. A type of multiple-family dwelling exhibiting two or more stories,
primary and secondary entrances per each unit at grade level and wholly
enclosed in vertical arrangement of floors. These units are attached to other
similar units in a side-by-side arrangement and separated by common party walls
rated for appropriate fire protection by city’s codes.
   TRANSIENT HOUSING. Rental housing for persons whose most recent address has
been a homeless shelter.
   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A structure located on one lot containing two dwelling
units each of which is designed for or occupied by one family with separate
housekeeping and cooking facilities.
   USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
   USE FOR. Includes “Arranged For”,” Designed For”, “Intended For”,
“Maintained For”, or “Occupied For”.
   UTILITIES, BASIC. Infrastructure services that need to be located near the
area where the service is provided. BASIC UTILITY uses generally do not have on
site employees. Examples include electric transformer stations, gas regulator
stations and telephone exchanges.
   UTILITIES, MAJOR. Area-wide infrastructure services that typically have
employees on site. Examples include water works, reservoir, pumping station or
filtration plants; power or heating plants; or, steam generating plants.
   UTILITY, PUBLIC. A private enterprise regulated by the State Public Service
Commission with an exclusive franchise for providing an essential public
service such as Detroit Edison, Ameritech and Michigan Consolidated Gas.
Wireless telecommunications carriers are not PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter granted
when strict enforcement this chapter would cause undue hardship owing to
circumstances unique to the individual property on which the VARIANCE is
granted. Such hardship shall not be specifically interpreted as meaning
economic hardship. The crucial elements of a VARIANCE are: undue hardship,
unique circumstances, and applying to the subject property. A VARIANCE is not
justified unless all three elements are present in the case.
   VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITY, MAJOR. A place defines as a business offering
repair and replacement services including, but not limited to, steam cleaning
or undercoating, vehicle body repair, painting, tire recapping, engine
rebuilding, auto dismantling, upholstery, auto glass work, and such other
activities whose external effects shall adversely extend beyond the property
line, but not including the sale of gasoline.
   VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITY, MINOR. A place defined as a business offering
maintenance and repair services, the sale of oil and minor accessories, where
no repair work is done other than incidental service, but not including the
sale of gasoline, steam cleaning or undercoating, vehicle body repair,
painting, tire recapping, engine rebuilding, auto dismantling, upholstery, auto
glass work, and such other activities whose external effects could adversely
extend beyond the property line. Such repairs shall be limited to passenger
automobiles or light trucks.
   VEHICLE SALES AREA/DEALERSH IP. An open area other than a street used for
the display, sale, or rental of new or used automobiles or other motor
vehicles.
   VEHICLE WASH ESTABLISHMENT . A building or portion thereof where vehicles
are washed. Such facilities shall include:
      (1)     AUTOMATIC WASH. Any facility, its structures, accessory uses, or
paved area used wholly or partly to wash, clean and dry the exterior of
automobiles, using conveyors to move the vehicle, or equipment that moves over
or around the vehicle, or other automated equipment intended to mechanically
wash such vehicles.
      (2)   SELF-SERVICE WASH. Any facility, its structures, accessory uses or
paved area used wholly or partly to wash, clean and dry the exterior of
automobiles using hand-held equipment.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used for short and/or long term storage in connection
with production and marketing or in connection with manufacturing, freight
handling, and retailing.
   WHOLESALE ESTABLISHMENT. A building used for the sale of goods in large
amounts to retailers, or where merchandise is purchased in bulk amounts by
consumers who must enroll in a membership at said establishment.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
      (1)   See §§
155.211 through
155.217 for specific definitions.
      (2)   COLLATION. The use of a wireless telecommunication support facility
by more than one wireless telecommunication provider.
   YARD. The open spaces on the same lot with a main building unoccupied and
unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this
chapter and as defined herein:
      (1)   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum required horizontal distance between the front
lot line and the nearest line of a main building.
      (2)   REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot, the
depth of which is the minimum required horizontal distance between the rear lot
line and the nearest line of a main building.
      (3)   SIDE YARD. An open space between a main building and the side lot
line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is the
minimum required horizontal distance from the nearest point of the side lot
line to the nearest point of the main building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4087.jpg]
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 836, passed 2-21-11; Am. Ord. 852, passed
3-16-15; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 872,
passed 11-15-18; Am. Ord. 873, passed 11-19-18)
DISTRICTS AND BOUNDARIES; MAPS; SCHEDULE OF LAND USES
§ 155.031 DISTRICTS ESTABLISHED.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   R-1A   One-Family Residential District
   R-1 B   One-Family Residential District
   R-1C   One-Family Residential District
   RM   Restricted Multiple Dwelling District (low rise)
   RM-1   Multiple-Family Residential District (low rise)
   O-1   Office District
   B-1   Local Business District
   B-2   Thoroughfare Mixed-Use District
   B-3   General Business District
   M-1   Light Industrial District
   TCD    Town Center District
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.032 ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of the districts established in §
155.031 are established as shown on the zoning map of this zoning code, which
is on file in the office of the City Clerk. The zoning map, with all notations,
references and other information shown thereon, shall be as much a part of this
chapter as if fully described herein.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.033 INTERPRETATION OF DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   Unless shown otherwise, the boundaries of the districts are lot lines, the
centerlines of streets, alleys, roads, or such lines extended, and the
corporate limits of the city. Where, due to the scale, lack of detail or
illegibility of the zoning map, there is any uncertainty, contradiction or
conflict as to the intended location of any district boundaries shown thereon,
interpretation concerning the exact location of district boundary lines shall
be determined upon written application, or upon its own motion, by the Zoning
Board of Appeals after recommendation by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.034 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way within the city shall have
been vacated by action of the City Council, and when the lands within the
boundaries thereof attach to and become a part of lands adjoining such street,
alley or public way, such lands formerly within such vacated street, alley or
public way shall automatically, and without further action of the City Council,
acquire and be subject to the same zoning regulations as are applicable to
similarly-zoned lands shall be used for the same use as is permitted under this
chapter for such adjoining lands.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.035 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any area annexed to the city shall, immediately upon such annexation, be
automatically classified as an R-1 district until a zoning map for said area
has been adopted by City Council. The Planning Commission shall recommend
appropriate zoning for such area within three months after matter is referred
to the Planning Commission by the City Council.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.036 SCHEDULE OF LAND USES.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   Table 2-1. Schedule of Land Uses displays specific land uses in reference to
their respective zoning districts. The schedule is general and intended to
provide initial guidance for users. A complete list with land use conditions is
set forth in §§
155.041 through
155.049. Regulations in §§
155.041 through
155.049 take precedent over Table 2-1 below.
Table 2-1 Schedule of Land Uses by Zoning District
Residential Land Use Types Zoning Districts
                           R-1 A, B, C RM RM-1 O-1 B-1 B-2 B-3 M-1 TCD
Table 2-1 Schedule of Land Uses by Zoning District
                                                                     Zoning Districts
Residential Land Use Types                                           R-        RM-
                                                                     1 A, RM   1   O-1 B-1 B-2 B-3 M-1 TCD
                                                                     B, C
One-Family Detached Dwelling                                         P    P    P                       P
Two-Family Dwellings/Duplexes                                             P    P
Townhomes (2 story max.)                                                  P    P           P
Townhomes (3 story max.)                                                  SLU
Multiple-Family Dwellings (2 story max.)                                  P    P                       P
Multiple-Family Dwellings (3 story max.)                                  SLU  P           P           P
Multiple-Family Dwellings (4+ stories)                                         SLU                     P
Mixed-Use Residential and Business (Lofts)                                             SLU SLU         SLU
Manufactured Housing Community                                                                 SLU SLU
Public/Quasi-Public Land Use Types
Charitable Gaming Room                                                                     SLU SLU SLU P
Child/Adult Foster Care (6 or less persons)                            P  P                      P
Child/Adult Foster Care (7, but fewer than 12 persons)               SLU  SLU  SLU
Assisted Living Facilities/Elderly Housing                                SLU  SLU         SLU SLU
Nursing and Convalescent Homes                                            SLU  SLU SLU     SLU
Transient Residential and Rooming Houses                                                   SLU SLU
Publicly Owned Libraries                                             P    P    P   P                   P
Publicly Owned Parks and Parkways                                    P    P    P   P                   P
Publicly Owned Recreation Facilities                                 P    P    P   P                   P
Post Offices and Similar Government Offices                                        P       P   P       P
Utility and Public Owned Buildings w/o storage yards                 SLU  SLU  SLU SLU SLU P/  P   P   P
                                                                                           SLU
General Hospitals                                                              SLU             SLU
Religious Institutions and Incidental Facilities                     SLU  SLU  SLU     SLU SLU SLU     SLU
Cemeteries                                                           P    P    P
Private Noncommercial Recreational Areas                             SLU  SLU  SLU
Institutional or Community Recreation Centers                        SLU  SLU  SLU                     P
Golf Courses                                                         SLU
Non-Profit Public, Parochial and Private Elementary, Intermediate or SLU  SLU  SLU         SLU SLU
High Schools
Colleges, Universities and Institutions of Higher Learning, Public   SLU  SLU  SLU             SLU
and Private
Business Schools and Colleges                                                                  SLU
Vocational Training Centers and Schools                                                    SLU SLU
Private For-Profit Schools, Business Schools and Colleges                                  SLU SLU
Theaters                                                                                   SLU SLU     P
Assembly Halls                                                                             SLU SLU     P
Concert Halls                                                                              SLU SLU     P
Private Clubs                                                                              P   P   P/
                                                                                                   SLU
                                                                                                   P/
Fraternal Organizations                                                                    P   P   SL
                                                                                                   U
Lodge Halls                                                                                P   P   P/
                                                                                                   SLU
Business and Office Land Use Types
Adult Businesses and Uses                                                                      SLU
Arcades                                                                                        SLU
Art, Photographic and Design Studios                                                       P   P       P
Automobile Repair (Minor)                                                                      SLU SLU
Automobile Service Centers (as part of planned shopping center)                            SLU SLU
Automobile Service Stations                                                                    SLU SLU
Banks and Similar Financial Institutions                                                   P   P       P
Bar or Lounge                                                                              SLU SLU     SLU
Bus Passenger Stations                                                                     P   P   P   P
Cabaret                                                                                        SLU
Carry-out Restaurants                                                                      SLU SLU     P
Crafts and Fine Arts (Instruction in)                                P    P    P           P   P       P
Computer Centers                                                                               P   P
Dance, Music and Voice Schools                                                             P   P
Drive-in Restaurants                                                                       SLU SLU
Drive-Through Facilities                                                                   SLU SLU
Drive-Through Restaurants                                                                  SLU SLU
Dry Cleaners                                                                           P   P   P       P
Electronic Data Processing Centers                                                             P   P
Fast Food Restaurants w/o drive- through                                                   SLU SLU SLU
Firearms sales establishments                                                                  SLU
Hotels (Full Service)                                                                          SLU     P
Indoor Commercial Recreation                                                               SLU SLU     P
                                                                                               /P
Kennel, Commercial                                                                             SLU     P
Liquor, Beer and Wine Sales                                                                    SLU
Massage Businesses                                                                             SLU
                                                                                               /P
Medical and Dental Laboratories                                                            P   P
Medical and Dental Offices and Clinics                                             P   P   P   P
Mobile Food Court/Park                                                                     P   P       SLU
Mobile Food Vending Unit                                                                   P   P   P   P
Mortuaries                                                                                 P   P
Motels                                                                                         SLU
Murals                                                                                 P   P   P   P   P
New and Used Vehicle Sales (Indoor)                                                            SLU
New and Used Vehicle Sales (Outdoor)                                                           SLU
Nursery Schools, Day Nurseries and Child/Adult Care Centers          SLU  SLU  SLU SLU SLU SLU P       P
Office Equipment - Sales and Service                                                       P   P
Open Air Businesses                                                                        SLU SLU
Pawnshops                                                                                      SLU
Personal Service Establishments                                                        P   P   P       P
Professional and Financial Services                                                        P   P       P
Professional Offices                                                               P       P   P       P
Public Utility Offices w/o storage yards                                           P       P   P   P
Retail Reproduction Services                                                               P   P   P   P
Retail Businesses (Convenience)                                                        P   P   P   SL  P
                                                                                                   U
Retail (within enclosed building)                                                          P   P       P
Secondhand Stores                                                                          SLU SLU
Showrooms and Workshops                                                                    P   P   P
Specially Designated Distributor (SDD)                                                         SLU
Specially Designated Merchant (SDM)                                                            SLU
Standard Restaurants                                                                       P   P   SLU P
Substance Abuse Rehabilitation Clinics                                                         SLU
Tattoo Establishments                                                                      SLU SLU
Temporary Pop-Up Retail Commercial Use                                                     P   P       P
Vehicle Wash Establishments                                                                    SLU
Veterinary Hospitals and Clinics                                                           P   P
Industrial Land Use Types
Automobile or other machinery assembly plants                                                      SLU
Automobile and Vehicle Repair (Major), including Collision,                                        SLU
Transmission and Undercoating Shops
Canning Factories                                                                                  SLU
Central Dry Cleaning Plants (no retail permitted)                                                  P
Greenhouse and Similar Uses                                                                        SLU
Laboratories                                                                                       P
Lumber and Planing Mills                                                                           SLU
Manufacturing and Assembly Operations (enclosed; not including large                               P
stampings)
Metal Plating and Similar Uses                                                                     SL
                                                                                                   U
Metal Stamping and Similar Uses                                                                    SLU
Painting and Varnishing Shops                                                                      SLU
Reproduction Plants                                                                                P
Research and Development Facilities                                                            SLU P
Self-Service Storage Facilities                                                                SLU P
Sign Repair/Manufacturing                                                                          P
Storage Yards for Public Utilities                                                                 P
Storage Facilities for Building Materials, Contractor’s Equipment,                               SLU
Open Storage and Junk Yards
Trade or Industrial Schools                                                                        P
Truck and Terminal Facilities                                                                      P
Utility and Public Service Buildings w/o storage yards                    SLU  SLU P   SLU P   P   P
Vehicle and Machinery Assembly Plants                                                              SL
                                                                                                   U
Warehouse and Wholesale Businesses                                                                 P
Miscellaneous Land Use Types
Accessory Buildings and Structures                                   P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P
Accessory Businesses                                                               P   P   P   P   P   P
Accessory Uses                                                                     P   P   P   P   P
Agricultural (5+ acres)                                              P    P    P
Amateur Radio Antenna                                                SLU  SLU  SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU SLU
Automobile Parking                                                   P    P    P   P   P   P   P   P   P
Electric Transformer Stations w/o storage yards                                            SLU P   P
Gas Regulator Stations w/o storage yards                                                   SLU P   P
Medical Marijuana Cultivation Facility                                                             SL
                                                                                                   U
Medical Marijuana Provisioning Center                                                  SLU SLU SLU     SLU
Medical Marijuana Processing Facility                                                              SL
                                                                                                   U
Medical Marijuana Testing Facility                                                                 SL
                                                                                                   U
Medical Marijuana Transportation Facility                                                          SLU
Telephone Exchanges w/o storage yards                                                      SLU P   P
Temporary Buildings for Construction                                 P    P    P
Water and Sewage Pumping Stations w/o storage yards                                        SLU P   P
Wireless Towers and Antennas                                                                   SLU SLU
   Notes: P = Permitted Use, SLU = Special Land Use
 
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 836, passed 2-21-11; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-
17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 872, passed 11-15-18; Am. Ord. 873,
passed 11-19-18)
§ 155.037 through § 155.039 RESERVED.
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.041 R-1A THROUGH R-1C ONE-FAMILY-RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the R-1A through R-1C One-Family Residential
Districts is to provide areas within the city for the construction and
continued use of one-family dwellings within stable neighborhoods. It is
intended that the principal use of land is for single-family dwellings, but
each district has different minimum area, density, and placement requirements
to provide different housing types and to accommodate the varied needs of the
population. It is also the intent of this district to prohibit multiple family,
office, business, commercial or industrial use of the land, and to prohibit any
other use which would substantially interfere with development or continuation
of single- family dwellings in the districts.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In a One-Family Residential District (R-1A
through R-1C) no building or land shall be used and no building shall be
erected except for one or more of the following specified uses, unless
otherwise provided in this chapter:
      (1)   One-family detached dwellings.
      (2)   Agriculture on those parcels of land separately owned outside the
boundaries of either a proprietary or supervisor’s plat, having an area of not
less than five acres, all subject to the health and sanitation provisions of
the city code. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to grow
or to permit the growing of household food products in residential areas
between the front lot line and the setback line.
      (3)   Publicly owned and operated libraries, parks, parkways and
recreational facilities.
      (4)   Instructions in crafts or fine arts when conducted within the
confines of a principal use and provided all requirements of the city’s
ordinances are met.
      (5)   Child or adult foster care for six or less persons as licensed by
the state.
      (6)   Cemeteries, which lawfully occupied land at the time of adoption of
this chapter.
      (7)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed one year. Land in R-1A through R-1C districts shall not be used
as a construction staging area for any project other than a project on the
parcel of land where construction is taking place.
      (8)   Accessory buildings provided that they shall be designed and
located as provided in §§
155.071 through
155.082.
      (9)   Nameplates and signs as provided in §§
155.231 through
155.252.
      (10)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082.
   (C)   Special land uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.071 through
155.082, all applicable codes and ordinances set forth in this chapter and
other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed for each use. The following
uses are further subject to the review and approval of the Planning Commission:
      (1)   Religious institutions and other facilities normally incidental
thereto.
      (2)   Public, parochial and other private elementary, intermediate
schools and/or high schools offering courses in general education, not operated
for profit.
      (3)   Child and adult foster care serving more than seven but fewer than
twelve persons.
      (4)   Utility and public service buildings and uses (without storage
yards) when operating requirements necessitate the locating of said building
within the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity.
      (5)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers (not
including dormitories).
      (6)   Private noncommercial recreational areas or institutional or
community recreation centers.
      (7)   Golf courses, which may or may not be operated for profit.
      (8)   Colleges, universities and other such institutions of higher
learning, public and private, offering courses in general, technical or
religious education and not operated for profit.
      (9)   Amateur radio antenna, §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (10)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. Requirements limiting the height and bulk
of buildings, the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density
permitted, and minimum yard setbacks are set forth in §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.042 RM RESTRICTED MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The RM Restricted Multiple Dwelling District is designed to
accommodate those types of low rise multiple dwelling structures which are
similar, in terms of use and architectural character, to one-family dwellings.
The RM District is further designed to encourage a more intensive use of
residential land through the elimination of certain exterior yard areas and the
development of building types and/or modules, which will contain private
interior open spaces or provide common exterior open space areas. The RM
District is typically mapped adjacent to major and secondary thoroughfares, due
to location and/or restrictive dimensions, may not be desirable for detached
single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In the RM District no building or land,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be erected or used except
for one or more of the following specified purposes and shall be permitted
subject to the review and approval of the site plan by the Planning Commission.
Such review of the site plan is required to find proper relationships between
the following development features as they relate to traffic safety and,
further, to minimize the possibility of any adverse effects upon adjacent
properties, driveways, parking areas, accessory buildings and uses and open
space. No site plan review is necessary on single family homes.
      (1)   All principal uses permitted in the R-1 One-Family Residential
Districts subject to the lot area, yard and floor area requirements as
specified therein.
      (2)   Townhomes and duplexes (two stories or less) subject to the
conditions imposed in §§
155.111 through
155.142.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings (two stories or less) subject to the
conditions imposed in §§
155.111 through
155.142.
      (4)   Instruction in crafts or fine arts when conducted within the
confines of a principal use and provided all requirements of the city’s
ordinances are met.
      (5)   Accessory buildings, provided that they shall be designed and
located as permitted in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (6)   Child and adult foster care for six or less persons as licensed by
the state.
      (7)   Nameplates and signs as provided in §§
155.231 through
155.252, Signs.
      (8)   Automobile parking spaces to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
   (C)   Special land uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards, and all applicable codes and ordinances
set forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed
for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the Planning
Commission:
      (1)   Religious institutions and other facilities normally incidental
thereto.
      (2)   Child and adult foster care serving more than seven but fewer than
twelve persons.
      (3)   Townhomes of three stories.
      (4)   Multiple-family dwellings of three stories.
      (5)   Nursery schools, day nurseries, and child care centers (not
including dormitories).
      (6)   Amateur radio antenna, subject to regulations of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (7)   Nursing and convalescent homes.
      (8)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
      (9)   Public, parochial and other private elementary, intermediate
schools and/or high schools offering courses in general education, not operated
for profit.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. Requirements limiting the height and bulk
of buildings, the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density
permitted, and minimum yard setbacks are set forth in §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.043 RM-1 MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the RM-1 Multiple-Family Residential Districts
is to address the varied housing needs of the city residents by providing
locations for development of multiple-family housing at a higher density than
is permitted in the single-family districts. In addressing those housing needs,
multiple-family housing in the RM-1 district should be designed in
consideration of the following planning objectives so as to provide a quality
living environment:
      (1)   Provide necessary public services and utilities.
      (2)   Provided with useable outdoor recreation space.
      (3)   Sided to units respecting the public street, and conducive to a
public area.
      (4)   Provided with connections to the public sidewalk system.
      (5)   Provided with a well-designed internal street and pedestrian walk
network.
      (6)   Compatible in scale and character with surrounding or nearby one-
family housing.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In the RM-1 District, no building or land,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be erected or used except
for one or more of the following specified purposes and shall be permitted
subject to the review and approval of the site plan by the Planning Commission.
Such review of the site plan is required to find proper relationships between
development features, traffic safety, adverse effects upon adjacent properties,
service roads, driveways, pedestrian sidewalk system, parking areas, accessory
buildings and uses and open space.
      (1)   All principal uses permitted in the RM Restricted Multiple-Family
Residential Districts with the lot area, yards and floor area requirements
equal to at least the requirements of the immediately abutting residential
district.
      (2)   Multiple-family dwellings and townhomes (three stories or less)
subject to the conditions imposed in §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards.
      (3)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above uses provided that they shall be designed and located as permitted in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (4)   Child and adult foster care for six or less persons as licensed by
the state.
      (5)   Nameplates and signs as provided in §§
155.231 through
155.252, Signs.
      (6)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (7)   Businesses offering instruction in crafts and the fine arts.
   (C)   Special land uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards, and all applicable codes and ordinances
set forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed
for each use. The following uses are subject further to the review and approval
of the Planning Commission per standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Child and adult foster care serving more than seven but fewer than
twelve persons.
      (2)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers (not
including dormitories).
      (3)   General hospitals, except those for criminals and those solely for
the treatment of persons who are mentally ill or have contagious disease, with
no maximum height restrictions.
      (4)   Senior housing, assisted living and other similar types of housing
for the elderly.
      (5)   Religious institutions and other facilities normally incidental
thereto.
      (6)   Multiple-family dwelling units in high rise structures (four
stories or greater).
      (7)   Amateur radio antenna, subject to regulations of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (8)   Nursing and convalescent homes.
      (9)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
      (10)   Public, parochial and other private elementary, intermediate
schools and/or high schools offering courses in general education, not operated
for profit.
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. Requirements limiting the height and bulk
of buildings, the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density
permitted, and minimum yard setbacks are set forth in §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.044 O-1 OFFICE BUILDING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The O-1 Office Building District is designed to accommodate
office uses that provide limited impact on adjacent residential neighborhoods.
These districts are intended to be located adjacent to major shopping centers
or other large establishments generating greater volumes of vehicular and
pedestrian traffic.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. The following regulations shall apply in all
O-1 Districts and no building, structure or premises, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, shall be erect altered or used except for one or more
of the following uses:
      (1)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations: executive,
administrative and professional, subject to the limitations contained below in
division (D) below.
      (2)   Medical and dental offices, including clinics, but excluding
substance abuse treatment centers.
      (3)   Publicly owned buildings, exchanges and public utility offices, but
not including storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas regulator
stations, subject to the limitations contained below in division (D) below.
      (4)   Other uses similar to the above uses.
      (5)   Publicly owned libraries, post offices, and similar government
offices.
      (6)   Accessory buildings and structures.
      (7)   Accessory uses and businesses.
      (8)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082.
   (C)   Special land uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards and all applicable codes and ordinances set
forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed for
each use. The following uses are subject further to the review and approval of
the Planning Commission per standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   An accessory use customarily related to a principal use authorized
by this section, such as a pharmacy or apothecary shop, stores limited to
corrective garments or bandages, optical company or restaurant may be
permitted, provided it is within the building to which it is accessory and does
not have a direct outside entrance for customers.
      (2)   Nursing and convalescent homes.
      (3)   Amateur radio antenna, subject to regulations of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (4)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
      (5)   Nursery schools.
   (D)   Required conditions.
      (1)   No interior display shall be visible from the exterior of the
building, and the total area devoted to display, including both the objects
displayed and the floor space set aside for persons observing the displayed
objects, shall not exceed 25% of the usable floor area or either the first or
second story, or in the basement.
      (2)   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Warehousing or indoor storage of goods or material, beyond that
normally incident to the above permitted uses, shall be prohibited.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. For requirements limiting the height and
bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot by permitted land use, and providing
minimum yard setback requirements see §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.045 B-1 LOCAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the B-1 Local Business Districts is to provide
residential scale convenience shopping and personal service uses to meet the
day-to-day needs of persons. Uses exhibiting low intensity, limited hours of
operation, low volumes of traffic, low noise levels and developed at scale and
character of nearby neighborhoods are intended for the B-1 District.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. The following regulations shall apply in all
B-1 Districts and no building, structure or premises, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, shall be erected, altered or used except for one or
more of the following specified uses:
      (1)   Generally recognized retail business which supplies commodities on
the premises, for persons residing in adjacent residential areas, such as but
not limited to: groceries, meats, dairy products, baked goods or other foods,
drugs, dry goods, clothing and notions, or hardware. All business
establishments shall be retail or service establishments dealing directly with
consumers.
      (2)   Personal service establishment which performs services on the
premises, such as but not limited to: repair shops (watches, radio, television,
shoe, and the like) tailor shops, beauty parlors or barber shops, photographic
studios, and self-service laundries.
      (3)   Dry cleaning establishments or pick-up stations dealing directly
with consumers. Central dry cleaning plants serving more than one retail outlet
shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Other uses similar to the above uses.
      (5)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses, provided that they shall be designed and located as permitted
in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (6)    Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (7)   Murals.
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers.
      (2)   A restroom shall be provided for public use for all retail
establishments in excess of 12,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (D)   Special land uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards, and all applicable codes and ordinances
set forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed
for each use. The following uses are subject further to the review and approval
of the Planning Commission per standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Mixed-use business and residential buildings.
      (2)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers (not
including dormitories).
      (3)   Amateur radio antenna, subject to regulations of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (4)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
      (5)   Publicly owned buildings without storage yards.
      (6)   Medical marijuana provisioning centers subject to the regulations
of §
155.148.
      (7)   Religious institutions.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. Requirements limiting the height and bulk
of buildings, the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density
permitted, and minimum yard setbacks are set forth in §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17 ; Am. Ord. 873, passed 11-
19-18)   
§ 155.046 B-2 THOROUGHFARE MIXED-USE DISTRICT.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   Intent. The Thoroughfare Mixed-Use District intends to provide for a
mixed-use environment of business and higher density residential land uses. The
district further intends to permit business establishments that balance both
the convenience and comparison shopping needs of neighboring residents. These
uses are more intensive than those permitted in the B-1 Local Business
District, but not large scale vehicle dominated establishments as found in the
B-3 General Business District. Because of the variety of business types and
residential dwellings permitted, critical attention must be focused on site
layout, building design, vehicular circulation, and coordination of site
features between adjoining sites. Development should be:
      (1)   Designed as part of a planned shopping center or in coordination
with development on adjoining commercial sites.
      (2)   Larger than in B-1 Districts.
      (3)   Located away from sensitive residential areas.
      (4)   Contributing to the development of a unified district in scale and
character.
      (5)   Served by and connected to a major thoroughfare.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. The following regulations shall apply in all
B-2 Districts and no building, structure or premises, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, shall be erected, altered or used except for one or
more of the following specified uses:
      (1)   Any retail business or service establishment permitted in B-
1 Districts as principally permitted.
      (2)   All retail business, service establishments or processing uses as
follows:
         (a)   Any retail business whose principal activity is the sale of
merchandise in an enclosed building.
         (b)   Any service establishment of an office, showroom or workshop
nature of an electrician, decorator, dressmaker, tailor, baker, painter,
upholsterer, or an establishment doing radio or home appliance repair,
photographic reproduction and similar service establishments that require a
retail adjunct.
      (3)   Private clubs, fraternal organizations and lodge halls, subject to
the requirements of §
155.218.
      (4)   Standard restaurants.
      (5)   Business establishments that perform services on the premises, such
as but not limited to banks, loan companies, insurance offices, and real estate
offices.
      (6)   Professional services, including the following: medical clinics
(outpatient only), and offices of doctors, dentists, osteopaths, and similar or
allied professions.
      (7)   Post office and similar governmental office buildings, serving
persons living in the adjacent residential area.
      (8)   Office buildings for any of the following occupations: executive,
administrative and professional, writing, clerical, stenographic, drafting and
sales, subject to the limitations contained below in division (C) of this
section.
      (9)   Medical and dental offices, including clinics and laboratories, but
excluding substance abuse centers.
      (10)   Publicly owned buildings, exchanges and public utility offices,
but not including storage yards, transformer stations, substations or gas
regulator stations, subject to the limitations contained below in division (D)
of this section.
      (11)   Veterinary hospitals and clinics.
      (12)   Dance schools, music and voice schools, and art studios.
      (13)   Art shops, photographic studios design studios and other similar
uses.
      (14)   Office equipment and sales.
      (15)   Reproduction services where the primary use is serving walk-in
customers with small volume copying or word processing services, not including
blueprinting and similar industrial type operations.
      (16)   Personal service establishments, including barber shops, beauty
shops, health salons and similar uses.
      (17)   Town homes (three stories or less).
      (18)   Multiple-family dwellings (three stories or less).
      (19)   Other uses similar to the above uses.
      (20)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses provided that they shall be designed and located as permitted in
§§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (21)   Mortuaries.
      (22)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082.
      (23)   Temporary pop-up commercial use.
      (24)   Passenger bus stations.
      (25)   Mobile food vending unit.
      (26)   Mobile food court/park.
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods provided on the
premises shall be sold at retail on the premises where produced.
      (2)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street
parking, loading and those open air uses indicated as being subject to special
land use in division (D) below, shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings.
      (3)   Site plans shall be planned so as to recognize the front, rear, and
side relationship of adjacent development. The Planning Commission and Council
may recommend physical features to be provided which will insure harmony in
these yard relationships.
      (4)   A restroom shall be provided for public use for all retail
establishments in excess of 12,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (D)   Special land use. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards and all applicable codes and ordinances set
forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed for
each use. The following uses are subject further to the review and approval of
the Planning Commission per standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Open air business uses when developed in planned relationship with
permitted uses within the B-2 District.
      (2)   Bowling alley, billiard hall, indoor archery range, or indoor
skating rink, or similar forms of indoor commercial recreation when located at
least 100 feet from any front, rear or side yard of any residential lot in an
adjacent residential district. Firearm ranges are expressly prohibited.
      (3)   Public utility buildings, telephone exchange buildings, electric
transformer stations and substations, gas regulator stations with service yards
but without storage yards, water and sewage pumping stations.
      (4)   Automobile service centers, when developed as part of a larger
planned shopping center designed so as to integrate the automobile service
center within the site plan and architecture of the total shopping center; and
provided further that a building permit shall not be issued separately for the
construction of any automobile service center within the B-2 District.
      (5)   Nursing and convalescent homes.
      (6)   Senior housing, assisted living and similar types of housing for
the elderly not to exceed a height of three stories.
      (7)   Carry-out, fast food, drive-thru or drive-in restaurants.
      (8)   Mixed-use business and residential buildings.
      (9)   Business schools and colleges, or vocational training centers, such
as trade schools.
      (10)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers.
      (11)   Theaters, assembly halls, concert halls or similar places of
assembly when conducted within enclosed buildings, subject to the requirements
of §
155.218.
      (12)   Private schools operated for profit.
      (13)   Amateur radio antenna, subject to regulations of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (14)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
      (15)   Public, parochial and other private elementary, intermediate
schools and/or high schools offering courses in general education, not operated
for profit.
      (16)   Tattoo parlors.
      (17)   Charitable gaming room subject to the regulations of §
155.145.
      (18)   Medical marijuana provisioning centers subject to the regulations
of §
155.148.
      (19)   Second hand stores.
      (20)   Religious institutions.
      (21)   Bar or lounge.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. Requirements limiting the height and bulk
of buildings, the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density
permitted, and minimum yard setbacks are set forth in §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 830, passed 12-21-09; Am. Ord. 836, passed
2-21-11; Am. Ord. 838, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 855, passed 9-21-15; Am. Ord.
passed 2-20-17 ; Am. Ord. 872, passed 11-15-18)
§ 155.047 B-3 GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of the B-3 General Business District intends to
provide locations for development of businesses which cater primarily to the
comparison shopping needs of the city’s and surrounding communities’ residents
on an intermittent or semi-monthly or greater basis. Convenience type
commercial uses are permitted in combination with the predominant comparison
uses in planned shopping center developments where a combination of such uses
is considered appropriate based on the desired economic function and quality
and range of businesses in the B-3 District.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. The following regulations shall apply to all
B-3 Districts and no building, structure or premises, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, shall be erected, altered or used except for one or
more of the following specified uses:
      (1)   Any retail business or service establishment permitted in B-
2 Districts as principally permitted.
      (2)   Mortuary establishments, when adequate assembly area is provided
off-street for vehicles to be used in funeral procession; provided further that
such assembly area shall be provided in addition to any required off-street
parking area. A caretaker’s residence may be provided within the main building
of mortuary establishments.
      (3)   Bus passenger stations.
      (4)   Governmental offices or other governmental use, public utility
offices, exchange transformer stations, pump stations and service yards, but
not including outdoor storage.
      (5)   Standard restaurants.
      (6)   Massage practitioner offices.
      (7)   Electronic data processing or computer centers.
      (8)   Bowling alley, billiard hall, indoor archery range, or indoor
skating rink, or similar forms of indoor commercial recreation when located at
least 100 feet from any residential lot in an adjacent residential district.
      (9)   Reproduction services where the primary use is serving walk-in
customers with small volume copying or word processing services, not including
blueprinting and similar industrial type operations.
      (10)   Veterinary hospitals or clinics provided all activities are
conducted within a totally enclosed main building and provided further that no
property line abuts a district zoned for residential use.
      (11)   Public utility buildings.
      (12)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses, provided that they shall be designed and located as permitted
in §§
155.111 through
155.142.
      (13)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
      (14)   Computer and electronic data processing centers.
      (15)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (16)   Temporary pop-up commercial use.
   (C)   Required conditions.
      (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers. All goods provided on the
premises shall be sold at retail on the premises where produced.
      (2)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street
parking, loading and those open air uses indicated as being subject to special
land uses in division (D) below, shall be conducted within completely enclosed
buildings.
      (3)   Site plans shall be planned so as to recognize the front, rear, and
side relationship of adjacent development. The Planning Commission and Council
may recommend physical features to be provided which will insure harmony in
these yard relationships.
      (4)   A restroom shall be provided for public use for all retail
establishments in excess of 20,000 square feet of gross floor area.
   (D)   Special land uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards, and all applicable codes and ordinances
set forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed
for each use. The following uses are subject further to the review and approval
of the Planning Commission per standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   All uses allowed in a B-2 District which shall be subject to the
same special land use as in a B-2 District.
      (2)   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of new or secondhand
vehicles or house trailers.
      (3)   Open air business uses for the retail sales of plant material not
grown on the site, and sales of lawn furniture, playground equipment and garden
supplies; provided further that such uses shall be located at the exterior end
of the building mass.
      (4)   Adult supply stores.
      (5)   Adult motion picture theaters.
      (6)   Arcades.
      (7)   Bar or establishment for the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor
for consumption on the premises.
      (8)   Cabaret.
      (9)   Firearms sales establishments.
      (10)   Motels, inns and travel lodges.
      (11)   Hotels.
      (12)   Massage establishments.
      (13)   Pawnshops.
      (14)   Pool or billiard halls.
      (15)   Public lodging house, transient housing, rooming houses.
      (16)   Secondhand stores.
      (17)   Specially designated distributor (SDD).
      (18)   Specially designated merchant (SDM).
      (19)   Tattoo establishments.
      (20)   Carry-out, fast food, drive-thru or drive-in restaurants.
      (21)   Vehicle wash establishments, when completely enclosed in building.
      (22)   Commercial kennel provided all activities are conducted within a
totally enclosed main building and provided further that no property line abuts
a district zoned for residential use.
      (23)   Automobile service stations.
      (24)   Automobile service centers, when developed as part of a larger
planned shopping center. The design shall integrate the automobile service
center within the site plan and architectural character of the total shopping
center. A building permit shall not be issued separately for the construction
of any automobile service center.
      (25)   General hospitals, except those for criminals and those solely for
the treatment of persons who are mentally ill or have contagious disease, with
no maximum height.
      (26)   Greenhouse and florist operations involving the growing,
wholesaling and/or retailing of plant materials.
      (27)   Nursing and convalescent homes.
      (28)   Theaters, assembly halls, concert halls or similar places of
assembly when conducted within enclosed buildings, subject to the requirements
of §
155.218.
      (29)   Business schools and colleges or private schools operated for
profit.
      (30)   Amateur radio antenna, subject to regulations of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (31)   Research and development facilities.
      (32)   Manufactured housing communities, subject to requirements of §
155.140 of this chapter.
      (33)   Fast food restaurants without drive-thru service.
      (34)   Charitable gaming room subject to the regulations of §
155.145.
      (35)   Minor vehicle repair, subject to the regulations of §
155.128.
      (36)   Commercial warehouse, wholesale operations and distribution
subject to the regulations of §
155.147.
      (37)   Medical marijuana provisioning centers subject to the regulations
of §
155.148.
      (38)   Religious institutions.
      (39)   New and used vehicle and trailer indoor sales, showroom or office.
      (40)   Self-storage facilities.
   (E)   Area and bulk requirements. Requirements limiting the height and bulk
of buildings, the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density
permitted, and minimum yard setbacks are set forth in §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 836, passed 2-21-11; Am. Ord. 838, passed
8-15-11; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-17-12; Am. Ord. 853, passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord.
passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.048 M-1 LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   Intent. The M-1 Light Industrial District intends to provide locations
for planned industrial development, including planned industrial park
subdivisions. Permitted activities or operations shall produce no external
impacts that are detrimental in any way to other uses in the district or to
properties in adjoining districts. Accordingly, light industrial, research, and
related office uses permitted in this district should be fully contained within
well-designed buildings on amply landscaped sites, with adequate off-street
parking and loading areas, and with no outside storage. Heavy industrial uses,
such as those involving the processing of raw material for shipment in bulk
form to be used at another location, shall not be permitted in this district.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. The following regulations shall apply to M-
1 Districts, and no building, structure or premises, except as otherwise
provided in this chapter, shall be erected, altered or used except for one or
more of the following uses:
      (1)   Any of the following uses when the manufacturing, compounding or
processing is conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building. Open
storage facilities for materials or equipment shall be located in rear or side
yards and totally obscured by a masonry wall on those sides abutting R-1A
through R-1C, RM, RM-1, O-1, B-1, B-2 and B-3 Districts, and from view of any
public land or thoroughfare. In M-1 Districts the extent of such wall may be
determined by the Planning Commission on the basis of usage. Such wall shall
conform to the standards established in §
155.074, Walls, and shall meet the requirements of §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
         (a)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment
of such products as: bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals,
toiletries, food products, hardware and cutlery; and tool, die, gauge and
machine shops.
         (b)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of
articles or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials: bone,
canvas, cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semi-precious metals or stones, sheet
metal (excluding large stampings such as automobile fenders or bodies), shell,
textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood (excluding saw and planing mills) and yams.
         (c)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar
ceramic products using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas.
         (d)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties and metal or
rubber stamps, or other small molded rubber products.
         (e)   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices radios, and phonographs.
      (2)   Laboratories, experimental, film or testing.
      (3)   Manufacture and repair of electric or neon signs, light sheet metal
products, including heating and ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves and the
like.
      (4)   Warehouse and wholesale establishments and truck terminal
facilities.
      (5)   Self-service storage facilities.
      (6)   Reproduction plants, which may include accessory retail operations.
      (7)   Central dry cleaning plants or laundries, which shall not offer
storefront service or in any other manner interact with the general public as a
retail laundromat or dry cleaner service.
      (8)   All public utilities, including buildings, necessary structures,
storage yards and other related uses.
      (9)   Trade or industrial schools.
      (10)   Private clubs, fraternal organizations and lodge halls, subject to
the requirements of §
155.218.
      (11)   Electronic data processing or computer centers.
      (12)   Offices, showrooms or workshops of an electrician, decorator,
dressmaker, tailor, baker, painter, upholsterer, or an establishment doing
radio or home appliance repair, photographic reproduction or similar use.
      (13)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses, provided that they shall be designed and located as permitted
in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (14)   Non-accessory freestanding signs, provided all signs meet the
requirements of §§
155.231 through
155.252.
      (15)   Other uses of a similar and no more objectionable character to
those principal uses permitted.
      (16)   Utility and public service buildings without storage yards.
      (17)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (18)   Trade schools.
      (19)   Truck or terminal facilities.
      (20)    Bus passenger station.
      (21)   Mobile food vending unit.
      (22)   Murals.
   (C)   Special land uses. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to
the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards and all applicable codes and ordinances set
forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed for
each use. The following uses are subject further to the review and approval of
the Planning Commission per standards set forth in this chapter:
      (1)   Convenience services which in the opinion of the Planning
Commission intend to serve the daily needs of persons working in the M-
1 District. Such uses include restaurants or other places serving food or
beverage, except those having the character of drive-ins, automobile service
stations, newsstands and tobacco shops.
      (2)   Major and minor vehicle repair centers, painting and varnishing
shops, undercoating shops.
      (3)   Lumber and planing mills.
      (4)   Automobile or other machinery assembly plants.
      (5)   Canning factories (but not including slaughtering or rendering).
      (6)   Storage facilities for building materials, sand, gravel, stone,
lumber, open storage or construction contractor’s equipment and supplies,
provided such is enclosed within a building or within an obscuring wall on
those sides abutting R-1A through R-1 C, R-2, RM, RM-1, O-1, B-1, B-2, or B-
3 Districts and on any front yard abutting public land or thoroughfare. In M-
1 Districts the extent of such wall may be determined by the Planning
Commission on the basis of usage. Such wall shall be not less than four and
one-half feet in height and may, depending upon land usage, be required to be
eight feet in height, and shall be subject further to the requirements of §§
155.071 through
155.082. Junk yards, when permitted, shall be entirely enclosed within an
obscuring masonry wall six feet in height on all sides of sufficient strength
to serve as a retaining wall. All applications for junk yards must receive the
approval of the Mayor and the City Council as prescribed in §§
155.271 through
155.275, Powers and Duties of Boards, Commissions and Departments.
      (7)   Metal plating, buffing and polishing, subject to appropriate
measures to control the type of process to prevent noxious results and/or
nuisances.
      (8)   Metal working, stamping, punching or pressing machines, subject to
appropriate measures to control the type of process to prevent noxious results
and/or nuisances.
      (9)   Greenhouse and florist operations involving the growing,
wholesaling and/or retailing of plant materials.
      (10)   Other uses of a similar and no more objectionable character, and
which will not be injurious or have an adverse effect on adjacent areas, and
may therefore be permitted subject to such conditions, restrictions and
safeguards as may be deemed necessary in the interest of public health, safety
and welfare.
      (11)   Amateur radio antenna, subject to regulations of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (12)   Wireless towers and antennas, subject to the requirements of §§
155.211 through
155.217, Wireless Communication Towers and Antennas.
      (13)   Greenhouses.
      (14)   Manufactured housing communities, subject to requirements of §
155.140.
      (15)   Charitable gaming room customarily accessory to a use permitted
(principal or subject to special land use) in the M-1 District such as a
fraternal organization or lodge hall subject to the regulations of §
155.145.
      (16)   Medical marijuana cultivation facilities subject to the
regulations of §
155.021 (Conflict of laws and prohibited land uses).
      (17)   Medical marijuana processing facilities subject to the regulations
of §
155.021 (Conflict of laws and prohibited land uses).
      (18)   Medical marijuana testing facilities subject to the regulations of
§
155.021(Conflict of laws and prohibited land uses).
      (19)   Medical marijuana transportation facilities subject to the
regulations of §
155.021 (Conflict of laws and prohibited land uses).
   (D)   Area and bulk requirements. Requirements limiting the height and bulk
of buildings, the minimum size of lot permitted by land use, maximum density
permitted, and minimum yard setbacks are set forth in §
155.061.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 836, passed 2-21-11; Am. Ord. 838, passed
8-15-11; Am. Ord. 852, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 862,
passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 872, passed 11-15-18; Am. Ord. 873, passed 11-19-18)
§ 155.049 TCD TOWN CENTER DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent. The TCD Town Center District intends to provide a vibrant
mixed-use civic center. Experience has shown that successful cities have a town
center focal point that integrates civic, convenience and community retail
businesses and residences in a coordinated and pedestrian-friendly land use
strategy. To this end, this district intends to achieve integrated site
planning of adjoining developments to achieve a pedestrian-friendly
environment, compatibility of architectural scale and character, compatibility
of land uses, higher-density residential developments, support retail and civic
core. In keeping with the above intent, the TCD Town Center District is
intended to serve the following specific goals:
      (1)   Meet the goals and intent of the master plan and provide for land
uses and design that supports and furthers the concept and vision of the town
center.
      (2)   Realize the full economic potential of this center through
coordinated mixed-use and high-intensity planning concepts.
      (3)   Promote and enhance recreation opportunities through well-designed
private parks in new residential communities and improved connections to the
Rouge River.
      (4)   Promote coordination of private and public efforts in the planning
and development of needed infrastructure improvements.
      (5)   Provide for orderly and integrated planning to avoid fragmentary or
speculative development.
      (6)   Prevent long-term vacancy, blight, decay or abandonment.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. In the TCD District, no building or land,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be erected or used except
for one or more of the following specific purposes. Review of site
architectural and landscape plans is required by the Planning Commission for
change in use of existing tenant space greater than 5,000 square feet and new
construction to find proper relationships between architectural scale and
character; vehicular and pedestrian traffic safety; interconnected open space
and recreation areas; interconnected pedestrian and non-motorized walks and
paths; and appropriate mixture of land uses. Change in use of existing tenant
space 5,000 square feet and under may be approved administratively by the City
Planner.
      (1)   Multiple-family residential buildings.
      (2)   Retail businesses that are consistent with the vision of the
district.
      (3)   Personal service establishments.
      (4)   Hotels.
      (5)   Professional offices.
      (6)   Financial institutions.
      (7)   Restaurants (carry-out and standard); delivery services shall be
accessory to the primary use only.
      (8)   Public parks and parkways.
      (9)   Public and civic buildings.
      (10)   Child and adult day care center as a limited accessory use.
      (11)   Uses similar to the above that are consistent with the vision of
the district.
      (12)   Uses and structures accessory to the above.
      (13)   Theaters, assembly halls, and concert halls, subject to the
requirements of §
155.218.
      (14)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required in §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards.
      (15)   Charitable gaming room subject to the regulations of §
155.145.
      (16)   Religious institutions.
      (17)   Temporary pop-up commercial use.
      (18)    Bus passenger stations.
      (19)   Mobile food vending unit.
      (20)   Murals.
   (C)   Special land use. Planning Commission may approve uses listed in §
155.047, B-3, General Business District that are consistent with the specific
goals of the TCD, Town Center District §
155.049(A), subject to the conditions set forth in this subchapter, §§
155.111 through
155.149, Special Land Use Standards, and all applicable codes and ordinances
set forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed
for each use. Auto-oriented and adult business uses, including: vehicle sales,
vehicle repair, vehicle wash establishments, automobile service stations,
manufactured home communities, adult book stores, adult motion picture
theaters, adult cabarets, and similar uses are strictly prohibited.
   (D)   Application procedure and submission requirements. When required, the
Planning Commission shall recommend to City Council that the site plan and
special land use be approved, conditionally approved, or denied. Any proposed
development within the boundaries zoned TCD Town Center District, including but
not limited to exterior renovations, additions, new structures, new signs, and
changes of uses, either existing at the time any parcel was zoned TCD Town
Center District or commenced or erected thereafter, shall be subject to the
provisions of this chapter. An owner or applicant shall submit a written
application to the Commission describing proposed uses, design, extent, and
development timetable and the legal interest of the applicant. In addition, the
applicant shall provide the following requirements along with relevant
supporting documentation:
      (1)   A recent “as built” survey, certified to the city and containing a
metes and bounds legal description or plat description of the property
exhibiting the location of all property improvements, total acreage, and site
measurements.
      (2)   Copies of all instruments creating restrictions hindering
development of the property.
      (3)   A site plan conforming to the requirements of §
155.286, Site plan review.
      (4)   Buildings and development elevations from four major directions,
including exterior dimensions.
      (5)   Floor plans including overall floor plan, projected number of units
and their projected area, and number of bedrooms per unit.
      (6)   Landscape plan and schedule depicting species location, size and
quantity.
      (7)   Soil studies.
      (8)   Signage plans.
      (9)   Sight lines and public access connections to the river corridor,
where applicable.
      (10)   Pedestrian connections to proposed buildings and land uses, to the
public sidewalk system and to adjacent properties.
      (11)   Development timetable setting forth expected starting and
completion dates for construction, and the date on which the project will begin
operation. If the development is to be constructed in phases, a timetable
showing applicable starting and completion dates for each phase shall be
submitted along with the part of the overall property allocated to each phase
which shall be indicated on the site plan.
      (12)   A development and financial resume for the applicant and
developer, other than the applicant, which demonstrates a past performance of
proving a level of skill and organizational activity necessary for project
completion. Significant financial documentation indicating finance capability
and methods shall, in addition, be submitted.
      (13)   Traffic studies indicating daily peak traffic demands and
direction of such traffic as expected to be generated by the project. All
traffic shall be accommodated safely and efficiently on-site and by the
abutting street system. If a deficiency will occur, the applicant shall submit
plans to improve the street system along with a proposal to provide feasible
financing methods. Development accessing Michigan Avenue shall meet all
requirements of the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT).
      (14)   Parking spaces and data indicating the number of vehicle spaces
and/or bicycle racks required for the proposed use. The Planning Commission,
upon recommendation of the City Planner may waive submissions requirements
detailed in divisions (11) through (14) above, or portions thereof, if it has
been determined that the information is not necessary for project evaluation or
that sufficient documentation has been previously submitted. However, in all
instances, the applicant shall submit at least one elevation and a site plan to
scale, which shows the renovation or modification.
   (E)   Planning Commission review and approval. The Planning Commission shall
review the project application with regard to specified standards and
requirements of the TCD Town Center District and as set forth below:
      (1)   The review procedure shall be conducted in conformance to §
155.288, Procedures for special land use review, and §
155.289, Standards for special land use approval.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct its review of all new
projects or changes in site or building conditions of existing developments in
conformance with the notice and public hearing requirements for special land
uses subject to discretionary decisions as specified in §
155.291, Public hearing notification requirements, and in Public Act 207 of
1921, as amended. Following the review process, the Commission may approve or
deny the application based on specified standards and requirements set forth in
this section. Specific conditions applied to an approved plan shall be made
part of the record of approval as set forth in the approval resolution. The
specified conditions shall be modified only as provided for in this section.
   (F)   Standards and requirements for review and approval. The Planning
Commission shall make conclusions for a proposed development application based
on the following standards and requirements:
      (1)   All proposed uses shall comply with the Master Plan and be
consistent with the spirit, specific intent, and purposes of the Town Center
District.
      (2)   The application proposal shall set forth specific written
descriptions of heights, setbacks, density, parking, vehicular and pedestrian
circulation, landscaping, and other design elements which affect the impact of
this project with adjacent properties, to other developments in the district,
to the overall plans and goals of the district and to future users and
inhabitants of the development. Standards of §
155.061 are not specifically required except as contained in the proposal
approved by the Commission, or in any specified condition that has been made
subject in the Commission’s resolution of approval. However, the requirements
of §§
155.071 through
155.076 and §§
155.078 through
155.082, General Development Standards, must be adhered to.
      (3)   Planning Commission may, at the recommendation of the City Planner,
modify the off-street parking requirements of §
155.077. The off-street parking space requirements established in §
155.077(B) shall be the maximum parking permitted in the TCD Town Center
District. The minimum parking requirements in the TCD Town Center District
shall be 100% of the off-street parking space requirements established in §
155.077(B). The off-street parking space requirements may be modified based on
site uses, the provision of shared parking, and the provision of bicycle
parking, and parking studies.
      (4)   Signs must meet the requirements of this chapter and shall be
limited in size and numbers to avoid visual clutter associated with overall
effect of multiple signs. Billboards are expressly prohibited.
      (5)   Proposed uses shall encourage pedestrian usage and encourage
business patrons to remain in the district for an extended time period.
Businesses that cater to transient vehicular traffic such as auto service
stations or centers or similar uses are strictly prohibited.
      (6)   The proposed use(s) must not exceed the capacity of the existing
and available public services, including utilities and public roads. However,
the development proposal can contain adequate plans for providing needed
services or evidence that such services will be available by the date the
project is completed. This plan must meet Planning Commission’s satisfaction.
      (7)   The project and its uses must be in compliance with all applicable
federal, state and local laws and regulations.
      (8)   All project submission documents are subject to a review by a
qualified professional city planner or other professional, who may be retained
by the city for this purpose.
   (G)   Permit and certificate issuance.
      (1)   Subsequent to approval by the Commission, the Building Division
shall not issue building permits or certificates of occupancy or certificates
or re-occupancy until the plans and proposed uses comply with Planning
Commission’s resolution of approval.
      (2)   An applicant may file an appeal of an unfavorable determination by
the City Planner or Planning Commission to the Zoning Board of Appeals. If the
Board decides that the project complies with the approval resolution, then a
permit or certificate shall be issued. Should the Zoning Board of Appeals
sustain the determination of the City Planner of Planning Commission, the
applicant may appeal their decision to the Circuit Court.
   (H)   Modification of approved plans.
      (1)   Approved development proposals may be modified by resolution of the
Planning Commission after submission and review of an application in accordance
with standards and requirements stated in this section.
      (2)   Approved development proposals may be administratively modified,
upon discretion of the City Planner, provided the following conditions are met:
         (a)   Building or structure area or height is not increased.
         (b)   Dwelling unit density is not increased.
         (c)   Off-street parking requirements are not modified.
         (d)   The traffic pattern is not modified.
         (e)   Trip generation is not increased.
   (I)   Abandonment or expiration of time limits. Approval of a project and
any building permit or certificate may become null and void if any of the
following conditions arise:
      (1)   The approved project is abandoned.
      (2)   A project has not achieved its one year construction progress as
set forth in the submitted development timetable upon expiration of one year
after the effective date of issuance of the initial building permit.
      (3)   An approved project has not obtained building permits within six
months of final site plan approval.
      (4)   The approved project has not been completed six years after the
effective date of issuance of the initial building permit. Upon application,
the Commission may approve extensions, provided that the application is
received by the City Planner prior to the expiration date, on display of sound
reasons which meet the satisfaction of the Commission. The applicant or
designee of the applicant shall appear in person to apply for an extension.
   (J)   Prior consultation. All persons contemplating the development of any
property located within the district are advised to contact and confer with the
City Planner and staff prior to investing significant amounts of time, energy,
and funds in preparing extensive plans, proposals, and submissions.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 827, passed 12-7-09; Am. Ord. 836, passed
2-21-11; Am. Ord. 838, passed 8-15-11; Am. Ord. 844, passed 9-17-12; Am. Ord.
849, passed 12-17-14; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 863, passed 10-2-17 ;
Am. Ord. 872, passed 11-15-18; Am. Ord. 873, passed 11-19-18)
§ 155.050 through § 155.059 RESERVED.
SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS
§ 155.061 SCHEDULE OF REGULATIONS.
Table 4-1, below, is a schedule of regulations for this chapter.
TABLE 4-1
         Minimum Size Maximum Height Minimum Yard Setback
         Lot per Unit of Structures  (Per Lot in Feet)      Minimum Maximum
                                                            Floor   Percentage
Use                                                         Area    of Lot
District Area   Width         Feet         Least Total      per     Area
         in Sq. in    Stories (U)    Front One   Two   Rear Unit    Covered by
         Ft.    Feet                       Side  Sides      (Sq.    All
                                                            Ft.)    Building
TABLE 4-1
            Minimum     Maximum      Minimum Yard Setback
            Size Lot    Height of    (Per Lot in Feet)       Minimum Maximum
            per Unit    Structures                           Floor   Percentage
                                                             Area    of Lot
Use         Area                                             per     Area
District    in    Width         Feet       Least Total       Unit    Covered by
            Sq.   in    Stories (U)  Front One   Two   Rear  (Sq.    All
            Ft.   Feet                     Side  Sides       Ft.)    Building


R-1A One-   9,600                          10                1,500
Family      (C)   80    2       25   25    (K)   20    30    (P)     30%
Residential
R-1B One-   7,200                                            1, 200
Family      (C)   60    2       25   25    5 (K) 14    30    (Q)     30%
Residential
R-1C One-   6,000                                            1, 200
Family      (C)   50    2       25   25    5 (K) 14    30    (R)     30%
Residential
RM
Restricted  (L),  (L),               (m),  (N),  (N),  (N),
Multiple-   (S)   (S)   2       25   (S)   (O),  (O),  (O),  850 (S) 50%
Dwelling                                   (S)   (S)   (S)
(Low Rise)
                                                             1BR -
RM-                                                          600
1 Multiple                                                   2 BR -
Family      (A)   (A)   3 (S)   36   30    30    60    30    750     50%
Residence                       (S)  (B)   (B)   (B)   (B)   3 BR -
(Low Rise)                                                   900
                                                             4 BR -
                                                             1,100
B-1 Local   (D)   (D)   1       25   None  (G)   (G)   (H)   None    (D)
Business
B-                      3 (E)   35                     (F),
2 Community (D)   (D)   (T)     (E)  (F)   (F)   (F)   (H)   None    (D)
Business                        (T)
B-3 General (D)   (D)   2       25   None  (G)   (G)   (H)   None    (D)
Business
M-1 Light   (D)   (D)   --      40   60    20    40    (J),  None    (D)
Industrial                           (I)   (J)   (J)   (H)
TCD Town    (T),  (T),  (T),    (T), (T),  (T),  (T),  (T),  (T),
Center      (V)   (V)   (V)     (V)  (V)   (V)   (V)   (V)   (V)      
District
 
See notes (demoted by capital letter in parentheses) on following pages.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
SCHEDULE NOTES:
   (A)   In an RM-1 Multiple-Family District, the total number of rooms of 80
square feet or more (not including kitchen, dining and sanitary facilities)
shall not be more than the area of the parcel in square feet, divided by 900.
All units shall have at least one living room and one bedroom, except that not
more than 10% of the units may be of an efficiency apartment type.
      (1)   In buildings of four or more stories in height, the total number of
rooms of 80 square feet or more (not including kitchen, dining and sanitary
facilities) shall not be more than the area of the parcel, in square feet,
divided by 450. All units shall have at least one living room and one bedroom,
except that not more than 10% of the units may be of an efficiency apartment
type.
      (2)   For the purpose of computing the permitted number of dwelling units
per acre, the following room assignments shall control:
      Efficiency = 1 room
      1 bedroom = 2 rooms
      2 bedroom = 3 rooms
      3 bedroom = 4 rooms
      4 bedroom = 5 rooms
      (3)   Plans presented showing 1-, 2-, or 3-bedroom units and including a
den, library or other extra room shall count such extra room as a bedroom for
the purpose of computing density.
      (4)   The area used for computing density shall be the total site area
exclusive of any dedicated public right-of-way of either interior or bounding
roads and unusable open space such as wetlands and natural features.
   (B)   In an RM-1 District, front, side or rear yards need not refer to
spacing between buildings for a planned development for two or more buildings
on the same parcel. In such cases, the minimum distance between any two
buildings shall be regulated according to §
155.073, Multiple building multiple-family development. Areas devoted to off-
street parking, drives or maneuvering lanes shall not cover more than 30% of
the area of any required side or rear yard or any required minimum distance
between buildings. Off-street parking shall not be permitted in a front yard.
   (C)   See §
155.153, Lot averaging for one-family developments, for flexibility allowance.
   (D)   The minimum lot area and width, and the maximum percent of building
coverage shall be determined on the basis of required off-street parking,
loading, greenbelt screening, and yard setbacks as provided herein for the
respective uses and use districts.
   (E)   Planned unit developments involving five acres or more under one
ownership shall be subject to the approval of the Planning Commission, after
public hearing, regarding modifications with respect to height regulations;
subject, further, to the review by the City Council and approval thereof. In
approving an increase in structure height the Planning Commission shall require
that all yards may at least be equal in their depth to the height of the
structure.
   (F)   The minimum setback is the existing established building setback for
the street and limited to the extent that the required off-street loading space
and space for enclosed trash receptacles and parking is accommodated on the
site.
   (G)   No side yards are required along interior side lot lines within the
district, except as required in the building code; provided that if walls of
structures facing such interior side lot lines contain window or door
penetrations, such side yard shall not be less than ten feet. Where an interior
side lot line abuts a district zoned for residential use there shall be
provided an interior side yard equal in depth to the height of the building. On
corner lots, the exterior side yard shall not be less than ten feet, except
where the rear yard abuts a residential district or lies across a common
separating street from a residential district. Such side yard shall not be less
than the minimum required front yard of said adjacent residential district.
   (H)   Off-street loading space shall be provided in the rear yard at a ratio
of at least one space per each establishment, and shall be provided in addition
to any required off-street parking area. Off-street loading space shall further
meet the requirements of §
155.079, Off-street loading and unloading.
   (I)   A required front yard may be penetrated to within 20 feet of an
existing or proposed right-of-way line (as shown on the Master Plan) with off-
street parking for customers, clients and/or visitors if screened from public
view (as viewed from a major thoroughfare) by an intense planting screen at
least ten feet in width; subject to the requirements of §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards. For the purpose of this provision, such
off-street parking shall consist of not more than 10% of the total off-street
parking required under the provisions of this chapter.
   (J)   No building shall be located closer than 60 feet to the outer
perimeter (property line) of such district when said property line abuts any
residential district.
      (1)   Required side or rear yards may be used for off-street parking or
loading and unloading, provided that in such instances the Planning Commission
shall review and approve the proposed parking and site plan to determine that
sufficient access to the rear of the building is provided for firefighting or
other emergency type equipment.
      (2)   An obscuring wall shall be provided on those sides of the property
used for open storage parking or service drives, loading, unloading or
servicing, and abutting land zoned for residential use. The Planning Commission
on the basis of usage may determine the extent of such wall. Such wall shall
not be less than eight feet in height and shall be subject further to the
requirements of §
155.074, Walls. The Planning Commission may, upon considering land usage,
modify such wall height where it is found that no good purpose would be served
by such requirement. In no instance, however, shall such wall be less than four
and one-half feet in height.
   (K)   The side yard abutting upon a street shall not be less than the
greater of the side yards required for the district in which located when there
is a common rear yard relationship in the block and a common side yard
relationship with the block directly across the common separating street. In
the case of a rear yard abutting a side yard, or when a side yard is adjacent
to a front yard across a common separating street, the side yard abutting a
street shall not be less than the minimum front yard of the district in which
located.
   (L)   A minimum of 4,000 square feet of lot of site area shall be provided
for each dwelling unit.
   (M)   The distance from the front lot line to the nearest point of a
principal building shall not be less than 25 feet, except that where an entire
block frontage is developed at one time, under single ownership of control,
then the minimum setback may be reduced to 20 feet provided that the average
setback for all structures shall not be less than 25 feet.
   (N)   The minimum required yard depths (per unit) shall be as follows:
      (1)   Side: 15 feet shall be provided at the exterior end of each
structure (detached or attached), subject further to the requirements of note
division (M) above.
      (2)   Front: 25 feet, except as provided in note division (M) above.
      (3)   Rear: 35 feet, except that enclosed parking structures and/or
exterior court walls may be constructed at the rear lot line where such lot
abuts a public alley.
The above required areas shall be determined by the Planning Commission on the
basis of dwelling unit orientation; provided, further, that the minimum
required area for any dwelling unit shall not be counted as the required yard
area for any other dwelling unit.
   (O)   Interior courts shall contain a minimum of 500 square feet with a
minimum horizontal dimension of 20 feet for the first story plus one additional
foot per foot of building height above 15 feet.
   (P)   A dwelling unit constructed in an R-1A One-Family Residential District
shall have a floor area of not less than 1,500 square feet with full basement
or 1,600 square feet without basement.
   (Q)   A dwelling unit constructed in an R-1 B One-Family Residential
District area shall have a floor area of not less than 1,200 square feet with a
full basement or 1,400 square feet without a basement.
   (R)   A dwelling unit constructed in an R-1 C One-Family Residential
District area shall have a floor area of not less than 1,200 square feet with a
full basement or 1,400 square feet without a basement.
   (S)   See §
155.121, Townhomes and duplexes, for special land use for townhomes.
   (T)   See §
155.121, Townhomes and duplexes for special land use for townhomes and §
155.124, Mixed-use business and residential buildings.
   (U)   See §
155.029, Definitions, for determination of building height.
   (V)   See §
155.049, TCD Town Center District, for submission and dimensional requirements.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.062 through § 155.069 RESERVED.
GENERAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 155.071 INTENT.
   The requirements of this subchapter are intended to assure that new
development is compatible with anticipated future land uses or existing
development in terms of scale and character of architecture, landscaping and
screening, site amenities, off-street parking and loading, traffic and other
physical features of site development. These standards may be more stringently
modified in complementary provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.072 ARCHITECTURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   Accessory buildings. Accessory buildings, except as otherwise
permitted in this chapter, shall be subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this
chapter applicable to main building.
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall not be erected in any required yard,
except a rear yard.
      (3)   An accessory building in R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, RM, RM-1, O-1 and B-
1 Districts shall not exceed one story or 14 feet in height, nor shall it
occupy more than 25% of a required rear yard plus 40% of any non-required rear
yard; provided that in no instance shall the accessory building exceed the
ground floor area of the main building. Accessory buildings in all other
districts may be constructed to equal the permitted maximum height of
structures in said districts, subject to the Zoning Board of Appeals’ review
and approval.
      (4)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than ten
feet to any main building, nor shall it be located closer than three feet to
any side or rear lot line. In those instances where the rear lot line is
coterminous with an alley right-of-way, the accessory building shall not be
closer than one foot to such rear lot line. In no instance shall an accessory
building be located within a dedicated easement right-of-way.
      (5)   When an accessory building is located on a corner lot, the side lot
line of which is substantially a continuation of the front lot line, said
building shall not project beyond the front yard line required on the lot in
rear of such corner lot. When an accessory building is located on a corner lot,
the side lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the side lot line
of the lot, said building shall not project beyond the side yard line of the
lot in the rear of such corner lot.
      (6)   When an accessory building exceeds 444 square feet in area and/or
one story or 14 feet in height, in any residence or business district, and is
intended for other than storage of private motor vehicles, the accessory use
shall be subject to the approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   Attached garages. The openings for attached garage doors shall not
comprise more than 45% of the width of the front facade of single- and two-
family dwelling, including the attached garage.
   (C)   Massing. Structures with walls greater than 1,500 square feet must
incorporate building setbacks of at least 3 feet to separate the wall into
facade planes not greater than 500 square feet. In addition, facades shall
incorporate canopies, fascias or other distinguishing entrance features to the
maximum extent feasible.
   (D)   Appearance. One- and two-family dwellings shall be compatible with
other similar type existing dwelling units on the same block face in such
architectural characteristics as roof style and overhang, garage design,
building massing, front porches, exterior building materials and pattern of
window and door openings.
   (E)   Lot pattern. The creation of new flag or irregularly shaped lots is
prohibited unless it is necessary to match the existing surrounding lot
pattern.
   (F)   Exterior colors. The color of the exterior materials must be of low-
reflectance, subtle, neutral colors. The use of high-intensity or reflectance,
and fluorescent colors is prohibited. Building trim may exhibit brighter
colors, except neon tubing is prohibited. In all situations in which an
application for site plan review is required, the selection of all exterior
colors shall be subject to the site-plan review process pursuant to the
provisions of §
155.286(B). Planning Commission may also approve public art and murals,
pursuant to the provisions of §
155.286(B).
      (1)   Earth tone shall be defined as “any of the various rich colors
containing, black brown, grey, and green.”
      (2)   Fluorescent shall be defined as “any color containing any shade of
yellow, red, or orange.”
      (3)   High intensity or reflectance shall be defined as “any color that
is bright, shiny or mirrory.”
      (4)   Neon shall be defined as “any color that is extremely bright.”
   (G)   Facade windows. At least 30% of the ground floor street facades for
retail, office, service, governmental or institutional uses in an O-1, B-1, B-
2, B-3 or TCD district shall be constructed with windows or other transparent
material to allow pedestrians to view interior activities or displayed
products.
   (H)   Porches. One- and two-family residences and townhomes shall be
constructed with front porches minimally six feet in depth to provide a usable
sitting area. Enclosed structures shall be counted as part of the overall lot
coverage.
   (I)   Rear porches or decks. Rear porches or decks shall not exceed 12 feet
in depth. Enclosed structures shall be counted as part of the overall lot
coverage.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 799, passed 1-5-04; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-
17)
§ 155.073 SITE DESIGN FEATURES.
   (A)   Residential entranceway. In R- 1A, R-1B, R-1C, RM, RM-1, TCD and PD
residential districts, entranceway structures, including but not limited to
walls, columns and gates, marking entrances to single-family subdivisions or
multiple housing projects, may be permitted and may be located in a required
yard, except as provided in §§
155.151 through
155.154, Alternate Development Options, and §§
155.231 through
155.252, Signs; provided that such entranceway structures shall comply to all
codes and ordinances of the city and shall be approved by the Building Official
or designee and a permit issued.
   (B)   Corner clearance. No fence, wall, shrubbery, sign or other obstruction
to vision above a height of 30 inches from the established street grades shall
be permitted within the triangular area formed at the intersection of any
street right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between said right-of-way
lines at a distance along each line of 25 feet from their point of
intersection.
   (C)   Multiple building multiple-family developments. The following
requirements shall be followed when two or more buildings are located on a lot.
These regulations are pertinent for all multiple-family residential types
including two-family flats or duplexes, townhomes, garden apartments, terrace
homes, mid- and high-rise developments, similar residential types or a mixture
of such uses.
      (1)   The minimum horizontal distance between building fronts and rears
(and building ends if adjacent to front or rear) shall average 40 feet for
buildings one story in height. The average shall not be less than 30 feet at
one end if proportionately increased at the other end for angular
relationships. The minimum distance shall be increased by not less than five
feet for each additional story.
      (2)   The minimum horizontal distance between building ends shall be at
least 20 feet for buildings one or two stories in height. This distance shall
be increased by five feet for each additional story.
   (D)   Plant materials - landscaping, greenbelts and buffers. Whenever a
greenbelt or planting screen is required under the provisions of this chapter,
such greenbelt or planting screen shall be subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Installation. All landscaping shall be installed in a manner
consistent with the standards of the American Association of Nurserymen, the
approved site plan, and the following:
         (a)   Deadline for installation. Installation of required screening
and landscaping shall be completed prior to or at the time of completion of
building construction, except when building construction is completed during
the off-season when plants cannot be installed, in which case the owner shall
provide a performance guarantee to ensure installation of required landscaping
in the next planting season.
         (b)   Extension. The city may extend the deadline to allow
installation of required plant materials by the end of the next planting season
upon determination that weather conditions, development phasing, or other
factors would jeopardize required plant materials and prevent their
installation by the deadline specified in this section.
         (c)   Performance Guarantee. Installation and maintenance bonds may be
required.
      (2)   Performance Bond. Whenever a site plan requires any type of
landscaping, the applicant may be required to post a Performance Bond prior to
the issuance of a temporary or final Certificate of Occupancy to ensure the
completion of landscaping (including irrigation) if the landscaping is not 100%
complete when any certificate of occupancy is requested. The city will inspect
the landscaping and determine the percentage of completion and a performance
bond must be submitted to the city by the developer in the sum equal to the
unfinished portion of the landscape work. If the landscaping is 100% compete
and approved no Performance Bond will be required.
   The selection, spacing and size of plant material shall be such as to
create, within a five-year period from the date of planting, a horizontal
obscuring effect for the entire length of the required greenbelt area, and a
vertical obscuring wall effect of such height as is determined adequate by the
Planning Commission for proper screening between land uses.
      (3)   Plant material spacing. Spacing of plant materials required shall
be as follows:
         (a)   Plant materials shall not be placed closer than four feet from
the fence line or property line.
         (b)   Deciduous and all shrubs may not be planted within five feet,
and evergreen trees may not be planted within ten feet of any a curb or public
walkway.
         (c)   Trees and shrubs may not be planted within ten feet of a fire
hydrant.
         (d)   Where plant materials are planted in two or more rows, planting
shall be staggered in rows.
         (e)   Where shrub plantings are required to form a continuous hedge or
used for screening purposes, the plants shall not be spaced more than 36 inches
on center at planting, and shall have a minimum height and spread of 30 inches
at planting. Shrubs that will not attain sufficient width to form a complete
hedge spaced 36 inches on center shall be planted at a spacing that will allow
them to form a complete hedge within two years of planting.
      (4)   Size and variety of plant materials. To ensure adequate variety,
and to avoid monotony and uniformity within a site, required plant materials
shall not include more than 20% of any single plant species, and shall comply
with the following schedule for minimum sizes at planting:
 
PLANT MATERIAL REQUIREMENTS
Screening Materials        Minimum Size at Installation
Deciduous Shade Trees      2.5 caliper-inches*
Evergreen Trees            6 feet height and 5 feet spread
Deciduous Ornamental Trees 2 caliper-inches* or 6 feet overall height
                           30 inches in height, 24 inches in spread when used
Shrubs                     for screening or buffering purposes, or 3 gallon
                           container size when used for other purposes
Groundcovers               Shall be from flats
 
*Caliper-inches measured twelve (12) inches above grade.
   The Planning Commission may approve modifications from the above table for
appropriate landscape materials that do not meet the above minimum size
requirements or are not readily available at landscape supply yards in the
required size. If smaller materials are approved the difference for the smaller
materials shall be compensated with additional material being provided. In
approving such a modification, the Planning Commission shall determine that the
substituted plant material size will meet the intent of this section, and that
providing a landscape material that meets the above size requirements is
impractical or not feasible.
 
Suggested Trees
Tree Size    Tree Type
Small Trees  Dogwood, Prunus, Service Berry, Crabapple, and Fir
Medium Trees Maple, Cherry, Bradford Pear, Honey Locust, and White Pine
Large Trees  Sycamore, Elm, Chestnut, Red Oak, and Beech
 
      (5)   The following shall apply to all groundcover materials:
         (a)   Lawn areas shall be planted in species of grass normally grown
as permanent lawns in Michigan. Grass may be sodded or hydro-seeded, provided
that adequate measures are taken to minimize soil erosion. Sod or seed shall be
clean and free of weeds and noxious pests or disease.
         (b)   A minimum four-inch layer of shredded hardwood bark shall be
placed in all planter beds containing trees or shrubs and around the base of
all trees planted within lawn areas (mulch cover the entire planting pit
width). To aid in maintenance operations all shrubs planted within lawn areas
are to be planted in groups and mulched as a group, and hedgerows are to be
mulched as one continuous strip.
         (c)   Live groundcovers such as myrtle (Vinca minor), blue rug
junipers (Juniperus horizontalis ‘Wiltonii’), Baltic ivy (Hedera helix
‘Baltica’, Pachysandra (Pachysandra terminalis) and other similar vines and
plant material should be mulched with a two-inch layer of shredded hardwood
bark.
      (6)   Where under the provisions of this chapter an option is provided to
the developer relative to the substitution of a greenbelt for a required wall,
the minimum starting height of plant materials in said greenbelt shall be
equivalent to the required wall height.
      (7)   Planting areas shall be separated from a turf grass area through
the installation of professional landscape edging or similar method to minimize
overgrowth of the turf.
      (8)   A site plan of the parcel to be developed, together with a detailed
planting plan of said greenbelt, shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
for approval prior to the issuance of a building permit. The site plan shall
indicate, to scale, the proposed location and height of buildings and other
structures, the location of public walks, roadways and utilities and the
proposed location of off-street parking, loading, service and outside storage
areas and points of ingress-egress to the site. The planting plan shall
indicate, to scale, the location, spacing, starting size and description for
each unit of plant material proposed for use within the required greenbelt
area, together with the finished grade elevations proposed thereon. The
Planning Commission shall review said planting plan (or may assign such review
to a registered landscape architect) relative to:
         (a)   The proper spacing, placement and location of plant materials
relative to the length and width of greenbelt so as to insure that the required
horizontal and vertical obscuring effect of proposed land uses will be
achieved.
         (b)   The choice and selection of plant materials will assure that
root systems will not interfere with public utilities and that fruit and other
debris (other than leaves) will not constitute a nuisance within public rights-
of-way, or to abutting property owners.
         (c)   The proposed relationship between deciduous and evergreen plant
materials will assure that a maximum obscuring effect will be maintained
throughout the various seasonal periods.
         (d)   The size of plant material (both starting and ultimate) to
assure adequate maturity and optimum screening effect of proposed plant
materials.
      (9)   The Planning Commission shall furnish a list of suggested plant
materials upon request of any developer and/or property owner of any parcel
requiring the construction of a greenbelt or planting screen. The city
encourages the use of species native to this climate.
      (10)   Plastic and artificial plants are prohibited.
      (11)   Landscaping of yards in nonresidential districts. Any portion of a
front, side or rear yard not utilized for storage, parking, loading or
unloading in a zoning district other R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, RM, or RM-1, shall be
planted and maintained in a neat condition. A minimum of one tree per 3,000
square feet of planted yard area shall be provided, in addition to any other
landscaping requirements of this section.
      (12)   Irrigation. To assist in maintaining plant materials in a healthy
condition, all landscaped areas (including lawns) shall be provided with an
automatic underground or drip irrigation system, subject to the following:
         (a)   The Planning Commission may approve an alternative form of
irrigation for a particular site, or may waive this requirement upon
determining that underground irrigation is not necessary for the type of
proposed plant materials.
         (b)   All automatic irrigation systems shall be designed to minimize
water usage, and shall be shut off during water emergencies, periods of
protracted rainfall, or water rationing periods.
      (13)   Right-of-way landscaping. Public rights-of-way and other public
open-space areas adjacent to required landscaped areas and development sites
shall be landscaped in a manner that enhances the visual character of city
streets and minimizes adverse impacts of vehicular traffic on adjacent uses.
Right-of-way landscaping shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   Street trees. Street tree plantings shall be required for all
development projects adjacent to or along the margins of street rights-of-way
in the city, subject to the following:
         (b)   Street trees shall consist of deciduous shade trees planted at a
minimum concentration of one street tree per 35 linear feet of right-of-way.
Required trees may be planted at regular intervals or in groupings.
         (c)   Existing trees in good condition and of a desirable species
located near or within street rights-of-way shall be preserved where feasible,
and be counted toward the street tree planting requirement should the existing
trees be four inches in caliper or greater.
         (d)   Permits may be required by the Wayne County Road Commission or
Michigan Department of Transportation for installation of street trees within
rights-of-way under their jurisdiction. Where such plantings are not permitted
within a street right-of-way, required street trees shall be planted within the
front yard setback area, or at an alternative location approved by the
reviewing authority.
         (e)   Ornamental trees. Ornamental trees shall be required for all
development projects along the margins of street rights-of-way in the city. One
ornamental tree shall be planted for every 75 lineal feet of right-of-way
frontage. Ornamental trees may be clustered or planted at regular intervals.
         (f)   Groundcover plantings within street rights-of-way. Street
rights-of-way shall be irrigated and sodded with lawn grasses.
         (g)   Maintenance of right-of-way landscaping. Right-of-way
landscaping shall be maintained by the owner of the abutting lot(s), including
any irrigation of the right-of-way.
         (h)   Corner clearance. Right of way landscaping shall comply with the
corner clearance requirements of section
      (14)   Modification of landscape requirements. Recognizing that a wide
variety of land uses and the relationships between them can exist, and that
varying circumstances can mitigate the need for landscaping, the Planning
Commission may reduce or waive the screening and buffer requirements of this
section and approve an alternative screening plan. The Planning Commission
shall find that the following standards have been met whenever it modifies any
landscaping requirement:
         (a)   The landscape/screening plan shall protect the character of new
and existing residential neighborhoods against negative impacts such as noise,
glare, light, air pollution, trash and debris, and hazardous activities.
         (b)   The alternate width and type of buffer zone and screening
provided therein will ensure compatibility with surrounding and nearby land
uses because:
            1.   The development is compatible with and sensitive to the
immediate environment of the site and neighborhood relative to architectural
design, scale, bulk, building height, identified historical character,
disposition and orientation of buildings on the lot and visual integrity.
            2.   The site has natural existing vegetation and/or topography,
natural bodies of water or wetland areas or other existing conditions which
offer screening consistent with the standards set forth in this section. The
reviewing authority shall require the preservation of these natural features as
a condition of site plan approval.
            3.   The arrangement, design and orientation of buildings on the
site maximize privacy and isolate adjacent and nearby land uses from any
potential negative impacts of the project.
   (H)   Retaining walls. Retaining walls greater than one foot in height may,
upon discretion of the City Planner, be subject to review of a licensed civil
engineer and Planning Commission.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.074 WALLS.
   For those use districts and uses listed below, there shall be provided and
maintained on those sides abutting or adjacent to a residential district an
obscuring wall as required below in Table 5-2:
TABLE 5-1
Use Requirements
TABLE 5-1
Use                       Requirements
RM-1 and PD Districts,
(where abutting any
single-family to two-     5 feet high wall
family residential
districts)
Off-street parking or     4 feet, 6 inches to 6 feet, 0 inches
loading areas
O-1, B-1, B-2, B-         6 feet, 0 inches high wall
3 Districts
M-1 Districts, open
storage areas, loading or 6 feet, 0 inches to 8 feet, 0 inches high wall
unloading areas, service
areas
Hospital, ambulance and   6 feet, 0 inches high wall
delivery areas
Utility buildings,
stations and/or
substations; except that
in cases where all
equipment is contained
within a building or
structure constructed so  6 feet, 0 inches high wall
as to be similar in
appearance to the
residential building in
the surrounding area, the
Planning Commission may
waive the wall
requirements.
Wireless communications   Requirements specified in §§
facilities                155.211 through
                          155.217
Mechanical and electrical Height equal to objects being screened
equipment
Waste receptacles         Height one foot taller than waste receptacle. See §
(dumpsters)               155.075 for additional requirements
 
NOTES:
   (A)   Required walls shall be located on the lot line except where
underground utilities interfere and except in instances where this chapter
requires conformance with front yard setback lines in abutting residential
districts. Required walls may, upon approval of the Planning Commission, be
located on the opposite side of an alley right-of-way from a nonresidential
zone that abuts a residential zone when mutually agreeable to affected property
owners. The continuity of the required wall on a given block will be a major
consideration of the Planning Commission in reviewing such request.
   (B)   Such walls and screening barriers shall have no openings for vehicular
traffic or other purposes, except as otherwise provided in this chapter, and
except such openings as may be approved by the Chief of Police and the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement. All walls herein
required shall be constructed of materials approved by the Building Official or
other official responsible for code enforcement to be durable, weather-
resistant, rustproof and easily maintained. Wood, wood products, recycled
garage doors and sheet metal may be specifically excluded.
   (C)   Corner clearance. Obscuring walls shall comply with the specifications
for maintenance of unobstructed sight distance for drivers as set forth in §
155.073(B).
   (D)   Substitution or waiver. As a substitute for a required obscuring wall,
the Planning Commission may, in its review of the site plan, approve the use of
other existing or proposed living or man-made landscape features (such as
closely spaced evergreens) that would produce substantially the same results in
terms of screening, durability, and permanence. Any substitute screening shall
comply with the applicable requirements as set forth in §
155.073.
   (E)   In consideration of requests to waive or modify wall requirements, the
Planning Commission shall refer the request to the Community Development
Director, City Planner, and/or Police Chief for a recommendation.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.075 WASTE RECEPTACLE (DUMPSTER), STORAGE SCREENING, OR COLLECTION BINS.
   (A)   Waste receptacle and removal areas shall be opaquely screened on four
sides by masonry wall, similar in material and/or color to the main structure,
and opaque gate to a height at least one foot taller than the receptacle or
other container system. Waste areas shall be located in the rear yards and
surfaced with concrete not less than six inches in depth.
      (1)   Waivers. The Planning Commission may waive the use of a gate upon
determination that the open area is not within views of adjoining properties or
public lands or thoroughfares.
      (2)   Furthermore, the Planning Commission has the authority to approve
the use of garbage can for refuse in situations where there is not an abundance
of waste. Should the situation change, the Planning Commission reserves the
right to require a waste receptacle per §
155.075.
   (B)   Collection bins.
      (1)   Purpose. The purpose of this section is to regulate collection bins
in the city so that they remain clean, safe and do not create hazards to
pedestrians or to vehicular traffic.
      (2)   Definitions. Unless otherwise provided:
         COLLECTION BIN. Any container, receptacle, or similar device that is
located on any parcel or lot of record within the city and that is used for
soliciting and collecting the receipt of clothing, household items, or other
salvageable personal property. This term does not include recycle bins for the
collection of recyclable material, any rubbish or garbage receptacle.
         CODE COMPLIANCE OFFICE. The Code Compliance Supervisor or his or her
authorized representative.
         COLLECTION BIN OPERATOR. A person who owns, operates, supervises or
otherwise is in control of collection bins to solicit collections of
salvageable personal property.
         PROPERTY OWNER. Any person, agent, firm or corporation having a legal
or equitable interest in the property; or recorded in the official records of
the state, county or municipality as holding title to the property.
         PUBLIC SERVICE DEPARTMENT. The Director of Public Service or his or
her authorized representative.
         REAL PROPERTY. A lot, plot or parcel of land recorded and located in
the City of Inkster.
      (3)   Permitted locations.
         (a)   Collection bins are allowed in the B-2 and B-3 zoning districts.
         (b)   Collection bins shall not be located within 1,000 feet from
another collection bin as measured along a straight line from one box to the
other.
      (4)   Standards for bin and surrounding area. Collection bins shall
conform to the following standards:
         (a)   Collection bins shall be maintained in good condition and
appearance with no structural damage, holes or visible rust and shall be free
of graffiti.
         (b)   Collection bins are required to be placed on a paved or concrete
surface. Collection bins must be level and stable.
         (c)   Collection bins shall be locked and be equipped with a secure
safety chute so contents cannot be accessed by anyone other than those
responsible for the retrieval of the contents.
         (d)   The collection bins shall be emptied with such frequency and
regularity as to ensure that it does not overflow and materials do not
accumulate outside the collection bin.
         (e)   The collection bin operator and property owner shall maintain,
or cause to be maintained, the area surrounding the bins free from any overflow
collection items, furniture, rubbish, debris, hazardous materials, and noxious
odors. To extent provided by law, the collection bin operator and/or property
owner shall be jointly and severally responsible for the city's cost to abate
any nuisance.
         (f)   Collection bins shall be located on a parcel where there is a
functioning and permitted use. Collection bins shall not be permitted:
            1.   On any land used or zoned residential;
            2.   On any unimproved parcel;
            3.   Where the principal use of the land has been closed or
unoccupied for more than 30 days.
         (g)   One collection bin on a single lot of record is allowed.
         (h)   The total size of a collection bin is limited to a maximum
dimension of 5 × 5 × 7.
         (i)   Collection bins shall not cause a visual obstruction, as
determined by the Building Official, or other designated city representative,
to vehicular or pedestrian traffic.
         (j)   No collection bin shall be placed closer than ten feet from:
            1.   A public or private sidewalk except that this provision does
not apply to a private sidewalk as long as the private sidewalk maintains a
five-foot clearance;
            2.   A public right-of-way;
            3.   A driveway; or
            4.   A side or rear property line of adjacent property used for
residential purposes.
         (k)   Collection bins shall not be placed in a designated fire lane,
in or adjacent to a handicap parking space, or block a building entrance or
exit.
         (l)   Collection bins shall be made of durable metal or UV resistant
molded hard plastic or fiberglass material that is fire resistant or fire
proof.
      (5)   Identification of collection bins. Collection bins shall have
signage on each bin that identifies the name, mailing address, email address,
website and phone number of the collection bin operator. The collection bin
signage may include a company logo. Total sign area on the collection bin
signage may not exceed six square feet per side. The font size used on the sign
shall not be less than one inch in height.
      (6)   Removal of collection bins and liability.
         (a)   If the Public Service Department and/or Code Compliance Office
determines that a collection bin has been placed or is being maintained in
violation of this chapter, a correction notice shall be sent by regular United
States Mail to the collection bin operator and property owner of the real
property on which the collection bin has been placed, as shown on the most
recent permit application. In the event there is not on file a permit
application made for the collection bin within 24 months immediately preceding
the date of violation, the correction notice shall be sent to the real property
tax payer of record in the Assessor's Office. The correction notice shall
describe the offending condition and the actions necessary to correct the
condition. The correction notice shall provide that the offending condition be
corrected or abated within seven calendar days after mailing.
         (b)   If the offending condition is not corrected or abated within
this seven calendar days after mailing, the city or the city's contractor shall
clean-up the collection bin area.
         (c)   All costs incurred by the city or the city's contractor
associated with the correction or abatement of a collection bin shall be the
responsibility of the property owner and collection bin owner. If such
obligation is not paid within 30 days after mailing of a billing of costs to
the property owner, the city may place a lien upon such real property
enforceable as a tax lien in the manner prescribed by the general laws of this
state against the property and collected as in the case of general property
tax. If the same is not paid prior to the preparation of the next assessment
roll of the city, the amount shall be assessed as a special tax against such
premises on the next assessment roll and collected thereunder.
         (d)   Any collection bins not in compliance with this zoning ordinance
shall be removed or brought into compliance. Offending conditions cited in a
correction notice must be corrected or abated within seven days after mailing.
In addition:
            1.   Placement or conditions of the bin or surrounding areas must
not violate any applicable state or federal law;
            2.   If any governmental authority or agency determines that the
collection bin has violated the Michigan Consumer Protection Act and/or the
Charitable Organizations and Solicitations Act or other statute enacted to
regulate or govern collection bins, must be brought into compliance.
      (e)   All costs incurred by the city or the city's contractor associated
with removal, storage or disposal of a collection bin shall be the
responsibility of the property owner and collection bin owner. If such
obligation is not paid within 30 days after mailing of a billing of costs to
the property owner, the city may place a lien upon such real property
enforceable as a tax lien in the manner prescribed by the general laws of this
state against the property and collected as in the case of general property
tax. If the same is not paid prior to the preparation of the next assessment
roll of the city, the amount shall be assessed as a special tax against such
premises on the next assessment roll and collected thereunder.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.076 EXTERIOR LIGHTING AND SECURITY CAMERAS.
   (A)   Exterior lighting.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions set forth herein, all parking areas,
walkways, driveways, building entryways, off-street parking and loading areas,
and building complexes with common areas shall be sufficiently illuminated to
ensure the security of property and the safety of persons using such public or
common areas.
      (2)   Exterior lighting shall be located and maintained to prevent the
reflection and glare of light in a manner which created a nuisance or safety
hazard to operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians and neighboring land uses.
These provisions are not intended to apply to public street lighting.
      (3)   Only white, non-glare lighting such as metal halide, color-
corrected high-pressure sodium, or other types of lighting which achieve the
same effect shall be permitted. Lighting shall be placed and shielded so as to
direct the light onto the site and away from adjoining properties. Lighting
shall be shielded so that it does not cause glare for motorists.
      (4)   Lights shall be recessed into the fixture so that bulbs or elements
are not visible from adjoining properties.
      (5)   Lighting for uses adjacent to residentially zoned or used property
shall be designed and maintained such that illumination levels do not exceed
0.1 foot-candles along property lines. Lighting for uses adjacent to non-
residential properties shall be designed and maintained such that illumination
levels do not exceed 0.3 footcandles along property lines. Light intensity
shall not exceed a maximum of 20 foot-candles in any given area. The Planning
Commission, upon City Planner’s recommendation, may allow for an increased
level of lighting above maximum permissible levels when it can be demonstrated
that such lighting is necessary for safety and security purposes.
      (6)   Lighting fixtures shall not exceed a height of 25 feet. In portions
of a site adjacent to residential areas, lighting fixtures shall not exceed a
height of 20 feet.
      (7)   All lighting, including ornamental lighting, shall be shown on site
plans in sufficient detail to allow determination of the effects of such
lighting upon adjacent properties, and traffic safety. Building or roof-mounted
lighting intended to attract attention to the building and/or use and not
strictly designed for security purposes is not permitted. Temporary holiday
lighting is exempt from the aforementioned provision.
      (8)   All lighting for parking areas or for the external illumination for
buildings or grounds or for the illumination of signs shall be directed away
from and shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts, and shall also
be so arranged as to not adversely affect driver visibility on adjacent
thoroughfares. See §
155.164, Performance standards, for additional requirements.
   (B)   Security cameras. For all non-residential commercial and business
properties, security cameras shall be installed, maintained and approved by the
City Police Chief. All security cameras shall be high-definition with a minimum
resolution of 1080p and night vision with at least 120 concurrent hours of
digitally recorded documentation. The security cameras shall be in operation 24
hours a day, seven days a week, and shall be set to maintain the record of the
prior 120 hours of continuous operation. An alarm system is required that is
operated and monitored by a recognized security company. Security cameras shall
be placed to cover the entire site and placement shall be approved by the City
Police Chief.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.077 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   (A)   Parking requirements. There shall be provided in all districts at the
time of erection or enlargement of any main building or structure, automobile
off-street parking space with adequate access to all spaces. The number of off-
street parking spaces in conjunction with all land or building uses shall be
provided, prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or certificate of
re-occupancy, as hereinafter prescribed.
      (1)   Off-street parking for other than residential use shall be either
on the same lot or within 500 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the
off-street parking lot. Ownership shall be shown for all lots or parcels
intended for use as parking by the applicant.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3794.jpg]
 
   Measurement of Distance
      (2)   Residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of a parking
strip, parking bay, driveway, garage or combination thereof, and shall be
located on the premises they are intended to serve and subject to the
provisions of §
155.072 (A).
      (3)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall never
be changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
      (4)   Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this chapter
in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or new use.
      (5)   Shared parking. Two or more buildings or uses may collectively
provide the required off-street parking in which case the required number of
parking spaces shall not be less than the sum of the requirements for the
several individual uses computed separately. The Planning Commission may allow
the following reduction in parking space requirement for shared parking at the
applicant’s request:
         (a)   Up to 50% of the parking spaces required for the predominant use
on a site may be shared with other uses operating during the same time of day
and days of the week. The predominant use is considered to be the use that
requires the most parking of those sharing the parking facilities.
         (b)   Up to 75% of the parking spaces required for uses such as
theaters, public auditoriums, bowling alleys, nightclubs, movie theaters, and
similar predominantly evening uses may be shared with uses such as banks,
offices, and other similar predominantly daytime uses.
         (c)   Up to 75% of the parking spaces required for uses such as
religious institutions and other uses exclusively in operation during the
weekend may be shared with uses such as medical offices, banks, and other
similar uses predominantly in operation on weekdays.
      (6)   (a)   Parking waivers. Except for buildings or parts of buildings
used or occupied for residential use, all or part of the off-street parking
requirements may be waived by the Planning Commission where the proposed site
planning design, and construction meets on of the following:
            1.   Sufficient publicly owned parking spaces within 500 feet of
the proposed development site.
            2.   Access to a regularly scheduled transit stop within 500 feet
of the proposed development.
            3.   Direct access from a bikeway where bike parking is provided.
            4.   Sufficient on-street parking.
         (b)   Parking reduction requests. If the applicant believes that the
required parking amounts are in excess of what is needed for the proposed use,
the applicant may submit a request with justification to the Planning
Commission for a reduction in parking space requirements. The Planning
Commission will consider and act on this request concurrent with and as part of
the full development application process.
      (7)   Storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks, or the
repair of vehicles is prohibited.
      (8)   When units or measurements determining the number of required
parking spaces result in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up
to and including one-half shall be disregarded and fractions over one-half
shall require one parking space.
   (B)   Space requirements; types of use. The minimum number of off-street
parking spaces by type of use shall be determined in accordance with Table 5-
2 below:
Table 5-2 Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use Number of Minimum Parking
    Spaces per Unit of Measure
Table 5-2 Off-Street Parking Requirements
Use            Number of Minimum Parking
               Spaces per Unit of Measure
Residential
Residential,
One-family and 2 per dwelling
two- family
Residential,
multiple       1½ per dwelling unit
family
Senior
Housing,
Assisted       0.5 for each unit, and 1 per employee on the largest working shift. Should
Living         units revert to general occupancy, then 1½ spaces per unit shall be provided.
Facility or    The land available due to the difference between the 2 minimums shall be land
similar types  banked as usable open space
Housing for
the Elderly
Manufactured
Housing        2 per unit and 1 per employee on the largest working shift
Community
Institutional
Religious      1 for each 3 seats or 6 feet of pews in the main unit of worship
Institutions
Hospitals      1 per two beds plus 1 per employee on the largest working shift plus 1 per
               each 200 square feet of gross outpatient clinic floor area
Nursing and
Convalescent   1 per 4 beds plus 1 per employee on the largest working shift
Homes
Elementary and 1 for each 1 teacher, employee or administrator, in addition to the
Junior High    requirements of the auditorium
Schools
Senior High    1 for each 1 teacher, employee or administrator, and 1 for each 10 students,
Schools        in addition to the requirements of the auditorium
Private Clubs  1 for each 3 persons allowed within the maximum occupancy load as established
or Halls       by local, county or state fire, building or health codes
Private Golf
Clubs, Tennis
Clubs, or      1 for each 2 member families or individuals
other similar
uses
Golf Courses
open to the
general        6 for each 1 golf hole, and 1 for each 1 employee on the largest working shift
public, except
miniature or
par-3 courses
Fraternity or  1 for each 5 permitted active members, or 1 for each 2 beds, whichever is
Sorority       greater, plus 1 per employee
Stadium,
Sports Arena
or similar     1 for each 3 seats or 6 feet benches
place of
outdoor
assembly
Theaters and   1 for each 3 seats, plus 1 for each 2 employees
Auditoriums
Public utility
facilities
such as
communications
buildings,
electrical     1 per employee on the largest working shift. The storage of vehicles is
substations,   prohibited
pump stations,
cellular
communications
towers and
similar uses
Business and Commercial
Planned
Commercial or  6 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross leasable area for the first 15, 000
Shopping       square feet; 5 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross leasable area for 15,001
Center located - 400,000 square feet; 4 spaces per 1,000 square feet of gross leasable area
in any B       for 400,001 and greater square feet
District
               1 per employee. In addition, stacking spaces must be provided. Stacking space
Vehicle Wash   shall be 200 feet for facilities with washlines of 80 feet or less. Vehicle
               wash facilities with washlines over 80 feet shall provide an additional 20
               feet for each 10 feet of washline in excess of 80 feet
Beauty Parlor  3 spaces per each of the first 2 beauty or barber chairs, and 1½ spaces for
or Barber Shop each additional chair
Bowling Alley  3 per 1 bowling lane
Dance halls,
pool or
billiard
parlors,
roller or
skating rinks, 1 per 3 persons allowed within the maximum occupancy load as established by
exhibition     local, county or state fire, building or health codes
halls,
assembly halls
without fixed
seats and
arcades
Standard
restaurants or
establishments
for sale and
useable        1 per 100 square feet of gross building floor and outdoor seating area
consumption on
the premises
of beverages,
food or
refreshments
Furniture and
appliance,
household
equipment
repair shops,
showroom of a  1 per 1,000 square feet of gross floor area. For that floor area used in
plumber,       processing, 1 additional space shall be provided for each 2 persons employed
decorator,     therein
electrician or
similar trade,
shoe repair
and other
similar uses
Automobile
Service        2 per lubrication stall, rack, pit and 1 for each gasoline pump
Stations
Laundromats
and Coin-      1 for each 2 machines
Operated Dry
Cleaners
Miniature or
par-3 Golf     3 for each 1 hole plus 1 for each 1 employee on the largest working shift
Courses
Mortuary
Establishment  1 for each 100 square feet of gross floor area plus 1 per dwelling unit
Assembly
Motel, Hotel,
or other       1 for each 1 occupancy unit plus 1 for each 1 employee, plus such number of
commercial     spaces as required for restaurants, bars, taverns, assembly rooms and
lodging        affiliated facilities
establishments
Motor vehicle  1 for each 250 square feet of gross floor area of sales room, plus 1 space per
sales and      500 square feet. of gross outdoor sales space, plus 1 for each auto service
service        stall in the service room
establishments
Retail stores
except as
otherwise      2 spaces plus 1 for each 175 square feet of gross floor area
specified
herein
Adult          1 per patron as allowed within the maximum occupancy load as established by
Entertainment  local, county or state fire, building or health codes, plus 1 per employee on
Uses           the largest working shift
Child care
centers,
nursery        1 per instructor, administrator or other paid or volunteer employee, plus 1
schools,       per company vehicle, plus 1 per each 6 students allowed by license. In
schools for    addition, 2 drop-off spaces shall be provided for each 6 licensed or
special        registered students. Drop-off spaces shall not be separated form from the
education and  entrance by a traffic lane
schools for
the mentally
impaired
Drive-through
restaurant and
that portion
of fast food   1 per employee on the largest working shift plus 8 stacking spaces for the
or carry out   first drive-through window and 6 for each additional window plus 1 space per
restaurant     100 square feet of designated outdoor seating area
used for
drive-thru
service
Drive-in
restaurant
(eating        1 per employee on the largest working shift plus space a sufficient number of
allowed in     spaces for outdoor customer service
vehicles only,
no seating
facilities)
Drive-in
restaurant     1 space per 100 square feet. of gross building floor area and designated
with seating   outdoor seating area, plus stacking space
facilities
Fast food or   1 space per 100 square feet of gross building floor area and designated
carry-out      outdoor seating area
restaurant
Vehicle Repair 1 per employee and 2 per service and/or repair bay, exclusive of such bay
Facility
Lumber Yards,  1 per 175 square feet of gross building floor area, plus 1 per 1,500 square
Retail         feet of gross outdoor storage area, plus 1 per company vehicle
Vehicle rental 1 per rental/lease vehicle, plus office requirements
and/or leasing
Open air
businesses     1 per 175 square feet of gross building floor area, plus 1 per 500 square feet
including      of gross outdoor display area, plus 1 per company vehicle
plant
nurseries
Sale or lease  1 per 1,600 square feet of outdoor vehicle display area, plus 1 per 250 square
of motorhomes  feet of gross building floor area, plus 1 per service bay exclusive of such
               bay
Video Rental   1 per employee plus 1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area
Stores
Athletic,
health and
physical
exercise clubs 1 per 200 square feet of gross building floor area and dedicated outdoor
or businesses, recreation area
tennis and
court type
recreation
uses
Target
practice       1 per target lane plus 1 per employee on the largest working shift
ranges
Golf driving   1 per tee plus 1 per employee on the largest working shift
range
Offices
               1 per 250 square feet of gross floor space exclusive of the vault area plus 8
Banks          stacking spaces for the first drive-through window and 6 stacking spaces for
               each additional window
Business
offices or     1 per 500 square feet of gross floor area
professional
offices
Professional
offices of
doctors,       1 per 250 square feet of gross floor area in waiting rooms and 1 for each
dentists or    examining room, dental chair or similar use area
similar
professions
Industrial
Industrial or  5 plus 1 for every 1½ employees in the largest working shifts or 1 for every
research       1,000 square feet of gross floor area or whichever is greater. Space on site
establishments shall also be provided for all construction workers during periods of plant
               construction
Wholesale      5 plus 1 for every 1 employee in the largest working shift, or 1 for every
establishments 2,000 square feet of gross floor area, whichever is greater
Self-storage   1 per each 10 storage units equally distributed throughout the site, plus 1
facility       per 200 square feet of gross floor area of office, plus 2 for the resident
               manager apartment
Contractor
yard for
landscaping,
snow removal,  1 per company vehicle plus 1 per tractor, trailer or similar vehicle plus
concrete,      office requirements
general
construction
and similar
use
 
      (1)   The Planning Commission may reduce the number of off-street parking
spaces as listed above by up to 100% where the use and associated required
parking would be located in the TCD, Town Center District.
      (2)   For all uses not specifically mentioned, the City Planner or
designee shall determine the appropriate number of required off-street parking
spaces. Such determination shall be based upon the type of use or business,
number of employees per working shift, existing accessory uses such as, but not
limited to, bars, restaurants and assembly space and other factors relating to
public health, safety and welfare.
   (C)   Off-street parking space layout, standards, construction and
maintenance. Wherever off-street parking requires the building of an off-street
parking facility, where P-1 Vehicular Parking Districts are provided, or where
parking facilities are provided in an O-1 District, such off-street parking
lots shall be
laid out, constructed and maintained in accordance with the following standards
and regulations:
      (1)   No parking lot shall be constructed unless and until a permit
therefore is issued by the Building Department. Applications for a permit shall
be submitted to the Building Department in such form as may be determined by
the Building Inspector and shall be accompanied with two sets of plans for the
development and construction of the parking lot showing that the provisions of
this section will be fully complied with.
      (2)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accordance with the following minimum requirements:
 
Table 5-3 Parking Layout Dimensions
Parking Pattern      Maneuvering Lane Parking Space Width  Parking Space Length
(Degrees)            Width (Feet)     (Feet)               (Feet)
0 (Parallel Parking) 12               8                    23
30 to 53             12               8½                  20
54 to 74             15               8½                  20
75 to 90             24               9                    18
Stacking             N/A              10                   20
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3796.jpg]
 
All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering lanes.
Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
      (3)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of clearly
limited and defined drives shall be provided for all vehicles. Ingress and
egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for other than single-family
residential use shall not be across land zoned for single-family residential
use.
      (4)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic movement,
except that the 90º pattern may permit two-way movement.
      (5)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot
located in an area zoned for other than single-family residential use shall be
at least 25 feet distant from any adjacent property located in any single-
family residential district.
      (6)   Any non-residential off-street parking area abutting a residential
zoning district shall be provided with a continuous and obscuring wall meeting
the requirements of §
155.074.
      (7)   When a front yard setback is required, all land between said wall
and the front property line or street right-of-way line shall be kept free from
refuse and debris and shall be landscaped with deciduous shrubs, evergreen
material and ornamental trees per requirements of §
155.073. The ground area shall be planted and kept as lawn. All such
landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a healthy, growing condition,
neat and orderly in appearance.
      (8)   The use of a continuous curb at the perimeter of paved areas shall
be encouraged. Curb blocks shall not be permitted.
      (9)   All parking and loading facilities and access drives shall be paved
with a durable bonded material in accordance with accepted engineering
standards. Alternative surfacing materials may be considered in order to
minimize impervious surface and stormwater runoff, employ environmental and
other best practices, and achieve low impact design. Use of pervious
alternative surfaces is encouraged in proximity to the Lower Branch River
Rouge. Paving materials proposed to improve aesthetics may also be considered
by the City Planner and the Planning Commission. Alternative surfaces proposed
shall be reviewed by the city’s consulting engineer. In commercial zoning
districts, paving shall not be required for off-street parking areas of four
spaces or less, in which case the spaces shall be surfaced with gravel or
similar material and so laid out as to clearly indicate that the spaces are
reserved for parking of motor vehicles. The parking area shall be surfaced
within one year of the date the permit is issued.
      (10)   Off-street parking areas shall be drained so as to dispose of all
surface water accumulated in the parking area in such a way as to preclude
drainage of water onto adjacent property or toward buildings. Plans shall meet
the approval of the City Engineer.
      (11)   All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall
be so installed as to be confined within and directed onto the parking area
only subject to the requirements of §
155.076.
      (12)   In all cases where a wall extends to an alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to an off street parking area, it shall be permissible to
end the wall not more than ten feet from such alley line in order to permit a
wider means of access to the parking area.
      (13)   The Planning Commission, upon application by the property owner of
the off-street parking area, may modify the yard or wall requirements where, in
unusual circumstances, no good purpose would be served by compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   (D)   Layout of stacking spaces. The layout of stacking spaces shall comply
with the requirements of the following graphic.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-4099.jpg]
 
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.078 ACCESSIBLE PARKING FOR PHYSICALLY DISABLED PERSONS.
   A portion of the total number of required off-street parking spaces in each
off-street parking area shall be specifically designated, located, and reserved
for use by persons with physical disabilities.
   (A)   Number of spaces. The number of accessible spaces to be provided shall
be a portion of the total number of off-street parking spaces required, as
determined from the following schedule. Parking spaces reserved for persons
with disabilities shall be counted toward fulfilling off-street parking
standards. These standards may not be varied or waived.
Table 5-4 Number of Spaces Reserved for Persons with Disabilities
Total Parking Space Minimum Number of Minimum Number of Minimum Number of
Provided            Accessible Spaces Van-Accessible    Car-Accessible Spaces
                                      Spaces
Table 5-4 Number of Spaces Reserved for Persons with Disabilities
Total Parking Space Minimum Number of  Minimum Number of Minimum Number of
Provided            Accessible Spaces  Van-Accessible    Car-Accessible Spaces
                                       Spaces
1 - 25              1                  1                 0
26 - 50             2                  1                 1
51 - 75             3                  1                 2
76 - 100            4                  1                 3
101 - 150           5                  1                 4
151 - 200           6                  1                 5
201 - 300           8                  1                 7
301 - 400           12                 2                 10
401 - 700           14                 2                 12
701 - 1,000         2% of total spaces 1 out of every 8  7 out of every 8
Over 1,000          20+ 1 per each 100 accessible spaces accessible spaces
                    spaces over 1,000
 
   (B)   Minimum dimensions. All parking spaces reserved for persons with
disabilities shall comply with the parking space dimension standards of this
section, provided that access aisles shall be provided immediately abutting
such spaces, as follows:
   (C)   Car-accessible spaces. Car-accessible spaces shall have at least a
five-foot wide access aisle abutting the designated parking space.
   (D)   Van-accessible spaces. Van-accessible spaces shall have at least an
eight-foot wide access aisle abutting the designated parking space.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.079 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   On the same premises with every building, structure or part thereof
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise,
there shall be provided and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing,
loading and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with public use of
dedicated rights-of-way. Such space shall be provided as follows:
   (A)   All spaces shall be provided as required, except as hereinafter
provided for M-1 Districts.
   (B)   All spaces shall be laid out in the dimension of at least 10 by 70
feet, with a clearance of at least 14 feet in height. Loading dock approaches
shall be provided with a pavement having an asphalt or Portland cement binder
so as to provide a permanent, durable and dustless surface. In all B-2, B-3 and
M-1 Districts, the following ratio of spaces to floor area shall be provided:
 
Table 5-5 Loading and Unloading Requirements
Gross Floor Area (in square feet) Loading and Unloading Space Required
0 - 2,000                         None
2,001 - 20, 000                   1 space
20,001 - 100,00                   1 space plus 1 space for each 20,000 square
                                  feet in excess of 20,001 square feet
100,001 and over                  5 spaces
 
   (C)   The Planning Commission, based upon recommendation of the City Planner
may reduce the size of a loading space to 10' x 35' for uses under 20,000
square feet of gross floor area. The applicant shall demonstrate that larger
vehicles will not use such business.
   (D)   All loading areas shall be screened from public view by a wall as
required in §
155.074.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.080 PARKING LOT LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   The development of land for parking lot purposes alters natural
topography, disturbs existing vegetation and creates impervious surface, all of
which can have a negative effect on the ecological balance of an area by
causing increases in air temperature and accelerating the processes of runoff,
erosion, and sedimentation. Recognizing that the preservation or installation
of vegetative cover in parking lots promotes the health, safety and general
welfare by aiding in the stabilization of the environment’s ecological balance
by contributing to the process of air purification, ground water recharge, and
storm water runoff retardation while at the same time aiding in noise, glare
and heat abatement the following requirements for the landscaping of parking
and outdoor display areas are enacted.
   (B)   Interior Landscaping. Interior landscaping shall be provided within
the boundaries of the parking lot unless otherwise approved by the Planning
Commission. If interior landscaping is provided along the perimeter of the
parking lot, it shall be in addition to the perimeter landscaping requirements.
      (1)   Interior landscaping areas equivalent to 5% of the vehicle use area
shall be required in all parking lots of 20 spaces or more. One deciduous shade
tree shall be required for each 150 square feet of required interior landscape
area. The vehicle use area includes all areas used for vehicular circulation
and parking.
      (2)   Terminal landscape islands shall be provided at the end of each row
of parking spaces to separate parking from adjacent drive aisles. Terminal
islands shall be curbed, and shall be at least 144 square feet in area and 18
feet long for each single row of parking spaces. Each landscape island shall
have a minimum of one shade tree. The reviewing authority may waive the
requirement for terminal landscape islands in the interest of meeting barrier
free requirements.
      (3)   Interior landscape islands shall have a minimum area of 160 square
feet and a minimum width of eight feet (measured from the back of curb). Each
landscape island shall have a minimum of one deciduous shade tree.
      (4)   Parking lot divider medians with a minimum width of eight feet
(measured from the back of curb) may be used to meet interior landscape
requirements and shall form a continuous strip between abutting rows of
parking. One shade tree or two ornamental trees shall be required for each 25
lineal feet of divider median or fraction thereof. Shrubs shall be planted to
form a continuous hedge the full length of divider medians which separate
parking areas from access drives.
      (5)   Wheel stops or curbing shall be installed to prevent vehicles from
encroaching more than two feet into any interior landscaped area. If a
landscape area is used for parking overhang, at least two feet of clear area
planted with lawn or covered with mulch shall be provided where cars will
overhang the curb to protect landscape plantings from damage.
   (C)   Perimeter landscaping. Perimeter landscaping shall be provided along
the edge of any parking lot facing and located within 100 feet of a public
right-of-way, unless, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the parking
lot will be sufficiently screened from view by buildings or other site features
or improvements. Parking lot perimeter landscaping shall comply with the
following standards:
      (1)   Perimeter parking lot landscaping shall include a minimum of one
deciduous shade tree per each 25 linear feet or fraction thereof and one
ornamental tree per each 35 linear feet or fraction thereof.
      (2)   Wherever a parking lot or vehicle parking space is located within
30 feet of a public street or right-of-way, the perimeter landscaping shall
also include a continuous hedge of deciduous or upright evergreen shrubs
planted not more than 30 inches on center between the parking area and the
street.
   (D)   Curbing required. All landscaping and perimeter screening shall be
protected from vehicle encroachment with concrete curbing or similar permanent
means.
   (E)   Snow storage area. Adequate snow storage area shall be provided within
the site. Plant materials in snow storage areas shall be hardy, salt-tolerant
groundcovers characterized by low maintenance requirements.
(Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.081 USE RESTRICTION.
   Any portion of a lot or parcel shall be used to comply with the provisions
of this chapter for exactly one existing or planned building or structure. No
portion of a lot or parcel shall be used to comply with the provisions of this
chapter for more than one building or structure, whether existing or planned.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.082 HEIGHT, AREA AND USE EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Essential services. Essential services shall be permitted as
authorized and regulated by law and other codes of the city.
   (B)   Voting place. The provisions of this chapter shall not interfere with
the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with a
municipal or other public election.
   (C)   Height limit. The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply
to chimneys, church spires, flagpoles, or public monuments. However, the
Planning Commission may specify a height limit for any structure that is
permitted as a special condition use. In determining the appropriate height,
the Planning Commission shall consider the character of surrounding land uses,
the height of surrounding structures, and the potential to obscure light and/or
view from surrounding properties.
      (1)   For reasons of safety, the height limit for stacking of any
materials, including those used for construction shall be 14 feet.
   (D)   Lot area. Any lot existing and of record at the time of this chapter
became effective may be used for any principal use permitted in the district in
which such lot is located whether or not such lot complies with the lot area
requirements of this chapter, except as provided in §§
155.181 through
155.187, Nonconforming Uses and Structures. Such use may be made provided that
all requirements other than lot area and width requirements prescribed in this
chapter are complied with and provided that not more than one dwelling unit
shall occupy any lot except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter
for required lot area for each dwelling unit.
   (E)   Lots adjoining alleys. In calculating the area of a lot that adjoins
an alley or lane, for the purpose of applying lot area requirements of this
chapter, one-half of the width of such alley abutting the lot shall be
considered as part of such lot.
   (F)   Yard regulations. When yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied
with, as in the case of a planned development in the multiple-family district,
or where their application cannot be determined on lots of peculiar shape,
topography, or due to architectural or site arrangement, such regulations may
be modified or determined by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (G)   Multiple dwelling side yard. For the purpose of side yard regulations,
a two-family, a row house, or a multiple dwelling shall be considered as one
building occupying one lot. When more than one structure is involved on one
zoning lot, the above requirement shall not negate the formula contained in
this chapter, pertaining to the distance spacing for multiple dwellings.
   (H)   Porches. An open, unenclosed, covered porch or paved terrace may
project into a front and/or rear yard for a distance not exceeding six feet.
   (I)   Projections into yards. Architectural features, not including vertical
projections, may extend or project into a required side yard not more than two
inches for each one foot of width of such side yard; and may extend or project
into a required front yard or rear yard not more than three feet, except
porches.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.083 REQUIRED SITE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   The purpose and intent if this section is to provide for minimum site
development improvements required for new uses, addition to an existing use,
the erection of any building, the re-occupancy of an existing building or a
change of use. The required site improvements are for the purpose of protecting
the health, safety, and welfare of the general public.
   (B)   New uses, additions to an existing use, erection of any building. In
all zoning districts except for single-family detached dwellings in the R-1A
through R-1C, Single One-Family Districts and mobile home parks in the RM
District, the following site development standards shall be complied with:
      (1)   Site plan review procedures (§
155.286);
      (2)   Required parking and off-street loading requirements (§§
155.077 through
155.079);
      (3)   Landscaping requirements (§
155.073);
      (4)   Buffering requirements (§
155.074);
      (5)   Special condition use standards (Article 6);
      (6)   Area, height, density, bulk, and placement regulations (Article 4);
      (7)   Accessory building regulations (§
155.072(A));
      (8)   Exterior lighting (§
155.164(D));
      (9)   Other development regulations and requirements in this section and
other applicable ordinances.
      (10)   Mobile home parks in the RM District shall be subject to §
121.40.
   (C)   Re-occupancy of an existing building, a change of use, or a change in
tenants. In all zoning districts except for single-family detached dwellings in
the R-1A through R-1C Single One-Family districts and mobile home parks in the
RM District, the following site development standards shall be complied with
whenever occupancy permits or re-occupancy permits in §§
155.284(B) and (C) are required.
      (1)   A plot plan as required in §
155.283 shall be provided to the Planning and Economic Development (P&ED)
Department. The P&ED Department will review the plot plan and shall ensure
compliance with the zoning ordinance.
      (2)   Off-street parking space layout standards, construction and
maintenance shall be required in accordance with §§
155.077 through
155.079.
      (3)   Compliance with buffer requirements in §
155.074 shall be required.
      (4)   Public sidewalks shall be provided along all public street rights-
of-way.
      (5)   Compliance with sign requirements in accordance with Article 12
shall be required.
      (6)   Landscaping shall be required as specified in §
155.073. If there is insufficient area on the site to fully comply with §
155.073, then compliance shall be to the extent to which the existing site
characteristics allow.
      (7)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may permit a reasonable time schedule
to be developed between the petitioner and the city in complying with the
necessary improvements to the property.
      (8)   In the Town Center District, compliance with the site design
requirements, in accordance with §
155.049 shall be required.
(Ord. 828, passed 12-7-09; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
SPECIAL LAND USE STANDARDS
§ 155.111 INTENT.
   (A)   Each use in this subchapter, whether permitted by right or subject to
approval as a special land use, shall be subject to the site development
standards specified in this section, in addition to applicable standards and
requirements for the district in which the use is located. These minimum
standards are intended to alleviate the impact from a use, which is of a size
or type, or possesses characteristics, which are unique or atypical in the
district in which the use is located. Special considerations are required to
assure that such use will be compatible with surrounding uses and the orderly
development of the district.
   (B)   Unless otherwise specified, each use listed in this subchapter shall
be subject to all applicable yard, bulk and other standards and requirements
for the district in which the use is located, §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards, this chapter, and other applicable
codes and regulations.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.112 CHILD AND ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Site plan shall be required to be submitted.
   (B)   The facility shall not be attached to a multiple-family structure.
   (C)   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements for
the zoning district in which it is located, provided there is a minimum site
area of 1,000 square feet per person, excluding employees and/or caregivers.
   (D)   The property is maintained in a manner that is consistent with the
character of the neighborhood.
   (E)   In its sole discretion, the city may determine that landscape
screening is required.
   (F)   Appropriate licenses with the state shall be maintained.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.113 NURSERY SCHOOLS, DAY NURSERIES AND CHILD CARE CENTER (NOT INCLUDING
DORMITORIES).
   Petitioner shall comply with all state requirements of Act 47 of Public Acts
of 1944, as amended.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.114 NURSING AND CONVALESCENT HOMES.
   (A)   Buildings of greater than the maximum height allowed in may be
allowed, provided front, side and rear §
155.061, yards are increased above the minimum required yards by one foot for
each foot of building height that exceeds the maximum height allowed.
   (B)   Wherever the off-street parking lot is adjacent to land zoned for
residential purposes, a continuous and obscuring wall four and one-half feet in
height shall be provided along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the
residentially zoned land. The wall shall be further subject to the provisions
of §
155.074.
   (C)   The site shall be so located as to have at least one property line
abutting a major thoroughfare of not less than 86 feet of right-of-way width,
either existing or proposed, and all ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto said major thoroughfare or marginal access service drive thereof.
   (D)   Convalescent homes, currently abutting a thoroughfare of not less than
66 feet of right-of-way width, existing or proposed, may be allowed to expand
or construct new facilities, provided other applicable portions of this chapter
are complied with. All ingress and egress shall be directly onto said
thoroughfare.
   (E)   The site shall be developed so as to create a land-to-building ratio
on the lot or parcel whereby for each bed in the convalescent home there shall
be provided not less than 1,500 square feet of open space. The 1,500 square
feet of land area per bed shall provide for landscape setting, off-street
parking, service drives, loading space, yard requirements, and space required
for accessory uses. The 1,500 square feet requirement is over and above the
building coverage area.
   (F)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet from any property line.
   (G)   Applicable licenses with the state shall be maintained.
   (H)   Review and approval of a site plan submitted to the Planning
Commission pursuant to the conditions imposed under §
155.286, Site plan review.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.115 RELIGIOUS INSTITUTIONS.
   The following conditions shall apply to all religious institutions,
including religious institutions, synagogues, temples, and any associated
structures utilized for educational purposes:
   (A)   Buildings of greater than the maximum height allowed in §
155.061 may be allowed, provided front, side and rear yards are increased above
the minimum required yards by one foot for each foot of building height that
exceeds the maximum height allowed.
   (B)   Wherever the off-street parking lot is adjacent to land zoned for
residential purposes, a continuous and obscuring wall four and one-half feet in
height shall be provided along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the
residentially zoned land. The wall shall be further subject to the provisions
of §
155.074.
   (C)   The site shall be so located as to have at least one property line
abutting a major thoroughfare of not less than 86 feet of right-of-way width,
either existing or proposed, and all ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly onto said major thoroughfare or a marginal access service drive
thereof.
   (D)   Religious institutions currently abutting a thoroughfare of not less
than 66 feet of right-of-way width, existing or proposed, may be allowed to
expand or construct new facilities, provided other applicable portions of the
chapter are complied with. All ingress and egress shall be directly onto said
thoroughfare.
   (E)   Religious institutions shall not be located within 1,000 feet of a
second church facility to eliminate traffic and parking disruptions as well as
large physical and pedestrian voids to its residential and business districts.
   (F)   The minimum lot width shall be 150 feet.
   (G)   The minimum lot area shall be two acres.
   (H)   Off-street parking shall be prohibited in the front setback area and
within 15 feet of the rear or side property line.
   (I)   Buildings shall be setback according to the following dimensions:
      (1)   Front yard: 50 feet
      (2)   Side yards: 25 feet
      (3)   Rear yard: 50 feet
   (J)   Landscaping requirements set forth in §§
155.073 and
155.074 shall be complied with.
   (K)   Religious institutions, other religious institutions and associated
educational facilities shall be the sole use of the site and shall not be
located in a multi-tenant building.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.116 SENIOR HOUSING, ASSISTED LIVING FACILITY AND SIMILAR TYPES OF HOUSING
FOR THE ELDERLY.
   (A)   Designed and constructed as a planned development of cottage-type
dwellings and/or apartment-type dwellings consisting of at least three acres.
   (B)   Shall not exceed three stories in height.
   (C)   Contain common services, but not limited to, central dining rooms,
recreational rooms, a central lounge and workshops.
   (D)   Consist of at least 150 square feet per unit with separate and
distinct bedrooms (not including kitchen and sanitary facilities).
   (E)   Total coverage of all buildings (including dwelling units and related
service buildings) shall not exceed 25% of the total site exclusive of any
dedicated public right-of-way.
   (F)   Have at least one property line abutting a major thoroughfare of not
less than 86 feet of right-of-way width, either existing or proposed, and all
ingress and egress to the site shall be directly onto said major thoroughfare
or marginal access service drive thereof.
   (G)   Contain a minimum site area of 2,000 square feet per bed.
   (H)   Have minimum yard setbacks from the perimeter property lines of 50
feet from any public road right-of-way, 75 feet from any adjacent property
zoned R-1A, R-1B or R-1C, and 50 feet from all other property lines. Minimum
spacing between buildings shall be as follows:
 
Distance Between Building           Feet
Side/Side Orientation               20
Side/Front, Side/Rear Orientation   20
Front/Front, Front/Rear Orientation 30
 
The Planning Commission, in their sole discretion, may reduce building spacing
requirements where enclosed, heated walkways are provided and applicable
building and fire code requirements are met.
   (I)   Designed and constructed according the following criteria:
      (1)   Maximum building height of three stories and 40 feet.
      (2)   No building shall exceed 250 feet in overall length, measured along
any continuous elevation. The Planning Commission may permit buildings of
greater length when it can be demonstrated that architectural design and
natural and topographic features ensure that the building is in scale with the
site and surrounding areas.
      (3)   Building facades of greater than 100 feet in length shall
incorporate recesses or projections to break up the expanse of the building
elevation.
      (4)   Architectural interest shall be provided through the use of
repeating patterns of change in color, texture and material. All senior-housing
facilities shall utilize residential exterior materials and design features.
      (5)   All roofs shall be sloped with a pitch of no less than 5:12. There
shall be variations in rooflines to reduce the scale of the building and add
interest.
   (J)   Lighting. All parking areas, building entrances, sidewalks, and ramps
shall be illuminated to ensure the security of property and safety of persons
using such areas, in accordance with the requirements set forth in §
155.076.
   (K)   Landscaping and screening. Landscaping and screening in accordance
with §§
155.073 and
155.074.
   (L)   Resident and emergency access. The drop off/pick up of residents shall
be provided at the front entrance of the building with a covered canopy. Access
to all entry/exit doors and all sides of a building shall be provided in a
manner acceptable to the Planning Commission, based on a recommendation from
the City Planner and Fire Department.
   (M)   Open space and recreational areas. Open space and recreation shall be
provided in accordance with the following requirements:
      (1)   Total open space required shall be a minimum of 15% of the site
exclusive of the land bank requirement of division (N) below.
      (2)   Recreation facilities including paved walkway and covered sitting
areas shall be provided in a manner, which meet the needs of the resident
population.
   (N)   Parking and loading. Off-street parking and loading shall be provided
in accordance with §§
155.077 and
155.079.
   (O)   Parking shall be calculated for a comparable multiple-family structure
per requirements set forth in Table 5-2 in §
155.077, Off-street parking. The difference in land shall be banked as usable
open space for the future parking needs to allow conversion to a standard
multiple-family apartment use.
   (P)   The loading area shall be located in the side and rear yard areas
only, screened from the view of any public thoroughfare and adjacent
residential area and designed in a manner, which is appropriate for the
function and vehicles it is intended to serve.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.117 PRIVATE NONCOMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL AREA; INSTITUTIONAL OR COMMUNITY
RECREATION CENTERS.
   (A)   Any use permitted herein shall not be permitted on a lot or group of
lots of record, except in those instances wherein 100% of the owners of
property immediately abutting and 51% of the owners of property within 300 feet
of any property line of the site herein proposed for development shall sign a
petition indicating concurrence with the proposed use of said site. The
petition shall be submitted to the City Council for its review.
   (B)   The proposed site for any of the uses permitted herein which would
attract persons from, or are intended to serve, areas beyond the immediate
neighborhood shall have at least one property line abutting a major
thoroughfare of not less than 120 feet of right-of-way width, either existing
or proposed, and the site shall be so planned as to provide all ingress and
egress directly onto or from said major thoroughfare.
   (C)   Front, side and rear yards shall be at least 80 feet wide, and shall
be landscaped in trees, shrubs and grass. All such landscaping shall be
maintained in a healthy condition. There shall be no parking or structures
permitted in these yards, except required entrance drives and those walls used
to obscure the use from abutting residential districts.
   (D)   Off-street parking shall be provided so as to accommodate not less
than one-half of the member families and/or individual members. Prior to the
issuance of a building permit or zoning compliance permit, bylaws of the
organization shall be provided in order to establish the membership involved
for computing the off-street parking requirements.
   (E)   In those cases wherein the proposed use or organization does not have
bylaws or formal membership, the Planning Commission on the basis of usage
shall determine the off-street parking requirements. In all instances, off-
street parking shall be subject to the provisions of §
155.077.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.118 GOLF COURSES.
   (A)   May be operated for profit or non-profit.
   (B)   The site shall be so planned as to provide all ingress and egress
directly onto or from a major thoroughfare of not less than 120 feet of right-
of-way width, either existing or proposed.
   (C)   The site plan shall be laid out to achieve a direct connection between
a major thoroughfare and any proposed service roads, entrances, driveways and
parking areas, which will encourage pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety.
   (D)   Development features including the principal and accessory buildings
and structures shall be so located and sited so as to minimize the
possibilities of any adverse affects upon adjacent property. This shall mean
that all principal or accessory buildings shall be not less than 200 feet from
any property line of abutting residentially zoned lands; provided that where
topographic conditions are such that buildings would be screened from view, the
Planning Commission may modify this requirement.
   (E)   The requirement of §
155.077 shall be met for the golf course plus individual requirements for all
accessory users such as restaurants or bars.
   (F)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided, said pool shall be
provided with a protective fence six feet in height, and entry shall be by
means of a controlled gate.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.119 COLLEGES, UNIVERSITIES AND OTHER INSTITUTIONS OF HIGHER LEARNING,
PUBLIC AND PRIVATE, OFFERING COURSES IN GENERAL, TECHNICAL OR RELIGIOUS
EDUCATIONS AND NOT OPERATED FOR PROFIT.
   (A)   All ingress to and egress from said site shall be directly onto a
major thoroughfare having an existing or planned right-of-way of at least 120
feet of width.
   (B)   No building other than a structure for residential purposes shall be
closer than 80 feet to any property line.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.120 BUSINESS, TRADE, VOCATIONAL AND SIMILAR FOR PROFIT OR NON-PROFIT
LEARNING INSTITUTIONS.
   (A)   All ingress to and egress from said site shall be directly onto a
major thoroughfare having an existing or planned right-of-way of at least 120
feet of width.
   (B)   No building other than a structure for residential purposes shall be
closer than 80 feet to any property line.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.121 TOWNHOMES AND DUPLEXES.
   (A)   Each dwelling unit shall have one floor and usable front porch at
grade level per §
155.072 of this chapter, and two means of ingress/egress at grade level. All
units shall be connected to a public or private sidewalk system.
   (B)   The site plan shall be so planned as to provide ingress and egress
directly onto a major or secondary thoroughfare, except when the Planning
Commission finds, upon review of the site plan, that ingress and egress
directly onto an adjacent minor street will not be detrimental to the
harmonious development of adjacent properties.
   (C)   No more than four dwelling units shall be attached in any construction
group or contained in any single structure, except that where the roof ridge
lines and building facades of any four consecutive units are staggered or
offset by at least six feet. In such cases a maximum of eight units may be
permitted.
   (D)   Access drives, parking areas, and maneuvering lanes shall be so
located as to minimize their conflict with buildings and outdoor living areas.
All parking and maneuvering lanes shall be at least 15 feet distance from any
first floor dwelling unit window, doorway, or entranceway.
   (E)   The required parking spaces shall be well related to the building they
are intended to serve.
   (F)   Any accessory buildings, uses or services shall be developed solely
for the use of residents of the main buildings. Uses considered herein as
accessory uses include: swimming pools, cabanas, pavilions, recreation areas,
and other similar areas.
   (G)   The site plan shall be so planned as to recognize the front, rear, and
side relationship of adjacent residential development. The Planning Commission
may recommend physical features to be provided which will insure harmony in
these yard relationships.
   (H)   All design and dimensional standards of this chapter shall be complied
with.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.122 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLING (THREE STORIES OF LESS).
   (A)   The entire area of the site shall be treated to service the residents
of the dwelling units located thereon, and any accessory buildings, uses or
services shall be developed solely for the use of residents of the main
building. Uses considered herein as accessory uses include: swimming pools,
cabanas, pavilions, recreation areas, and other similar uses.
   (B)   The site plan shall be so planned as to recognize yard and general
development relationships with adjacent land uses. The Planning Commission may
recommend physical features to be provided which will insure harmony in these
relationships.
   (C)   The site plan shall be so planned as to provide ingress and egress
directly onto a major or secondary thoroughfare, except when the Planning
Commission finds, upon review of the site plan, that ingress and egress
directly onto an adjacent minor street will not be detrimental to the
harmonious development of adjacent properties.
   (D)   Access drives, parking areas and maneuvering lanes shall be so located
as to minimize their conflict with buildings and outdoor living areas so as to
encourage pedestrian and vehicular safety and convenience. The following
requirements shall be considered by the Planning Commission in reviewing the
site plan:
      (1)   Drives, maneuvering lanes and open parking spaces shall be a
distance of at least 15 feet from any residential building wall with a window
and/or door penetration at the ground floor level.
      (2)   The required parking spaces shall be well related to the building
they are intended to serve.
   (E)   In order to provide continuity with abutting and/or adjacent public
thoroughfares, the Planning Commission may recommend, and the City AV Council
may require, dedication of a public right-of- way through the site area prior
to site plan approval.
   (F)   Front building lines found on the balance of the block face shall be
respected, except upon discretion of the Planning Commission as based upon the
recommendation of the City Planner.
   (G)   All design and dimensional standards of this chapter shall be complied
with.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.123 MULTIPLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS (FOUR STORIES OR GREATER).
   (A)   All such high-rise structures shall be developed only on a site or at
least five acres in area.
   (B)   The proposed site for any such use shall have one property line
abutting a major thoroughfare (at least 120 feet of right-of-way). The site
shall be so planned as to provide ingress and egress directly onto or from said
major thoroughfare.
   (C)   All design and dimensional standards of this chapter shall be complied
with.
   (D)   Business uses shall be permitted on the site when developed as retail
or service uses clearly accessory to the main use, within the walls of the main
structure, and totally obscured from and exterior view. No identifying sign for
any such business or service use shall be visible from any exterior view. Such
businesses or services shall not exceed 25% of the floor area at grade level or
50% of subgrade level, and shall be prohibited on all floors above the first
floor or grade level.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.124 MIXED-USE BUSINESS AND RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS.
   (A)   All dimensional requirements as set forth in this chapter and other
city codes, including, but not limited to, parking, loading, height, setbacks
and lot coverage are met.
   (B)   All landscape, screening, site lighting and other ordinance
requirements are met.
   (C)   The types of businesses as permitted as a principal use in the B-
1 Business District may be permitted. Such uses shall be located on the grade
level floor.
   (D)   Residential apartments meet the minimum space requirements as
established by zoning and building codes.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.125 GENERAL HOSPITALS.
   (A)   No maximum height restrictions will apply when all conditions of this
section are met.
   (B)   All such hospitals shall be developed only on sites consisting of at
least ten acres in area.
   (C)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line abutting a
major thoroughfare (a thoroughfare of at least 120 feet of right-of-way,
existing or proposed). All ingress and egress to the off-street parking area,
for guests, employees, staff, as well as any other uses of the facilities,
shall be directly from a major thoroughfare.
   (D)   The minimum distance of any main or accessory building from abounding
lot lines or streets shall be at least 100 feet for front, rear and side yards
for all two-story structures. For every story above two, the minimum yard
distance shall be increased by at least 20 feet.
   (E)   Ambulance and delivery areas shall be obscured from all residential
view with a wall six feet in height, and said wall shall be further subject to
the requirements of §
155.074. Ingress and egress to the site shall be directly from a major
thoroughfare.
   (F)   Facilities treating criminal persons and those solely treating persons
that are mentally ill or have contagious diseases are not permitted.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.126 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS.
   Automobile service station may provide for the sale of gasoline, oil and
minor accessories only, and where no repair work is done other than incidental
service, but not including steam cleaning or under coating, vehicle body
repair, painting, tire recapping, engine rebuilding, auto dismantling,
upholstery, glass work and such other activities whose external effects could
adversely extend beyond the property line. Automobile service stations are
permitted only in a B-3 District, subject to special land use.
   (A)   The minimum lot area shall be 15,000 square feet and so arranged that
ample space is available for motor vehicles which are required to wait.
   (B)   Such uses shall have a minimum frontage along the principal street of
120 feet.
   (C)   No such use shall be located nearer than 500 feet from any church,
public or private school, or playground, as measured from the property line.
   (D)   All driveways providing ingress to or egress from a filling or service
station shall be not more than 30 feet wide at the property line. No more than
one curb opening shall be permitted for each 50 feet of frontage or major
fraction thereof along any street, maximum of two. No driveway or curb opening
shall be located nearer than 25 feet to any corner or exterior lot line. No
driveway shall be located nearer than 30 feet to any other driveway serving the
site. The curb cuts for ingress and egress to a service station shall not be
permitted at such locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in the
streets immediately adjacent thereto.
   (E)   Separation shall be made between the pedestrian sidewalk and vehicular
parking and maneuvering areas with the use of curbs, wheel stops, greenbelts or
traffic islands. A raised curb of six inches in height shall be erected along
all street lot lines, except for driveway openings.
   (F)   Gasoline pumps shall be located not less than 15 feet from any lot
line, and shall be arranged so that motor vehicles do not park upon or overhang
any public sidewalk, street or right-of-way while waiting for or receiving fuel
service.
   (G)   A filling or service station shall have no more than eight gasoline
pumps and two enclosed stalls for servicing, lubricating, greasing and/or
washing motor vehicles. An additional two gasoline pumps and/or one enclosed
stall may be included for each additional 2,000 square feet of lot area above
the minimum area set forth in this section.
   (H)   A filling station shall provide a sprinkler system to extinguish a
fire in an emergency situation.
   (I)   All lighting, including illuminated signs, shall be shielded from
adjacent residential districts. Canopy lights shall be totally recessed into
the lower ceiling plane. Provisions of §
155.076 shall be complied with.
   (J)   Automobile service stations at the date of this chapter may be allowed
to expand to include vehicle laundries when located in a completely enclosed
building, providing the following conditions are met:
      (1)   All the conditions regulating service stations in §§
121.55 through
121.75 are met.
      (2)   All conditions of §
155.077, Off-street parking, are met.
      (3)   There shall be a 25-foot setback where cars exit wash.
      (4)   All provisions of §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards, shall be complied with.
   (K)   Vehicle sales shall not be permitted on the premises.
   (L)   Outdoor storage or parking of vehicles, except for two private
automobiles per indoor stall or service area of the facility, shall be
prohibited between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m.
   (M)   All such uses erected after the effective date of this chapter shall
comply with all requirements of this section and with the fire prevention code.
   (N)   Owners and operators of service stations or garages providing for the
self-service dispensing of flammable liquids by persons other than the owner,
lessee, tenant, agent, servant, or authorized employees shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the city adopted building code, the fire prevention
code of the city, N.F.P.A. Standards, and the Michigan State Police Fire
Marshal flammable liquid regulations. Wherever any conflict exists in the above
codes, the stricter of the provisions shall apply.
   (O)   A restroom shall be provided for public use.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.127 VEHICLE WASHING FACILITIES.
   (A)   The minimum lot or parcel size shall be 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   The lot to be built upon shall be located on a street designated as a
major or secondary thoroughfare and all means of vehicular ingress and egress
shall be located on a major or secondary thoroughfare, not from an adjoining
residential street or alley. A residential street or alley shall not be used as
a maneuvering or parking area for vehicles using the facility.
   (C)   All portions of each area designed or used for the washing of motor
vehicles shall be located a minimum of 25 feet from the boundaries of
residential zoning districts.
   (D)   A hard surfaced driveway of one or more lanes shall be constructed on
the property in such manner as to provide for a continuous movement of vehicles
into the wash-rack.
      (1)   The driveway so provided shall not be less than ten feet wide for a
single land and not less than ten additional feet in width for each additional
lane.
      (2)   Where only a single lane is provided it shall be used for no other
purpose than to provide access to the wash-rack. All lanes provided shall be
suitably protected from incursions of other traffic.
      (3)   The total length of the required lane or lanes so provided shall be
determined by the overall length of the wash line, measured from the point that
washing or cleaning begins, to the end of the washing or drying operation. In
any development where the washing operation moves in other than a straight
line, the length of the building or wash line for purposes of this section
shall be the distance measured along the center line of the conveyor or wash
line. The greater of the above measurements shall be used in the determination
of the length of the required lane or lanes. The overall length of the required
lane or lanes, as measured along the center line, shall be determined in
accordance with the following formula: where the building or total length of
all wash lines is 80 feet or less in overall length, the total required lane or
lanes exclusive of the wash line shall be not less than 200 feet in length.
Where the building or total length of all wash lines exceed 80 feet in length,
the length of the required lane or lanes exclusive of the wash line shall be
increased 20 feet for each 10 feet or fraction thereof by which the building or
wash lines exceed 80 feet in overall length.
   (E)   A barrier, a minimum of 18 inches in height, shall be constructed and
maintained on all lot lines except where openings are needed to provide for
permanent means of access and except where the above required masonry wall is
constructed on the lot line.
   (F)   The operating equipment shall be located or buffered so as to lessen
noise.
   (G)   Permitted hours of operation shall be from 7:00 a.m. until 10:00 p.m.
   (H)   There shall be no above-ground storage/dispensing tanks on the site.
   (I)   All washing activities shall be conducted within an enclosed
structure, except for one designated tall vehicle washing area.
   (J)   Vacuuming activities shall be at least 25 feet from any lot line
except where the property abuts a residential zoning district in which case a
50-foot separation shall be maintained.
   (K)   All drains shall be connected to a public sanitary sewer system.
   (L)   Such uses shall be graded and drained on conformance with the
requirements of the city plumbing code so as to dispose of all surface water
accumulation within the parking area.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3800.jpg]
 
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.128 MINOR VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITI ES.
   Vehicle repair establishments are subject to conditional use permits and
shall be conducted in the following manner (see also §
155.029, definitions, vehicle repair facility, minor.):
   (A)   The minimum site area shall be 10,000 square feet.
   (B)   The site shall be entirely paved, except for structures and
landscaping, so that vehicles are not parked in the dirt or an otherwise not
fully improved area. The premises shall be kept neat and organized at all
times.
   (C)   No outdoor overnight storage of vehicles permitted. All stored,
damaged or wrecked vehicles shall be efficiently screened so as not to be
visible from adjacent properties or public rights-of-w ay. All used or
discarded automotive parts or equipment shall be permanently screened kept from
public view.
   (D)   Service access shall be located at the rear or side of the structure
(s) and as far as possible from adjoining residential uses.
      (1)   All repair activities and operations shall be conducted within an
entirely enclosed structure.
      (2)   Outdoor hoists are prohibited.
   (E)   Exterior noise shall not exceed 65 dBA at the property line.
   (F)   Repair activities and vehicle loading and unloading shall be
prohibited on adjoining streets and alleys.
   (G)   Service bays with individual access from the exterior of the structure
(s) shall not face the public right-of-way.
   (H)   All on-site lighting shall be stationary and directed away from the
adjoining properties and public rights-of-way.
   (I)   All hazardous materials resulting from the repair operation shall be
properly stored and removed from the premises in a timely manner. Storage, use
and removal of toxic substances, solid waste pollution, and flammable liquids,
particularly gasoline, paints, solvents and thinners, shall conform to all
applicable federal, state and local regulations prior to issuance of a
certificate of occupancy, or certificate of re-occupancy.
   (J)   Subordinate retail, storage and office space, not to exceed 35% of the
floor area of the main use, is allowed, provided that: it primarily services
employees of the use; no exterior signs advertise the subordinate use; the
subordinate use is physically separated from the primary use; any retail sales
are limited to services provided on-site; commercial or retail/services support
uses; and the primary use fronts on an arterial.
   (K)   Vehicle sales shall not be conducted on the premises.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 845, passed 9-17-12; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-
17)
§ 155.129 MAJOR VEHICLE REPAIR FACILITIES.
   (A)   Major vehicle repair facilities offering repair for all vehicles whose
external effects shall adversely extend beyond the property line.
   (B)   The curb cuts for ingress and egress shall not be permitted at such
locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in the streets immediately
adjacent thereto. Entrances shall be no less than 25 feet from a street
intersection (measured from the road right-of-way) or from adjacent residential
districts.
   (C)   The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet and so arranged that
ample space is available for motor vehicle parking and for vehicles awaiting
service.
   (D)   No such use shall be located nearer than 500 feet from any church,
public or private school, or playground, as measured from the property line.
   (E)   All driveways providing ingress to or egress from a filling or service
station shall be not more than 30 feet wide at the property line. No more than
one curb opening shall be permitted for each 50 feet of frontage or major
fraction thereof along any street. No driveway or curb opening shall be located
nearer than 25 feet to any corner or exterior lot line. No driveway shall be
located nearer than 30 feet to any other driveway serving the site. The curb
cuts for ingress and egress to a service station shall not be permitted at such
locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in the streets immediately
adjacent thereto.
   (F)   Separation shall be made between the pedestrian sidewalk and vehicular
parking and maneuvering areas with the use of curbs, greenbelts or traffic
islands. A raised curb of six inches in height shall be erected along all
street lot lines, except for driveway openings.
   (G)   Vehicle sales shall not be permitted on the premises.
   (H)   All such uses erected after the effective date of this chapter shall
comply with all requirements of this section and with the fire prevention code.
   (I)   Owners and operators of service stations or garages providing for the
self-service dispensing of flammable liquids by persons other than the owner,
lessee, tenant, agent, servant, or authorized employees shall comply with all
applicable provisions of the BOCA Basic Building Code, the fire prevention code
of the city, N.F.P.A. Standards, and the Michigan State Police Fire Marshal
flammable liquid regulations. Wherever any conflict exists in the above codes,
the stricter of the provisions shall apply.
   (J)   All lighting, including illuminated signs, shall be shielded from
adjacent residential districts, and meet the provisions of §
155.076, Exterior lighting.
   (K)   All parking, loading and service areas shall be improved per the
provisions of §
155.077 and §
155.079.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.130 CARRY-OUT, FAST-FOOD, DRIVE-THROUGH OR DRIVE-IN RESTAURANTS.
   (A)   No drive-in, fast food, or carry-out restaurant, as measured from the
nearest property line shall be located within 500 feet from an elementary,
junior or senior high school or from a public park.
   (B)   All provisions of §§
155.071 through
155.082, General Development Standards, shall be complied with unless notified
in this section.
   (C)   Points of vehicular ingress and egress shall be limited to an adjacent
major thoroughfare only and site plans shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission for location and design of curb cuts and driveways and for layout of
parking lots.
   (D)   The minimum width of driveways at the property line shall be 24 feet
and not greater than 30 feet.
   (E)   The minimum distance of any driveway to a property line shall be 20
feet.
   (F)   The minimum distance between driveways on the site shall be 75 feet
measured from the two closest driveways’ curbs.
   (G)   The minimum distance between a driveway and a street intersection
shall be 60 feet measured from the intersection of the street right-of-way to
the nearest end of the curb radius.
   (H)   Businesses adjacent to or integrated in a shopping center on cluster
of commercial facilities shall use the common access with other business
establishments in that center.
   (I)   The entire parking area shall be paved with a permanent surface of
concrete or asphalt and shall be graded and drained in accordance with city
engineering standards. Any unpaved area on the site shall be landscaped with
lawn or other horticultural materials, maintained in a neat and orderly fashion
at all times and separated from the paved parking or driveway area by a raised
curb or other equivalent barrier.
   (J)   Concrete curbing, six inches in height, shall be properly placed and
maintained along or parallel to all property lines, except where bumper guards
are required and except across an approved driveway, so as to prevent vehicular
encroachment onto or over the public right-of-way and to prevent vehicular
encroachment onto or over the adjoining property, or vehicular damage to the
adjoining buildings.
   (K)   Food consumption upon the premises outside the fast-food and carry-out
restaurant building shall be prohibited unless permanent outside facilities are
provided. The premises shall be properly posted with signs stating that the
consumption of foods, frozen desserts or beverages within vehicles parked upon
the premises is unlawful and that violators are subject to fines as prescribed
by law. A minimum of two such signs shall be posted within the building near
the checkout counter of the restaurant and a minimum of four such signs shall
be posted within the parking area so as to be clearly visible from all vehicles
on the premises.
   (L)   All outside trash receptacles, except those intended for use by the
customer, shall be located within an enclosure constructed or opaque masonry
materials a minimum or four feet and a maximum or six feet in height and shall
be provided with opaque gates or the same height.
   (M)   During the period when a drive-in restaurant, fast-food restaurant, or
carry-out restaurant is vacated, closed, or otherwise not opened for business
for more than 30 consecutive days, the owner, franchise holder, or lessee shall
be subject to complying with the following regulations:
      (1)   Vehicular parking and storage shall be prohibited at all times
anywhere on the premises. The owner, franchise holder, or lessee shall post a
sign or signs on the premises, giving notice that all parked or stored vehicles
are subject to ticketing and removal by the city at the vehicle owner’s
expense. In addition, the owner, franchise holder, or lessee, whoever is in
possession, is subject to ticketing if unlawful parked or stored vehicles are
permitted on the premises by consent of the owner, franchise holder, or lessee.
The city shall have the right of entry to subject property for the purpose of
accomplishing said ticketing and removal.
      (2)   The ground shall be kept free of rubbish and debris, and the grass,
if any, shall be well kept and cut as necessary so as to present a neat and
attractive appearance at all times.
      (3)   Within 50 days of such closing, all curb cuts across driveway
entrances and all other points of ingress and egress to the premises shall be
closed to vehicular traffic by properly placed and secure precast concrete
wheel-stops or the equivalent, as may be approved by the city.
   (N)   A six-foot high completely obscuring wall shall be provided where
abutting any residentially zoned district. The height of the wall shall be
measured from the surface of the ground. Said wall shall further meet the
requirements of §
155.074, Walls.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.131 MOTELS OR HOTELS.
   (A)   Each unit shall contain at least a bedroom and bath and a minimum
gross floor area of 250 square feet.
   (B)   Both motels and hotels shall provide customary services associated
with temporary lodging, such as maid service, linen service, the use of
furniture, telephone, and/or desk service. In addition, hotels may offer room
service, banquet halls, meeting rooms, and attached restaurant or lounge.
   (C)   Kitchen facilities may be provided in new motels or hotels upon
demonstration by the applicant that the provisions of all applicable fire
prevention and building codes have been met. No existing motel units shall be
converted for use of cooking and/or kitchen facilities unless the applicant can
demonstrate compliance with all applicable fire prevention and building codes
and obtains a certificate of occupancy or certificate of re-occupancy for each
unit being converted.
   (D)   No guest shall establish permanent residence for more than 30 days
within any calendar year.
   (E)   A room cannot be rerented within a 24-hour period.
   (F)   Access shall be from a major thoroughfare.
   (G)   See §
155.029, Definitions, for definitions of hotel and motel.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.132 SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   No activity other than rental of storage units shall be allowed. No
commercial, wholesale, retail, industrial or other business activity shall be
conducted from the facility.
   (B)   The storage of any toxic, explosive, corrosive, flammable or hazardous
materials is prohibited. Fuel tanks on any motor vehicle, boat, lawn mower or
similar property will be drained or removed prior to storage. Batteries shall
be removed from vehicles before storage.
   (C)   All storage including vehicles of any kind shall be contained within a
completely enclosed building.
   (D)   Exterior walls of the ends of all storage units shall be of masonry or
face-brick construction.
   (E)   All storage units must be accessible by paved circular drives clearly
marked to distinguish traffic flow. A minimum 24 foot drives shall be provided
between buildings. Site circulation shall be designed to accommodate fire
trucks, as well as trucks that will customarily access the site.
   (F)   A demonstrated means of security and management shall be provided.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.133 OUTDOOR SALES SPACE FOR EXCLUSIVE SALE OF NEW OR SECONDHAND VEHICLES
OR HOUSE TRAILERS.
   (A)   The lot or area shall be provided with a permanent, durable and
dustless surface, and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water accumulated within the area.
   (B)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60 feet
from the intersection of any two streets.
   (C)   No major repair or major refinishing shall be done on the premises.
   (D)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.134 OUTDOOR SALES OF AUTOMOBILES AND OTHER VEHICLES.
   (A)   There shall be no strings of flags, pennants, inflatables, or bare
light bulbs permitted.
   (B)   A landscaped greenbelt measuring a minimum of ten feet in width shall
be provided. No vehicles or merchandise shall be displayed within the required
greenbelt.
   (C)   Provisions of §
155.073 (D) and §
155.074 shall be met.
   (D)   There shall be no broadcast of continuous music or announcements over
any loudspeaker or public address system.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.135 GREENHOUSE AND FLORIST OPERATIONS INVOLVING THE GROWING, WHOLESALE
AND/OR RETAILING OF PLANT MATERIALS.
   (A)   Ingress and egress shall be provided so as not to conflict with
adjacent business uses or adversely affect traffic flow on a major
thoroughfare.
   (B)   Outdoor storage areas shall be screened from public view by an
obscuring wall, the extent of which shall be determined by the Planning
Commission on the basis of land usage, provided such wall shall not be less
than four and one-half feet in height, and further subject to the provisions of
§
155.074, Walls, or a planting screen at least 20 feet in width and subject to
the provisions of §
155.073, Site design features.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.136 OPEN AIR BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Shall be developed in a planned relationship and accessory to a
permitted use within the B-2 and B-3 Business Districts.
   (B)   Retail sales of plant material not grown on the site, and sales of
lawn furniture, playground equipment and garden supplies are permitted provided
that such uses shall be located in a side yard.
   (C)   Such area shall be enclosed with a decorative fence. The Planning
Commission, upon recommendation of the City Planner, may permit exterior gates
when plans demonstrate that pedestrian and vehicle hazards are addressed.
   (D)   Loose landscape and building material, such as sand, stone and other
similar material shall be prohibited.
   (E)   The display or storage of for sale or rental equipment shall be
prohibited.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.137 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT FACILITIES.
   (A)   The research and development activities occur at the location or at an
adjacent site.
   (B)   Development activities are confined to the assembly of technical
equipment, remanufactured finished objects or components to be used for the
development of prototype, non-routine production of innovative products or
equipment. Machining shall be permitted on a limited basis for research and
development activities, administration and/or training in enclosed areas.
   (C)   Assembly and machining operations, shipping and receiving, loading and
unloading, development and demonstration laboratories, storage of inventory and
refuse and any mechanical equipment must be completely enclosed.
   (D)   A minimum front yard setback of 35 feet or the established setback
containing open space (left in its natural state or landscaped) shall be
provided and contain no parking or other surface improvements except sidewalk
or signage.
   (E)   A six-foot high obscuring wall, landscape berm and/or fence with
evergreen plantings shall be provided between residential and nonresidential
districts. If substantial natural vegetation or topographic features exist that
provide a natural visual barrier, these features may qualify for screening if
approved by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   No outside storage or any materials, equipment, trash or waste shall
be permitted. The Planning Commission, upon recommendation of the City Planner,
may modify this requirement where such storage area is not abutting a
residentially zoned district, completely enclosed by a six-foot opaque masonry
wall, strictly contain products ready for shipment and pre-packaged in closed
containers or wrapping.
   (G)   Loading/unloading shall be permitted only with a completely enclosed
building. No outside loading/unloading shall be permitted and all vehicles
being loaded or unloaded must be entirely within the building.
   (H)   Building-mounted mechanical equipment shall be screened in a way that
is compatible with the building’s design.
   (I)   Parking lot must be designed, located and screened with berm or
landscaping to minimize the visual effect on adjacent properties and public
streets.
   (J)   Security fences are permitted, provided they are screened where
adjacent to residentially zoned land.
   (K)   Exterior materials shall be compatible with the overall building
complex. Building and architectural design shall be subject to review by the
Planning Commission.
   (L)   The minimum front yard setback is 35 feet for a building height of 35
feet. Any increases in building height above 35 feet shall require additional
setback of ten feet in depth equal to the height of the structure is subject to
a public hearing before the Planning Commission and approval by City Council.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.138 JUNK YARD.
   (A)   The minimum lot size for junk yards shall be ten acres.
   (B)   A minimum setback of 250 feet shall be maintained between the front
property line and the portion of the lot on which junk materials shall be set
back and at least 250 feet from any road right-of-way line.
   (C)   The entire junk yard site shall be screened with an eight-foot masonry
obscuring wall. The wall shall be uniformly painted and maintained in neat
appearance, and shall not have any signs or symbols painted on it.
   (D)   All roads, driveways, parking lots, and loading and unloading areas
shall be paved or treated in a manner approved by the Building Official or
other official responsible for code enforcement so as to confine any wind-borne
dust within the boundaries of the site.
   (E)   All applications for junk yards must receive the approval of the City
Council. The Planning Commission shall determine no such approval.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
2002 S-10
§ 155.139 CONTRACTORS’ OFFICES AND YARDS.
   (A)   Buildings shall be permanently constructed. Temporary construction
trailers shall not be occupied.
   (B)   Outdoor storage shall be clearly accessory to the principal office
use.
   (C)   Only products, materials and equipment owned and operated by the
contractor shall be stored. All motorized equipment shall be stored on a paved
surface.
   (D)   Storage shall not be located within the required front yard.
   (E)   Materials shall not be stored within any required parking or loading
spaces.
   (F)   Storage shall not impede the access of fire and emergency vehicles and
personnel.
   (G)   Storage material shall not exceed 25 feet in height.
   (H)   All storage shall be screened from public streets and abutting
property by an eight-foot tall masonry retaining wall or an eight-foot wide
landscaped berm capped with evergreen material and secured with an eight-foot
tall opaque fence located on the inside of the berm.
   (I)   The location and size of storage areas, thorough written description
of materials of stored materials, plans, sections and elevations of the
screening method describing in detail the material and height shall be
submitted as part of the information required for site plan review.
   (J)   Loading and unloading of equipment shall not be permitted within the
right-of-way or unenclosed portion of the site.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.140 MANUFACTURED HOUSING COMMUNITIES.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to provide an affordable housing
alternative that is consistent with the general character of the city. In
addition to the standards of this chapter, all manufactured housing
developments shall comply with Act No. 96 of Public Acts of the State of
Michigan of 1987 as amended. Some standards of this chapter are more stringent
than the typical standards promoted by the Michigan Manufactured Housing
Commission. These adopted standards are designed to foster and encourage
development which:
      (1)   Locates communities in appropriate areas to complement specific
needs;
      (2)   Compliments and protects the investment on adjacent properties; and
      (3)   Promotes preservation of important natural features.
Since the characteristics, densities and impacts of a manufactured housing
development typically simulate those of multiple-family residential
developments, and because they typically are served by private streets and
utility systems which intercept the local street and utility systems,
manufactured housing parks are not necessarily considered to be completely
compatible with other types of residential neighborhoods. Therefore,
manufactured housing development are intended to serve as a transitional use
between residential and nonresidential districts and shall be restricted to M-
1 Light Industrial Districts whereby the parcel is not isolated on more than
three sides by the M-1 District.
   (B)   Principal uses permitted. No building, structure or land shall be
used, and no building or structure shall be erected, except for one or more of
the following specified uses unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (1)   Manufactured housing developments, which conform to the
requirements of this section, and the Department of Housing and Urban
Development (HUD) standards, or A.N.S.I standards.
      (2)   Community accessory uses, building and structures including one
management office building, utility/laundry buildings, auxiliary storage space
for manufactured housing development tenants, community buildings for use by
the tenants, recreation areas, playgrounds and recycling stations. All such
accessory uses and structures shall meet the standards provided in this
chapter.
      (3)   State licensed adult and child care facilities in a manufactured
home, which are permitted in the single-family zoning districts, subject to the
approval of the development management.
      (4)   Accessory structures on manufactured home sites including decks,
private garages, carports and enclosed or screened storage areas which meet the
standards of this subchapter and the rules and regulations promulgated by the
Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission, or its successor.
      (5)   The business of selling new or used manufactured homes in the
development that are to remain on-site may be sold by the resident, owner or a
licensed dealer or broker, provided the manufactured housing development
management permits the sale.
      (6)   All electrical, telephone, cable TV and gas lines, located within
the development, as an available service in the park, shall be placed
underground, and shall be subject to the other related definition and use
provisions of this chapter.
      (7)   Uses not specifically noted above are prohibited as permitted
principal uses.
   (C)   Required conditions. Manufactured housing developments shall be
subject to the review and approval of a site plan by the Planning Commission.
The site plan shall consist of a manufactured housing development preliminary
plan, as described in Section 11 of the Mobile Home Act, Act No. 96 of Public
Acts of 1987, as amended. Such review of the site plan is required in order to
minimize the possibility of adverse effects upon adjacent property and to find
proper relationships in the development features as they relate to traffic
safety, service roads, driveways, parking areas accessory buildings and uses,
and planned open space.
   (D)   Special land use.
      (1)   Schools, school-related facilities, religious institutions,
temples, and similar places of worship, connected with the operation of a
licensed manufactured housing development or similar uses not included in this
paragraph.
      (2)   Adult and child care facilities in a manufactured home or community
building which are listed as special condition uses in the R-1A, R-1B and R-1C
One-Family Zoning Districts, subject to the approval of the development
management.
      (3)   Golf courses.
   (E)   Design standards for overall development.
      (1)   Minimum development size. A manufactured housing development shall
be at least five acres in area, excluding adjacent parcels that may be proposed
for expansion.
      (2)   Access.
         (a)   The main entrance to a development shall have access to a public
thoroughfare. Access to the development via an alley is prohibited.
         (b)   Entranceway structures, including but not limited to, walls,
columns and gates marking the entrance to a manufactured housing development,
may be permitted, and may be located in a required yard, except as provided in
this section. Such entranceway structures shall be designed to maintain a clear
vision zone as described below and additionally required by this chapter and
all applicable city, county, state and federal departments and agencies.
         (c)   The Clear Vision Zone is an unobstructed triangular area that
shall be meet the requirements of §
155.073, Site design features.
      (3)   Perimeter setback. Manufactured homes shall be set back at least 50
feet from any public street right-of-way line. The setback shall include a
minimum 20 foot wide greenbelt, which includes landscape and screening features
as described below.
      (4)   Landscaping, screening and ground cover. A landscape and screening
plan shall be incorporated in the preliminary plans submitted for site plan
review to the Planning Commission. The plan shall indicate the type and size of
landscape planting and screening improvements to be completed. A manufactured
housing development shall be landscaped and screened as follows:
         (a)   Exposed ground surfaces shall be paved or protected with grass,
trees, or shrubs that are capable of preventing soil erosion. The ground
surface in all parts shall all be graded and equipped to drain all surface
water in a safe, efficient manner.
         (b)   A manufactured housing development shall be screened from
existing adjacent residences by either a six foot screen wall and/or a densely
planted landscaped screen.
         (c)   A manufactured housing development abutting an R-1A, R-1B, R-1C,
RM or RM-1 zoning district shall be required to provide a 20 foot wide
greenbelt screening along the development boundary abutting the existing
residential development. If a manufactured housing development abuts an O-1, B-
1, B-2, B-3, M-1 or TCD zoning district, the developer shall provide screening
in conformance to §
155.074, Walls.
         (d)   A manufactured housing development shall provide screening along
the community boundary abutting a public right-of-way.
         (e)   Screen walls shall be constructed of face brick, decorative
block, or poured concrete with a simulated brick or stone pattern. Required
walls shall be placed inside and adjacent to the lot line except where
underground utilities would interfere with the placement of the wall or where
the wall would unreasonably obstruct the use of adjacent property.
         (f)   A landscape screen shall consist of evergreen trees capping a
berm. The trees shall be a minimum of six feet in height at the time of
planting, and spaced in a staggered pattern to provide a continuous screen.
         (g)   Landscaped berms measuring two and one-half feet in height may
be required by the Planning Commission to be constructed along public roads.
The berm shall be constructed with slopes no steeper than one foot vertical
rise for each four feet horizontal run. Landscaping adjacent to the road shall
comply with the requirements in Table 6-1 below.
 
Table 6-1 Manufactured Housing Community Landscape Requirements
Minimum Size Type                                Requirements
2½” calipeDeciduous street tree (as permitted 1 per 40 lineal feet of road
             by the Planning Commission)         frontage
24"          Deciduous or evergreen shrubs       1 per 3 lineal feet of road
                                                 frontage
6'           Evergreen Trees                     1 per 40 lineal feet of road
                                                 frontage
 
         (h)   A minimum of one deciduous or evergreen tree shall be planted
per two manufactured home sites.
         (i)   Off-street parking lots containing more than 15 spaces shall be
provided with at least 10 square feet of interior parking lot landscaping per
space. Such areas shall measure at least 150 square feet and shall be covered
by grass, ground cover, shrubs or other live plant material. At least one
deciduous tree shall be planted per parking lot-landscaped area.
         (j)   Dead, damaged, and/or diseased landscape material shall be
replaced, within a reasonable time frame, so as to maintain the approved and/or
allowed screening technique originally put in place.
      (5)   Required open recreation space. A minimum of 10% of the
development’s gross acreage shall be dedicated to well drained, useable open
space, provided that a minimum of 8,000 square feet of open space shall be
provided. Said open space may be developed with appropriate recreational
facilities and play equipment. The location shape and development plan for said
recreational area shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission but
in no case shall any required open space area be longer than two times its
width. At least half of the open space area shall be graded, developed and
sodded to provide recreation for the residents of the manufactured housing
development. Open space shall be maintained by the manufactured housing
development management and, shall be relatively accessible to all areas of the
development.
      (6)   Street layout. Maximum cul-de-sac length shall be 1,000 feet. A
dead end road shall terminate with an adequate turning area, which is to be
approved by the local fire authorities. Adequate sight distance shall be
provided at all intersections, in accordance with clear vision standards
applicable to all areas of the city.
      (7)   Street width. Streets or drives within the manufactured housing
development shall be constructed to in accordance with the general standards
set forth by the Manufactured Housing Commission. In addition, two way
circulation shall be required, with a minimum width of 21 feet with no on-
street parking, 31 feet where parallel parking is permitted on one side and 41
feet where parallel parking is permitted on both sides. Streets not permitting
parking shall be clearly marked or signed.
      (8)   Street names/signs. All streets and roads shall be clearly marked
with appropriate identification and traffic control signs. For the protection
of the public safety, the manufactured housing development owner shall
establish an orderly street name and numbering system and a plan of this system
shall be verified and approved by the Fire Department. Manufactured home space
numbers shall be located uniformly on each space, manufactured home unit or
identification marker, throughout the manufactured housing development and
street names shall be adequately marked.
      (9)   Street geometry. The alignment and gradient of a street shall be
graded for its full width to drain surface water. Specific standards set by
MDEQ for the Manufactured Housing Commission shall be strictly adhered to.
      (10)   Street materials. All streets and drives shall be constructed with
materials suitable for subgrades and hard surface in compliance with the
standards of the American Association of State Highway and Transportation
Officials, adopted herein by reference. Curbing may be installed on service
drives. The development roadways shall be constructed as follows:
         (a)   Streets shall be crowned with drainage directed to gutters or
outside edges.
         (b)   Centerline drainage shall be prohibited.
         (c)   Curbing shall be concrete, if used.
         (d)   If integral valley curbing and gutter or mountable curb and
gutter are used, the height of the curb measured from the gutter line shall be
between three and five inches.
      (11)   Sidewalks. A five foot wide concrete sidewalk shall be constructed
along the public road(s) on which the manufactured housing development fronts.
Such sidewalk shall be located within the road right of way or easement,
beginning one foot inside the right of way or easement line. An internal
sidewalk system meeting Mobile Home Commission design and construction
standards shall be installed.
      (12)   Accessory buildings and facilities. Accessory buildings and
facilities constructed within the manufactured housing development shall be
designated and serviced consistent with the following requirements:
         (a)   Accessory buildings and structures, including development
management offices and public works facilities, storage building, laundry
facilities, recreation or community facilities, and other accessory facilities,
shall be designed and operated for use by only residents, guests and employees
of the manufactured housing development.
         (b)   Site-built buildings within a manufactured housing development
shall be constructed in compliance with the city building code and shall
require all applicable permits. Any addition to a manufactured housing unit
that does not comply with the standards of the U.S. Department of Housing and
Urban Development for manufactured homes shall comply with the city building
codes. Site plan approval shall be required prior to construction of any on-
site building within a manufactured home development, except for storage sheds
or garages for individual manufactured homes. Storage sheds and garages shall
require a building permit from the city prior to construction.
         (c)   Each manufactured home shall be permitted one storage shed and
one garage. The installation of any such shed or garage shall comply with codes
and ordinances of the city and shall require a building permit. Storage
underneath a manufactured home or unscreened outdoor storage on any
manufactured home site is prohibited. The owner of the manufactured housing
development need not supply storage sheds. A storage shed shall not exceed a
floor area greater than 144 square feet. A carport or garage shall not exceed
576 square feet.
         (d)   Maximum height of any community accessory buildings and
structures shall be 30 feet.
      (13)   Storage. If the owner of the manufactured housing development
shall permit storage of boats, motorcycles, recreation vehicles, and similar
equipment in the manufactured housing development, common areas for the storage
of that equipment shall be provided within the development. Such storage shall
be limited to use only by residents of the manufactured housing development. If
proposed, the location of such storage areas shall be shown on the preliminary
site plan. No part of any such storage area shall be located in a required yard
on the perimeter of the manufactured housing development. Such storage area
shall be screened from view from existing residences adjacent to the
manufactured housing development in accordance with the screening provisions
described above.
      (14)   Drainage. A manufactured housing development shall provide
sufficient storm water facilities, independent of sanitary sewers, to prevent
flooding of streets, lot or recreation areas. On-site storm water detention
facilities, if provided, may be required to be fenced for safety reasons. The
street drainage system shall be designed in such a way so as to minimize
ponding and icing conditions. All storm water drainage improvements shall be
subject to review and approval by the County Drain Commissioner, the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality, in accordance with MDEQ Manufactured Home
Park Standards, pursuant to 1987 P.A. 96, as amended.
      (15)   Waste receptacles. Waste receptacles shall be provided unless
curbside pick-up is provided. An on-site recycling station for residents may be
provided at a location approved by the Planning Commission and the Michigan
Environmental Quality. Adequate screening shall be provided, as required for
the department of placement of outdoor storage areas.
      (16)   Underground wiring. All local distribution lines for franchised
utilities (telephones, electric service, cable television) shall be placed
entirely underground throughout the manufactured housing development area.
Mainlines and perimeter feed lines located on a section or quarter section line
may be above ground if they are configured or installed within the state
electrical code guidelines. Conduits or cables shall be placed within private
easements provided to the service companies by the proprietor and/or developer
or within public ways. Those telephones and electrical facilities placed in
dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other
underground utilities. All telephones and electrical facilities shall be
constructed in accordance with standards of construction approved by the
Michigan Public Service Commission.
      (17)   Mailbox clusters. The United States Postal Service may require
that clusters of mailboxes servicing several sites rather than individual
mailboxes serving individual sites serve manufactured housing development. If
mailbox clusters are required, they shall be located at least 200 feet from any
intersection of a manufactured housing development road with a public road.
      (18)   Swimming pools.
         (a)   Swimming pool shall mean any permanent, non-portable structure
or container located either above or below grade designed to allow holding of
water to a depth of greater than 24 inches, intended for swimming, bathing or
relaxation. The definition of swimming pool includes spa, hot tubs and similar
devices.
         (b)   A fence or similar enclosure shall be erected and maintained
around any swimming pool. Such fence or enclosure shall be constructed of
durable, weather resistant wood and/or chain link material and shall be
approved by the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement and the manufactured housing development management.
         (c)   A swimming pool fence shall not be closer than 25 feet to any
occupied dwelling if placed on a residential lot.
         (d)   Freestanding swimming pools, spas, hot tubs and similar devices
shall not be located between any home and roadway.
         (e)   A slip resistant walk, at least four feet in width, shall
surround all community swimming pools.
         (f)   Permits shall be applied for and issued from the Building
Department and State Health Department prior to excavation or construction of
any swimming pool requiring a fence as noted in divisions (a) and (b) above.
The application shall be accompanied by a complete set of plans and
specifications. A final inspection and approval from the Building Official or
other official responsible for code enforcement must be obtained prior to use
of the swimming pool.
      (19)   School bus stops. School bus stops shall be located in an area
that is acceptable to the school district and the manufactured housing
development developer.
   (F)   Design standards for individual lots/dwelling units. No manufactured
home or mobile home shall be permitted to occupy any site or lot in the
manufactured housing development if the home is either longer or wider than
permitted by the following requirements.
      (1)   Site size. The manufactured home development shall be developed
with individual sites averaging 5,500 square feet. This 5,500 square feet may
be reduced by up to 20% provided that the individual site shall be equal to at
least 4,400 square feet. For each square foot of land gained through the
reduction of a site below 5,500 square feet, at least an equal amount of land
shall be dedicated as open space. This open space shall be in addition to that
required under R 125.1946, Rule 946 and R 125.1941 and R 125.1944, Rules 941
and 944 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
      (2)   Setbacks and spacing.
         (a)   For a home not sited parallel to an internal road, 20 feet from
any part of an attached structure of an adjacent home that is used for living
purposes.
         (b)   For a home sited at a 90º angle to an internal road, 15 feet
from any part of an attached structure of an adjacent home that is used for
living purposes.
         (c)   Ten feet from any attached or detached accessory structure of an
adjacent manufactured home.
         (d)   Fifty feet from any permanent building.
         (e)   One hundred feet from any baseball, softball, or similar
recreational field.
         (f)   Ten feet from the edge of an internal road provided that such
road is not dedicated to the public. Manufactured homes and other structures
shall be set back from the right-of-way line of a dedicated public road within
the manufactured housing development, in compliance with Wayne County Road
Commission requirements and standards.
         (g)   Seven feet from any parking bay.
         (h)   Seven feet from a common sidewalk.
         (i)   All manufactured homes, accessory buildings, and parking shall
be set back not less than 20 feet from any manufactured housing development
boundary line, except that a minimum setback of 50 feet shall be provided from
existing right-of-way lines of abutting streets and highways.
         (j)   Fifty feet from the edge of any railroad right-of-way.
      (3)   Maximum height. The maximum height of a manufactured home shall be
one story or 25 feet. However, storage sheds shall not exceed one story or 14
feet.
      (4)   Water meters. A development master meter shall be required and
individual site metering may be utilized.
      (5)   Storage areas. No personal property shall be stored outside, under
any manufactured home or within carports, which are open on any side. Storage
sheds with a maximum area of 144 square feet may be placed on any individual
manufactured home site.
      (6)   Standards for accessory structures. All accessory structures on a
lot or site shall meet the following:
         (a)   Accessory buildings or structures, shall not be permitted in the
front yard of any site (that is, they must be placed behind the front building
line).
         (b)   Attached accessory buildings and structures shall consist of
materials similar to the principal building and shall be approved by
management.
         (c)   All detached accessory buildings shall be at least ten feet from
an adjacent residential unit.
         (d)   All accessory buildings and structures shall require a permit
issued by the city and shall be secured and anchored.
         (e)   Sheds and other detached structures shall be anchored.
      (7)   Parking.
         (a)   Each residential unit shall have a minimum of two on or off-
street parking spaces, which do not block circulation along sidewalks.
         (b)   In addition, a minimum of one parking space for every three
manufactured home sites shall be provided for visitor parking located
convenient to the area served. Visitor parking spaces shall be counted and
designated separately from all other parking spaces including those spaces
required for employees and any community facility.
         (c)   In addition, parking in an amount determined by the Planning
Commission, consistent with other zoning regulations, which apply to public
access buildings in the city, shall be provided adjacent to any community
buildings recreational facilities or office/maintenance buildings.
      (8)   Vehicle repair/inoperable vehicle storage. No vehicular repair or
changing of oil or use of other potentially hazardous materials or procedures
is permitted within the development. Further no vehicles that are inoperable
for a period of 72 consecutive hours shall be stored and/or remain in any
outdoor area associated with the developed property.
   (G)   Review standards. The Planning Commission shall consider the following
when reviewing a rezoning application for a manufactured housing development:
      (1)   Whether the proposed development meets the design standards of this
subchapter and the Rules of the Michigan Manufactured Housing Commission.
      (2)   Whether the proposed developments is adequately served by public,
municipally maintained and operated infrastructure systems for sanitary sewer,
and drinking water.
      (3)   The city may require the submission of a Traffic Impact Study, if
the expected traffic would have a perceived adverse impact on the roadway
system and/or the surrounding areas.
      (4)   Whether there is a demonstrated and documented regional and/or city
demand for additional manufactured housing, taking into account such things as
occupancy/vacancy rates in the parks located in Wayne County; the possibility
for expansion of an existing park; and, parks and pads under construction and/
or expansion.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.141 OUTDOOR THEATERS.
   Because outdoor theaters possess the unique characteristic of being used
only after darkness and since they develop a concentration of vehicular traffic
in terms of ingress and egress from their parking area, they shall be permitted
only within an M-1 or B-3 District and only when the site in question is
surrounded by an M-1 or B-3 District. Outdoor theaters are further subject to
the following conditions:
   (A)   The proposed internal design shall receive approval from the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement and the City
Engineer as to adequacy of drainage, lighting, screening and other technical
aspects.
   (B)   Outdoor theaters shall abut directly upon a major thoroughfare of not
less than 120 feet of right-of-way.
   (C)   Points of ingress and egress shall be available to the outdoor theater
only from abutting major thoroughfares of not less than 120 feet of right-of-
way width and shall not be available from any residential street.
   (D)   All vehicles, waiting or standing to enter the facility, shall be
provided off-street waiting space. No vehicle shall be permitted to wait or
stand within a dedicated right-of-way.
   (E)   The area shall be laid out so as to prevent the movie screen from
being viewed from residential areas or adjacent major thoroughfares. All
lighting used shall be directed onto the premises of the outdoor theater site.
   (F)   Proposed outdoor theater shall be subject further to the review and
approval of the City Council.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.142 FLOODPLAIN ZONES; NATIONAL FLOOD INSURANCE PROGRAM.
   (A)   Intent. The city desires to participate in the National Flood
Insurance Program and comply with all applicable statutory and regulatory
requirements for the purpose of significantly reducing all hazards to persons,
property damage and public expenditures, and to provide for the availability of
flood insurance and federal funds or loans.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   BASE FLOOD.  The flood level having one percent chance of being equaled or
exceeded in any given year.
   FLOOD or FLOODING.  A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from the overflow of inland or tidal
waters, the unusual and rapid accumulation of runoff of surface waters from any
source.
   FLOOD HAZARD AREA. Land, which on the basis of available floodplain
information is subject to a one percent or greater chance of flooding in any
given year.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). An official map of a community, on which
the Federal Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special
flood hazards and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided by the Federal Insurance
Administration. The report contains flood profiles, the water surface elevation
of the base flood, and may include a Flood Boundary Floodway Map.
   FLOODPLAIN. Any land area susceptible to being inundated by water from any
source.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent, land
areas, which must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood.
   REGULATORY FLOOD DATUM (RFD). The 100-year floodplain contour line
synonymous with Base Flood Elevation.
   STRUCTURE.  A walled and roofed building that is principally above ground,
gas or liquid storage facility, as well as a mobile home.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT. Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a
structure, the cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the
structure either before the improvement or repair is started, or if the
structure has been damaged or is being restored, before the damage occurred.
For the purposes of this definition, substantial improvement is considered to
occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or other structural
part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration affects the
external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however, include
either any project for improvement of a structure to comply with existing state
or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which are solely
necessary to assure safe living conditions, or any alteration of a structure
listed on the National Register of Historic Places or a state inventory of
historic places.
   (C)   Flood Insurance Rate Map. The map panels 26163C, 0240E, 0241E, and
0243E entitled Flood Insurance Rate Map of the City of Inkster, Wayne County,
Michigan, dated February 2, 2012, as amended, shall be the official map for
determination and regulation pursuant to this subchapter.
   (D)   Necessary permits shall be issued. Floodplain permit, approval or
letter of no authority from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
shall be required. The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement shall insure that all necessary permits have been issued, including
a resources under authority of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended,
State of Michigan.
   (E)   Code appendix enforced. Pursuant to the provisions of the state
construction code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall be
enforced by the enforcing agency within the jurisdiction of the city.
   (F)   Areas of special flood hazard.
      (1)   Where an area of special flood hazard has been identified by the
map referenced in this section, but no elevation data is available, the
Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement shall
require new or substantially improved structures in the identified area to meet
the standards of one of the Sections 401.2, 401.3, 401.4, 401.5, 612.2.1,
612.2.2, or 612.2.3, as applicable in the Army Corps of Engineers’ Flood
Proofing Regulations.
      (2)   Where an area of special flood hazard has been identified by the
map referenced in this section, and elevation data is available, the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement shall require new
and substantially improved residential structures to meet the applicable
standards of either Section 612.2.1, 612.2.2, or 612.2.3 the Army Corps of
Engineers’ Flood Proofing Regulations, and new and substantially improved
nonresidential structures to meet the applicable standards of either Section
612.2.1, 612.2.2, 612.2.3, 401.2 or 401.3 of the Army Corps of Engineers’ Flood
Proofing Regulations.
   (G)   Flood elevation information - records. The Building Official or other
official responsible for code enforcement shall obtain first floor elevation
information and maintain a record of structures in the special flood hazard
area identified by the map referenced in this section, indicate the elevation
of lowest habitable floor, whether the structure contains a basement, and the
elevation to which the structure has been flood proofed.
   (H)   Flood data from other sources. The Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement shall obtain, review and reasonably utilize
flood data available from other federal, state or other sources pending receipt
of data from the Federal Emergency Management Agency. The most recent flood
elevation data received from the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall take
precedence over data from other sources.
   (I)   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS) entitled “Wayne
County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions)” and dated December 3, 2013 and the Flood
Insurance Rate Map(s) (FIRMS) panel number(s) of 26163C; 0241E dated February
2, 2012 and panel numbers 0240F and 0243F dated December 3, 2013 are adopted by
reference for the purposes of administration of the Michigan Construction Code,
and declared to be a part of Section 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and
to provide the content of the “flood hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of the
Michigan Residential Code.
   (J)   Agency designated. Pursuant to the provisions of the state
construction code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the Public
Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of the city is hereby
designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the city
under Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, State of Michigan. The
city assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said Act
throughout the corporate limits of the city.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 839, passed 2-20-12; Am. Ord. 846, passed
2-3-14)
§ 155.143 STANDARDS FOR PROCESSING BIO-DIESEL FUELS.
   (A)   Landscape buffering or screening shall be added, subject to the review
and approval by the Planning Commission, adjacent to all areas owned or
containing residential units.
   (B)   Applicable licenses with the State of Michigan and other governmental
agencies shall be maintained at all times.
   (C)   The proposed facilities and processes shall be subject to the review
and approval by the Fire Marshal and Building Official/Inspector.
   (D)   The hours of operation shall be reviewed and approved by the Planning
Commission in consideration of potential negative impacts, including but not
limited to, trucking in shipping operations, noise, order, glare, etc.
   (E)   Review and approval of the site plan submitted to the Planning
Commission pursuant to the conditions imposed under §
155.286 Site Plan Review.
   (F)   If the site has to store any hazardous materials thus becoming a 302-
regulated site, then the site shall obtain a use variance from the Zoning Board
of Appeals and shall obtain any other approvals required from any federal,
state or county agencies.
   (G)   No animal products or animal bi-products shall be used in the
manufacturing and processing of bio-diesel fuels.
   (H)   Any other conditions that the City Council/Planning Commission may
find relevant and applicable.
(Ord. 813, passed 6-6-07; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.144 TATTOO ESTABLISHMENTS.
   (A)   No tattoo establishment shall have an entrance or exit way providing a
direct passageway to any type of business, residence or living quarters.
   (B)   All tattoo establishments subject to this article are declared to be
public places, and shall not, during business hours, have the doors to the
exits and entrances of such establishment locked or obstructed in any way so as
to prevent free ingress and egress of persons; provided, however, that such
doors may be closed.
   (C)   Federal, state and county regulations shall be complied with.
(Ord. 830, passed 12-21-09) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.145 CHARITABLE GAMING ROOM.
   (A)   Such uses shall abut directly upon a major thoroughfare with not less
than 86 feet of right-of-way width. All ingress and egress to the site shall be
directly from said thoroughfare.
   (B)   All vehicles waiting or standing to enter the facility shall be
provided off-street waiting space. No vehicle shall be permitted to wait or
stand within a dedicated right-of-way.
   (C)   A business license shall be required pursuant to Chapter 113 of the
Code of Ordinances.
   (D)   An existing licensed non-profit qualified organization operating a
gaming room in the city prior to the effective date of this section may
continue to operate as permitted by such license. Any increase in the frequency
of gaming events or the expansion of building area utilized for gaming
activities shall require approval of a special land use permit as required by
this Code.
(Ord. 836, passed 2-21-11; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.146 STANDARDS FOR ALL MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)   The medical use of marijuana shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Medical Marihuana
Facilities Licensing Act, State of Michigan regulations for the transfer of
medical marijuana, and the General Rules of the Michigan Department of
Community Health, as they may be amended from time to time.
   (B)   A state license and local business license is required for all medical
marijuana facilities.
   (C)   Smoking and/or use of medical marijuana shall be prohibited at medical
marijuana facilities.
   (D)    Security cameras shall be installed and maintained; and are subject
to approval by the City Police Chief. All security cameras shall have a minimum
resolution of 1080p, and at least 14 concurrent days of digitally recorded
documentation. The security cameras shall be in operation 24 hours a day, seven
days a week, and shall be set to maintain the record of the prior 14 days of
continuous operation. An alarm system is required that is operated and
monitored by a recognized security company.
   (E)   Exterior lighting shall be required for security purposes, but in
accordance with the provisions of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (F)   The premises shall be open for inspection upon request by the Building
Official, the Fire Department and law enforcement officials for compliance with
all applicable laws and rules, during the stated hours of operation/use and as
such other times as anyone is present on the premises.
   (G)   Quarterly inspections may be made by the City Official’s designee to
confirm the facility is operating in accordance with applicable laws including,
but not limited to, state law and city ordinances.
   (H)   Any medical marijuana facilities shall not have exterior signage using
the word “marihuana” and/or “marijuana” or any other word, phrase or picture
commonly understood to refer to marijuana. Neon signs and non-functional
decorative lighting shall be prohibited. Sign(s) shall be posted stating that
“No loitering is permitted” on such property.
   (I)   If the medical marijuana facility ceases operation for a length of
time of six months or greater, the special land use shall expire.
(Ord. 852, passed 3-16-15; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 9-18-
17; Am. Ord. 870, passed 4-5-18)
§ 155.147 COMMERCIAL WAREHOUSE, WHOLESALE OPERATIONS AND DISTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The minimum lot or parcel size shall be one acre.
   (B)   The type and quantity of traffic generated by the operation shall be
compatible with the permitted retail uses in the district.
   (C)   Ingress and egress shall be provided so as not to conflict with
adjacent business uses or adversely affect traffic flow on adjacent businesses.
   (D)   Planning Commission may require a traffic impact study and a traffic
management plan.
   (E)   The hours of operation shall be reviewed and approved by Planning
Commission in consideration of potential negative impacts, including but not
limited to, trucking and shipping, noise, odor, air quality, dust, spillage,
glare, etc.
   (F)   Open air storage is not permitted and truck parking is not permitted
outside of designated loading spaces.
   (G)   Planning Commission may determine that landscaping and screening is
required.
   (H)   A minimum of 10% of the floor area, or 1,000 square feet, whichever is
less, shall be used for accessory retail and office uses, which shall be
primarily accessed via the front yard.
   (I)   Adequate parking shall be provided based on the parking requirements
for wholesale establishments and any other accessory uses. Planning Commission
may modify parking standards based on a parking study.
   (J)   Wherever the off-street parking is adjacent to land zoned for
residential purposes, a continuous obscuring wall of four and one-half feet in
height shall be along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the
residentially zoned land. The wall shall be further subject to the provisions
of §
155.074.
(Ord. 853, passed 1-5-15; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.148 MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROVISIONING CENTERS.
Publisher's Note: This Section has been AMENDED by new legislation (Resolution
No. 04-23-059R, adopted 4-17-2023). The text of the amendment will be
incorporated below when the ordinance is codified.
   (A)    A provisioning center shall not be located within a 500 foot radius
of a school, measured as the shortest distance from front door to front door.
   (B)   A provisioning center shall not be located within a 1,000 foot radius
of a lawfully existing medical marijuana provisioning center, measured as the
shortest distance from front door to front door.
   (C)   A provisioning center shall not share office space with a physician.
   (D)   Growing, cultivating, manufacturing, or processing of medical
marijuana is prohibited.
   (E)   All activity related to the provisioning center shall be done indoors.
   (F)   Any medical marijuana provisioning center shall maintain a log book
and/or database identifying by date the amount of medical marijuana on the
premises for each qualifying patient/caregiver, keeping the qualifying patient
and caregiver information confidential. This log shall be available to law
enforcement personnel to confirm that the medical marijuana provisioning center
does not have more medical marijuana than authorized at the location and shall
not be used to disclose more information than is reasonably necessary to verify
the lawful amount of medical marijuana at the facility. The facility shall
maintain the confidentiality of qualifying patients in compliance with the
Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, as amended, and applicable State of Michigan
rules and regulations.
   (G)   Provisioning center drive-through facilities shall be prohibited.
   (H)   All medical marijuana shall be contained within the main building in
an enclosed, locked facility.
   (I)   Application for a medical marijuana provisioning center license shall
be made to the City Clerk upon application forms provided by the Clerk for
medical marijuana provisioning center license and signed by the applicant
verifying the truth and accuracy of all information and representations in the
application. Applications including information and documentation provided
pursuant to an application shall be subject to the confidentiality rules under
the Act. In addition to information and submittals, the application shall
include payment of application fee in an amount set by the City Council.
   (J)   The sale, consumption, or use of alcohol or tobacco products on the
premises shall be prohibited at the provisioning center.
   (K)   Provisioning centers may have more than one caregiver.
(Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 862, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 870, passed 4-5-
18)
§ 155.149 TEMPORARY POP-UP COMMERCIAL USE.
   Retail services may be permitted as a temporary use when:
   (A)   The retail use must:
      (1)   Be located within an enclosed fire area, as defined by the Building
Code, that does not require structural changes to accommodate the use; and
      (2)   Have an approved certificate of occupancy or temporary certificate
of occupancy.
   (B)   The retail use may not exceed 12,000 square feet in area unless an
approved sprinkler system has been installed in accordance with the Fire Code;
   (C)   Pop-up commercial uses that serve food will be required to obtain
permits for the Health Department;
   (D)   The following uses and activities may not be permitted as a temporary
commercial use under this section:
      (1)   Personal services;
      (2)   A portable toiler serving the commercial use, whether located
inside or outside of the use; or
      (3)   Storage of hazardous materials as defined by the Fire Code.
   (E)   A permit for a temporary pop-up commercial use under this section may
be issued for up to 30 days and renewed twice, for a total operating period not
to exceed 90 days.
(Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.149A STANDARDS FOR ALL MOBILE FOOD VENDING UNITS.   
   (A)   Mobile food vendors shall only operate between the hours of 8:00 a.m.
and 10:00 p.m. unless a waiver for extended hours of operation is approved by
the Chief of Police.
   (B)   Vendors shall provide appropriate waste receptacles at the site of the
unit and remove all litter, debris and other wastes attributable to the vendor
and/or customers on a daily basis.
   (C)   No food shall be sold, prepared or displayed outside of the food truck
or mobile food vending unit while on location.
   (D)   Vendors shall not use any flashing, blinking or strobe lights or
similar effects to draw attention to the food truck or mobile food vending
unit; all exterior lights over 60 watts shall contain opaque hood shields to
direct the illumination downward.
   (E)   A mobile food vendor may have one portable sign that is no more than
six square feet in area or a sandwich board sign with two faces that are no
more than six square feet in area. The portable sign must be located within
five feet of the unit. Under no circumstances shall such sign be placed upon
the sidewalk or impede pedestrian and/or vehicle traffic and/or safety.
   (F)   Mobile food vendors shall not use any electricity or power without the
prior written authorization of the power customer; no power cable or similar
device shall be extended at or across any city street, alley, or sidewalk
except in a safe manner.
   (G)   A mobile food vendor must be set-up and must vend in an outdoor
location.
(Ord. 872, passed 11-15-18)
§ 155.149B STANDARDS FOR ALL MOBILE FOOD COURTS/PARKS.
   (A)   All individual vendors must comply with §
155.149A, “Standards for All Mobile Food Vending Units.”
   (B)   Tables, chairs, and canopies or enclosed seating areas for mobile food
court customers are permitted.
   (C)   Mobile food courts/parks must provide at least one handicap accessible
bathroom facility with one hand-washing station for every five mobile food
vendors.
   (D)   There must be access to potable water and sewage disposal facilities
on-site.
   (E)   Applicants must submit a layout of the mobile vendor units.
(Ord. 872, passed 11-15-18)
§ 155.150 MEDICAL MARIJUANA PROCESSING FACILITIES.
   (A)    Processing facilities shall have a minimum 300-foot radius, measured
as the shortest distance from front door to front door, to any structure in
residentially zoned districts, and a minimum 500 foot radius, measured as the
shortest distance from front door to front door to any library, church, child
care center, licensed day care facility, preschool program center, primary,
intermediate or secondary school, or like facility.
   (B)   All medical marijuana shall be contained indoors within the main
building in an enclosed, locked facility.
   (C)   All permit holders must ensure that any water emanating from the
permitted facility meets or exceeds all applicable state and local
environmental standards.
   (D)   Application for a medical marijuana processing facilities license
shall be made to the City Clerk upon application forms provided by the Clerk
for medical marijuana processing facilities license and signed by the applicant
verifying the truth and accuracy of all information and representations in the
application. Applications including information and documentation provided
pursuant to an application shall be subject to the confidentiality rules under
the Act. In addition to information and submittals, the application shall
include payment of application fee in an amount set by the City Council.
(Ord. 862, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 870, passed 4-5-18)
§ 155.150A MEDICAL MARIJUANA TESTING FACILITIES.
   (A)    Testing facilities shall have a minimum 500 foot radius, measured as
the shortest distance from front door to front door to any child care center,
licensed day care facility, preschool program center, primary, intermediate or
secondary school, or like facility.
   (B)   All testing facilities shall have a secured laboratory space that
cannot be accessed by the general public.
   (C)   All medical marijuana shall be contained indoors within the main
building in an enclosed, locked facility.
   (D)   All permit holders must ensure that any water emanating from the
permitted facility meets or exceeds all applicable state and local
environmental standards.
   (E)   Application for a medical marijuana testing facilities license shall
be made to the City Clerk upon application forms provided by the Clerk for
medical marijuana testing facilities license and signed by the applicant
verifying the truth and accuracy of all information and representations in the
application. Applications including information and documentation provided
pursuant to an application shall be subject to the confidentiality rules under
the Act. In addition to information and submittals, the application shall
include payment of application fee in an amount set by the City Council.
(Ord. 862, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 870, passed 4-5-18)
§ 155.150B MEDICAL MARIJUANA TRANSPORTATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   All medical marijuana shall be stored indoors within the main building
in an enclosed, locked facility when not actively in transit.
   (B)   Application for a medical marijuana transportation facilities license
shall be made to the City Clerk upon application forms provided by the Clerk
for medical marijuana transportation facilities license and signed by the
applicant verifying the truth and accuracy of all information and
representations in the application. Applications including information and
documentation provided pursuant to an application shall be subject to the
confidentiality rules under the Act. In addition to information and submittals,
the application shall include payment of application fee in an amount set by
the City Council.
(Ord. 862, passed 9-18-17)
§ 155.150C MEDICAL MARIJUANA CULTIVATION FACILITIES.
   (A)    Cultivation facilities shall have a minimum 300-foot radius, measured
as the shortest distance from front door to front door, to any structure in
residentially zoned districts, and a minimum 500 foot radius, measured as the
shortest distance from front door to front door to any library, church, child
care center, licensed day care facility, preschool program center, primary,
intermediate or secondary school, or like facility.
   (B)   All activity related to the medical marijuana cultivation facilities
shall be done indoors.
   (C)   All permit holders must ensure that any water emanating from the
permitted facility meets or exceeds all applicable state and local
environmental standards.
   (D)   Application for a medical marijuana cultivation facilities license
shall be made to the City Clerk upon application forms provided by the Clerk
for medical marijuana cultivation facilities license and signed by the
applicant verifying the truth and accuracy of all information and
representations in the application. Applications including information and
documentation provided pursuant to an application shall be subject to the
confidentiality rules under the Act. In addition to information and submittals,
the application shall include payment of application fee in an amount set by
the City Council.
(Ord. 862, passed 9-18-17; Am. Ord. 870, passed 4-5-18)
ALTERNATIVE DEVELOPMENT OPTIONS
§ 155.151 CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. Pursuant to the authority conferred by Public Act 59 of 1978
(the Condominium Act), as amended, all expandable, conversion and site
condominium developments shall be regulated by the provisions of this chapter
and approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Each condominium lot shall be located within a zoning district that
permits the proposed use.
      (2)   Each condominium lot shall front on and have direct access to a
public street approved by the city.
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, each condominium lot shall be
considered equivalent to a single lot and shall comply with all regulations of
the zoning district in which located, and the provisions of any other statutes,
laws, ordinances, and/or regulations applicable to lots in subdivisions.
      (4)   In the case of a site condominium containing single-family detached
dwelling units, not more than one dwelling unit shall be located on a
condominium lot, nor shall a dwelling unit be located on a condominium lot with
any other principal structure or use. Required yards shall be measured from the
boundaries of a condominium lot.
      (5)   Site plans for new projects. Prior to recording of the Master Deed
required by Section 72 of Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended, the condominium
development shall undergo site plan review and approval pursuant to §
155.286 of this chapter. In addition, the city shall require appropriate
engineering plan reviews prior to issuance of building permits and inspections
and final approvals prior to the issuance of any certifications of occupancy.
      (6)   Site plans for expandable or convertible projects. Prior to
expansion or conversion of a condominium development to additional land, the
new phase of the project shall undergo site plan review and approval pursuant
to §
155.286 of this chapter.
      (7)   Monuments required. All condominium developments that consist in
whole or in part of condominium units, which are building sites, shall be
marked with monuments as provided in this subchapter.
         (a)   All monuments used shall be made of solid iron or steel bars at
least one-half inch in diameter and 36 inches long and completely encased in
concrete at least four inches in diameter.
         (b)   Monuments shall be located in the ground at all angles in the
boundaries of the condominium developments. They shall be at the intersection
lines of streets and at the intersection of the lines of streets with the
boundaries of the condominium development and at the intersection of alleys
with the boundaries of the condominium development; at all points of curvature,
points of tangency, points of compound curvature. Points of reverse curvature
and angle points in the side lines of streets and alleys and at all angles of
an intermediate traverse line. It is not intended nor required that monuments
be placed within the traveled portion of a street to mark angles in the
boundary of the condominium development if the angle points can be readily re-
established by reference to monuments along the sidelines of the streets.
         (c)   If the required location of a monument is in an inaccessible
place, or where the locating of a monument would be clearly impracticable, it
is sufficient to place a reference monument nearby and the precise location
thereof be clearly indicated on the plans and referenced to the true point.
         (d)   If a point required to be monumented is on a bedrock
outcropping, a steel rod, at least one-half inch in diameter shall be drilled
and grouted into solid rock to a depth of at least eight inches.
         (e)   All required monuments shall be place flush with the ground
where practicable.
         (f)   All unit corners and the intersection of all limited common
elements shall be monumented in the field by iron or steel bars or iron pipe at
least 18 inches long and ½ inch in diameter, or other approved markers.   
         (g)   The City Council may waive the placing of any of the required
monuments and markers for a reasonable time, not to exceed one year, on the
condition that the proprietor deposits with the city cash or certified check,
or irrevocable bank letter of credit to the city, whichever the proprietor
selects. The Council shall establish the amount by resolution. Such cash,
certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit shall be returned to the
proprietor upon receipt of a certificate by a surveyor that the monuments and
markers have been place as required within the time specified.
      (8)   Compliance with federal, state, and local law. All condominium
developments shall comply with federal and state statutes and local ordinances.
      (9)   The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement may allow occupancy of the condominium development before all
improvements required by this chapter are installed provided that cash, a
certified check, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit is submitted. The
cash, certified check, or irrevocable bank letter shall be sufficient in amount
and type to provide for the installation of improvements before the expiration
of the temporary occupancy permit without expense to the city.
   (C)   Initial information. Concurrently with notice required to be given the
city pursuant to Section 71 of Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended (the
Condominium Act), a person, firm or corporation intending to develop a
condominium development shall provide the following information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of:
         (a)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium development will be located together with a
description of the nature of each entity’s interest (for example, fee owner,
optionee, or land contract vendee).
         (b)   All engineers, attorneys, architects or registered land
surveyors associated with the project.
         (c)   The developer or proprietor of the condominium development.
      (2)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed together with appropriate tax identification
numbers.
      (3)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed.
      (4)   The purpose of the development and type of development.
      (5)   Approximate number of condominium units to be developed on the
subject parcel.
   (D)   Single-family detached condominiums. A one-family detached condominium
project shall be subject to all requirements and standards of the applicable
R1-A through R1-C, One-Family Residential Districts, and the following site
plan approval requirements.
      (1)   Site plan review requirements. A preliminary site plan pursuant to
the standards and procedures set forth in §
155.286 of this chapter shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
review and action. Approval of the site plan and condominium documents,
landscape and engineering plans by the Planning Commission shall be required as
a condition to construct, expand or convert a site condominium project. No
permits for erosion control, building construction, grading, or installation of
public water or sanitary sewerage facilities shall be issued for property in a
site condominium development until approval of the site plan, condominium
documents and engineering plans has been granted by the Planning Commission.
Preliminary site plan approval shall be granted prior to review of condominium
documents, landscape and engineering plans.
      (2)   The design of a single-family detached condominium project shall be
subject to the design layout and engineering standards, as provided in division
(4) below, except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
      (3)   Road rights-of-way shall be described separately from individual
condominium lots, and shall be accurately delineated by bearings and distances
on the preliminary and final site plan. The right-of-way shall be for roadway
purposes and for the purposes of locating, installing, maintaining, and
replacing of public utilities. The developer shall declare easements to the
city for public water and sanitary sewer lines and appurtenances.
      (4)   Location arrangement and design of street.
         (a)   The street layout shall provide for the continuation of
collector streets in the adjoining subdivisions or of the proper projection of
streets when adjoining property is not subdivided; or conform to a plan for a
neighborhood unit drawn up and adopted by the Planning Commission.
         (b)   The street layout shall include minor streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
         (c)   Should a proposed development border on or contain an existing
or proposed major thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may require marginal
access streets, reverse frontage, or such other treatment a may be necessary
for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.
         (d)   Should a proposed development border on or contain a railroad,
expressway, or other limited access highway right-of-way, the Planning
Commission may require the location of a street approximately parallel to and
on each side of such right-of-way. Should this be required, the street shall be
at a distance suitable for the development of an appropriate use of the
intervening land, such as for parks, in residential districts. Such distances
shall be determined with due consideration of the minimum distance required for
approach grades to future grade separation.
         (e)   The minimum street grade shall not be less than 0.5%. The
maximum street grade shall be 5.0%, except that the Planning Commission may
modify this standard on the recommendation of the City Engineer.
         (f)   Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as nearly as
possible to 90º.
         (g)   Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet shall
be avoided.
         (h)   Sight distances on horizontal or vertical curves and at
intersecting roads shall be a minimum of 200 feet. Sight distance for
intersecting streets shall be measured 10 feet from the edge of the traveled
portion of the road and from an eye height of 3.5 feet to an object height of
3.5 feet.
         (i)   All types of streets must have a right-of-way width of 60 feet
and a pavement width of at least 24 feet.
         (j)   Cul-de-sacs must have a right-of-way radius of 60 feet and a
pavement width of 45 feet.
         (k)   The maximum length for residential cul-de-sac streets shall
generally be 500 feet; however, the Planning Commission may approve a distance
of up to 1,000 feet.
         (l)   All pavements shall be asphalt or concrete pavement with
concrete curb and gutter on each side in accordance with the standards
prescribed by the City Engineer.   
      (5)   Blocks.
         (a)   Blocks shall not exceed 1,000 feet in length, except at the
discretion of the Planning Commission, conditions may justify a greater
distance. Blocks shall be in a grid or modified grid pattern and connected to
the abutting street system following principles of good street design.
         (b)   Width of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the
layout and shall be suited to the intended layout.
      (6)   Natural features and character of land must be preserved wherever
possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large
trees, natural groves, water courses, and similar community assets that will
add attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved. The preservation of
drainage and natural stream channels must be considered by the proprietor and
the dedication and provision or adequate barriers, where appropriate, shall be
required.
      (7)   Walkways shall be installed in all single-family detached
condominium developments. Such walkways shall be a minimum of five feet in
width and shall be constructed of concrete four inched thick. In addition,
walkways shall be located on both sides of all interior roadways and so located
as to provide access to all general common areas. Upon review of the site plan,
the Planning Commission may approve alternative locations for the walkways or
may waive the walkway requirement if it would not serve the purpose of
providing adequate pedestrian circulation.
      (8)   Architectural character.
         (a)   Residential standards.
            1.   Architectural features, as required in §
155.072 shall be complied with.
            2.   Attached townhome units shall meet the requirements of §
155.121, Townhomes and duplexes, as determined by the Planning Commission, upon
recommendation of the City Planner.
            3.   Front doors with porches are required. Porches shall be
minimally six feet in depth.
            4.   The front facade shall be composed of at least 75% brick or
decorative masonry. Decorative masonry cannot extend above the first floor
elevation.
         (b)   Non-residential standards.
            1.   Architectural features, as required in §
155.121 and §§
155.111 through
155.142, Special Land Use Standards, shall be complied with.
            2.   Entry doors shall be located on at least one public street.
            3.   The primary street facade shall be designed and constructed
with at least 60% transparent glass.
      (9)   Utilities.
         (a)   An adequate storm drainage system including necessary storm
sewers, catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges, and other appurtenances
shall be required in all developments.
         (b)   A public sanitary sewer system shall be required.
         (c)    A public water supply system shall be required.
         (d)   The proprietor shall make arrangements for all lines for
telephone, electric, television, and other similar services distributed by the
wire or cable to the placed underground entirely throughout the development
area. Such conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements provided
to such service companies by the developer or within dedicated public ways,
provided only that overhead lines may be permitted upon written recommendation
of the City Engineer and the approval of the Planning Commission at the time of
site plan approval where it is determined that overhead lines will not
constitute a detriment to the health, safety, general welfare, design, and
character of the development. All such facilities placed in dedicated public
ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground utilities.
All such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of
construction approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission. All drainage
and underground utility installations that traverse privately held property
shall be protected by easements granted by the proprietor.
   (E)   Review of condominium documents and engineering and landscape plans.
      (1)   Following preliminary site plan approval, the applicant shall
submit condominium documents to the city for the review by the City Attorney
and other appropriate staff. The city shall review the condominium documents
with respect to all matters subject to regulation.
      (2)   Following preliminary site plan approval, the applicant shall
submit landscape and engineering plans in sufficient detail for the city to
determine compliance with applicable laws, ordinances and design standards for
construction of the project.
      (3)   Upon completion of the review of the condominium documents and
engineering plans and receipt of the recommendations and findings from the
applicable department, the engineering plan and associated documents shall be
submitted to the Planning Commission for final review and action.
      (4)   If the condominium documents and engineering plans conform in all
respects to applicable laws, ordinances and design standards, the Planning
Commission shall grant preliminary development approval.
   (F)   Site plans for expandable or convertible projects. Prior to expansion
or conversion of a condominium development to additional land, the new phase of
the project shall undergo site plan review and approval pursuant to §
155.286, Site plan review.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall deny preliminary approval, if the
condominium documents and engineering plans fail to conform to standards.
      (2)   Performance guarantee. The Planning Commission, as a condition of
preliminary approval of the site plan, shall require the applicant to deposit a
performance guarantee as set forth in §
155.293, Performance guarantee, of this chapter for the completion of
improvements associated with the proposed use.
      (3)   Information required prior to occupancy. Prior to the issuance of
occupancy permits for any condominium units, the applicant shall submit the
following to the Community Development Department:
         (a)   A copy of the recorded condominium documents including, but not
limited to, the master deed and all exhibits.
         (b)   A copy of any recorded restrictive covenants.
         (c)   A copy of the final site plan on Mylar sheets in 11" X 17" and
24" X 36" formats at standard engineering scales and acceptable to the city.
         (d)   Evidence of completion of improvements associated with the
proposed use including two copies of an “as-built survey”.
   (G)   Revision of site condominium plan. Revision to preliminary site plan
shall be submitted for review and approval by the Planning Commission before
any building permit may be issued.
      (1)   Amendment of condominium documents. Amendment to a master deed or
bylaws that affects the approved site plan, or any conditions of approval of a
site plan, shall be reviewed and approved by the City Attorney and Planning
Commission before any building permit may be issued. The Planning Commission
may require its review of an amended site plan if, in its opinion, such changes
in the master deed or bylaws require changes in the site plan.
      (2)   Relocation of boundaries. Relocation of boundaries between
adjoining condominium units, if permitted in the condominium documents and
provided for in Public Act 59 of 1978 (the condominium act,) as amended shall
comply with all regulations of the zoning district in which located and shall
be approved by the Building Department. These requirements shall be made a part
of the bylaws and recorded as part of the master deed.
      (3)   Subdivision of condominium lot. Each condominium lot that results
from a subdivision of another condominium lot, if such subdivision is permitted
by the condominium documents and provided for in Public Act 59 of 1978 (the
condominium act,) as amended, shall comply with all regulations of the zoning
district in which located, and shall be approved by the Building Department.
These requirements shall be made a part of the recorded condominium documents.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.152 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. Planned unit development (PUD) regulations are intended to
provide for various types of land uses planned in a manner which shall foster
the use and design of land in accordance with scale and character of the
contextual environment; encourage innovation in land use planning; provide
enhanced housing, employment, shopping, traffic circulation and recreation
opportunities; and, foster crime prevention methods. The provisions of this
section provide enabling authority and standards for the submission, review,
and approval of applications for planned unit developments.
   (B)   PUD regulations.
      (1)   A PUD may be applied for in all districts. The grant of a planned
unit development application shall require a special land use designation
subject to the recommendation of the Planning Commission and approval of City
Council.
      (2)   Any land use authorized in R-1A, R-1B, R-1C, RM, RM-1, B-1, B-2 and
O-1 is permitted as a special land use, subject to design and development
standards within this chapter, other applicable codes and regulations, and
adequate public health, safety, and welfare features to ensure the
compatibility of varied land uses both within and outside the development.
      (3)   A PUD application must meet the following criteria as a condition
to being entitled to PUD treatment:
         (a)   A recognizable and material benefit to the ultimate users of the
project and to the community, where such benefit would otherwise be unfeasible
or unlikely to be achieved without application of the PUD regulations; or
         (b)   A non-conforming use shall, to a material extent, be rendered
more conforming, or less offensive, to the zoning district in which it is
situated.
         (c)   The proposed type and density of use shall not result in an
unreasonable increase in the need for or burden upon public services,
facilities, streets and utilities.
         (d)   The proposed development shall be contributed to the public
health, safety and welfare of the city.
         (e)   The proposed development shall not result in an unreasonable
negative economic impact upon surrounding properties.
         (f)   The standards set forth in this subchapter are met.
         (g)   The standards set forth in §§
155.287 and
155.289 are met.
         (h)   All applicable codes, ordinances and regulations are met.
         (i)   The proposed development shall be consistent with the goals and
policies of the city’s Master Plan.
   (C)   Procedure for review and action.
      (1)   Pre-application conference. Prior to the submission of an
application for PUD approval, the applicant shall meet with the City Planner,
together with any staff and consultants the Director deems appropriate. The
applicant shall present at such conference, or conferences, a sketch plan of
the proposed development and a data summary sheet with the following
information:
         (a)   Total number of acres in the project;
         (b)   Number and type of residential units;
         (c)   Number and type of nonresidential uses;
         (d)   Number of acres to be occupied by each type of use;
         (e)   Known deviations from ordinance regulations;
         (f)   Number of acres to be preserved as usable open and recreation
space; and
         (g)   Number of acres to be preserved as wetlands or other natural
features.
      (2)   Preliminary plan. Following the pre-application conference, the
applicant shall submit a preliminary site plan prepared in accordance with the
standards set forth in this subchapter and §
155.287, Standards for site plan approval, and §
155.289, Standards for special land use approval. In addition, a narrative
report shall be prepared by the applicant that describes the physical and
functional components of the project, discuss the market concept and
feasibility of the project, and explain the manner in which the criteria set
forth have been met.
         (a)   Planning Commission action. The preliminary plan shall be
noticed for public hearing as a special land use before the Planning
Commission. Following the hearing, the Commission shall review the preliminary
site plan and supporting narrative report and shall take one of the following
actions:
            1.   Approval. Upon finding that the preliminary plan meets the
standards set forth in this subchapter and §§
155.287 and
155.289, the Planning Commission shall grant preliminary approval. Approval
shall constitute approval of the uses and design concept as shown on the
preliminary plan and shall confer upon the applicant the right to proceed to
preparation of the final plan. Approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning
Commission shall not bind City Council to approve the final plan.
            2.   Tabling. Upon finding that the preliminary plan does not meet
the standards set forth in this subchapter and §§
155.287 and
155.289, but could meet such criteria if revised, the Planning Commission may
delay action until a revised preliminary plan is resubmitted.
            3.   Denial. Upon finding that the preliminary plan does not meet
the criteria and standards set forth in this subchapter and §§
155.287 and
155.289, the Planning Commission shall deny preliminary approval.
      (3)   Final plan. Within six months following receipt of the Planning
Commission approval of the preliminary plan, the applicant shall submit a final
plan and supporting materials conforming to this subchapter and §
155.286. If a final plan is not submitted by the applicant for final approval
within six months following receipt of Planning Commission comments, the
preliminary plan approval becomes null and void.
         (a)   Information required. A final site plan and application for a
PUD shall contain the following information:
            1.   A site plan meeting all requirements of this chapter.
            2.   A specification of all deviations from this chapter, which
would otherwise be applicable to the uses and development, proposed in the
absence of the application of this PUD section.
            3.   A specific schedule of the intended development and
construction details, including phasing or timing.
            4.   A specific schedule of the general improvements to constitute
a part of the development, including, without limitation, lighting, signage,
methods to reduce noise, utilities, and visual screening features.
            5.   A specification of the exterior building and landscape
materials with respect to the structures proposed in the project.
            6.   Signatures of all parties having an interest in the property.
         (b)   Planning Commission action. The final plan shall be noticed for
public hearing as a special land use before the Planning Commission, and acted
upon by the Planning Commission and City Council.
            1.   Approval. Upon finding that the final plan meets the criteria
and standards set forth in this section the Planning Commission shall recommend
approval to the City Council.
            2.   Tabling. Upon finding that the final plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in this section but could meet such criteria
if revised, the Planning Commission may delay action until a revised final plan
is resubmitted.
            3.   Denial. Upon finding that the final plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in this section, the Planning Commission shall
recommend denial to the City Council.
            4.   The Planning Commission shall, to the extent it deems
appropriate, submit detailed recommendations relative to the proposed project
including recommendations with respect to matters on which the City Council
must exercise discretion.
         (c)   City Council action. Upon receiving a recommendation from the
Planning Commission, City Council shall review the final plan. Taking into
consideration the recommendations of the Planning Commission and the criteria
and standards set forth in this section, the City Council shall approve, table
or deny the final plan. Prior to approval of a final plan, City Council shall
require all final plans, supporting documents, standards and conditions of
approval to be incorporated in a development agreement. The agreement shall be
prepared by the City Attorney, approved by the City Council, and signed by both
the city and the applicant.
   (D)   Project design standards.
      (1)   General design standards.
         (a)   Design and development standards set forth in this chapter
provide a base for design dimensions. Deviations may be granted as part of the
overall approval of the PUD, provided there are features or elements
demonstrated by the applicant and deemed adequate by the City Council upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission designed into the project plan for
the purpose of achieving the objectives of this section.
         (b)   There shall be a perimeter setback and berming, as found to be
necessary by the city, for the purpose of buffering the development in relation
to surrounding properties. Such perimeter setback shall be established at the
discretion of the City Council, taking into consideration the use or uses in
and adjacent to the development. The setback distance need not be uniform at
all points on the perimeter of the development.
         (c)   Thoroughfare, drainage, and utility design shall meet or exceed
the standards otherwise applicable in connection with each of the respective
types of uses served.
         (d)   There shall be underground installation of utilities, including
electricity and telephone, as found necessary by the city.
         (e)   Pedestrian sidewalks (five feet in width) shall be provided
along all public and private streets and separated from vehicular circulation
by a landscape strip and street trees.
         (f)   Signage, lighting, landscaping, building materials for the
exterior of all structures, and other features of the project, shall be
designed and completed with the objective of achieving an integrated and
controlled development, consistent with the character of the community,
surrounding development or developments, and natural features of the area.
         (g)   Where non-residential uses adjoin off-site residentially zoned
property, noise reduction and visual screening such as landscape berms or
strips or decorative walls shall be employed.
      (2)   Residential standards.
         (a)   Dwelling density shall be based on the underlying base zoning
district. Additional density for residential uses is permitted, subject to a
recommendation by the Planning Commission and approval by the City Council.
Such increase shall be based upon review of the standards of this section.
         (b)   Consistency with the Master Plan;
         (c)   Relationship to adjacent land uses;
         (d)   Meet the following design standards;
            1.   Attached townhome units shall meet the requirements of §
155.121, Townhouses and duplexes, as determined by the Planning Commission,
upon recommendation of the City Planner.
            2.   Buildings shall be built at the same setback as exiting
structures on the same block or adjacent to the proposed development.
            3.   Interior front build-to lines can be reduced to 18 feet of
right-of-way line or sidewalk on private streets or ways.
            4.   Front doors with porches are required. Porches shall be
minimally six feet in depth.
            5.   The front facade shall be composed of at least 75% brick or
decorative masonry. Decorative masonry cannot extend above the first floor
elevation.
            6.   Public and private spaces separation and definition by walls,
decorative fencing or landscaping is encouraged.
         (e)   Pedestrian and/or vehicular safety provisions.
         (f)   Off-street parking in front yards is not permitted.
         (g)   Blocks shall have a maximum acreage of five acres as delineated
by public rights-of-way or sidewalks. Blocks shall be in a grid or modified
grid pattern and connected to the abutting street system following principles
of good street design.
         (h)   A minimum of 10% of the gross floor area of dwelling units shall
be set aside as usable recreation and open space. Dwelling units shall front
such space.
         (i)   Provisions for the users of the project.
      (3)   Non-residential standards.
         (a)   Non-residential uses may be permitted in combination with other
non-residential uses or as part of a common development with residential uses.
         (b)   The non-residential uses, including parking and vehicular
traffic ways, shall be separated and buffered from residential units in a
manner consistent with good land and community planning principles.
         (c)   Entry doors shall be located on at least one public street.
         (d)   Public sidewalks shall be at least ten feet in width on the
entry door side of the building.
         (e)   The primary street facade shall be designed and constructed with
at 60% transparent glass.
         (f)   Off-street parking in the front yard is not permitted.
         (g)   The City Council upon the recommendation of the Planning
Commission shall resolve all ambiguities as to applicable regulations using
this chapter, plan, and other city standards or policies as a guide.
   (E)   Conditions. Reasonable conditions may be required with the approval of
a PUD, to the extent authorized by law, for the purpose of ensuring that public
services and facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity will be
capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the
land use or activity, ensuring compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and
promoting the use of land in a socially and economically desirable manner.
   (F)   Construction and phasing.
      (1)   Phasing. Each phase of construction, when proposed, shall be
capable of standing on its own for pedestrian and vehicular circulation, off-
street parking, public services, utilities, facilities, and recreation space.
Each phase shall contain the necessary components to ensure protection of the
health, safety, and welfare of the residents and users of the PUD and
surrounding area. In addition, in developments which include residential and
non-residential uses, the relative mix of uses and the scheduled completion of
construction for each phase shall be disclosed and determined to be reasonable
in the discretion of the City Council after recommendation from the Planning
Commission.
      (2)   Construction. To ensure completion of required improvements, the
city is authorized to impose performance guarantees in accordance with §
155.293, Performance guarantee. Construction shall be commenced within one year
following final approval and shall proceed in conformance with the schedule set
forth by the applicant as part of the application package. If construction is
not commenced within such time, approval shall expire and be null and void.
However, an extension for a specified period may be granted by City Council
upon good cause shown if such request is made to City Council prior to the
expiration of the initial period. If approval has expired, City Council shall
require a new application, which may be reviewed in regard to existing code and
ordinance provisions.
   (G)   Effect of approval. When approved, the PUD, with all conditions
imposed, shall constitute the land use authorization for the property, and all
improvement and use shall be in conformity with such authorization. Notice of
adoption of the final PUD plan and conditions shall be recorded by the
applicant at the Wayne County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.153 LOT AVERAGING FOR ONE-FAMILY DEVELOPMENTS.
   The intent of this section is to permit the subdivider or developer to vary
his or her lot sizes and lot widths so as to average the minimum size of lot
per unit. If this option is selected, the following conditions shall be met:
   (A)   In meeting the average minimum lot size, the subdivision shall be so
designed as to create lots having an area or width required in the One-Family
Residential District in §
155.061, Schedule of regulations, and shall not create an attendant increase in
the number or lots.
   (B)   The technique of averaging minimum size shall be acceptable only in
those instances wherein the entire preliminary plat which has received City
Council approval is carried through a final plat and is then recorded in its
totality. Recording of portions of a preliminary plat shall not be acceptable
under this option.
   (C)   All computations showing lot area and the average area resulting
through this technique shall be indicated on the print of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.154 through § 155.159 RESERVED.
PERFORMANCE STANDARDS
§ 155.161 INTENT.
   This subchapter intends to establish controls and limitations to prevent
unreasonable negative impact that might interfere with another person’s use of
his or her own property, or that might cause harm to the public health, safety
and welfare.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.162 SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   After the effective date of this chapter, no structure or tract of land
shall hereafter be used or occupied, and no structure, or part thereof, shall
be erected, altered, reconstructed, or moved, except in conformity with all
applicable performance standards set forth in this subchapter. No site plan
shall be approved unless evidence is presented to indicate conformity with the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.163 SUBMISSION OF ADDITIONAL DATA.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall preclude the applicant or other interested
party from submitting additional data or evidence related to a specific case.
In consideration of such data or evidence, the Planning Commission may waive or
modify the regulations set forth in this subchapter, provided that the Planning
Commission finds that no harm to the public health, safety and welfare will
result and that the intent of this chapter will be upheld.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.164 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No activity, operation or use of land, buildings, or equipment shall be
permitted if such activity, operation, or use produces an environmental impact
or irritant to sensory perception which exceeds the standards set forth in this
section.
   (A)   Airborne emissions.
      (1)   Smoke. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to
permit the emission of any smoke or air contaminant in violation of applicable
air quality standards adopted by the Federal Clean Air Act and the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality.
      (2)   Odors. Any condition or operation which results in the creation of
odors of such intensity and character as to be detrimental to the health and
welfare of the public or which interferes unreasonably with the comfort of the
public shall be removed, stopped, or so modified as to remove the odor. Such
odors shall be prohibited when perceptible at any point along the property
line.
      (3)   Gases. The escape or emission of any gas which is injurious or
destructive, harmful to person or property, or explosive shall be unlawful and
shall be abated.
   (B)   Noise and vibration.
      (1)   Noise which is objectionable as determined by the city due to
intensity, frequency, or duration shall be muffled, attenuated, or otherwise
controlled subject to the following provisions:
         (a)   Objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature, or sounds
characterized by high frequencies, shall be controlled so as not to become a
nuisance to adjacent uses.
         (b)   Sirens and related apparatus used solely for public purposes are
exempt from this requirement. Noise resulting from temporary construction
activity shall also be exempt from this requirement.
         (c)   Noise levels shall not exceed 75 decibels between the hours of
6:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m. and shall not exceed 60 decibels between the hours of
10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., and must comply with the levels set forth in Table 6-
1 below:
Table 6-1 Sound Levels
Sound Levels in Decibels at Property Lines
Octave Band Cycles per Adjacent to All Residential Adjacent to All Commercial,
Second                 Districts                   Office and Industrial
                                                   Districts
Table 6-1 Sound Levels
Sound Levels in Decibels at Property Lines
Octave Band Cycles per Adjacent to All Residential Adjacent to All Commercial,
Second                 Districts                   Office and Industrial
                                                   Districts
0 to 75                58                          73
75 to 150              54                          69
150 to 300             50                          65
300 to 600             46                          61
600 to 1200            40                          55
1200 to 2400           33                          43
2400 to 4800           26                          41
Over 4800              20                          35
 
      (2)   No use shall generate any ground transmitted vibration in excess of
the limits set forth below in Table 6-2. Vibration shall be measured at the
nearest adjacent lot line. The vibration maximums set forth below are stated in
terms of particle velocity, which may be measured with suitable instrumentation
or computed on the basis of displacement and frequency. When computed, the
following standards shall apply:
Table 6-2 Vibration Levels
Particle Velocity in Inches-Per-Second
Frequency in Cycles per Second Displacement in Inches
Table 6-2 Vibration Levels
Particle Velocity in Inches-Per-Second
Frequency in Cycles per Second Displacement in Inches
0 to 10                        0.001
10 to 20                       0.0008
20 to 30                       0.0006
30 to 40                       0.0004
40 and over                    0.0002
 
      (3)   Vibrations resulting from temporary construction activity shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section.
   (C)   Electrical disturbance, electromagnetic, or radio frequency
interference. No use shall create an electrical disturbance that adversely
affects any operations or equipment other than those of the creator of such
disturbance, or cause, create, or contribute to the interference with
electronic signals (including television and radio broadcasting transmission)
to the extent that the operation of any equipment not owned by the creator of
such disturbance is adversely affected.
   (D)   Glare and exterior lighting.
      (1)   Light and glare from indirect source.
         (a)   Glare from any process (such as or similar to arc welding or
acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful ultraviolet rays shall be
performed in such a manner so as not to be seen from any point beyond the
property line, and so as not to create a public nuisance or hazard along lot
lines.
         (b)   The design and/or screening of the development shall insure that
glare from automobile and commercial or industrial vehicle headlights shall not
be directed into any adjacent property.
         (c)   Exterior doors shall be located, operated, and maintained so as
to prevent any glare and light from creating a nuisance or safety hazard to
operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians, and neighboring land uses.
      (2)   Exterior lighting from direct sources.
         (a)   Subject to the provisions set forth herein, all parking areas,
walkways, driveways, building entryways, off-street parking and loading areas,
and building complexes with common areas shall be sufficiently illuminated to
ensure the security of property and the safety of persons using such public or
common areas.
         (b)   Exterior lighting shall be located and maintained to prevent the
reflection and glare of light in a manner which created a nuisance or safety
hazard to operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians and neighboring land uses.
These provisions are not intended to apply to public street lighting.
         (c)   Only white, non-glare lighting such as metal halide, color-
corrected high-pressure sodium, or other types of lighting which achieve the
same effect shall be permitted. Lighting shall be placed and shielded so as to
direct the light onto the site and away from adjoining properties. Lighting
shall be shielded so that it does not cause glare for motorists.
         (d)   Lights shall be recessed into the fixture so that bulbs or
elements are not visible from adjoining properties.
         (e)   Lighting for uses adjacent to residentially zoned or used
property shall be designed and maintained such that illumination levels do not
exceed 0.1 foot-candles along property lines. Lighting for uses adjacent to
non-residential properties shall be designed and maintained such that
illumination levels do not exceed 0.3 footcandles along property lines. Light
intensity shall not exceed a maximum of 20 foot-candles in any given area. The
Planning Commission, upon City Planner’s recommendation, may allow for an
increased level of lighting above maximum permissible levels when it can be
demonstrated that such lighting is necessary for safety and security purposes.
         (f)   Lighting fixtures shall not exceed a height of 25 feet. In
portions of a site adjacent to residential areas, lighting fixtures shall not
exceed a height of 20 feet.
         (g)   All lighting, including ornamental lighting, shall be shown on
site plans in sufficient detail to allow determination of the effects of such
lighting upon adjacent properties, and traffic safety. Building or roof-mounted
lighting intended to attract attention to the building and/or use and not
strictly designed for security purposes is not permitted. Temporary holiday
lighting is exempt from the aforementioned provision.
   (E)   Use, storage and handling of hazardous substance; storage and disposal
of solid, liquid, and sanitary waste.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation or other
legal entity to pollute, impair or destroy the air, water, soils or other
natural resources within the city through the use, storage and handling of
hazardous substances and/or wastes or the storage and disposal of solid,
liquid, gaseous and/or sanitary wastes.
      (2)   Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity operating a
business or conducting an activity which uses, stores or generates hazardous
substances shall obtain the necessary permits and/or licenses from the
appropriate federal, state or local authority having jurisdiction. The city
shall be informed of any and all inspections conducted by a federal, state or
local authority in connection with a permit and/or license.
      (3)   Any person, firm, corporation or other legal entity operating a
business or conducting an activity which uses, stores or generates hazardous
substances and/or hazardous waste shall complete and file a Material Safety
Data Sheet (MSDS,) as provided by the Federal Occupational Safety and Health
Administration (OSHA) in conjunction with the following:
         (a)   Upon submission of a site plan.
         (b)   Upon any change of use or occupancy of a structure or premise.
         (c)   Upon any change of the manner in which such substances are used,
handled, or stored, and/or in the event of a change in the type of substances
to be used, handled, or stored.
      (4)   All business and facilities which use, store, or generate hazardous
substances in quantities greater than 100 kilograms per month (equal to or
greater than 25 gallons or 220 pounds) shall comply with the following
standards:
         (a)   Above ground storage, use and handling areas for hazardous
substances.
            1.   Secondary containment of hazardous substances and polluting
materials shall be provided. Secondary containment shall be sufficiently
impervious to contain the substance for the maximum anticipated period of time
necessary for the recovery of any released substance.
            2.   Outdoor storage of hazardous substances and polluting
materials shall be prohibited except in product-tight containers which are
protected from weather, leakage, accidental damage and vandalism. Containers
shall not be stacked more than two high, shall be orderly, not less than 30
feet from the lot line, and shall not obstruct ingress or egress.
            3.   Secondary containment structures such as out buildings,
storage rooms, sheds and pole barns shall not have floor drains. Materials
shall be kept in an orderly fashion, shall not be stacked within four feet of
the ceiling and stored in a manner which shall not obstruct access.
            4.   Areas and facilities for loading/unloading of hazardous
substances and polluting materials, as well as areas where such materials are
stored, handled and used, shall be designed and constructed to prevent
discharge or runoff.
         (b)   Underground storage tanks. Existing and new underground storage
tanks shall be registered, installed, operated, maintained, and removed in
accordance with requirements of the appropriate federal, state or local
authority having jurisdiction and shall not contaminate the sanitary sewer
system, storm drains, surface water, groundwater, or soils.
         (c)   Loading and unloading areas. Areas used for the loading and
unloading of hazardous substances shall be designed and constructed to prevent
the harmful release to the environment of hazardous materials which may be
spilled, or leaked, or vented.
      (5)   All site plans for businesses or facilities which use, store or
generate hazardous substances shall be reviewed by the Fire Department, City
Engineer, Community Development Department and any other appropriate experts
determined necessary by the Community Development Department prior to approval
by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Fire hazard. Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or
explosive materials shall be protected by adequate fire-fighting and fire
suppression equipment and such safety devices as are normally used in the
handling of any such material. All fire prevention tools shall comply with
applicable state rules and regulations, and shall be approved by the Fire
Department in accordance with the city fire prevention code, as amended.
   (G)   Safety. Existing hazards or potential hazards and nuisances, such as
construction sites, junk yards, demolition sites, unused basements, abandoned
wells or cisterns are to be enclosed by suitable fencing or barriers so as not
to endanger public health, safety and welfare. Compliance is required with all
applicable state rules and regulations and the city fire prevention code, as
amended.
   (H)   Building grades. Any building requiring a greenbelt or setback shall
be located at an elevation to provide a sloping grade which shall cause the
flow of surface water to run away from the building. A sloping grade shall
begin at the sidewalk level, as determined by the City Engineer, and shall be
established from the center of the front property line, extending to the
finished grade line at the front of the building. The rear and side yards shall
also be sloped to cause the flow of surface water to run away from the
building, but without creating a nuisance on the adjacent properties. However,
this shall not exclude the opportunity to provide sunken or terraced areas,
providing the construction does not cause a nuisance on the adjacent properties
from the runoff of surface water.
      (1)   When a new building is constructed on a vacant lot located between
two existing buildings or adjacent to an existing building, the reference level
shall be used to determine the building grade. In addition, the yard around the
new building shall be graded to comply with the existing grades and shall not
create the runoff of surface water onto the adjacent properties.
      (2)   The Building Official or his or her designee or the City Engineer
shall approve final grades. Written approval upon a form provided by the city
may be required to ensure compliance with the approved grading plan on file
with the Building Department, and shall be completed and certified by a
registered civil engineer or land surveyor.
   (I)   Accumulation of waste. Accumulations of waste paper, wood, hay, straw,
weeds, litter, or combustible or flammable waste or rubbish of any kind shall
not be permitted to remain upon any roof or in any court, yard, vacant lot,
alley, parking lot or open space. All weeds, grass, vines or other growth, when
same endangers or threatens to endanger property, or is liable to be fired,
shall be cut down and removed by the owner or occupant of the property. All
combustible rubbish, oily rags or waste material when kept within a building,
shall be stored in approved metal containers. Storage shall not produce
conditions which in the opinion and judgment of the fire official will tend to
create a nuisance or a hazard to the public health, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.165 PROCEDURES FOR DETERMINING COMPLIANCE.
   In the event that the city receives complaints, or otherwise acquires
evidence of possible violation of any of the performance standards set forth in
this subchapter, the following procedures shall be used to investigate, and if
necessary, resolve the violation:
   (A)   Official investigation. Upon receipt of evidence of possible
violation, the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement shall make a determination whether there is reasonable cause to
suspect the operation is indeed in violation of the performance standards as
defined in this subchapter. The Building Official or other official responsible
for code enforcement may initiate an official investigation in order to make
such a determination.
Upon initiation of an official investigation, the Building Official or other
official responsible for code enforcement is empowered to require the owner or
operator of the facility in question to submit data and evidence deemed
necessary to make an objective determination regarding the possible violation.
Failure of the owner or operator to supply requested data shall constitute
grounds for denial or cancellation of any permits required for continued use of
the land. Data which may be required includes, but is not limited to the
following:
      (1)   Plans of the existing or proposed facilities, including buildings
and equipment.
      (2)   A description of the existing or proposed machinery, process, and
products.
      (3)   Specifications for the mechanisms and techniques used or proposed
to be used to control emissions regulated under the provisions of this
subchapter.
      (4)   Measurement of the amount or rate of emissions of the material
purported to be in violation.
   (B)   Method and cost of determination. The Building Official or other
official responsible for code enforcement shall take measurements and complete
investigation necessary to make an objective determination concerning the
purported violation. Where required measurements and investigation can be
accurately made by the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement using equipment and personnel normally available to the city
without extraordinary expense, such measurements and investigation shall be
completed before notice of violation is issued. If necessary, skilled
professional and specialized equipment or instruments shall be secured in order
to make the required determination. If the alleged violation is found to exist
in fact, the costs of making such determination shall be charged against those
responsible, in addition to such other penalties as may be appropriate.
   (C)   Appropriate remedies. If after appropriate investigation, the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement determines that a
violation does exist, the Building Official or other official responsible for
code enforcement shall take or cause to be taken lawful action as provided by
this chapter to eliminate such violation. The owners or operators of the
facility deemed responsible shall be given written notice of the violation. The
Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement shall take
appropriate action in accordance with the owner or operator’s response to the
notice of violation. Appropriate action includes the following:
      (1)   Correction of the violation within time limit. If the alleged
violation is corrected within the specified time limit, even if there is no
reply to the notice, the Building Official or other official responsible for
code enforcement shall note “violation corrected” on the city’s copy of the
notice, and the notice shall be retained on file. If necessary, the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement may take other
action as may be warranted by the circumstances of the case, pursuant to the
regulations in this chapter or any other ordinances.
      (2)   Violation not corrected and owner or operator fails to reply. If
there is no reply from the owner or operator within the specified time limits,
and the alleged violation is not corrected in accordance with the regulations
set forth in this subchapter, then the Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement shall take such action as may be warranted to
correct the violation.
      (3)   Reply requesting extension of time. If a reply is received within
the specified time limit indicating that an alleged violation will be corrected
in accordance with the regulations set forth in this chapter, but that more
time is required than was granted by the original notice, the Building Official
or other official responsible for code enforcement may grant an extension if:
         (a)   The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement deems that such extension is warranted because of circumstances in
the case, and
         (b)   The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement determines that such extension will not cause imminent peril to
life, health, or property.
      (4)   Reply requesting technical determination. If a reply is received
within the specified time limit requesting further review and technical
analysis even though the alleged violations continue, then the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement may call in
properly qualified experts to complete such analysis and confirm or refute the
initial determination of violation.
         (a)   If expert findings indicate that violations of the performance
standards do exist in fact, the costs incurred in making such a determination
shall be paid by the persons responsible for the violations, in addition to
such other penalties as may be appropriate under the terms of this chapter.
Such costs shall be billed to those owners or operators of the subject use who
are deemed responsible for the violation.
         (b)   If the bill is not paid within 30 days, the city shall take
whatever appropriate action is necessary to recover such costs, or alternately,
the cost shall be charged against the property where the violation occurred. If
no substantial violation is found, cost of determination shall be paid by the
city.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.166 CONTINUED VIOLATION.
   If, after the conclusion of the time period granted for compliance, the
Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement finds that
the violation still exists, any permits previously issued shall be void and the
city shall initiate appropriate legal action, including possibly pursuit of
remedies in circuit court.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.167 APPEALS.
   Actions taken by the Building Official or other official responsible for
code enforcement pursuant to the procedures outlined in this section may be
appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals within 30 days following said action.
In the absence of such appeal, the Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement’s determination shall be final.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.168 through § 155.179 RESERVED.
NONCONFORMING USES AND STRUCTURES
§ 155.181 INTENT.
   (A)   This chapter intends to permit legal nonconforming lots, structures or
uses to continue until they are removed, but not to encourage their survival.
The city recognizes that existing lots, structures and uses of land and
structures, which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended, would
be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this chapter or
future amendments. Such uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible
with permitted uses in the districts involved.
   (B)   This chapter further intends that nonconformities shall not be
enlarged upon, expanded or extended, or used as grounds for adding other
structures or uses prohibited elsewhere in the same district. A nonconforming
use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or a nonconforming use of a
structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged after adoption of this
chapter by attachment of a building or premises, of additional signs intended
to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition of other uses of a nature
which would be generally prohibited in the district involved. Alleged
nonconformities, which cannot be conclusively proven to have existed prior to
the enactment or amendment of this chapter, shall be declared illegal and shall
be discontinued.
   (C)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter and upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on. Actual construction is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position
and fastened in a permanent manner; except that where demolition or removal of
an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding,
such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided
that work shall be diligently carried on until completion of the building
involved.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.182 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   Where a lawful lot of record exists in any district where single-family
dwellings are permitted, a single-family dwelling and customary accessory
buildings may be erected on any single lot of record at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter. Such single-family property may be
continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area, width, or both of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located. Yard requirement variances may be
obtained through approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (B)   If two or more lots including portions of lots with continuous
frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or amendment
of this chapter, the lands involved shall be considered to be an undivided
parcel. No portion of same parcel shall be used or occupied in any manner which
does not meet lot width and area requirements as established by this chapter,
no division of the parcel shall be made which creates any remaining lot width
or area below the requirements stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.183 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   Where a lawful use of land exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that is made no longer permissible under the terms of
this chapter as enacted or amended, such use may be continued so long as it
remains otherwise lawful. Such land use shall be subject to the following
provisions:
   (A)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased, nor extended
to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter;
   (B)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter; and
   (C)   If such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a period
of more than 6 consecutive months or 18 nonconsecutive months in any 3 year
period, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations
specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is located.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.184 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards or other
characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, such structure may
be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful. Such structures shall be
subject to the following provisions:
   (A)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way that increases
its nonconformity. However, upon approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals, a
building in residential use in an R-1 District may be extended along one side
of the structure even though the side of the existing structure to be extended
may not comply with §
155.061, Side yard setback requirements.
   (B)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50% of its replacement cost, exclusive of the foundation at the time of
destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.185 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES.
   Where a lawful use of a structure or of structure and land in combination
exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, the
lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions:
   (A)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this chapter
in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
   (B)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
   (C)   Any structure or structure and land in combination, in or on which a
nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter no longer
be considered a nonconforming use. Such structure or structure and land in
combination shall henceforth conform to the regulations for the district in
which such structure is located. The nonconforming use shall not thereafter be
resumed.
   (D)   If such nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and land in
combination ceases for any reason for a period of more than 6 consecutive
months or 18 nonconsecutive months within a 3 year period, any subsequent use
of such structure or land in combination shall conform to the regulations
specified by this chapter for the district in which such land is located.
Structures occupied by seasonal uses shall be excepted from this provision.
   (E)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises in
combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.186 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use,
work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or
on repair or replacement of non-bearing walls, fixtures, wiring or plumbing to
an extent not exceeding 50% of the assessed value of the building, provided
that the cubic content of the building as it existed at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.186A PREFERRED CLASS DESIGNATIONS.
   It is the intent of this section to establish a “preferred class”
designation that the Planning Commission may approve for certain nonconforming
uses, subject to the following:
   (A)   Procedure. The procedure for considering all preferred class
nonconforming designations shall be as follows:
      (1)   Application. Applications for consideration of a preferred class
designation for a nonconforming use may be initiated by the owner, operator or
person having beneficial use of the lot occupied by the nonconforming use. The
application shall include a detailed description of the use and the reasons for
the request.
      (2)   Public hearing. A public hearing shall be held for all requests for
a preferred class nonconforming designation in accordance with the procedures
set forth in §
155.291.
   (B)   Conditions for Approval of a Preferred Class Designation. Subsequent
to a public hearing, the Planning Commission may grant a preferred class
designation upon finding that all of the following conditions exist:
      (1)   Use standards.
         (a)   The nonconformity does not significantly depress the value of
nearby properties.
         (b)   The use does not adversely impact the public health, safety, and
welfare.
         (c)   The use does not adversely impact the purpose of the district
where it is located.
         (d)   No useful purpose would be served by the strict application of
ordinance requirements that apply to the nonconformity.
      (2)   Signage. The Planning Commission may require that signage
associated with the use be brought into compliance with §
155.230.
      (3)   Plan for site improvements. The Planning Commission may require
that a site plan be submitted for review per §
155.286.
      (4)   Other conditions. The Planning Commission may attach conditions to
the approval to assure that the use does not become contrary to the purpose of
this section and Ordinance; or to the public health, safety, and welfare.
   (C)   Effect of approval of a preferred class designation. Preferred class
nonconformities may perpetuate and expand in accordance with an approved site
plan, subject to the provisions of this section, and any conditions of
approval. Preferred class nonconforming structures may be perpetuated,
expanded, improved or rebuilt if damaged or destroyed, in accordance with an
approved site plan and subject to the provisions of this section and any
conditions of approval.
   (D)   Effect of denial of a preferred class designation. An application for
a preferred class designation that has been denied by the Planning Commission
may not be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals, but may be resubmitted for
Planning Commission consideration after a minimum of 365 calendar days have
elapsed from the date of denial.
   (E)   Cessation of preferred class nonconforming uses. The preferred class
designation shall be deemed removed when the principal structure occupied by a
preferred class nonconforming use is permanently removed or when a preferred
class nonconforming use is replaced by a conforming use. All subsequent uses
shall conform to the use provisions of this chapter.
   (F)   Rescinding approval of a preferred class designation. Failure of the
owner, operator or person having beneficial use of a lot occupied by a
preferred class nonconforming use to maintain or improve the site in accordance
with the provisions of this section, an approved site plan or any conditions of
approval shall be grounds for the Planning Commission to rescind the preferred
class designation. Such action shall be subject to the following.
      (1)   Public hearing. Such action may be taken only after a public
hearing has been held in accordance with the procedures set forth in §
155.291, at which time the owner, operator or person having beneficial use
occupied by a preferred class nonconforming use shall be given an opportunity
to present evidence in opposition to rescission.
      (2)   Determination. Subsequent to the hearing, the decision of the
Commission with regard to the rescinding of approval shall be made and written
notification provided to said owner, operator or person having beneficial use
occupied by a preferred class nonconforming use.
   (G)   Existing dwellings in non-residential districts. Single-family
dwellings so existing and used in non-residential zoning districts before the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this section are hereby designated
as preferred class nonconforming uses. Such dwellings and accessory structures
may be used, repaired, expanded, altered or replaced if destroyed, subject to
the following:
      (1)   Use, repair, expansion, alteration, or replacement of the dwelling
or accessory structures shall conform to all applicable dimensional and use
standards of the §
155.041 District.
      (2)   The use, dwelling, and accessory structures shall be maintained in
conformance with all other applicable federal, state, and local laws,
ordinances, regulations, and rules.
(Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.187 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership or management of any existing
nonconforming uses of land, structures and premises, provided there is no
change in the nature or character of such nonconforming uses.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.188 through § 155.199 RESERVED.
REGULATED USES
§ 155.201 INTENT.
   In the development and execution of this chapter, it is recognized that some
uses which, because of their very nature, are recognized as have serious
objectionable operational characteristics, particularly when several of them
are concentrated, thereby having a deleterious effect upon the adjacent areas.
Special regulation of these uses is necessary to ensure that these adverse
effects will not contribute to the blighting or downgrading of the surrounding
neighborhood. Such negative or adverse effects could affect both commercial and
residential uses in surrounding neighborhoods. These special regulations are
itemized in this subchapter. The primary control of regulation is for the
purpose of preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.202 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The following kinds of uses are prohibited if the establishment of such use
will constitute the second such use within a 1,000-foot radius (i.e. not more
than one such use within 1,000 feet of each):
   (A)   Adult amusement devise center.
   (B)   Adult bookstore.
   (C)   Adult business activity.
   (D)   Adult live conduct business or activity.
   (E)   Adult mini-motion picture theater.
   (F)   Adult motion picture theater.
   (G)   Adult personal service business.
   (H)   Adult supply store.
   (I)   Adult outdoor motion picture theater.
   (J)   Arcades.
   (K)   Bar or establishment for the sale of beer or intoxicating liquor for
consumption on the premises.
   (L)   Bar or establishment for the sale of juice or non-alcoholic beverages
for consumption on the premises.
   (M)   Cabaret.
   (N)   Dance clubs.
   (O)   Firearms sales establishments.
   (P)   Hotels or motels.
   (Q)   Massage establishments.
   (R)   Pawnshops.
   (S)   Pool or billiard halls.
   (T)   Public lodging house, transient housing, rooming house.
   (U)   Specially Designated Distributor (SDD).
   (V)   Specially Designated Merchant (SDM).
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 830, passed 12-21-09; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-
17)
§ 155.203 REVIEW AND ACTION PROCEDURES.
   Applications must be submitted to the Planning Commission for following
procedures and requirements:
   (A)   Location restriction. The City Council, upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission, shall not approve any such request if there is already in
existence one such regulated use within a 1,000-foot radius of the property
line of the site of the proposed regulated use, excepting as provided for
below.
   (B)   Waiver of location restriction. The City Council may waive the
location restrictions set forth herein for enumerated regulated uses, except
adult uses and bars, provided all of the following findings are made:
      (1)   That the proposed use will not be contrary to the public interest
or interfere with the use and enjoyment of nearby properties, and that the
spirit and intent of this chapter will be observed.
      (2)   That the proposed use will not enlarge or encourage the development
of a blighted area.
      (3)   That the establishment of an additional regulated use in the area
will not be contrary to any program of neighborhood conversation or interfere
with any program of urban renewal.
      (4)   That regulations of this chapter and city, county, state and
federal codes will be observed.
   (C)   Public hearing. The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the
conditions set forth in this subchapter and all applicable codes and ordinances
set forth in this chapter and other codes and regulations hereinafter imposed
for each use. The following uses are subject further to the review and approval
of the Planning Commission per standards set forth in this chapter:
   Prior to granting waiver of the location restrictions set forth above, and
not less than 15 days before the request for waivers is considered or a public
hearing held pursuant to this division, the City Council shall publish, in a
newspaper of general circulation in the city, a notice that a request for
waivers to establish a regulated use has been received. This notice shall
follow the requirements of §
155.291, Public hearing notification requirements, for special condition uses.
   (D)   Required petition.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to hereafter establish any regulated use if
the proposed regulated use will be within a 300-foot radius of a residentially
zoned district, residential development, or within a 1,000- foot radius of any
church or primary, secondary, or nursery school. This prohibition relative to
the establishment of a regulated use near residentially zoned districts shall
be waived upon the presentment to the City Council of a validated petition
requesting such waiver, signed by 51% of those persons owning, residing, and
doing business within 300 feet of the proposed location. No waiver shall be
given to permit a regulated use to locate within 1,000-foot radius of any
primary, secondary, or nursery school. The City Council shall adopt rules and
regulations governing the procedure for securing any petition of consent, which
may be provided for in this section of the chapter. The rules shall provide
that the circulator of the petition circulate such petition in accordance with
said rules, and that the circulator personally witnessed the signatures on the
petition, and that the same were affixed to the petition by the person whose
name appeared thereon. The City Council shall not consider the waiver of
location requirement until the above-described petition, if required, shall
have been filed and verified.
      (2)   Exception: Liquor may be served for consumption on the premises at
a standard restaurant provided that such a use is accessory to the principal
use of the business and that the bar area where patrons are served does not
exceed 20% of the total public area of the building. If the above uses do not
exceed 20% of the total public area of the building, a petition requiring 51%
of persons owning, residing or doing business within 300 feet of the proposed
location is not required. No waivers shall be given to permit a regulated use
to locate within a 300 foot radius of any nursery, primary or secondary school.
However, waivers may be given to allow above uses serving beer, wine or liquor
for consumption on the premises to locate within 300 feet of a nursery or
primary school if separated by a major thoroughfare comprised of four or more
lanes of traffic.
   (E)   Condition and limitations. Prior to the granting of approval for the
establishment of any regulated use, the City Council may impose any such
conditions or limitations upon the establishment, location, construction
maintenance, or operation of the regulated use as may be, in its judgment,
necessary of the protection of the public interest. Any evidence and guarantee
may be required as proof that the conditions stipulated in connection therewith
will be fulfilled.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 823, passed 5-4-09)
§ 155.204 INVALIDATION OF REGULATED USE PERMITS.
   (A)   No order of the City Council permitting a regulated use of a building
or premises shall be valid for a period longer than one year unless such
regulated use is established within such period or building permits have been
issued within such period to establish the regulated use.
   (B)   A regulated use permit shall be deemed to authorize only a specific
special regulated use. Such regulated use permit shall expire if that use shall
cease for more than six consecutive months for any reason.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 863, passed 10-2-17)
§ 155.205 MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENTS.
   Because of their deleterious effect on adjoining areas, massage
establishments shall be subject to the following requirements:
   (A)   No massage establishments shall have an entrance or exit way providing
a direct passageway to any type of business, residence or living quarters.
   (B)   All massage establishments subject to this section are declared to be
public places, and shall not, during business hours, have the doors to the
exits and entrances of such establishment locked or obstructed in any way so as
to prevent free ingress and egress of persons; provided, however, that such
doors may be closed.
   (C)   No massage establishment shall be kept open for any purpose between
the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 11:00 a.m.
   (D)    Federal, state and county regulations shall be complied with.
   (E)   The following uses shall not be included within the definition of a
massage establishment for the purposes of this section:
      (1)   Establishments which routinely provide such services by a licensed
physician, chiropractor, osteopath, physical or massage therapist, practical
nurse, or any other similarly licensed medical professional.
      (2)    Electrolysis treatment by a licensed operator of electrolysis
equipment.
      (3)   Continuing instruction in martial or performing arts or in
organized athletic activities.
      (4)   Hospitals, nursing homes, medical clinics or medical offices.
      (5)   Barbershops or beauty parlors and/or salons, which offer massages
to the scalp, face, neck or shoulders only.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.206 RESERVED.
§ 155.207 APPEALS PROCEDURE.
   Any City Council decision relative to a special condition use is considered
final. All decisions may be appealed to circuit court as provided for in State
Public Act 207 of 1921, as amended.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.208 RESERVED.
§ 155.209 RESERVED.
WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
§ 155.211 INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this subchapter is to establish regulations and
guidelines for the siting of wireless communications towers and antennas within
the municipal boundaries to protect the public health, safety and welfare of
its residents. Objectives of the city’s intent are listed as follow:
      (1)   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
      (2)   Encourage the location of towers in non-residential areas;
      (3)   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      (4)   Strongly encourage the joint use (collocation) of new and existing
tower sites as a primary option rather than construction of additional single-
use towers;
      (5)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      (6)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      (7)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide such services to the community quickly, effectively, and
efficiently;
      (8)   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
      (9)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
   (B)   The city shall give due consideration to its master plan, zoning map,
existing land uses, and environmentally sensitive areas in approving sites for
the location of towers and antennas.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.212 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply:
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE.  Man-made trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA.  Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals) wireless telecommunications signals or other
communication signals.
   BACKHAUL NETWORK.  The lines that connect a provider’s towers/cell sites to
one or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance
providers, or the public switched telephone network.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   HEIGHT.  The distance measured from the finished grade of the parcel to the
highest point on the tower or other structure, including the base pad and any
antenna when referring to a tower or other structure.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS and PREEXISTING ANTENNAS.  Any tower or antenna for which
a building permit or special condition use permit has been properly issued
prior to the effective date of this chapter, including permitted towers or
antennas that have not yet been constructed so long as such approval is current
and not expired.
   TOWER.  Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the
purpose of supporting one or more antennas for telephone, radio and similar
communication purposes, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers,
or monopole towers. The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
tower structures, and the like. The term includes the structure and any support
thereto.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.213 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   New towers and antennas. All new towers or antennas in the city shall
be subject to these regulations, except as provided in §
155.213 (B) through (D), inclusive.
   (B)   Amateur radio station operators/receive only antennas. Federal law
shall govern installation and operation of amateur radio stations and receive
only satellite dishes.
   (C)   Preexisting towers or antennas. Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of this chapter, other
than the requirements of §
155.214 (F) and (G).
   (D)   AM array. For purposes of implementing this chapter, an AM array,
consisting of one or more tower units and supporting ground system which
functions as one AM broadcasting antenna, shall be considered one tower.
Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be measured from the
outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array. Additional tower units
may be added within the perimeter of the AM array by right.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.214 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Principal or accessory use. Antennas and towers may be considered
either principal or accessory uses.
   (B)   Lot size. For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including but
not limited to setback requirements, lot-coverage requirements, and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within such lot.
   (C)   Inventory of existing sites. Each applicant for an antenna and/or
tower shall provide to the city an inventory of its existing towers, antennas,
or sites approved for towers or antennas, that are either within the
jurisdiction of the city or within one mile of the border thereof, including
specific information about the location, height, and design of each tower. The
city may share such information with other applicants applying for
administrative approvals or special condition use permits under this chapter or
other organizations seeking to locate antennas within its jurisdiction,
provided however, the city is not, by sharing such information, in any way
representing or warranting that such sites are available or suitable.
   (D)   Aesthetics. Towers and antennas shall meet the following requirements:
      (1)   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      (2)   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and
landscaping that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
buildings.
      (3)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
   (E)   Lighting. Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by
the FAA or other applicable authority. If lighting is required, the lighting
alternatives and design chosen must cause the least disturbance to the
surrounding views.
   (F)   State or federal requirements. All towers must meet or exceed current
standards and regulations of the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the
state or federal government with the authority to regulate towers and antennas.
If such standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of the towers
and antennas governed by this chapter shall bring such towers and antennas into
compliance with such revised standards and regulations within six months of the
effective date of such standards and regulations, unless a different compliance
schedule is mandated by the controlling state or federal agency. Failure to
bring towers and antennas into compliance with such revised standards and
regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at
the owner’s expense.
   (G)   Building and safety codes. To ensure the structural integrity of
towers, the owner of a tower shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance
with standards contained in applicable state or local building codes and the
applicable standards for towers that are published by the Electronic Industries
Association, as amended from time to time. If, upon inspection, the city
concludes that a tower fails to comply with such codes and standards and
constitutes a danger to persons or property, then upon notice being provided to
the owner of the tower, the owner shall have 30 days to bring such tower into
compliance with such standards. Failure to bring such tower into compliance
within said 30 days shall constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or
antenna at the owner’s expense.
   (H)   Measurement. For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and
separation distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in
the city irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional boundaries.
   (I)   Not essential services. Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to this chapter and shall not be regulated or permitted as
essential services, public utilities, or private utilities.
   (J)   Franchises. Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communication system in the city have been obtained and
shall file a copy of all required franchises with the Community Development
Director.
   (K)   Public notice. For purposes of this subchapter, any special condition
use request, variance request, or appeal of an administratively approved use or
special condition use shall require public notice to all abutting property
owners and all property owners of properties that are located within the
corresponding separation distance listed in Table 11-1, in addition to any
notice otherwise required for special condition uses in §
155.291, Public hearing notification requirements.
   (L)   Signs. No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower.
   (M)   Buildings and support equipment. Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of this
section.
   (N)   Multiple antenna/tower plan. The city encourages the users of towers
and antennas to submit a single application for approval of multiple towers
and/or antenna sites. Applications for approval of multiple sites shall be
given priority in the review process.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.215 PERMITTED USES.
   Antennas or towers located on property owned, leased, or otherwise
controlled by the city, provided a license or lease authorizing such antenna or
tower has been approved by the City Council are deemed to be permitted uses and
shall not require administrative approval or a special condition use permit.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.216 SPECIAL LAND USE PERMITS.
   (A)   General. All new antennae or alterations to current antennae are
considered special land use. There is no provision to administratively approve
such construction or modification. The following provisions shall govern the
issuance of special land use permits for towers or antennae by the City
Council:
      (1)   Applications for special land use permits under this section shall
be subject to the procedures and requirements of §
155.288, Procedures for special land use review, and §
155.289, Standards for special land use approval, except as modified in this
section.
      (2)   In granting a special land use permit, the City Council, upon
recommendation of the Planning Commission and City Planner may impose
conditions to the extent the City Council concludes such conditions are
necessary to minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower on adjoining
properties.
      (3)   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant
submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be certified by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (4)   An applicant for a special land use permit shall submit the
information described in this section and a non-refundable fee as established
by resolution of the City Council to reimburse the city for the costs of
reviewing the application.
   (B)   Towers.
      (1)   Information required. In addition to any information required for
applications for special land use permits pursuant to §§
155.288 and
155.289 applicants for a special land use permit for a tower shall submit the
following information:
         (a)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type and
height of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including adjacent municipalities) Master Plan classification of
the site and all properties within the applicable separation distances set
forth in this section, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks
from property lines, elevation drawings of the proposed tower and any other
structures, topography, parking, and other information deemed by the Community
Development Director or designee to be necessary to assess compliance with this
chapter.
         (b)   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel.
         (c)   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties, and unplatted
residentially zoned properties.
         (d)   The separation distance from other towers described in the
inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to §
155.214 (C) shall be shown on an updated site plan or map. The applicant shall
also identify the type of construction of the existing tower(s) and the owner/
operator of the existing tower(s), if known.
         (e)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials.
         (f)   Method of fencing, and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination.
         (g)   A description of compliance with §
155.214, General requirements, this section, and all applicable federal, state
or local laws.
         (h)   A notarized statement by the applicant’s engineer as to whether
construction of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas
for future users.
         (i)   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network
for the tower(s) described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the applicant in the city.
         (j)   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower.
         (k)   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the city based upon existing physical, engineering,
technological or geographical limitations in the event the proposed tower is
erected.
      (2)   Factors considered in granting special land use permits for towers.
In addition to any standards for consideration of special land use permit
applications pursuant to §§
155.288 and
155.289, the City Council, upon recommendation of the Planning Commission and
Community Development Director, shall consider the following factors in
determining whether to issue a special land use permit, although the City
Council may waive or reduce the burden on the applicant of one or more of these
criteria if the City Council concludes that the goals of this ordinance are
better served thereby:
         (a)   Height of the proposed tower;
         (b)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         (c)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         (d)   Surrounding topography;
            1.   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
            2.   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
            3.   Proposed ingress and egress; and
            4.   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in division (7)(b) below.
      (3)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technology. No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Planning Commission that no
existing tower, structure, or alternative technology that does not require the
use of towers or structures can accommodate the proposed antenna. An applicant
shall submit information requested by the Planning Commission related to the
availability of suitable existing towers, other structures or alternative
technology. Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing tower, structure
or alternative technology can accommodate the applicant’s proposed antenna may
consist of any of the following:
         (a)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
         (b)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant’s engineering requirements.
         (c)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant’s proposed antenna and related equipment.
         (d)   The applicant’s proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicant’s proposed antenna.
         (e)   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the owner
in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing tower
or structure for sharing exceed new tower development.
         (f)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
         (g)   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology that
does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable microcell
network using multiple low-powered transmitters/ receivers attached to a
wireline system, is unsuitable. Costs of alternative technology that exceed new
tower or antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology
unsuitable.
      (4)   Setbacks. The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a special land use permit is required; provided, however, that
the Planning Commission may reduce the standard setback requirements if the
goals of this chapter would be better served thereby:
         (a)   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least 100% of the
height of the tower from any adjoining lot line.
         (b)   Guys and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements.
      (5)   Separation. The following separation requirements shall apply to
all towers and antennas for which a special land use permit is required;
provided, however, that the Planning Commission may reduce the standard
separation requirements if the goals of this chapter would be better served
thereby.
         (a)   Separation from off-site uses/designated areas.
         (b)   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the tower to
the lot line of the off-site uses and/or designated areas as specified in Table
11-1, except as otherwise provided.
         (c)   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the minimum
standards established in Table 11-1.
 
Table 11-1 Separation Distances from Land Use Types
Off-Site Use/Designated Area             Separation Distance
Single-family or duplex residential      200 feet or 300% height of tower,
units1                                   whichever is greater
Vacant single-family or duplex
residentially zoned land which is either 200 feet or 300% height of tower (2),
platted or has preliminary subdivision   whichever is greater2
plan approval which is not expired
Vacant unplatted residentially zoned     100 feet or 100% height of tower,
lands3                                   whichever is greater
Existing multi-family residential units  100 feet or 100% height of tower,
greater than duplex units                whichever is greater
Non-residentially zoned lands or non-    None; only setbacks apply
residential uses
 
1 Includes modular homes and mobile homes used for living purposes.
2 Separation measured from base of tower to closest building setback line.
      3 Includes any unplatted residential use properties without a valid
preliminary subdivision plan or valid development plan approval an any multi-
family residentially zoned land greater than duplex.
         (d)   Separation distances between towers shall be applicable for and
measured between the proposed tower and preexisting towers. The separation
distances shall be measured by drawing or following a straight line between the
base of the existing tower and the proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of
the proposed tower. The separation distances (listed in linear feet) shall be
as shown in Table 11-2 below:
 
Table 11-2 Separation Distances Between Tower Types
                      Lattice Guyed Monopole 75 Feet in Monopole Less Than 75
                                    Height or Greater   Feet in Height
Lattice               5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Guyed                 5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Monopole 75 Feet in   1,500   1,500 1,500               750
Height or Greater
Monopole Less Than 75 750     750   750                 750
Feet in Height
 
      (6)   Security fencing. Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not
less than six feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate
anti-climbing device. Such fencing shall be constructed of a color to blend
with surrounding development and not noticed.
      (7)   Landscaping. The following requirements shall govern the
landscaping surrounding towers for which a special land use permit is required.
         (a)   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials that effectively and opaquely screens the view of the tower compound.
Design and installation shall meet requirements and the spirit and intent of
this chapter.
         (b)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         (c)   Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the site
shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible. In some cases, such as
towers sited on large, wooded lots, natural growth around the property
perimeter may be sufficient buffer.
      (8)   Buildings or other equipment storage.
         (a)   Antennas mounted on structures or rooftops. The equipment
cabinet or structure used in association with antennas shall be contained
within the building upon which the antennae are mounted. Equipment storage
buildings or cabinets shall comply with all applicable building codes.
         (b)   Antennas mounted on utility poles, flag poles, or light poles.
The equipment cabinet or structure used in association with antennas shall be
no greater than 8 feet in height or 100 square feet in gross floor area. The
structure or cabinet shall be screened by an evergreen hedge with an ultimate
height of 8 feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches. In all other
instances, structures or cabinets shall be screened from view of all
residential properties which abut or are directly across the street from the
structure or cabinet by a solid fence 8 feet in height or an evergreen hedge
with an ultimate height of 8 feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches.
         (c)   Antennas located on towers. The related unmanned equipment
structure shall not contain more than 300 square feet of gross floor area or be
more than 9 feet in height, and shall be located in accordance with the minimum
yard requirements of the zoning district in which located.
         (d)   Modification of building size requirements. The requirements of
this section may be modified by the Community Development Director or designee
in the case of administratively approved uses or by the Planning Commission in
the case of uses permitted by special land use to encourage collocation.
      (9)   Removal of abandoned antennas and towers. Any antenna or tower that
is not operated for a continuous period of 12 months shall be considered
abandoned, and the owner of such antenna or tower shall remove the same within
90 days of receipt of notice from the city notifying the owner of such
abandonment. Failure to remove an abandoned antenna or tower within said 90 day
shall be grounds to remove the tower or antenna at the owner’s expense. If
there are two or more users of a single tower, then this provision shall not
become effective until all users cease using the tower.
      (10) Nonconforming uses.
         (a)   Nonexpansion of nonconforming use. Towers that are constructed,
and antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of this
subchapter shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a nonconforming
use or structure.
         (b)   Preexisting towers. Preexisting towers shall be allowed to
continue their usage as they presently exist. Routine maintenance (including
replacement with a new tower of like construction and height) shall be
permitted on such preexisting towers. New construction other than routine
maintenance on a preexisting tower shall comply with the requirements of this
subchapter.
         (c)   Rebuilding damaged or destroyed nonconforming towers or
antennas. Notwithstanding division (9) above, bona fide nonconforming towers or
antennas that are damaged or destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first
obtain administrative approval or a special land use permit and without having
to meet the separation requirements specified in division (7)(b) above. The
type, height, and location of the tower onsite shall be of the same type and
intensity as the original facility approval. Building permits to rebuild the
facility shall comply with the then applicable building codes and shall be
obtained within 180 days from the date the facility is damaged or destroyed. If
no permit is obtained or if said permit expires, the tower or antenna shall be
deemed abandoned as specified in division (9).
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.217 INSURANCE OBLIGATION.
   All applicants shall provide insurance holding the city harmless of all
legal and financial obligations.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
LOCATION RESTRICTIONS
§ 155.218 THEATERS, ASSEMBLY HALLS, CONCERT HALLS, CLUBS AND SIMILAR
ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Locations restrictions. It shall be unlawful for a theater, assembly
hall, concert hall, club, or similar organization to be established within a
300-foot radius of any residentially zoned district or residential development.
This prohibition relative to the establishment of the uses shall be waived upon
the presentment to the City Council of a validated petition requesting the
waiver. The petition shall be signed by 51% or more of those persons owning,
residing, and doing business within 300 feet of the proposed use.
   (B)   The circulator of the petition shall:
      (1)   Circulate the petition on a notarized form provided by the city;
      (2)   Declare and affirm to have personally witnessed the signatures on
the petition; and
      (3)   Declare and affirm that the same were affixed to the petition by
the person whose name appeared thereon.
   (C)   The City Council shall not consider the waiver of location
requirements until the petition has been filed by the Community Development
Department and verified by the Police Department.
   (D)   Return the petition to the Planning Division for processing and filing
with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 838, passed 8-15-11)
§ 155.219 through § 155.229 RESERVED.  
SIGNS
§ 155.231 INTENT.
   The regulations contained in this subchapter intend to provide for the
establishment of signs, lighting, and displays that will promote viable
commercial and industrial activity, but will not by reason of their size,
location, spacing, construction, or manner of display, endanger life or limb,
confuse or mislead traffic, obstruct vision necessary for traffic safety, or
otherwise endanger the public health or safety. Furthermore, it is the intent
of these regulations to preserve and improve the appearance of the city by
preventing placement of oversized signs that are out-of-scale with surrounding
buildings and structures, and an excessive accumulation of signs that would
cause visual clutter. These regulations are further intended to regulate
permitted signs in such a way as to create land use patterns compatible with
other major land use objectives and to prevent such signs from causing
annoyance or disturbance to the citizens and residents of the city.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.232 SCOPE OF REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, or corporation to erect,
construct or alter any sign in the city without complying with the provisions
of this chapter. Applicable penalties for any violation of this chapter are
established through City Council resolution and may be amended from time to
time.
   (B)   Any sign already established on the effective date of this chapter,
and which is rendered nonconforming by the provisions herein and any sign which
is rendered nonconforming as a result of subsequent amendments hereto, shall be
subject to the regulations concerning nonconforming structures and uses set
forth in subchapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.233 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall govern the
meaning of the terms used:
   BUILDING LINE.  The minimum distance required between the right of way and
the nearest supporting member of a building, structure, or sign, as specified
in the building code.
   FACE. The area or display surface used for the message.
   LOT.  Part of a subdivision, the plat of which has been recorded in the
office of the Wayne County Register of Deeds; or a plot of land, the deed of
which has been recorded in the office of the Wayne County Register of Deeds.
   MARQUEE. A roof like structure or awning projecting over an entrance, as to
a theater.
   PARCEL.  One or more lots under single ownership and control, which are
used, developed, or built upon as a unit. Such lots may be in one or more
subdivisions, and in one or more municipalities.
   SIGN.  Any use of words, numbers, figures, devices, designs, logos or
trademarks visible to the general public and designed to inform or attract the
attention of persons not on the premises on which the SIGN is located,
including the structure upon which such words, numbers, figures, devices,
designs, logos or trademarks are or may be written, printed or affixed unless
said structure is a building as defined in applicable city codes. A SIGN shall
include a device commonly known as a “search lights” or mechanism which emits
beam(s) of light into the air as well as “floating” displays such as balloons
or stuffed or inflated figures.
      (1)   ANIMATED SIGN. A sign which uses lights, moving parts, or other
means to depict a creature or being as living or having life.
      (2)   AWNING SIGN. A sign which is printed on or affixed to an awning or
canopy.
      (3)   BANNER SIGN.  Signs produced on cloth, paper, fabric or other
combustible material of any kind, either with or without frames.
      (4)   BILLBOARD.  A freestanding or ground sign with an area in excess of
200 square feet.
      (5)   FESTOON SIGN.  A sign consisting of a wreath or garland of flowers,
leaves, paper or other material hanging in a loop or curve.
      (6)   FREESTANDING OR GROUND SIGN.  A sign which is erected upon or
supported by the ground, including signs on poles or pylons that are anchored
in the ground.
      (7)   MONOLITH SIGN. A three-dimensional, self-supporting, base-mounted,
freestanding sign, consisting of two or more sides extending up from the base,
and upon which a message is painted or posted. A MONOLITH SIGN may also consist
of a base-mounted cylindrical structure upon which a message is painted or
posted.
      (8)   NONCONFORMING SIGNS.  Signs which are prohibited under the terms of
this chapter but were in use and lawful at the date of enactment of this
chapter, shall be deemed nonconforming.
      (9)   OBSOLETE SIGNS.  Signs that advertise a product that is no longer
made or that advertise a business that has closed.
      (10)   OUTLINE TUBING SIGN.  A sign consisting of glass tubing, filled
with a gas such as neon, which glows when electric current is sent through it.
      (11)   PENNANT SIGN. Signs or displays consisting of long, narrow,
usually triangular flags.
      (12)   PORTABLE SIGN.  Signs which are not permanently affixed to a
building face or to a pole, pylon, or other support that is permanently
anchored in the ground. PORTABLE SIGNS are capable of being readily moved from
one location to another.
      (13)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign so constructed and erected as to be
attached at one end to a building, metal pole or other structure and projecting
out therefrom.
      (14)   REAL ESTATE SIGN.  A sign used to indicate that a parcel of
property or building is for sale, lease or rent.
      (15)   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected upon and structurally supported by the
roof of a building.
      (16)   SANDWICH SIGN.  A sign consisting of two advertising boards laid
back-to-back and at least partially supported by each other.
      (17)   SPINNERS. A sign or display consisting of paper, plastic, or other
types of parts that spin.
      (18)   EMPORARY SIGN.  A sign which is intended to be erected only a few
days or weeks including portable signs, trailer signs, banners, pennants or any
other sign which is not permanently affixed to a building face or to a pole,
pylon or other support that is permanently anchored on the ground.
      (19)   TRAILER SIGNS.  A sign that is mounted on a frame with wheels, and
is capable of being pulled by a vehicle or by hand. For the purposes of this
chapter, TRAILER SIGNS shall be considered portable signs.
      (20)   WALL SIGN. A sign which is attached to, affixed to, placed upon,
or painted upon any exterior wall or surface of any building, building
structure, or part thereof, provided that no part of any such sign extends more
than 12 inches from the face of the exterior wall. For the purposes of this
chapter, signs attached to the face of a mansard roof shall be considered WALL
SIGNS.
      (21)   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign located in or on a window and visible to the
general public on the exterior.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter, granted
when strict enforcement would cause undue hardship due to circumstances unique
to the individual parcel on which the VARIANCE is granted.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.234 REVIEW, ACTION AND INSPECTION.
   (A)   Plans, specification and permits.
      (1)   Permits. No new sign shall be erected, constructed, affixed, or
painted, unless a sign permit therefor shall have first been approved and
issued in accordance with the provisions set forth herein.
      (2)   Permit fee. A permit fee, as established by resolution of City
Council and may be amended from time to time, shall be paid to the City
Treasurer prior to the issuance of a sign permit in order to cover the costs of
examination of sign plans and specifications. Said permit fee shall be credited
to the general revenue fund of the city.
      (3)   Bond fee. A bond fee, as established through resolution of City
Council and may be amended from time to time, is required to be submitted at
the time the permit is issued. Said bond shall be per property, in cash or
check form and refundable upon final inspection of sign and electrical work
where applicable.
      (4)   Application for permanent signs. Although only one permit per sign
may be required, the sign erector, contractor or builder and the owner or
lessee of the premises upon which the sign is to be erected shall be jointly
and severally responsible for applying for and securing a permit and complying
with this chapter. Application for sign permits shall be made upon forms
provided for this purpose by the Building Department and shall include:
         (a)   Plans and specifications showing the dimensions, materials and
required details of construction, including loads, stresses, and anchorage.
         (b)   Plans indicating the location of the building structure, or
parcel of land upon which the sign is to be placed.
         (c)   Written consent of the owner or lessee of the premises upon
which the sign is to be erected whenever the application is submitted by a
person, firm or corporation other than the owner or lessee.
         (d)   The name of the person, firm, or corporation owning, erecting,
maintaining, or operating such sign.
         (e)   All other information required on the application form.
      (5)   Review of application for permanent signs. The application for sign
permit and all supporting plans and specifications shall be reviewed as
follows:
         (a)   Sign permit applications submitted in conjunction with the
proposed construction of a new building shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission as part of the required site plan review. The Planning Commission
shall also review sign permit applications for nonconforming signs. Planning
Commission review shall be in accordance with the site plan review procedures
set forth in §
155.286 of this chapter.
         (b)   The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement shall review sign permit applications for conforming signs to be
erected on a site or existing building where no other new construction is
proposed. The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement shall also review sign permit applications submitted in conjunction
with the proposed construction of a new building and for nonconforming signs,
following the review by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement shall have the authority to issue a sign permit, provided that the
application meets the approval of all reviewing authorities, as outlined above.
      (6)   Alteration. A sign shall not be enlarged or relocated except in
conformity with the provisions set forth herein for new signs, nor until a
proper permit has been secured. The changing or movable parts of an approved
sign that is designed for such changes (such as lettering on a marquee sign or
numbers on a gasoline price sign) or the repainting or reposting of display
matter, shall not be deemed an alteration and shall not require a new permit,
provided the conditions of the original approval and the requirements of this
article are not violated.
      (7)   Permit not required. A permit shall not be required for the
following signs:
         (a)   Any sign listed as an exception under §
155.241of this chapter.
         (b)   Street address signs.
         (c)   Nameplate and identification signs in residential districts.
         (d)   Signs accessory to parking areas.
         (e)   Temporary signs permitted without permit.
         (f)   Temporary window signs.
      (8)   Temporary sings permitted without permit. Temporary signs are
subject to the following:
         (a)   Temporary signs shall only be ground or wall signs. The total
area of temporary signs on any single lot shall not exceed 16 square feet in
all residential districts and 32 square feet in any other zoning district.
         (b)   The maximum sign height of each temporary sign shall be four
feet in all residential districts and six feet in any other zoning district.
         (c)   The maximum size of any single temporary sign shall be eight
square feet.
         (d)   Temporary signs shall be located solely on private property
outside of any street right-of-way or corner clearance area, with written
permission from the property owner.
      (9)   Permitted temporary signs. An application for a permitted temporary
sign permit shall be submitted to the Building Department upon forms provided
by the city. Such forms shall contain all information specified in §
155.234(A) for application for a permanent sign permit. An application and
permit shall be required for each such sign.
         (b)   The Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement shall have the authority to approve a temporary sign application
and issue a permit to be valid for up to 30 days in length or the duration of
the event to which the sign applies, whichever is shorter.
         (c)   The following size limitations shall apply for all temporary
signs:
            1.   In residentially zoned areas: 16 square feet total for all
faces of the sign combined.
            2.   In commercially zoned areas: 32 square feet total for all
faces of the sign combined.
            3.   In industrially zoned areas: 32 square feet total for all
faces of the sign combined.
            4.   A sign with more than one face shall have its faces back-to-
back or arranged so that any two faces which form a “V” in plan shall not have
any angle greater than 15 degrees.
         (d)   The sign shall contain no visible, revolving or mechanical parts
or movement, or other apparent visible movement achieved by electrical,
electronic or mechanical means, including intermittent electrical pulsations or
blinking lights, or by action of normal wind current.
         (e)   The location, design, structure, materials and support shall not
constitute a hazard to safety, health or welfare of the general public during
its period of erection.
         (f)   The sign shall not be attached to a tree, fence, utility pole,
standpipe, gutter, drain or fire escape or impair access to a roof or ingress
or egress of any structure.
         (g)   The sign shall not be located on any public property, right-of-
way or sidewalk or on any property designated or required for parking.
         (h)   The applicant shall submit the permit for a temporary sign which
shall be established by resolution of City Council except as follows:
            1.   City organizations, city-sponsored organizations or quasi-city
organizations and functions will not be required to pay a temporary sign permit
fee.
            2.   Whether such organizations are city-sponsored or quasi-city
associations or functions shall be within the sole discretion of the Building
Department or City Council, when applicable.
         (i)   No person, firm or organization shall be entitled to more than
two temporary sign permits per year. This regulation shall not be circumvented
by a business, firm or organization’s having a permit issued on its behalf to
different applicants. In all cases where a person applies on behalf of any
other person, firm, business or organization, such applicant shall divulge on
the application form the name of the entity which is intended to benefit by
issuance of the temporary sign permit.
         (j)   Prior to issuance of a temporary sign permit to a nonprofit
organization, such organization shall provide to the Building Department a
permission form signed by the owner of the property where the sign is to be
located. Such form, which shall be provided by the Building Department, shall
specifically indicate that such organization has permission to erect a sign
upon the owner’s premises. A temporary sign for any organization which is not
nonprofit shall only be erected on the organization’s own property.
   (B)   Inspection and maintenance.
      (1)   Inspection of new signs. All signs for which a permit has been
issued shall be inspected by the Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement when erected, and if found to have been
constructed, supported, braced and painted in accordance with the approved
plans submitted to the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement and in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, then a
certificate of inspection shall be issued, upon request and without charge to
the owner or erector. In cases where fastenings, anchorages, etc., are to be
installed and bricked in or enclosed in such a manner that the inspector would
not be able to inspect the anchorages or fastenings used, the sign erector
shall advise the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement in writing when such anchorages and fastenings are to be installed
so that inspection may be completed before enclosure; otherwise the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement shall be empowered
to stop further construction or erection of said sign until any such concealed
anchorages or fastenings are inspected and approved by the Building Official or
other official responsible for code enforcement.
      (2)   Inspection of existing signs. All signs shall be inspected by the
Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement or
electrical inspector once a year. If found to be adequately supported, painted
to prevent corrosion, and so secured to the building as to safely support the
weight of the sign as well as resist wind pressure in accordance with the
general structural requirements for new signs, a certificate of inspection
shall be issued, upon request. Upon receipt of the inspector’s written report,
an annual inspection fee, as established by resolution of City Council and may
be amended from time to time, shall be paid by the owner or applicant to the
city.
      (3)   Correction of defects; new signs. Should any new sign erection of
any kind be found unsafe, insecure, improperly constructed, or not in
accordance with the approved plans or the requirements of this chapter, the
sign erector, owner of the sign, or owner of the land shall make such erection
safe, secure, and according to the requirements of this chapter, or entirely
remove the sign in accordance with the following timetable:
         (a)   If the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement determines that the sign is an immediate threat to the safety of
persons nearby, all required action to correct the defect shall be taken within
48 working hours (two working days) from time of notification in writing from
the Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement,
provided the sign can be cordoned off or adequately secured during the
intervening time so as to remove any immediate threat to safety. If said sign
cannot be cordoned off or secured so as to eliminate any immediate threat to
safety, then all required action to correct the defects shall be made without
delay.
         (b)   If the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement determines that the sign is not an immediate threat to the safety
of persons nearby, all required action to correct the defect shall be taken
within seven working days after notification in writing from the Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement.
         (c)   If defects are not corrected within the specified time limits,
the Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement may
remove such sign at the expense of the sign owner or lessee.
      (4)   Correction of defects; existing signs. If, upon inspection, an
existing sign is found to be unsafe, insecure, corroded, or subject to
corrosion or otherwise poorly maintained so that the sign may become unsafe or
insecure before the next annual inspection, then the owner shall make the sign
safe and secure by completing any necessary reconstruction, repairs, painting,
or other improvements, in accordance with the following timetable:
         (a)   If the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement determines that the sign is an immediate threat to the safety of
persons nearby, all required action to correct the defect shall be taken within
48 hours (two working days) from the time of notification in writing from the
Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement, provided
the sign can be cordoned off or adequately secured during the intervening time
so as to remove any immediate threat to safety. If said sign cannot be cordoned
off or secured so as to eliminate any immediate threat to safety, then all
required action to correct the defects shall be made without delay.
         (b)   If the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement determines that the sign is not an immediate threat to the safety
of persons nearby, all required action to correct the defect shall be taken
within 30 days after notification in writing from the Building Official or
other official responsible for code enforcement. The Building Official or other
official responsible for code enforcement may extend the 30 day timetable if
temperatures below 25 º Fahrenheit prevent painting, or if the defects involved
are minor, not generally noticeable to the public, and not a hazard to public
safety (such as replacement of burned out bulbs).
         (c)   If defects are not corrected within the specified time limits,
the Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement may
remove such sign at the expense of the sign owner or lessee.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.235 OBSOLETE SIGNS.
   Obsolete signs, which include all signs that advertise a product that is no
longer made or that advertise a business that has closed, shall be removed by
the owner, agent, or person having beneficial use of the building or structure
upon which such sign is located, within 30 days after written notification from
the Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement. Upon
vacating a commercial or industrial establishment, the proprietor shall be
responsible for the removal of all signs used in conjunction with the business.
However, where a conforming sign structure and frame are typically reused by
the current occupant or business in leased or rented buildings, the building
owner shall not be required to remove the sign structure and frame in the
interim periods when the building is not occupied, provided that the sign
structure and frame are maintained in accordance with the standards of this
chapter and the city’s adopted building code.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155. 236 NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   No nonconforming sign shall be altered or reconstructed, unless the
alteration or reconstruction is in compliance with the provisions of §
155.237 of this chapter, except that nonconforming signs shall comply with the
following regulations:
   (A)   Repairs and maintenance. Normal maintenance shall be permitted,
provided that any nonconforming sign that is destroyed by any means to an
extent of more than 50% of its replacement cost, exclusive of the foundation
shall not be reconstructed. Normal maintenance shall include painting of
chipped or faded signs; replacement of faded or damaged surface panels; repair
or replacement of electrical wiring or electrical devices; or changing of
movable parts of a sign that is designed for such changes, as specified in this
section.
   (B)   Change of occupancy, tenancy or ownership. All nonconforming signs
shall be removed upon change of the business which occupies the premises or
building upon which or for which said signs have been posted, including a
change in tenancy or ownership of the premises to which the nonconforming signs
apply. However, where a change in ownership occurs, which does not result in a
simultaneous change of tenancy, then the nonconforming signs, which belong or
apply to the tenant need not be removed during such tenancy provided they meet
with all other applicable code requirements.
   (C)   Removal. Whenever a building upon which a nonconforming sign has been
posted or which a sign is physically attached is structurally extended or
enlarged such that the building’s size is increased by 25% or more, or whenever
such a building has 25% or more of the area of its interior or exterior
remodeled or altered, then all such posted or attached nonconforming signs
shall be removed by completion of the structural extension, enlarged,
remodeling or alteration.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.237 ALTERATION OF SIGNS.
   A sign that is altered in appearance or dimension in any manner, including a
change in face, lettering, coloring or lighting, or moved to a new location
shall be subject to all restrictions applying to a new sign, as set forth
herein.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.238 COMPLIANCE WITH THE ZONING CODE.
   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, the provisions of this chapter
shall be strictly complied with. Where the conditions imposed by any provisions
of this code are either more or less restrictive than comparable conditions
imposed by provisions in the chapter, the regulations which are more
restrictive or which impose higher standards or requirements shall govern.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.239 APPEAL TO ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Any party who has been refused a sign permit by the Building
Department for a proposed sign installation may file a claim of appeal to the
Zoning Board of Appeals. Upon receipt of the appeal and payment of an appeal
fee as established by City Council, the Board shall schedule a date for an
appeal hearing. At such hearing, the Board may grant such appeal and allow a
variance to the provisions of this chapter as to non-temporary sign(s) upon a
finding that:
      (1)   Because of the particular physical surroundings, shape, or
topographical conditions of the property, compliance with the provisions of
this chapter would result in a particular hardship on the owner, as
distinguished from inconvenience or a desire to make more money;
      (2)   Strict enforcement of the provisions of this chapter would serve no
useful purpose, and
      (3)   A variance would be in the best interest of the city and not
against the spirit and intent of this chapter.
   (B)   In considering a request for erection of a temporary sign, the Board
may consider, in addition to the factors above, their criteria enumerated below
and may establish the appropriate setback of the sign, its size and location
and may, by majority vote, reverse, modify or amend any order denying a
temporary sign permit or may place reasonable conditions upon the issuance of
such a permit. The criteria, along with any other factors found by the Board to
be relevant to the request, shall include:
      (1)   Whether hardship or practical difficulty is the motivation of the
request, i.e. an existing or otherwise permanent sign is out of commission or
not yet erected;
      (2)   Whether the person or business presently and actually is going-in
or going-out of business;
      (3)   Whether the type of sign structure would pose a significant risk to
public health or safety on the premises or on adjacent public property, and
      (4)   Whether the benefit of the temporary sign to the general public
and/or applicant under the circumstances outweighs any risk to traffic safety
and the city’s desire to eliminate the accumulation of visual clutter in
accordance with this chapter’s stated purpose.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.240 REGISTRATION OF SIGN CONTRACTORS; LICENSING AND BONDING.
   Sign contractors, construction companies, maintenance companies, and
individual builders or maintenance workers shall register annually with the
Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement prior to
erecting, construction, or repairing any sign in the city. Such persons or
companies shall be required to apply for and secure a business license in
accordance with the general regulations of the city and shall post a cash bond,
as established by resolution of City Council and may be amended from time to
time, with the Building Department for each licensing year. The Building
Official or other official responsible for code enforcement shall also be
empowered to require a cash bond in an amount he or she deems appropriate for
erection of a sign which, due to its size, location, type and manner of
construction, may pose a risk to the health, safety and welfare of the general
public during its erection or construction on site.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.241 GENERAL LIMITATIONS AND PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Exceptions. The provisions of the chapter shall not apply to the
following signs, provided such signs are in compliance with the provisions
restricting placement of structures in the road right-of-way.
      (1)   Miscellaneous traffic and other official signs of any public or
governmental agency, such as traffic control or directional signs, railroad
crossing signs, trespassing signs, signs indicating danger, signs indicating
the location of U.S.G.S. benchmarks, or signs used as aids to service or
safety.
      (2)   Directional signs required for the purpose of orientation, when
approved by the city or by the county or state government.
      (3)   Any flag, emblem or insignia of our nation, its governmental units,
or its schools.
      (4)   Any sign which is located completely within an enclosed building,
and which is not visible from outside the building.
      (5)   Tablets, grave markers, headstones, statuary, or remembrances of
persons or events that are noncommercial in nature.
      (6)   Temporary decorations or displays celebrating the occasion of
traditionally-accepted patriotic or religious holidays and special municipal
and public school activities.
      (7)   Public safety and routing signs used on public and private
construction sites.
   (B)   Prohibited signs. The following signs shall not be permitted or
erected in any district:
      (1)   Signs which have flashing, blinking or moving lights, or expose
incandescent light bulbs. This shall include strobe lights which are wholly
located inside a building which are visible to the public outside the premises
and are intended to attract the attention of persons not on the premises.
      (2)   Cloth and banner signs, pennants, spinners, and paper festoon
signs.
      (3)   String lights used for commercial purposes, other than Christmas or
other decorations.
      (4)   Any sign which has any visible moving parts, visible revolving
parts, visible mechanical movement of any description, or other apparent
visible movement achieved by electrical, electronic, or mechanical means,
including intermittent electrical pulsation, or by action of normal wind
current, except for marina signs located on the waterfront, time, temperature,
and stock market signs as provided in this section.
      (5)   Any sign or sign structure which is structurally unsafe, or
constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation or abandonment, or is not kept in good repair, or is capable of
causing electrical shock to persons likely to come in contact with it.
      (6)   Any sign that obstructs a window, door or other opening that could
be used for fire escape.
      (7)   Any sign which makes use of the words “Stop,” “Look,” or “Danger,”
or any other words, phrases, symbols, or characters, in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic.
      (8)   Any sign or other advertising structure containing obscene,
indecent, or immoral matter.
      (9)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected, or maintained.
      (10)   Any sign now or hereafter existing, which no longer advertises a
bona fide business conducted, or product sold.
      (11)   Any sign attached to a standpipe, gutter drain, or fire escape, or
any sign erected so as to impair access to a roof.
      (12)   Any sign that would project above the parapet line of any roof,
except as permitted in §
155.251 (J) and as permitted with ground or freestanding signs.
      (13)   Projecting or overhanging signs, except permitted wall signs which
may project up to 12 inches from the face of the wall.
      (14)   Any sign which is attached to a tree, fence, or utility pole.
      (15)   Portable or temporary signs, except as specifically provided for
in this chapter.
      (16)   Signs painted on or attached to a parked vehicle, truck, trailer,
or van, which is being used principally for advertising purposes, rather than
for transportation purposes. This restriction shall not apply to permitted
temporary truckload sales.
      (17)   Any other sign not specifically authorized by this chapter.
      (18)   Signs on street furniture, such as benches, newspaper stands, and
trash receptacles.
      (19)   Billboards.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. –, passed –)
§ 155.242 STRUCTURAL REQUIREMENTS, MOUNTING.
   All signs shall be constructed and erected in a safe and stable manner in
accordance with provisions of the city’s adopted building code, the National
Electrical Code, and of this section. All electrical wiring associated with
freestanding signs shall be installed underground. All signs must be mounted in
one of the following ways:
   (A)   Flat against a building or wall.
   (B)   Back-to-back in pairs, so that the backs of the signs will be screened
from view.
   (C)   Clustered in an arrangement, which will screen the backs of the signs
from view.
   (D)   Mounted so that the backs of the signs are painted and maintained in a
neutral color that blends with the surrounding environment.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.243 MOTORIST VISIBILITY.
   No sign shall be located on or near any street corner or near any right-of-
way, which would obscure vision of drivers using said street, and no sign shall
in any way conflict with traffic control signals at the intersection of any
streets. No sign shall be located so as to impair or impede the visibility of a
vehicle entering into or exiting from a parcel of property.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.244 ILLUMINATION.
   (A)   Signs shall be illuminated only by steady, stationary, shielded light
sources directed solely at the sign, or internal to it, without causing glare
for motorists, pedestrians, or neighboring premises.
   (B)   All exterior illumination shall be shaded so as not to project onto
adjoining property or thoroughfares.
   (C)   Direct exterior illumination and internally illuminated signs shall
avoid the use of glaring undiffused lights or bulbs that could distract
motorists.
   (D)   No signs shall be illuminated by the use of flashing, moving, or
intermittent lighting.
   (E)   Illuminated signs shall not produce more than one foot-candle of
illumination measured four feet from such signs. Illumination levels shall be
certified through signed plans, elevations, sections and details from a
licensed electrical engineer as employed or retained by the sign company.
   (F)   Electronic messaging. Signs in the B-1, B-2, B-3, TC and MI districts
may include electronic messaging, provided that the following standards are
met. Signs in the R-1A, R-1B, and R-1C may include electronic messaging signs
on lots with buildings of greater than 3,000 square feet.
      (1)   The maximum area of electronic messaging shall be half the total
area of the sign in which the electronic message board is placed.
      (2)   Copy change shall be no more frequent than once per eight seconds.
      (3)   Glare shall be reduced and/or minimized in such a manner as to
maintain an appropriate level of contrast during the day. To reduce driver
distraction at night and light trespass into residential areas, an automatic
dimmer shall be installed to control brightness. The maximum brightness of the
sign shall not exceed 10,000 NITs. At night, the sign shall be set to no more
than 10% of its maximum brightness.
      (4)   Motion, animation and video. Video display, animation, flashing,
whirling, fading, dissolving transitions, or any other type of motion are
prohibited.
      (5)   When text is displayed, the background behind the text must be a
solid color, for the purpose of ensuring that the text is readable. Images are
permitted, provided that no text is displayed in front of them.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.245 MEASUREMENT.
   The area of all signs shall be computed by measuring the area of the regular
shaped envelope required to enclose the lettering and/or logo and the
structures to which the letters and/or logo are attached.
   (A)   Wall sign area shall be computed using the envelope around the
letters.
   (B)   Double-faced freestanding area sign shall be computed using only one
face of the sign provided that:
      (1)   The outline and dimensions of both faces are identical, and
      (2)   The faces are back-to-back so that only one face is visible at any
given location.
   (C)   Monolith sign area shall be computed by measuring the entire vertical
surface of a face upon which the letters and/or logo are attached. In the case
of a double-faced or multi-faced monolith sign, the area of the sign shall be
computed using only one face of the sign. The area of a cylindrical monolith
sign shall be computed by multiplying the diameter of the cylinder by its
height.
   (D)   A sign support shall not be considered when measuring the area of
ground or freestanding sign.
   (E)   In determining conformance with setback standards and distance
requirements, the following guidelines shall be used:
      (1)   The distance between two signs shall be measured along a straight
horizontal line that represents the shortest distance between the two signs.
      (2)   The distance between a sign and a parking lot shall be measured
along a straight horizontal line that represents the shortest distance between
the sign and the outer edge of the parking lot.
      (3)   The distance between a sign and a building or property line shall
be measured along a straight horizontal line that represents the shortest
distance between the sign and the building.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.246 RESERVED.
§ 155.247 RESERVED.
§ 155.248 RESERVED.
§ 155.249 RESERVED.
§ 155.250 RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT SIGNS.
   (A)    Required street address. For the purposes of public safety, the
street number of every residential building shall be prominently displayed on a
side of the building facing the street, using numbers that are at least three
inches in height.
   (B)   Nameplate and identification signs. Nameplate and identification signs
shall be permitted in residence districts subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Content. Nameplate and identification signs may be used only to
indicate the name and address of the occupant.
      (2)   Number. There shall be not more than one nameplate or
identification sign, which may be either freestanding or attached to the
building.
      (3)   Location. Such signs shall be located at least six feet inside all
property lines.
      (4)   Size. Such signs shall be no larger than one square foot.
      (5)   Height. Such signs shall project no higher than five feet above
curb level.
   (C)   Signs accessory to parking areas. Signs accessory to parking areas
shall be permitted in multiple-family residential districts subject to the
following:
      (1)   Entrance/exits signs. Signs designating parking area entrances and
exits shall be limited to one sign for each such exit or entrance, and to a
maximum size of two square feet each.
      (2)   Identification sign. One sign per parking area, designating the
conditions of use or identity of such parking area and limited to a maximum
size of nine square feet, shall be permitted. Parking lots that are accessible
from more than one street shall be permitted to erect one identification sign
facing each street.
      (3)   Directional signs, no parking signs, and signs identifying parking
spaces for the handicapped shall be permitted as needed within parking areas.
   (D)   Permanent residential identification signs. Residential development
permanent identification signs shall be permitted in residential districts
subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Content. Permanent residential identification signs shall bear only
the name of the development or subdivision, the address of the building if a
multiple-family structure and the name and address of the management if
applicable.
      (2)   Area. No such sign shall exceed 48 square feet in area.
      (3)   Number. There shall not be more than one such sign located at each
entrance to the subdivision or development.
      (4)   Height. No such sign shall project higher than six feet above curb
level.
   (E)   Signs for nonconforming uses. Each nonconforming nonresidential use in
a residential district shall be permitted one accessory sign which shall
conform to the requirements of this subchapter concerning content, location,
height and projection. In addition, the following requirements shall be met:
      (1)   Area. No such accessory wall sign shall exceed two square feet in
area.
      (2)   Lighting. No such accessory wall sign shall be intentionally
lighted.
   (F)   Business districts signs. The signs in §
155.251 shall be permitted in all districts zoned for business uses, including
those districts zoned B-1, B-2, and B-3.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
Cross-reference:
   Tables and figures, see §
155.253. Table 12-2
§ 155.251 BUSINESS AND OFFICE DISTRICT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in O-1, B-1, B-2 and B-3 zoning
districts subject to the conditions and standards set forth within.
   (A)   Signs for residential uses in business districts. Signs for
nonconforming residential uses in business districts shall be governed by the
sign regulations for residential district uses set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Wall-mounted signs. Wall-mounted signs shall be permitted in business
districts subject to the
following controls:
      (1)   Number. One wall-mounted sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel. However, where more than one tenant share a building,
one wall sign shall be permitted per tenant, and total permitted sign area
shall be allocated on an equal basis to all tenants.
      (2)   Area. Total wall sign area shall not exceed 1½ square feet per
lineal foot of building frontage.
      (3)   Location. Wall-mounted signs shall be located on the fronts of
buildings, except that buildings located on a corner lot shall be permitted to
have one wall-mounted sign on the side facing a street.
      (4)   Vertical dimensions. The maximum vertical dimension of any wall-
mounted sign shall not exceed of the height of the building.
      (5)   Horizontal dimensions. The maximum horizontal dimension of any
wall-mounted sign shall not exceed ¾ of the width of the building.
      (6)   Height. The top of a wall-mounted sign shall not be higher than
whichever is lowest:
         (a)   25 feet above grade.
         (b)   The top of the sills at the first level of windows above the
first story.
         (c)   The height of the building facing the street on which the sign
is located.
      (7)   Projection. Wall-mounted signs shall not project farther than 12
inches from the face of the wall.
   (C)   Ground or freestanding signs. Ground or freestanding signs shall be
permitted in O-1, B-1, B-2 and B-3 districts subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Number. One ground or freestanding sign shall be permitted per
street frontage on each parcel. If more than one tenant shares a building or
shopping center, only one ground or freestanding sign shall be permitted, but
the total sign area should be allocated on an equal basis to all tenants.
      (2)   Area. Where total parcel frontage is 64 feet or less, the total
sign area shall not exceed 48 square feet. Where the total parcel frontage
exceeds 64 feet, the total sign area shall not exceed ¾ of one square foot per
lineal foot of parcel frontage, up to a maximum of 200 square feet, except that
the maximum area of monolith signs shall be 125 square feet.
      (3)   Setback. A ground or freestanding sign shall be located on private
property and no part of the sign or its structure shall extend beyond the
established building line. No such sign shall project over public right-of-way.
      (4)   Distance from other signs. Ground or freestanding signs shall be
located at least 35 feet from any other existing ground or freestanding sign.
Where compliance with this standard would not be possible due to the close
proximity of existing signs on adjacent parcels, installation of a ground or
freestanding sign on an intervening parcel shall be permitted provided said
sign is located midway between signs on adjacent parcels.
      (5)   Height. The top of a ground or freestanding sign shall not be
higher than 25 feet.
   (D)   Marquees. Marquees shall be permitted in business districts subject to
the following controls:
      (1)   Construction. Marquee signs shall consist of hard incombustible
materials. The written message must be affixed flat to the vertical face of any
marquee.
      (2)   Vertical clearance. A minimum vertical clearance of ten feet shall
be provided beneath any marquee sign.
      (3)   Projection. Limitations imposed by this chapter on the projection
of signs from the face of the wall of a building or structure shall not apply
to marquee signs.
      (4)   Number. One marquee shall be permitted per street frontage.
      (5)   Area. Total marquee sign area shall not exceed 1½ square feet per
lineal foot of building frontage.
   (E)   Signs on awnings and canopies. Signs shall be permitted on awnings and
canopies in business districts subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Lettering and logo area. The total area of the lettering and logo
shall not exceed 25% of the total area of the awning or canopy that is visible
from the street.
      (2)   Vertical clearance. A minimum vertical clearance of eight feet
shall be provided beneath any awning or canopy.
      (3)   Construction. The written message must be affixed flat to the face
of any awning or canopy.
      (4)   Projection. Limitations imposed by this chapter on the projection
of signs from the face of a wall of a building or structure shall not apply to
awnings or canopies.
      (5)   Height. The top of a wall-mounted sign shall not be higher than
whichever is lowest:
         (a)   25 feet above grade.
         (b)   The height of the building facing the street on which the sign
is located.
      (6)   An awning or canopy sign shall only be permitted in lieu of a wall-
mounted sign, a ground or freestanding sign, a marquee, a gasoline price sign,
a time/temperature/stock market sign or roof sign otherwise permitted on the
subject property.
   (F)   Cloth and banner signs (temporary). Temporary cloth and banner signs
shall be permitted in business districts subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Duration. Temporary cloth and banner signs shall be erected for no
longer than 30 days. Damaged signs shall be removed or repaired immediately.
      (2)   Area. Such signs shall not exceed 48 square feet in area.
      (3)   Number. One temporary cloth or banner sign shall be permitted per
street frontage.
      (4)   Location. No such sign shall extend beyond the building line or
into a public right-of-way or obstruct points of escape from buildings or
structures.
      (5)   Illumination. Cloth or banner signs shall not be purposely
illuminated.
      (6)   Bond. Permits for temporary cloth or banner signs may be obtained
from the Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement.
A cash bond, as established by resolution of City Council and may be amended
from time to time, shall be posted with the Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement with each temporary sign application. The cash
bond shall be released to the applicant upon removal of the temporary sign in
compliance with the time stated on the application.
   (G)   Window signs. Temporary and permanent window signs shall be permitted
on the inside in commercial or office districts provided that the total
combined area of such signs does not exceed of the total window area. The area
of permanent window signs shall be counted in determining compliance with
standards for total area of wall-mounted signs on the parcel. Temporary window
signs that are faded, yellowed, ripped or otherwise damaged shall be removed
immediately.
   (H)   Roof signs. Roof signs shall be permitted in business districts after
Planning Commission recommendation and City Council review and approval. The
City Council shall grant approval of a roof sign only if the Council determines
that either of the following conditions exists.
      (1)   A permitted wall or freestanding sign could not be easily seen by
passing motorists due to the configuration of existing buildings, trees, or
other obstructions.
      (2)   A permitted wall or freestanding sign could not be erected in a
location that is visible to passing motorists because of the unavailability of
land or wall area.
      (3)   If conditions (A) and (B) above are met as determined by the City
Council, the following requirements shall be complied with:
         (a)   Area. Total sign area of roof signs shall not exceed 40 square
feet.
         (b)   Height. The top of a roof sign shall not be higher than six feet
above the top of the roof or parapet.
         (c)   Number. One roof sign shall be permitted per street frontage.
Where more than one tenant share a building total permitted sign area shall be
allocated on an equal basis to all tenants.
         (d)   Location. Roof signs shall be located on the fronts of
buildings, except that buildings located on a corner lot shall be permitted to
have one roof sign on the side facing the street.
         (e)   Vertical dimensions. The maximum vertical dimension of any roof
sign shall not exceed of the height of the building.
         (f)   Horizontal dimensions. The maximum horizontal dimension of any
roof sign shall not exceed ¾ of the width of the building.
         (g)   Distance from utilities. Roof signs shall be located at least
four feet from any utility poles, at least five feet from any 600 volt utility
conductor, and at least eight feet from any 13,200 volt utility conductor.
   (I)   Required street address. For the purposes of public safety, the street
number of every building shall be prominently displayed on a side of the
building facing the street, using numbers that are at least five inches in
height.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
Cross-reference:
   Tables and figures, see §
155.253. Table 12-3
§ 155.252 INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT SIGNS.
   The following signs shall be permitted in the M-1 zoning district subject to
the conditions and standards set forth within.
   (A)   Signs for residential, commercial, and office uses in an industrial
district. Signs for nonconforming residential, commercial and office uses in
industrial district shall be governed by the sign regulations for residential
and business districts uses set forth in §§
155.250 and
155.251 herein.
   (B)   Wall mounted signs. Wall-mounted signs shall be permitted in
industrial districts, subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Number. One wall-mounted sign shall be permitted per street
frontage on each parcel. However, where more than one tenant share a building,
one wall sign shall be permitted per tenant, and total permitted sign area
shall be allocated on an equal basis to all tenants.
      (2)   Area. Total sign area shall not exceed 1½ square feet per lineal
foot of building frontage.
      (3)   Location. Wall mounted signs shall be located on the fronts of
buildings, except that buildings located on a corner lot shall be permitted to
have one wall-mounted sign on the side facing the street.
      (4)   Vertical dimensions. The maximum vertical dimension of any wall-
mounted sign shall not exceed of the height of the building.
      (5)   Horizontal dimensions. The maximum horizontal dimension of any
wall-mounted sign shall not exceed ¾ of the width of the building.
      (6)   Height. The top of a wall-mounted sign shall not be higher than
whichever is lowest:
         (a)   25 feet above grade.
         (b)   The top of the sills at the first level of windows above the
first story.
         (c)   The height of the building facing the street on which the sign
is located.
      (7)   Projection. Wall-mounted signs shall not project farther than 12
inches from the face of the wall.
   (C)   Ground or freestanding signs. Ground or freestanding signs shall be
permitted in industrial districts subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Number. One ground or freestanding sign shall be permitted per
street frontage on each parcel. If more than one tenant share a building, only
one ground or freestanding sign shall be permitted, but the total sign area
should be allocated on an equal basis to all tenants.
      (2)   Area. Total sign area shall not exceed 100 square feet.
      (3)   Setback. Ground or freestanding signs shall be located on private
property no closer than 15 feet from the building line or front property line
of the industrial park or parcel. Where compliance with this standard would not
be possible due to the location of existing industrial buildings or structures
within the required 15-foot setback area, a ground or freestanding sign shall
be permitted provided it is located on private property and no part of the sign
or its structure extends beyond the established building line. No such sign
shall project over public right-of-way.
      (4)   Height. The top of a ground or freestanding sign shall be no higher
than 25 feet.
   (D)   Signs on awnings and canopies. Signs shall be permitted on awnings and
canopies in industrial districts subject to the following controls:
      (1)   Lettering and logo area. The total area of the lettering and logo
shall not exceed 25 percent of the total area of the awning or canopy that is
visible from the street.
      (2)   Vertical clearance. A minimum vertical clearance of eight feet
shall be provided beneath any awning or canopy.
      (3)   Construction. The written message must be affixed flat to the
vertical face of any awning or canopy.
      (4)   Projection. Limitations imposed by this chapter on the projection
of signs from the face of the wall of a building or structure shall not apply
to awnings or canopies.
      (5)   An awning or canopy sign shall only be permitted in lieu of a wall-
mounted or ground or freestanding sign otherwise permitted on the subject
property.
   (E)   Required street address. For the purposes of public safety, the street
number of every industrial
building shall be prominently displayed on side of the building facing the
street, using numbers that are at least five inches in height.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
Cross-reference:
   Tables and figures, see §
155.253. Table 12-4
§ 155.253 TABLES AND FIGURES.
   (A)   Table 12-1 Cross District Sign Schedule - Part 1.
   Area and Height      Area: 32 square   Area: 32 square    Area: 16
      Area: 3 feet
   Criteria (Maximum)      feet         feet          square feet      height
by 4 feet width
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3804.jpg]
 
   (B)   Table 12-1 Cross District Sign Schedule - Part 2.
   Area and Height         Area: 32 square feet      Area: 300 square feet per
face up to 600
   Criteria (Maximum)                     square feet total for all sign faces
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3806.jpg]
 
 
Sign Type                                           Billboards
                          One sign per parcel,      No billboard shall be
                          except corner parcels may erected when 12 or more
Number of Signs (Maximum) have one sign facing each billboard faces are located
                          street up to a maximum of in the city, or within the
                          two signs.                TCD (Town Center District).
                          Signs shall be located at Signs shall be located at
Sign Location             least 10 feet inside of   least 15 feet inside of all
                          all property lines.       property lines.
                                                    See §
Additional Criteria                                155.249 for additional
                                                    requirements.
 
   (C)   Table 12-2 Residential District Sign Schedule - Part 1.
   Area and Height      Area: 6 square   Area: 2 square   Area: 9
square   Area: 2 square
   Criteria (Maximum)      feet         feet          feet         feet
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3808.jpg]
 
 
Sign Type                               Signs Accessory to
                                        Parking Areas
                                        One entrance/exit
                                        sign per drive. One
                                        identification sign
                    One wall-mounted or per parking area,
Number of Signs     freestanding sign   except one          Maximum of three
(Maximum)           per property.       identification sign signs.
                                        per street for
                                        areas accessible
                                        from more than one
                                        street.
                    Shall be located at                     Shall be located on
Sign Location       least six feet      Not applicable      private property
                    inside property                         only.
                    lines.
                                        Directional, no
                    Signs shall only    parking, and        See §
Additional Criteria indicate the name   barrier-free        155.250(E) for
                    and address of the  parking space signs additional
                    property occupant.  shall be permitted  requirements.
                                        as needed.
 
   (D)   Table 12-2 Residential District Sign Schedule - Part 2.
   Area and Height      Area: 48 square   Area: 64 square     Area:
6      Area: 5
   Criteria (Maximum)      feet         feet          square feet      square
feet
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3810.jpg]
 
   (E)   Table 12-3 Business and Office Sign Schedule - Part 1.
   Area and Height      Area: 1½ square feet         Area: See          Area:
1½ square feet
   Criteria         per lineal foot of          §
155.250(C)          per one lineal foot
   (Maximum)         building frontage         Height: See          of building
frontage
               Vertical and Horizontal       §
155.250(C)          Height: See
               Dimensions: See §
155.250(B)                §
155.250( D)
               Height: See §
155.250 (B)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3812.jpg]
 
 
Sign Type           Business and Office District Uses
                    One sign per street One sign per street One sign per street
                    frontage. The total frontage. The total frontage. The total
                    permitted sign area permitted sign area permitted sign area
Number of Signs     shall be equally    shall be equally    shall be equally
(Maximum)           allocated between   allocated between   allocated between
                    all tenants of a    all tenants of a    all tenants of a
                    multi- tenant       multi-tenant        multi- tenant
                    building.           building.           building.
                                                            A sign shall be
                                        Sign shall be       located on the
                    A sign shall be     located on private  building front
                    located on the      property. No part   except that one
                    building front      of the sign or its  sign shall be
Sign Location       except that one     structure shall     permitted per
                    sign shall be       extend beyond the   street frontage for
                    permitted per       building line or    corner lots. Shall
                    street frontage for overhang the        be permitted in
                    corner lots.        sidewalk.           lieu of other
                                                            permitted business
                                                            district signs.
                    See §              See §              See §
Additional Criteria 155.250 (B) for     155.250 (C) for     155.250 (D) for
                    additional          additional          additional
                    requirements        requirements        requirements
 
   (F)   Table 12-3 Business and Office District Sign Schedule - Part 2.
   Area and Height      Area: 25%, including      Area: 48 square      Area: 20
square feet for
   Criteria         logo, of awning or      feet.            price portion of
the sign.
   (Maximum)         canopy area visible
               from the street.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3814.jpg]
 
 
Sign Type  Business and Office District Uses
                                                                                                       One sign
                                                                                                       per
                                                                                                       station
                                                                                                       except
                                                                                                       that
Number of                                                                                One sign per  corner
Signs      One sign per public street frontage.                                          street        lots may
(Maximum)                                                                                frontage.     have two
                                                                                                       signs
                                                                                                       with one
                                                                                                       per
                                                                                                       street
                                                                                                       frontage.
                                                                                                       Sign
                                                                                                       shall be
                                                                                                       located
                                                                                                       on
                                                                                         Sign shall be private
                                                                                         located on    property.
                                                                                         private       Such
                                                                                         property. No  signs
                                                                                         part of the   shall not
                                                                                         sign or its   be
                                                                                         structure     located
                                                                                         shall extend  within
Sign                                                                                     beyond the    one foot
Location   Not applicable                                                                building      of right-
                                                                                         line,         of- way
                                                                                         obstruct      lines and
                                                                                         points of     not
                                                                                         escape from   located
                                                                                         buildings or  within
                                                                                         structures,   one foot
                                                                                         or overhang a of
                                                                                         sidewalk.     setback
                                                                                                       lines
                                                                                                       adjacent
                                                                                                       to any
                                                                                                       private
                                                                                                       property.
                                                                                         See §
Additional Shall be permitted in lieu of other permitted business district signs. See § 155.251(F)
Criteria   155.251(E) for additional requirements.                                       for           None
                                                                                         additional
                                                                                         requirements.
 
   (G)   Table 12-3 Business and Office Sign Schedule - Part 3.
   Area and Height       Area: 40 square feet            Area: of total window
   Criteria         Vertical and Horizontal Dimensions:
   (Maximum)         See §
155.251 (J)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3816.jpg]
 
 
Sign Type                 Business and Office District Uses
                          One sign per street
                          frontage. The total
Number of Signs (Maximum) permitted sign area shall  Not applicable.
                          be equally allocated
                          between all tenants of a
                          multi-tenant building.
                          A sign shall be located    Sign shall be located on
                          near the building front    the inside of windows of
Sign Location             except that one sign shall business and office uses
                          be permitted per street    located in a Business or
                          frontage for corner lots.  Office District.
                                                     The area of such sign(s)
                                                     shall be counted in
                                                     determining compliance
                          See §                     with area requirements of
Additional Criteria       155.251(J) for additional  permitted wall- mounted
                          requirements.              signs. Signs that are
                                                     faded, discolored, ripped
                                                     or otherwise damaged shall
                                                     be immediately removed.
 
   (H)   Table 12-4 Industrial District Sign Schedule.
   Area and Height         Area: 1½ square feet       Area: 100
square       Area: 25%, including
   Criteria (Maximum)         per lineal foot of       feet             logo,
of awning or
                  building frontage.                   canopy area visible
                  Vertical and Horizontal                from the street
                  Dimensions: See
                  §
155.252(B)
                  Height: See §
155.252(B)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/ed8d5dc5d3a00a59d5d08e812c1a3a8ed3d70bc6/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3818.jpg]
 
 
Sign Type           Industrial District Uses
                    One sign per public One sign per public
                    street frontage.    street frontage.
                    The total permitted The total permitted
Number of Signs     sign area shall be  sign area shall be  One sign per public
(Maximum)           equally allocated   equally allocated   street frontage.
                    between all tenants between all tenants
                    of a multi- tenant  of a multi- tenant
                    building.           building.
                                        Sign shall be
                                        located on private
                    A sign shall be     property at least
                    located on the      15 feet from the
                    building front      front property
                    except that one     line. No part of
Sign Location       sign shall be       the sign or its     None
                    permitted per       structure shall
                    street frontage for extend beyond the
                    corner lots.        building line or
                                        project over a
                                        public right-of-
                                        way.
                                                            Shall be permitted
                                                            in lieu of other
                                                            permitted business
Additional Criteria See §              See §              district signs. See
                    155.252(B)          155.252(C)          §
                                                            155.252 (D) for
                                                            additional
                                                            requirements.
 
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.254 RESERVED.
§ 155.255 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   All portions of this chapter are found to be severable. If any part,
subsection, paragraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word in this chapter
is deemed invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining portion of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.256 WAIVER PROCESS.
   The Planning Commission, after a public hearing that meets the requirements
of the State of Michigan and this Zoning Ordinance, shall have the ability to
waive or modify any of the above standards, provided that the following
criteria are met. A waiver granted under this section shall apply for the
lifespan of the sign in question, but shall not be transferable to any other
sign or premises.
   (A)   The applicant provides all requested information and pays all
applicable application and review fees, to be determined by the City Council.
   (B)   The proposed sign does not endanger the public health, safety, and
welfare by virtue of being distracting to drivers, obscuring vision, being
unnecessarily bright, being designed or constructed poorly, or in any other
way.
   (C)   The design of the sign is consistent with character of the surrounding
area.
   (D)   The sign does not block the view of other nearby signs to the extent
that it would harm the ability of neighboring businesses to operate.
   (E)   The sign will not be a nuisance to any residential uses.
   (F)   A sign designed to meet the standards of the ordinance would not
adequately serve the purpose desired by the applicant.
(Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.257 through § 155.259 RESERVED.
PUBLIC ART
§ 155.261 MURALS.
   (A)   Murals shall be maintained in good repair, free from peeling paint or
damage due to age, weather, and vandalism.
   (B)   Murals shall not contain words (in any language), symbols or
representations that are obscene, offensive, of a political nature or are
derogatory.
   (C)   Application requirements:
      (1)   The property owner or tenant (with written permission of the
property owner) shall apply for a determination of whether the proposed design
representation is a sign (which would fall under the sign ordinance), a type
one mural or a type two mural and, if the proposed design or representation is
a type two mural, whether it complies with the requirements of this section.
      (2)   A design sketch, photos of the proposed site, and a review fee of
$450 shall be submitted to the Planning Department. The mural application will
then be reviewed, and if it is complete it will be placed on a Planning
Commission agenda for review and consideration of approval based on compliance
with this section.
   (D)   Type two mural additional requirements:
      (1)   The graphics, words, and/or symbols referencing the establishment,
product, or service are limited in scope and dominance, and not readily
construed as commercial advertising. References must be subtle and integrated
into the overall mural design.
      (2)   The references to an establishment, product, or service are not to
be in the form of traditional building signage. Traditional signs on the same
wall will be reviewed separately under applicable sign requirements.
   (E)   An aggrieved applicant may file an appeal to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for review of a decision relating to a mural.
   (F)   If the mural application is approved, the applicant must complete the
approved mural within six months from the date of approval, or must resubmit
the application, except when the mural is approved between October 1 and
February 1, in which case the applicant shall post a performance bond to ensure
installation of the mural in the spring.
(Ord. 873, passed 11-19-18)
§ 155.262 MURAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent and objectives of section. The intent of this section is to
regulate the location, construction and manner of display of murals in order to
preserve the aesthetic appeal of the city and to promote appropriate visual
expression by defining what constitutes a mural and to provide penalties for
violation of the provisions thereof. To achieve its intended purpose, this
section has the following objectives:
      (1)   Encourage the design and placement of private murals for public
display that promote or enhance the character of the city;
      (2)   Differentiate between signs, graffiti and murals; and
      (3)   Prevent visual expression that may be offensive, is of a political
nature or is derogatory.
   (B)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the
meanings ascribed to them herein, except where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning:
      GRAFFITI. Writing or drawings that have been scribbled, scratched, or
painted illicitly on a wall or other surface.
      MURAL. Defined as:
         TYPE ONE: A design or representation which does not contain
promotional or commercial advertising painted or drawn on a wall.
         TYPE TWO: An original, one-of-a-kind unique design or representation
which contains limited references to the establishment, product, or service
provided on the site which is painted or drawn on a wall on that site.
   (C)   Murals.
      (1)   Type one and type two murals are allowed only in the following
zoning districts, subject to the restrictions set forth in this section:
         (a)   B-1;
         (b)   B-2; and
         (c)   B-3.
      (2)   Murals may not be placed on the primary façade of the structure. In
instances in which the structure has two primary façades (at the intersection
of two public streets), murals would not be placed on either façade.
      (3)   Murals may only be placed directly on unimproved concrete, concrete
block or brick façades. However, should the applicant desire to have a mural
constructed off-site in moveable panels to be installed on said façade, the
attachment of said panels must comply with applicable building codes, subject
to required permits and inspection; must not cover window or door openings
unless properly sealed in compliance with applicable building codes, the
attachment devices must not compromise the structural integrity of the surface
to which the panels are attached, and said panels must be securely attached to
prevent failure due to weather conditions, vandalism or age.
      (4)   Murals shall be maintained in good repair, free from peeling paint
or damage due to age, weather, vandalism or the like. Failure to maintain a
mural in good repair may result in notification by Ordinance Enforcement and,
if necessary, appropriate enforcement action by the city, including recovery of
related expenses for enforcement.
      (5)   Prior to installation of a mural, the property owner or tenant
(with written permission of the property owner) shall apply for a determination
of whether the proposed design or representation is a sign, a type one mural or
a type two mural and, if the proposed design or representation is a type two
mural, whether it complies with the requirements of this section. The
application with fee, as determined by City Council, shall be forwarded to the
City Administration who shall conduct an administrative review of the
application and design for compliance with this section.
      (6)   Murals shall not contain words (in any language), symbols or
representations that are obscene, offensive, of a political nature or are
derogatory.
      (7)   The Mayor may designate a three person review committee to review
mural design for compliance with this section. The committee, at its
discretion, may refer the mural design to the Planning Commission for further
review.
      (8)   Following determination:
         (a)   If the proposed design or representation is determined to be a
sign, the applicant shall comply with all further review and requirements of §
155.234, before creating or installing the sign.
         (b)   If the proposed design or representation is determined to be a
type one mural, no further review or action is necessary before creating or
installing the mural.
         (c)   If the proposed design or representation is determined to be a
type two mural, the applicant shall obtain a determination of whether the type
two mural complies with all requirements of this section before creating or
installing the mural.
      (9)   Type two murals may be allowed if:
         (a)   The graphics, words, and/or symbols referencing the
establishment, product, or service are limited in scope and dominance, and not
readily construed as commercial advertising. References must be subtle and
integrated into the overall mural design.
         (b)   The references to an establishment, product, or service are not
to be in the form of traditional building signage. Traditional signs on the
same wall will be reviewed separately under applicable sign requirements.
         (c)   Where numbers of signs or maximum square footages apply to a
particular location, a mural shall not count as a sign nor figure into the
allowable sign area.
      (10)   An aggrieved applicant may file an appeal to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for review of a decision relating to a mural. The Zoning Board of
Appeals shall review the decision based on the criteria in §
155.275.
(Ord. 867, passed 3-5-18) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.263 through § 155.269 RESERVED.
POWERS AND DUTIES OF BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
§ 155.271 CITY COUNCIL.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The City Council shall have the following powers
and duties prescribed under this chapter:
      (1)   Zoning Ordinance text amendments. Review petitions and Planning
Commission recommendations for text amendments to this chapter and take final
action to approve, approve with conditions or deny such petitions.
      (2)   Zoning map amendments (rezoning). Review petitions and Planning
Commission recommendations for amendments to the zoning map and take final
action to approve or deny such petitions.
      (3)   Planned unit development rezoning. Review petitions and Planning
Commission recommendations for amendments to the zoning map and take final
action to approve, approve with conditions or deny such petitions.
      (4)   Planned unit development site plan submission. Review applications
and Planning Commission recommendations for site plan and condominium documents
and take final action to approve, approve with conditions or deny such
preliminary site plans and condominium documents.
      (5)   Special land use. Review applications and Planning Commission
recommendations and take action to approve, approve with conditions or deny
such petitions.
      (6)   Regulated uses. Review applications and Planning Commission
recommendations and take action to approve with conditions or deny such
petitions.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.272 CITY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Establishment. The City Planning Commission is hereby designated as
the zoning commission specified in Section 4 of Act 207 of the Public Acts of
1921, and shall perform the duties of said zoning commission as provided in the
statute in connection with the amendment of this chapter.
(1968 Code, § 9-189) (Ord. 500, passed 1-5-1976)
   (B)   Powers and duties. The Planning Commission shall have the following
powers and duties as prescribed under this chapter:
      (1)   Zoning Ordinance text amendments. Submit petitions or provide
recommendations on submitted petitions to City Council.
      (2)   Zoning map amendments (rezoning). Submit petitions or provide
recommendations on submitted petitions to the zoning map to City Council.
      (3)   Planned development rezoning. Provide recommendations on submitted
petitions for amendments to the zoning map to City Council.
      (4)   Planned development submission. Review applications and provide
recommendations for site plan and condominium documents to City Council.
      (5)   Special land uses. Review applications and provide recommendations
to City Council.
      (6)   Site plan submission. The City Planning Commission has the power
and authority to review and approve, approve with conditions or deny site plans
as specified in §
155.287, Standards for site plan review in addition to the following
guidelines:
         (a)   In cases where the City Planning Commission is empowered to
approve specific land uses or site plans under the provisions of this chapter,
the applicant shall furnish surveys, plans or other information as required by
§
155.286, Site plan review, to permit the Planning Commission proper
consideration of the matter.
         (b)   The Planning Commission shall investigate the circumstances of
each case and shall notify such parties who may, in its opinion, be affected
thereby of the time and place of any hearing which may be held relative thereto
as required under its rules of procedure and §
155.291, Public hearing notification, when applicable.
         (c)   The Planning Commission may impose such conditions or
limitations in granting approval as may in its judgment be necessary to fulfill
the spirit and intent of this chapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 863, passed 10-2-
17)
§ 155.273 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Community Development Department (CDD) shall
have the following powers and duties as prescribed under this chapter:
      (1)   Application procedure. The CDD shall distribute applications for
site plan review on a form approved by City Administration, as may be amended
periodically by City Council. The CDD shall receive completed applications and
applicable fees. CDD personnel shall review applications, site plan submissions
and other required or requested information for completeness. Submissions
deemed incomplete will not be processed and returned with written explanation
to the applicant.
      (2)   Pre-application planning meetings. The CDD shall meet with an
applicant to provide guidance when requested. Consultants may be included and
invoiced to the applicant for their time and expenses.
      (3)   Recommendations of other departments, agencies and consultants. The
CDD shall distribute information on specific submissions to appropriate
departments, agencies and consultants for review when deemed advisable. The CDD
shall collect necessary information and reviews and distribute to the Planning
Commission or City Council, when applicable. CDD personnel may provide a
summary. The CDD Director has the authority to utilize engineering, planning,
legal and other consultants when deemed necessary.
      (4)   Administrative site plan review. The CDD shall review and take
final action to approve, approve with conditions or deny site plans as
empowered in §
155.286, Site plan review.
      (5)   Written interpretations. Provide written interpretations of the
text of this chapter.
      (6)   Master Plan. The CDD shall serve as the keeper of the official City
Master Plan.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.274 BUILDING DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   Powers and duties. The Building Department shall have the following
powers and duties as prescribed in this chapter:
      (1)   Applications for permits, certificates of occupancy, and
certificates of re- occupancy. The Building Department shall review
applications for permits, certificates of occupancy, and certificates of re-
occupancy, including temporary certificates, and act to approve, approve with
conditions or deny such applications. Applications deemed incomplete will not
be processed and returned with written explanation to the applicant.
      (2)   Temporary use permits. Review applications for temporary use
permits and act to approve, approve with conditions or deny such applications.
Applications deemed incomplete will not be processed and returned with written
explanation to the applicant.
      (3)   Final site plan approval. The Building Department shall review
final site, architectural and engineering plans and shall not issue permits or
certificates of occupancy or certificates of re-occupancy until such plans meet
approvals and conditions imposed by the Planning Commission, City Council and
Zoning Board of Appeals and other reviewing agencies.
      (4)   Enforcement. The Building Official or other official responsible
for code enforcement shall have the authority to inspect and enforce provisions
of this chapter as empowered in this chapter, other applicable city codes and
state statutes.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.275 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Establishment. The Zoning Board of Appeals is hereby established as
permitted in Section 5 of Act 207 of the Public Acts of 1921, as amended, and
shall perform the duties as provided in the statute and in such manner as to
observe the spirit, intent and objectives of this chapter. In performing such
duties, the Board shall secure public safety and provide justice.
   (B)   Membership.
      (1)   The City Council shall appoint at least five members. One member
may be appointed from the City Planning Commission for a term coinciding with
the Planning Commission appointment. Appointment shall be made for one, two and
three years, respectively, so as nearly as possible to provide for an equal
number of appointments each year. After the initial appointments, each officer
shall hold office for a full three year term.
      (2)   The City Council may appoint not more than two alternate members
for the same term as the regular members. The alternate members may be called
to serve in the place of a regular member for the purpose of reaching a
decision on a case in which the regular member has abstained for reasons of
conflict of interest. The alternate member, having been appointed, shall serve
in the case until a final decision has been made. The alternate member shall
have the same voting rights as a regular member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   (C)   Appeals taken by Board.
      (1)   An appeal may be taken by a person, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association or similar entity aggrieved by any order,
requirements, decision or determination made by an administrative official or
body charged with the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, or by an
officer, department, board or bureau of the city. An appeal shall be taken,
within such time as prescribed by the Zoning Board of Appeals by general rule,
by filing with the Building Official or other official responsible for code
enforcement and the Zoning Board of Appeals a notice of appeal specifying the
grounds for the appeal. The Building Official or other official responsible for
code enforcement from whom the appeal is taken shall immediately transmit to
the board all papers constituting the record upon which the action was taken.
      (2)   An appeal, under this section, stays all proceedings in furtherance
of the action appealed from unless the Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement from whom the appeal was taken certifies to
the Board, after the notice is filed, that by reason of facts stated in the
certificate, a stay, in the opinion of the Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement, would cause imminent peril to life or
property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed otherwise than by a
restraining order which may be granted by Circuit Court.
   (D)   Notice. The Board shall fix a reasonable time and place for hearing of
an appeal and give due notice to the appeal to the persons to whom real
property within 300 feet of the subject premises as assessed, and to the
occupants of single- and two-family dwellings within 300 feet. The notice shall
be delivered personally or by mail addressed to the respective owners and
tenants at the address given in the latest assessment role. If the tenant’s
name is not known, the term “occupant” may be used. Upon the setting of a
hearing, a party may appear in person or by agent or attorney. The notice shall
follow public notification on requirements as specified in §
155.291, Public hearing notification.
   (E)   Powers and duties.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals from and
review any order, requirements, decision or determination made by an
administrative official or body charged with the enforcement of the provisions
of this chapter. The Board shall also hear and decide matters referred to the
Board or upon which the Board is required to pass under a code of the City
Council adopted under this chapter.
      (2)   The Board may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or may modify an
order, requirement, decision or determination appealed from and shall make an
order, requirement, decision, or determination in the matter, and to that end
shall have all the powers of the officer or body from whom the appeal is taken.
If there are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardship in carrying out the
strict letter of this chapter, the Board may vary or modify any rules or
provisions relating to the construction, structural changes in, equipment, or
alteration of buildings or structures or the use of land, buildings or
structures so that the spirit and intent of this chapter shall be observed,
public safety secured and substantial justice done.
      (3)   The Board shall hear and decide upon requested interpretations of
the zoning map fixing use districts and street location. The decision of the
Board shall be final.
   (F)   Decision. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Board shall be necessary to reverse an order, requirement, decision or
determination of an administrative official or body, or to decide in favor of
the applicant a matter which the Board is required to pass an ordinance, or to
effect a variation in a provision of this chapter. However, a concurring vote
of 2/3 of the members of the Board shall be necessary to grant a variance from
uses of land as permitted in this chapter.
   (G)   Appeals of Board decisions. A person, corporation, partnership,
unincorporated association or similar entity affected by a decision of the
Board may appeal to the circuit court.
   (H)   Fees. The City Council shall establish application and review fees by
resolution, which may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.276 through § 155.279 RESERVED.
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES
§ 155.281 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   Except where herein otherwise stated, the provisions of this chapter shall
be administered and enforced by the Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement, Community Development Director or other
official(s) as may be designated by City Council.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.282 DUTIES OF THE BUILDING OFFICIAL OR OTHER OFFICIAL RESPONSIBLE FOR
CODE ENFORCEMENT.
   The Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement
shall:
   (A)   Have the authority to grant occupancy permits;
   (B)   Not approve any site or engineering plans or issue any permits,
certificates of occupancy or certificates of re-occupancy for any excavation or
construction until he or she has inspected such plans in detail and found them
to conform to this chapter, conditions of site plan approval and other
applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   Inspect buildings or premises as necessary to carry out duties in the
enforcement of this chapter. The Building Official or other official
responsible for code enforcement shall not change or vary the terms of this
chapter in carrying out his or her duties as Building Official or other
official responsible for code enforcement.
   (D)   Issue a permit when conditions imposed by this chapter are complied
with by the applicant despite violations of private contracts, such as
covenants, deed restrictions or other private agreements, which may occur upon
the granting of said permit.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.283 PLOT PLAN.
   The Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement
shall require that all applications for single-family residential building
permits shall be accompanied by plans and specifications including a plot plan,
in duplicate, drawn to scale, showing the following:
   (A)   The actual shape, location and dimensions of the lot.
   (B)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to
be erected, altered or moved, and of any building or other structures already
on the lot.
   (C)   The existing and intended use of the lot and or all such structures
upon it, including, in residential areas, the number or dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate.
   (D)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
   (E)   Plot plans may be required of other construction permit applications.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.284 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following requirements shall apply in the issuance of any permit:
   (A)   Compliance required. No building permit shall be issued for the
erection, alteration or use of any building or structure or part thereof or for
the use of any land which is not in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Permits for new use of land; certificate of occupancy required. No
land heretofore vacant shall hereafter be used or an existing use of land be
hereafter changed to a use of a different class or type unless a certificate of
occupancy or a certificate of re-occupancy is first obtained for the new or
different use.
   (C)   Permits for new use of buildings. No building or structure or part
thereof shall be changed to or occupied by a use of a different class or type
unless a building permit is first obtained for the new or different use.
   (D)   Permits required. No building or structure or part thereof shall be
hereafter erected, altered moved or repaired unless a building permit shall
have been first issued for such work. The terms altered and repaired shall
include any changes in structural parts, stairways, type of construction, type,
class or kind of occupancy, light or ventilation, means of egress and ingress,
or other changes affecting regulated by the building code, Housing Law of
Michigan, or this chapter, except for minor repairs of changes not involving
any of the aforesaid features.
   (E)   Zoning compliance permits. If any type of modification, repair or
construction does not require building permit, applicants shall contain a
zoning compliance permit to ensure compliance with the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.285 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY AND RE-OCCUPANCY.
   No land, building or part thereof shall be occupied by or for any use unless
and until a certificate of occupancy or certificate of re-occupancy shall have
been issued for such use. The following shall apply in the issuance of any
certificate:
   (A)   Compliance required. No certificates of occupancy or certificates of
re-occupancy pursuant to the building code of the city shall be issued for any
building, structure or part thereof, or for the use of any land, which is not
in accordance with all the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Certificates required. No building or structure or part thereof which
is hereafter erected or altered shall be occupied or used or the same caused to
be done unless and until a certificate of occupancy or certificate of re-
occupancy shall have been issued for such building or structure.
   (C)   Certificates including zoning. Certificates of occupancy as required
by this chapter for new buildings or structures or pans thereof, or for
alterations to or changes of use of existing buildings or structures, shall
also constitute certificates of occupancy or certificates of re-occupancy as
required by this chapter.
   (D)   Certificates for existing buildings. Certificates of re-occupancy
shall be issued for existing buildings, structures or parts thereof, or
existing uses of land, if, after inspection, it is found those such buildings,
structures or parts thereof, or such use of land, are in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   Temporary certificates. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy or certificate of re-occupancy
for a portion of a building or structure in process of erection or alteration,
provided that such temporary certificate shall not be effective for a period of
time in excess of six months, unless approved by the Planning Commission, and
provided further that such portion of the building, structure or premises is in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
   (F)    Records of certificates. A record of all certificates issued shall be
kept on file in the office of the Department of Building Inspection, and copies
shall be furnished upon request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy
interest in the property involved.
   (G)   Certificates for dwelling accessory buildings. Buildings accessory to
dwellings shall not require separate certificates of occupancy or certificates
of re-occupancy but may be included in the certificate for the dwelling when
shown on the plot plan and when completed at the same time as such dwellings.
   (H)   Application for certificates. Application for certificates of
occupancy or certificates of re-occupancy shall be made in writing to the
Department of Building Inspection on forms furnished by that Department, and
such certificates shall be issued within five days after receipt of such
application if it is found that the building or structure or part thereof, or
the use of land, is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. If such
certificate is refused for cause, the applicant therefor shall be notified of
such refusal and cause thereof within the aforesaid five-day period.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.286 SITE PLAN REVIEW (ALL DISTRICTS).
   (A)   Intent. The site plan review procedures and standards set forth herein
provide a consistent and uniform method for review of proposed development
plans, to ensure full compliance with the standards contained in this chapter,
other applicable local ordinances, standard engineering practices, and county,
state, and federal rules, and laws. The procedures set forth herein are further
intended to:
      (1)   Achieve efficient use of the land;
      (2)   Strengthen and maintain vibrant residential neighborhoods and
business districts;
      (3)   Provide a mechanism for review of new development and redevelopment
or reuse of existing sites to ensure compliance with current standards;
      (4)   Minimize adverse impacts on adjoining or nearby properties;
      (5)   Protect the natural environment; and
      (6)   Encourage cooperation and consultation between the city and the
applicant to facilitate development in accordance with the city’s land use
objectives.
   (B)   Site plan review applicability and type. A building permit shall not
be issued until a final site plan is approved in accordance with the procedures
and standards set forth herein, compliance with the land division, subdivision
and other city ordinances and all necessary review, inspection, and permit fees
have been fully paid. The extent of site plan review for various types of
projects is classified into four types below.
      (1)   Exempt. Projects include new or expanded single-family homes on
individual lots in a residential zoning district, or change in commercial
business use, ownership, or tenancy without utility improvements, exterior
site, building or structural alteration, and only if the commercial property
has been reviewed and approved for site plan compliance with the zoning
ordinance within the past ten years.
      (2)   Administrative review. These projects are required to provide a
site plan and may not require review by the Planning Commission; but shall
undergo a formal review for approval by the City Planner. Projects include:
         (a)   Increase in parking or loading area up to 20% of existing area;
         (b)   Change in building height that does not add floor area;
         (c)   Building additions to non-single-family uses that do not affect
parking and meet all requirements of this chapter.
         (d)   Accessory buildings and structures for non-single-family uses;
         (e)   Architectural design changes to non-residential uses;
         (f)   Sidewalks or pathways;
         (g)   Screens or fences for non-one-family uses;
         (h)   Modifications to one-family or multiple-family dwellings to
comply with ADA or other barrier-free regulations;
         (i)   Sign relocation or replacement;
         (j)   Site improvements meeting zoning code standards; and
         (k)   Waste storage relocation or installation of screening around
receptacle.
         (l)   Minor deviations of site plans previously approved by the
Planning Commission, which shall comply with all applicable city regulations.
Minor deviations are defined as changes that shall not cause any of the
following:
            1.   A change in character of the development.
            2.   An increase in the ratio of gross floor area to zoning-lot
area.
            3.   An increase in coverage by structure unless justified by
changes in other factors.
            4.   A reduction in approved open space or off-street parking and
loading space unless justified by changes in other factors.
            5.   The creation of or increase in injurious effects to adjacent
or contiguous land uses.
      (3)   Full site plan. The most involved process for larger and more
intense residential and all non-residential projects not included in the other
classifications. All special condition uses shall be subject to full site plan
review by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Planned unit development. Site plans for planned unit developments
shall follow the procedure as provided in §
155.152, Planned unit development. Site condominiums shall be required to meet
the same design standards as required in §
155.151, Condominium development.
   (C)   Planning Commission site plan review procedures and requirements. Site
plans must be submitted in accordance with the following procedures and
requirements. The City Planner performs an administrative review. Subsequently,
the Planning Commission reviews and determines if the site plan is approved,
conditionally approved, or denied.
      (1)   Applicant attendance. The owner of an interest in the land for
which site plan approval is sought, or the designated agent of said owner shall
submit the application. The application shall contain current written proof of
ownership or current ownership option in the property. The applicant or a
designated representative must be present at all scheduled review meetings or
consideration of the plan shall be tabled due to lack of representation.
Absence at two consecutive meetings without prior notice to the City Planner
shall result in denial of the application. The City Planner may recommend to
the Planning Commission Chairperson that the applicant’s architect and/or
engineer be present at the meeting in order to address technical matters
related to the application.
      (2)   Pre-planning meeting. The applicant is encouraged to schedule a
meeting with the City Planner to discuss the project, submittal requirements
and review procedures. The purpose of this meeting is to discuss applicable
standards and technical issues, and to determine the appropriate type of review
process. If the project is determined to be eligible for administrative
approval, the procedures of this section shall be followed; in other cases, the
process shall proceed as described below.
      (3)   Preliminary site plan submittal. The applicant shall submit four
copies (five if in the Downtown Development Area) of the following items to the
Planning and Community Development Department for Administrative Review at
least two weeks prior to the scheduled Planning Commission meeting for the
subject site plan:
         (a)   A complete application form supplied by the city.
         (b)   A complete site plan that includes the information listed in
division (E) of this section.
         (c)   Any additional information the Planning Commission finds
necessary to make the determinations required herein.
      (4)   Technical (staff) review.
         (a)    The Planning and Community Development Department shall forward
the application and site plan(s) to the city’s public safety officials,
Department of Public Works and applicable consultants. All reviews shall be
submitted back to the Planning and Community Development Department.
         (b)   Upon completion of the technical review, the applicant shall
submit 11 copies of the above documents, including possible changes by the
Planning and Community Development Department to the Planning Commission for
preliminary review.
      (5)   Planning Commission consideration of preliminary site plan.
Following technical review and comment, and compliance with administrative
procedures, the site plan shall be placed on the agenda of the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall review the application for site plan
approval, together with the reports and recommendations from staff, consultants
and other reviewing agencies, as appropriate. The Planning Commission shall
then make a determination based on the requirements and standards of this
chapter. The Planning Commission is authorized to postpone, grant approval,
approve subject to revisions or deny as follows:
         (a)   Postpone. The application may be postponed if it is determined
to be incomplete, the applicant has not fully responded to deficiencies
identified in the technical review, code interpretation is needed from the
Zoning Board of Appeals, or that revisions are necessary to bring the site plan
into compliance with applicable standards and regulations. The Planning
Commission shall direct the applicant to prepare additional information, revise
the site plan or direct the city staff to conduct additional analysis. The
applicant shall be required to prepare revised plans accompanied by a complete
list of all changes, certified as such by the applicant’s design professional.
Full sets of plans must be resubmitted.
         (b)   Approval. Upon determination that all requirements for site plan
approval, as set forth herein, are met and a recommendation has been forwarded
to the Planning Commission by all reviewing agencies of the city, approval
shall be granted subject to the applicant providing copies of all required
outside agency approvals. In those instances where approval authority is vested
with the City Council, the Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to
City Council.
         (c)   Approval subject to revisions. Upon determination that a site
plan is in compliance except for minor revisions, said revisions shall be
identified and the applicant shall be given the opportunity to correct the site
plan prior to applying for final site plan approval. The applicant shall
submit, with the final site plan, a complete list of all changes, certified by
the applicant’s design professional, to the Planning and Community Development
Department for final approval after said revisions have been completed. At its
discretion, the Planning Commission may require the right to review the revised
final site plan.
         (d)   Denial of approval. Upon determination that a site plan does not
comply with standards and regulations set forth in this chapter, requires
extensive revision in order to comply with said standards and regulations, or
the applicant has not satisfactorily addressed all reasons for postponing
action, site plan approval shall be denied. The applicant must revise the plans
and resubmit if still interested in pursuing the project. A re-submittal shall
be considered a new site plan and be required to re-initiate the full site plan
review process.
      (6)   Effect of site plan review action. Any preliminary site plan
approved under this provision shall expire after six months from the date of
such approval unless final site plan approval has been issued. Any final site
plan approval shall expire after six months if building permits have not been
issued. Should final site approval become null and void, a new application for
site plan review shall be required. The applicant may request a six month
extension by the Planning Commission or the Planning and Community Development
Department (as applicable), provided a written request is received before the
expiration date and the site plan complies with current standards (i.e. any
amendments to the zoning code since the site plan was approved). Applicant or
designated representative of the applicant shall appear in front of the
appropriate body to be eligible to receive an extension. This limitation shall
not apply to preliminary planned development site plans accompanying approved
planned development rezoning.
      (7)   Final site plans (detailed construction, landscape and engineering
plans). Except where otherwise set forth in this chapter, final site plan
approval may be given administratively when all conditions set forth herein for
final site plans are complied with, except the Planning Commission may, at the
time of preliminary site plan approval, require final site plan approval by the
Commission as well. The City Planner shall grant final site plan approval where
the following requirements are met:
         (a)   All local, county and state requirements as may apply to the
proposed use are met. The applicant shall be required to obtain all other
necessary agency permits from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality,
Wayne County Road Commission, Drain Commission, Environmental Department and
Health Department, and all applicable utility companies. Copies of applications
and approvals from all applicable outside agencies shall accompany submission
of the application and final site plan to the city.
         (b)   All applicable engineering requirements are met. Complete
engineering plans shall be submitted to the Department of Public Service for
approval.
         (c)   The design shown on the final site plan shall remain unchanged
from the approved preliminary site plan. Upon determination that the final site
plan does not comply with the conditions of preliminary site plan approval or
that required engineering plan revisions alter the site plan configuration
approved by the Planning Commission, the applicant shall be required to revise
the site plan and engineering plans and resubmit the site plan to the body that
approved the site plan for review and approval as an amended site plan.
      (8)   Final site plan approval, except as specifically permitted in
divisions (a) and (b) below, shall not be given until all the above
requirements are met. No work shall commence on any site, except as
specifically permitted herein, or any buildings requiring site plan approval
and no permits shall be issued until after final site plan approval is
granted.   
         (a)   Upon request, the city may permit, when justifiable conditions
are found to exist, and after preliminary site plan approval has been given,
the movement of soil on the site, prior to final site plan approval, provided:
            1.   A grading and soil erosion and sedimentation control plan,
drawn to local specifications and, when necessary, to county specifications,
has been reviewed and approved; and
            2.   A soil erosion permit, when required, has been secured.
         (b)   Upon request of the applicant, the city may permit the layout of
footings and the construction of foundation walls prior to final site plan
approval, provided:
            1.   When justifiable conditions are found to exist;
            2.   Preliminary site plan approval has been given;
            3.   A grading and soil erosion and sedimentation control plan,
drawn to local specifications and, when necessary, to county specifications,
has been reviewed and approved;
            4.   A soil erosion permit, when required, has been secured;
            5.   Detailed engineering plans for all above ground and below
ground utilities have been submitted for review and approval; and
            6.   Footing and foundation design plans have been approved by all
applicable state, county, local departments and consultants.
      (9)   Completion of site design in accordance with approved site plan.
         (a)   Following approval of the site plan and final approval of the
engineering plans by the Department of Public Services and the Planning and
Community Development Department, a building permit may be obtained. It shall
be the responsibility of the applicant to obtain all other applicable city,
county, state, federal or utility permits prior to issuance of a building
permit.
         (b)   The approval of any final site plan under this provision, other
than subdivisions (subdivisions shall follow the procedures of the Land
Division and Subdivision Acts), shall expire six months after the date of such
approval, unless building permits have been issued in accordance with the site
plan. If building permits have been issued within the six month period, then
the approval shall continue as long as the building permits remain valid. The
Building Official or other official responsible for code enforcement shall not
issue a building permit for any type of construction on the basis of the
approved site plan after the approval has expired unless the plan has received
an extension from the Planning Commission or City Council. Fees for review of
an expired site plan may be waived or reduced in those instances where no
substantial change in conditions of the site plan or of abutting uses has taken
place. In those instances where substantial conditions have changed, the fee
for review of an expired site plans shall be the same as for the initial
submittal.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the owner of a property for
which site plan approval has been granted to maintain the property in
accordance with the approved site design on a continuing basis until the
property is razed, or until new zoning regulations supersede the regulations
upon which site approval was based, or until a new site design approval is
sought. Such maintenance shall include all building and site elements depicted
on the site plan including parking configuration, lighting and landscaping. Any
property owner who fails to maintain a site as approved shall be deemed in
violation of the applicable use provisions of this chapter and shall be subject
to penalties.
         (d)   A development agreement with suitable guarantee and performance
bond may be required by the city to assure compliance with an approved final
site plan.
   (D)   Administrative plan review. For uses and projects eligible for
administrative review, the following procedure shall apply:
      (1)   Submittal requirements. Four copies (five if in the Downtown
Development Area) of the site plan that contains the information listed in
division (E) below, shall be submitted to the Planning and Community
Development Department.
      (2)   Review. The Planning and Community Development Department shall
review and either approve the site plan, approve the site plan with a condition
that certain revisions be made, or deny the site plan.
      (3)   Appeal. Either the Planning and Community Development Department,
Building Department or applicant shall have the option to request site plan
review by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Issuance of building permit. A building permit shall be issued
following review and approval of any engineering or construction plans by the
Building Department or Planning and Community Development Department, as
appropriate.
   (E)   Submittal requirements. The following information shall be included
with and as part of a site plan submitted for review. The Planning Commission,
upon recommendation of the City Planner, shall not review applications
considered to be incomplete by the Planning and Community Development
Department. The Planning Commission may waive information considered not
applicable to the proposed site plan.
      (1)   Application form. Including written proof of property ownership or
option to purchase (with specified time limit) and signed authorization
designating a representative.
      (2)   Site plan description and identification data.
         (a)   Site plans shall consist of an overall plan for the entire
development, drawn to an engineer’s scale of not less than 1 inch = 50 feet for
property less than 3 acres, or 1 inch = 100 feet for property 3 acres or more
in size. Sheet size shall be at least 24 x 36 inches. If a large development is
shown in sections on multiple sheets, then one overall composite sheet shall be
included;
         (b)   Written project description, including proposed use, building(s)
and site improvements;
         (c)   Title block with sheet number/title; name, address and telephone
number of the applicant and firm or individual who prepared the plans; and date
(s) of submission and any revisions (month, day, year);
         (d)   Scale and north-point;
         (e)   Location map drawn to a separate scale with north-point, showing
surrounding land, water features, zoning and streets within a quarter mile;
         (f)   Legal and common description of property;
         (g)   Identification and seal of architect, engineer, land surveyor,
or landscape architect who prepared drawings;
         (h)   Zoning classification of petitioner’s parcel and all abutting
parcels;
         (i)   Proximity to section corner and major thoroughfares; and
         (j)   Net acreage (minus rights-of-way) and total acreage.
      (3)   Site analysis.
         (a)   Survey of existing lot lines, building lines, structures,
parking areas and other improvements on the site and within 100 feet of the
site;
         (b)   Surrounding land uses and zoning;
         (c)   All existing easements;
         (d)   Existing roadways and driveways within 100 feet of the site;
         (e)   Existing sidewalks and non-motorized pathways.
      (4)   Site plan.
         (a)   Proposed lot lines, lot dimensions, property lines and setback
dimensions;
         (b)   Structures, and other improvements;
         (c)   Proposed easements;
         (d)   Location of exterior lighting (site and building lighting) in
accordance with site lighting standards;
         (e)   Location of trash receptacle(s) and transformer pad(s) and
method of screening;
         (f)   Extent of any outdoor sales or display area.
       (5)   Access and circulation.
         (a)   Dimensions, curve radii and centerlines of existing and proposed
access points, roads and road rights-of-way or access easements;
         (b)   Opposing driveways and intersections within 100 feet of site;
         (c)   Cross section details of proposed roads, driveways, parking
lots, sidewalks and non-motorized paths illustrating materials and thickness;
         (d)   Dimensions of acceleration, deceleration, and passing lanes;
         (e)   Dimensions of parking spaces, islands, circulation aisles and
loading zones;
         (f)   Dimensions and details of wall and sidewalk protection;
         (g)   Calculations for required number of parking and loading spaces;
         (h)   Designation of fire lanes;
         (i)   Traffic regulatory signs and pavement markings;
         (j)   Location of existing and proposed sidewalks/pathways within the
site or right-of-way;
         (k)   Location, height, and outside dimensions of all storage areas
and facilities.
      (6)   Landscape plans.
         (a)   Location of existing and proposed lawns and landscaped areas;
         (b)   Planting plan, including location and type of all proposed
shrubs, trees, and other live plant material;
         (c)   Planting list for proposed landscape materials with caliper size
or height of material, method of installation, botanical and common names, and
quantity;
         (d)   Proposed dates of plant installation;
         (e)   Description of methods to preserve existing plant materials;
         (f)   Landscape maintenance schedule; and
         (g)   A bond held in escrow may be required for up to three years to
ensure landscape health and maintenance.
      (7)   Building and structure details.
         (a)   Location, height, and outside dimensions of all existing and
proposed buildings or structures;
         (b)   Building floor plans and total floor area;
         (c)   Details on accessory structures and any screening;
         (d)   Location, size, height, and lighting of all proposed site and
wall signs;
         (e)   Location, size, height and material of construction for all
obscuring walls, berms and fences with cross-sections, where required;
         (f)   Building facade elevations for all sides, drawn at an
appropriate scale;
         (g)   Description of exterior building materials and colors (samples
may be required).
      (8)   Drainage, soil erosion, sedimentation control and utilities.
         (a)   Location and size of existing and proposed storm sewers;
         (b)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control measures;
         (c)   Location of existing and proposed sanitary sewers;
         (d)   Location and size of existing and proposed water mains, well
sites, water service and fire hydrants;
         (e)   Location of existing and proposed gas, electric and telephone
lines, above and below ground;
         (f)   Location of transformers and utility boxes; and
         (g)   Assessment of potential impacts from the use, storage,
processing, or movement of hazardous materials or chemicals, if applicable.
      (9)   Lighting plan.
         (a)   Location and height of all freestanding, building-mounted and
canopy light fixtures on the site plan and building elevations;
         (b)   Photometric grid overlaid on the proposed site plan indicating
the overall light intensity throughout the site (in foot-candles);
         (c)   Specifications and details for the type of fixture being
proposed including the total lumen output, type of lamp and method of
shielding; and
         (d)   Use of the fixture proposed.
      (10) Additional information may be required as determined by the Planning
and Community Development Department, Building Department, Planning Commission
and other applicable city departments and codes, to properly review an
application.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 863, passed 10-2-
17)
§ 155.287 STANDARDS FOR SITE PLAN APPROVAL.
   Site plan approval shall be granted only if the site plan meets all
applicable standards set forth in this chapter as outlined below:
   (A)   Adequacy of information. The site plan shall include all required
information in sufficiently complete and understandable form to provide an
accurate description of the proposed use(s) and structure(s). All sheets must
be consistent. The Planning Commission, upon recommendation of the City
Planner, has the right to waive any of the submittal requirements if not
applicable to the proposed project.
   (B)   Site design characteristics. All elements of the site design shall be
designed and organized in relation to scale, character and architectural
features of the adjoining properties, the size and type of subject property,
the type and size of buildings and environmentally sensitive areas. The
property shall be developed so as not to impede the normal and orderly
development or improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted by this
chapter. The site shall be designed to conform to all provisions of this
chapter. Redevelopment of existing sites shall be brought into conformance with
all site improvement provisions of this chapter which are relative to and
proportionate to the extent of redevelopment, as determined by the Planning
Commission.
   (C)   Buildings. Buildings and structures will meet or exceed setback
standards, build-to lines, height and other dimensional standards, and placed
to preserve environmentally sensitive areas. Redevelopment of existing
structures shall meet or exceed all standards for which a variance has not been
obtained.
   (D)   Architecture. All proposed development subject to site plan approval
shall utilize sensitive design and quality architecture materials to ensure
that buildings are compatible with surrounding uses, protects the investment of
adjacent landowners, blends harmoniously into the streetscape, and maintains a
positive image for the city.
   (E)   Materials and colors. Building and sign materials and colors shall
relate well and not deviate from the surrounding area. Subtle earth tone colors
shall be used for building and roofing material. The Planning Commission or
City Council, if applicable, may require a color rendering.
   (F)   Scale and compatibility. Buildings shall possess architectural
variety, but enhance the overall cohesive community character. Buildings shall
consider the scale and proportion of existing structures in the area. Roof
shape and materials shall be architecturally compatible with adjacent buildings
and enhance the predominant streetscape.
   (G)   Architectural features. All buildings are encouraged to provide
architectural features, details and ornaments such as archways, colonnades,
cornices, peaked rooflines or towers. Building walls over 100 feet in length
shall be broken up with varying building lines, windows, architectural accents
and trees. Building entrances are encouraged to have windows, canopies and
awnings; provide unity of scale, texture, and color; and provide a distinct
exterior entry area between a building and access lanes or parking areas.
   (H)   Equipment screening. All rooftop HVAC and other mechanical equipment
shall be screened.
   (I)   Privacy. The site design shall provide reasonable visual and sound
privacy for dwelling units located therein and adjacent thereto. Fences, walks,
barriers, buffers and plantings shall be used, as appropriate, for the
protection and enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants.
   (J)   Emergency vehicle access. All buildings or groups of buildings shall
be arranged so as to permit emergency vehicle access.
   (K)   Ingress and egress. Safe, convenient, and well-defined vehicular and
pedestrian circulation within and to the site shall be provided. Drives,
streets, parking and other elements shall be designed to discourage through-
traffic, while promoting safe and efficient traffic operations within the site
and at its access points. Access to the site shall be designed to minimize
conflicts with traffic on adjacent streets.
   (L)   Non-motorized circulation. The site plan shall provide a non-motorized
circulation system that is insulated as completely as is reasonably possible
from the vehicular circulation system.
   (M)   Vehicular, pedestrian and bicycle circulation layout. The arrangement
of public or common ways for vehicular and pedestrian circulation shall respect
the pattern of existing or planned streets and pedestrian or bicycle pathways
in the area. The width of streets and drives shall be appropriate for the
volume of traffic they will carry, on-street parking, where appropriate, and
the desired character of the streetscape and neighborhood or district.
   (N)   Soil erosion. The proposed development shall include measures to
prevent soil erosion and sedimentation.
   (O)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting shall be designed so that it is
deflected away from adjacent properties, does not impede the vision of drivers
on public streets and meets the intent of this chapter.
   (P)   Public services. The scale and design of the proposed development
shall facilitate acceptable and adequate provision of services currently
furnished by or that may be required of the city or other public agencies
including, but not limited to, fire and police protection, stormwater and
sanitary sewage removal and treatment, water supply, traffic control and
administrative services.
   (Q)   Hazardous materials. Sites which include storage of hazardous
materials or waste, fuels, salt, or chemicals shall be designed to prevent
spills and discharges of polluting materials to the surface of the ground,
groundwater or nearby surface water bodies.
   (R)   Consistency with the Master Plan and any applicable subarea or
corridor plans.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.288 PROCEDURES FOR SPECIAL LAND USE REVIEW.
   (A)   Application. Applications for special land use permits authorized by
this chapter shall be submitted to the Community Development Director on a form
provided by the city. In addition to a complete application form, the applicant
is required to submit a preliminary site plan meeting the requirements of site
plan review. The Community Development Director shall not accept incomplete
submittals.
   (B)   Effect of approval. Approval of a preliminary site plan by the city
shall only be valid if approved in conjunction with approval of a special land
use and shall indicate general acceptance of the proposed layout of buildings,
streets and drives, parking areas, other facilities and overall character of
the proposed development. Following approval of a special land use and
preliminary site plan, the applicant shall be required to submit a final site
plan in accordance with §
155.286, Site plan review.
   (C)   Procedures. The procedures set below shall be followed by the Planning
Commission upon the scheduling of a public hearing, as specified in §
155.291.
      (1)   The Community Development Director shall review the proposed
application and preliminary site plan to determine if all required information
has been supplied, and forward the completed application, preliminary site
plan, and supporting data to the Planning Commission for a recommendation.
      (2)   The Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing as required
in §
155.291. The Commission shall review the special land use application and
preliminary site plan following the close of the public hearing, and shall
within a reasonable period of time make a recommendation to City Council to
either approve, approve with conditions, or deny the proposed special land use.
Any such recommendation to approve or approve with conditions shall not
constitute approval of the preliminary site plan.
      (3)   The City Council, within a reasonable period of time after
receiving Planning Commission recommendation, shall approve, approve with
conditions, or deny a request for a special land use. The City Council decision
shall be incorporated in a statement of conclusions relative to the special
land use under consideration. Any decision that denies a request or imposes
conditions upon its approval shall specify the basis for the denial or the
conditions imposed.
   (D)   Conditions. The City Council may impose such additional conditions and
safeguards deemed necessary for the general welfare, for the protection of
individual property rights, and for insuring that the purposes of this chapter
and the general spirit and purpose of the district in which the special use is
proposed will be observed.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.289 STANDARDS FOR SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL.
   (A)   Basis of determinations. The City Council and Planning Commission
shall review the proposed special use in terms of any specific requirements
stated within this chapter and shall establish that such use and the proposed
location:
      (1)   Will be harmonious and in accordance with the goals, policies and
actions of the Master Plan;
      (2)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
visually and physically harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the
existing or intended character of the general vicinity and not change the
essential scale and character of the area;
      (3)   Will be a visual, physical and economic improvement in relation to
property in the immediate vicinity and to the city as a whole;
      (4)   Will be served adequately by essential public services and
facilities or that the persons responsible for the establishment of the
proposed use will adequately provide any such service or facility;
      (5)   Will not detract from the desirability and orderly function of
residential or business uses. Discretion shall be given to the impact of the
proposed use upon existing uses, which may relate to traffic generation, sound,
artificial lighting, odors, emission of exhaust gases, pedestrian traffic,
hours and days of operation, creation of a public or private nuisance,
opportunity for crime or criminal activity, congregation of individuals for
purposes other than intended by the proposed use, and similar factors generated
by the proposed use. The factors stated herein are not intended as a limitation
upon the possible considerations and are by way of example only.
      (6)   Will not erode or reduce the economic viability of other existing
land uses. Consideration shall be given to the compatibility of other existing
uses with the proposed use and maintaining land values within the city.
      (7)   Will not impose additional service demands upon the city or its
anticipated future resources.
      (8)   Will further and enhance the health, safety, welfare, morals,
character, comfort, convenience, and policies of the city, will not create
excessive additional public costs or be detrimental to the economic welfare of
the city.
      (9)   Will be consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter,
and comply with all specific standards as established for said use by this
chapter.
   (B)   Duration, voiding and extensions of special land use permit. Unless
otherwise specified by the City Council during initial approval of the special
land use, any special land use permit granted under this section shall be null
and void unless the proposed special land use is established within one year or
building permits have been issued within such period to establish the special
land use. If an extension is needed, the applicant may request an extension of
the final site plan approval associated with the special land use from the
Planning Commission. This request shall be made prior to the expiration of
their current final site plan approval and special land use permit. The
Planning Commission may grant a six month extension for good cause of the final
site plan approval and its associated special land use permit.
   (C)   The Community Development Director may suspend or revoke a permit
issued under the provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is issued
erroneously on the basis of incorrect information supplied by the applicant or
his agent and is in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and
other ordinances or regulations of the city.
   (D)   Reapplication. No application for a special use permit which has been
denied wholly or in part shall be resubmitted until the expiration of one year
or more from the date of such denial, except on grounds of newly discovered
evidence or change of conditions found to be sufficient to justify
reconsideration by the Planning Commission and City Council.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17; Am. Ord. 863, passed 10-2-
17)
§ 155.290 SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   The city may schedule special meetings per an applicant’s request and
availability of Planning Commissioners, necessary staff and professional
consultants. The applicant is required to pay associated fees with the
application.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.291 PUBLIC HEARING NOTIFICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Zoning Ordinance adoption and amendments.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing
prior to issuing a recommendation to the City Council for the adoption of a new
zoning ordinance or zoning amendment. The City Council may hold additional
hearings if considered necessary.
      (2)   The city shall notify the general public of the time and place of
the public hearing at least 15 days prior to such hearing. The notice shall be
published in an official paper or paper of general circulation within the city.
      (3)   The city shall notify each public utility company and railroad
company owning or operating any public utility or railroad within the district
or zone affected of the time and place of the public hearing and at least 15
days prior to such hearing. The notice shall be delivered via mail to the name
and address as registered with the City Clerk. An affidavit of the mailing
shall be maintained.
      (4)   Following adoption of a zoning ordinance or subsequent amendments,
one notice of the adoption shall be published in newspaper of general
circulation in the city within 15 days of adoption. The following information
shall be provided in the notice:
         (a)   For a newly adopted zoning ordinance, the statement shall read;
“A zoning ordinance regulating the development and use of land has been adopted
by the City Council of the City of Inkster.”
         (b)   For an amendment to the existing ordinance, the statement shall
either summarize the regulatory affect of the amendment including the
geographic area affected or contain the amendment text.
         (c)   The effective date of the ordinance or amendment.
         (d)   The place and time where a copy of the ordinance may be
purchased or inspected.
   (B)   Special land uses or discretionary decisions.
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall hold at least one public hearing
prior to issuing a recommendation to the City Council for an application for a
special land use or other discretionary decision relating to this chapter. The
City Council may hold additional hearings if considered necessary.
      (2)   Prior to any public hearing, one notice shall be published in at
least one newspaper of general circulation within the city. In addition, notice
shall be mailed or personally delivered to the owners of the property for which
approval is being considered, to all persons to whom real property is assessed
within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in question, and to the
occupants of all structures within 300 feet. If the name of the occupant is not
known, the term “occupant” may be used. Notification need not be given to more
than one occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than
one dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses, or organizations, one occupant of each unit or
spatial area shall receive notice. In the case of a single structure containing
more than four dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased
by different individuals, partnerships, businesses, or organizations, notice
may be given to the manager or owner of the structure who shall be requested to
post the notice at the primary entrance to the structure.
      (3)   The notice shall be given not less than 5 and no more than 15 days
before the date of the public hearing. The notice shall:
         (a)   Describe the nature of the request;
         (b)   Describe the property which is the subject of the request;
         (c)   State when and where the public hearing will be considered;
         (d)   Describe when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request;
         (e)   Indicate that a public hearing has been scheduled at the
initiative of the appropriate board.
   (C)   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals. The Zoning Board of Appeals
shall provide public notification for all appeals as required in §
155.275(D).
   (D)   Regulated uses. An application for waiver from location restrictions
shall be decided upon following the public hearing procedure as required for
special land uses in division (B) of this section.
   (E)   Wireless communications facilities. An application for special land
uses shall follow notification requirements of §
155.214(K) and §
155.291(B).
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.292 FEE STRUCTURE.
   (A)   The City Council shall establish a schedule of fees and a collection
procedure for site plan, rezoning and other reviews, building permits,
certificates of occupancy, certificates of re- occupancy, inspections, appeals,
and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The city shall have the authority
to include fees for the use of engineering, planning, legal or other special
consultants. No permit, certificate, special land use approval, or variance
shall be issued until such fees have been paid in full.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may recommend adjustments in the fee schedule
for the site plan review process to City Council for formal adoption.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. passed 2-20-17)
§ 155.293 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   The Planning Commission, or City Council when applicable, may require
an applicant to deposit a performance guarantee as set forth herein to ensure
compliance and completion of improvements with this chapter. Improvements
include, but not limited to, streets, parking, lighting, utilities, sidewalks,
drainage, fences, screens, walls, and landscaping.
   (B)   A performance guarantee, as used herein, shall mean a cash deposit,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit or corporate surety bond in
the amount of the estimated cost of the improvements to be made as determined
by the city in consultation with the applicant. The city is authorized to
review cost estimates and conduct periodic inspections of the progress of
improvements.
   (C)   A performance guarantee shall be deposited with the city prior to the
issuance of a building permit for the development and use of the land. Upon the
deposit of the performance guarantee the city shall issue the appropriate
building permit.
   (D)   The Planning Commission, or City Council when applicable, shall set
the period of time completion of improvements in relation to the required
performance guarantee. The period will begin from the date of the issuance of
the building permit.
   (E)   The Community Development Director, upon the written request of the
applicant, shall rebate portions of the performance guarantee upon
determination that the improvements for which the rebate has been requested
have been satisfactorily completed. The portion of the performance guarantee to
be rebated shall be in the same amount as stated in the itemized cost estimate
for the applicable improvement.
   (F)   The city shall return to the applicant the performance guarantee
deposited and any interest earned thereon upon the satisfactory completion of
the improvement, as determined by the city, for which the performance guarantee
was required. However, the city is not required to deposit the performance
guarantee in an interest-bearing account.
   (G)   In the event the applicant defaults in making the improvements for
which the performance guarantee was required within the time period established
by the city, the city shall have the right to use the deposited performance
guarantee and any interest earned to complete the improvements through contract
or otherwise, including specifically, the right to enter upon the subject
property to make the improvements.
   (H)   If the performance guarantee is not sufficient to allow the city to
complete the improvements, the applicant shall be required to pay the city any
additional costs incurred in completing the improvements. Should the city use
the performance guarantee, or a portion thereof, to complete the required
improvements, any amounts remaining after said completion shall first be
applied to the city’s administrative costs including, without limitation,
attorney fees, planning consultant fees, and engineering consultant fees in
completing the improvement with any balance remaining being refunded to the
applicant.
   (I)   If the applicant has been required to post a performance guarantee or
bond with another governmental agency other than the city to ensure completion
of an improvement, the applicant shall not be required to deposit with the city
a performance guarantee for that specific improvement. At the time the
performance guarantee is deposited with the city and prior to the issuance of a
building permit, the applicant shall enter an agreement incorporating the
provisions hereof with the city regarding the performance guarantee.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.294 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   The City Council may from time to time, on recommendation from the City
Planning Commission or on petition, amend, supplement or change the district
boundaries or the regulations herein, or subsequently established herein,
pursuant to the authority and procedure established in Act 207 of the Public
Acts of 1921 as amended.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.295 FINAL INSPECTION.
   The holder of every building permit for the construction, erection,
alteration, repair or moving of any building, structure or part thereof shall
notify the Building Department immediately upon the completion of the work
authorized by such permit, for final inspection.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.296 PUBLIC NUISANCE AND ABATEMENT.
   Any building or structure which is erected, altered or converted, or any use
of premises or land which is begun or changed, subsequent to the time of
passage of this chapter and in violation of any of the provisions thereof, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and may be abated by order of
any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.297 OWNER’S LIABILITY TO PUNISHMENT.
   The owner of any building, structure or premises or part thereof, where any
condition in violation of this chapter shall exist or shall be created, and who
has assisted knowingly in the commission of such violation shall be guilty of a
separate offense and, upon conviction thereof, shall be liable to the fines and
imprisonment herein provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.298 CUMULATIVE RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.
   The rights and remedies provided in this chapter are cumulative and in
addition to any other remedies provided by law.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.299 (REPEALED)
§ 155.300 IMPOSITION OF PENALTY DOES NOT EXEMPT COMPLIANCE WITH REQUIREMENTS.
   Imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the defendant from compliance
with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.301 SEVERABILITY.
   This chapter and the various parts, sections, and clauses thereof are hereby
declared to be severable. Should any part, section, paragraph, sentence,
clause, or phrase be declared unconstitutional or invalid for any reason, it is
hereby provided that the remainder of the chapter shall not be affected
thereby.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.302 SAVINGS.
   All proceedings pending and all rights and liabilities existing and acquired
or incurred at the time this chapter takes effect are saved and may be
consummated according to the law in force when they are commenced.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.303 VALIDITY.
   Should any section, clause, or paragraph of this chapter be declared by a
court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, the same will not affect the
validity of the chapter as a whole or part thereof other than the part declared
to be invalid.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.304 TIME LIMITATIONS ON ORDERS.
   (A)   No order of the City Council permitting the erection or alteration of
buildings shall be valid for a period longer than one year unless a building
permit for such erection or alteration is obtained within such period and such
erection or alteration is commenced and proceeds to completion in accordance
with the terms of such permit.
   (B)   No order of the City Council permitting a use of a building or
premises shall be valid for a period longer than one year unless such use is
established within such period; provided, however, that the use of such permit
is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building such order shall
continue in full force and effect if a building permit for such use, erection,
or alteration is obtained within such period and such erections or alterations
are commenced and proceed to completion in accordance with the terms of such
permit.
   (C)   No order of the Zoning Board of Appeals permitting a use of a building
or premises shall be valid for a period longer than one year unless such use is
established within such period; provided, however, that the use of such permit
is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building such order shall
continue in full force and effect if a building permit for such use, erection,
or alteration is obtained within such period and such erections or alterations
are commenced and proceed to completion in accordance with the terms of such
permit.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01; Am. Ord. 863, passed 10-2-17)
§ 155.305 through § 155.319 RESERVED.
REPEAL AND EFFECTIVE DATE
§ 155.321 REPEAL.
   All ordinances inconsistent herewith are repealed. The repeal does not
affect or impair any act done, offence committed, or right accruing, accrued,
or acquired, or liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred prior to
the time enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.322 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The provisions of this chapter are hereby ordered to take effect immediately
after publication and/or posting as may be required by law.
(Ord. 792, passed 12-3-01)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General. Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which
no specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Required petition. Any person convicted of a violation of any
provision of §
155.203(D)(2) may be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment
of not more than 90 days or by both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion
of the court.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of §
155.144 may be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or imprisonment of not
more than 90 days or by both such fine and imprisonment in the discretion of
the court.
   (D)   (1)   Any person found guilty of violating any provision of §
155.262 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and upon conviction thereof, shall be
punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs of prosecution or by
imprisonment of not more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   In addition to the foregoing, any violation of §
155.262 shall be deemed a nuisance permitting the City Council, its officers
and/or agents, after proper posting of notice to take such action to cause the
abatement of such nuisance at the owner’s/responsible parties’ expense.
(Ord. 823, passed 5-4-09; Am. Ord. 830, passed 12-21-09; Am. Ord. 867, passed
3-5-18)
CHAPTER 156: BLIGHT VIOLATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Purpose
   
156.02   Definitions
   
156.03   Exclusions
   
156.04   Chapter not inconsistent
Administrative Hearings Bureau
   
156.20   Establishment and composition
   
156.21   Administrative hearing officer; powers and duties
   
156.22   Administrative hearing officer training requirements
   
156.23   Rules; available for public inspection
   
156.24   Instituting administrative adjudication proceedings
   
156.25   Adjudication by mail
   
156.26   Notice
   
156.27   Administrative hearings
   
156.28   Default
   
156.29   Subpoenas
   
156.30   Compliance bond
   
156.31   Violations of orders
   
156.32   Seized/unclaimed property
   
156.33   Judicial review
   
156.34   Enforcement of the administrative hearing officer’s order
   
156.35   Interest
   
156.36   Fines payable to the office of City Treasurer
   
156.37   Petition to set aside default order
   
156.38   Petition by city department for relief from a final order of liability
entered in error
   
156.39   Election of remedies
   
156.40   Administrative adjudication procedures not exclusive
Violations
   
156.50   General violations
   
156.51   Specific violations
   
156.52   Penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 PURPOSE.
   The city finds that the current zoning and housing related ordinances have
operated in a manner that has been less than efficient and effective in
obtaining compliance in the city’s neighborhoods. This chapter is designed to
define, prevent, reduce, and eliminate blight, factors, and causes of blight
and address other quality of life violations in the city that negatively impact
the public health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the city. Consistent
with the state statute, MCL 117.4l, 117.4q and 117.4r, authorizing the creation
of an administrative hearings bureau, the city finds that changing zoning,
building or property maintenance, solid waste and illegal dumping, disease and
sanitation, noxious weeds, and vehicle abandonment, and inoperative vehicles
from criminal misdemeanor or civil infraction offenses to blight violations
punishable by a civil fine as determined following a hearing in the city
Administrative Hearings Bureau is a potentially more efficient and effective
way of gaining compliance.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, as used in this chapter, shall have the
meaning set forth in this section unless a different meaning is clearly
required by the context.
   BLIGHT. A condition that impairs, destroys, or deteriorates the property
because of its decay, improper storage, or effect on property or quality of
life including, but not limited to, such things as litter, refuse, rubbish,
garbage, junk, noxious weeds, inoperative vehicles, and waste. The proper
storage of materials or equipment incidental to and necessary for the carrying
out of any business or occupation lawfully being carried out on the property in
question is not the cause of blight or a blighting factor if all applicable
city ordinances are satisfied. The piling and storage of firewood in a neat
orderly manner for consumption by the property residents is not blight.
   BLIGHT VIOLATION. Any unlawful act, or any omission or failure to act, which
is designated by this chapter as a blight violation pursuant to Section 41(2)
of the Michigan Home Rule Cities Act, being MCL 117.4l(2).
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Any material or equipment used in the restoration,
renovation or construction of any structure or surface, including but not
limited to lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing materials,
electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts and equipment, shingles, mortar,
concrete, cement, nails, screws, ladders, scaffolding, or tools.
   GARBAGE. All animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the handling,
preparation, cooking, consumption, or decomposition of food.
   JUNK. Any abandoned, discarded, stored, unused object or equipment,
regardless of viability of use or value, stored in the open, including but not
limited to motor vehicle parts, machinery, furniture, appliances, bottles,
boxes, cartons, crates, or remnants of cloth, wood, metal, rubber, or other
cast-off materials.
   LITTER. Garbage, refuse and rubbish as defined herein, all other waste
materials and all other objects and materials including, but not limited to,
furniture, appliances, clothing and all other household objects which, if
thrown or deposited as herein prohibited, tends to create a danger to public
health, safety and welfare.
   REFUSE. Garbage, rubbish, trash, debris, junk, ashes, incinerator ash or
residue, street cleaning, industrial sludge, solid commercial and industrial
waste, animal waste, inoperable household appliances, or broken or damaged
stuffed furniture, but does not include human body waste, liquid or other waste
regulated by statute, or ferrous or nonferrous scrap possessed by a commercial
scrap metal processor or a commercial re-user of ferrous or nonferrous
products.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes consisting of both combustible and
noncombustible wastes, such as paper, wrappings, cigarettes, cardboard, tin
cans, grass clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, and similar materials.
   WASTE. Any litter, garbage, trash, rubbish, or refuse that is a useless or
worthless by-product of any industrial, biological, or other such process and
tends to create a danger to public health, safety, and welfare. USELESS shall
be defined as not having useful qualities; of no practical good; or not serving
the purpose or not having any purpose. WORTHLESS shall be defined as without
worth; of no use, importance or value; good-for-nothing; useless; or valueless.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.03 EXCLUSIONS.
   (A)   This chapter does not address any civil infraction under the Michigan
Vehicle Code, the Uniform Traffic Code, provisions that allow for control of
traffic in parking areas, or a similar municipal ordinance.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter affects the jurisdiction of the Planning
Commission, the Zoning Board of Appeals or the Building Code Board of Examiners
and Appeals. Furthermore, nothing in this chapter shall affect the provisions
of any other ordinance that is not in conflict with the provisions contained
herein.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.04 CHAPTER NOT INCONSISTENT.
   The provisions of this chapter apply to administrative adjudication
proceedings conducted by the Administrative Hearings Bureau to the extent that
they are not inconsistent with the provisions of this chapter, which set forth
specific procedures for the administrative adjudication of particular Code
provisions.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS BUREAU
§ 156.20 ESTABLISHMENT AND COMPOSITION.
   (A)   The City Council establishes an office of the municipal government to
be known as the Administrative Hearings Bureau (“Bureau”), which is authorized
to conduct administrative adjudication proceedings for departments and agencies
of the city for blight violations, as defined in §
156.02.
   (B)   The Bureau will be administered by an administrative hearings officer
(s), who will be appointed by the City Council, and staffed by other employees
as may be provided for in the approved city budget. The administrative hearing
officer shall only be removed for reasonable cause.
   (C)   The administrative hearings officer will be compensated pursuant to a
resolution approved by the City Council which resolution may be amended from
time to time.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.21 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER; POWERS AND DUTIES.
   Each administrative hearing officer appointed by the City Council must be an
attorney admitted to the practice of law in the State of Michigan for at least
five years and is removable only upon reasonable cause. Each administrative
hearing officer has all the power necessary to conduct fair and impartial
hearings including, but not limited to, the power to:
   (A)   Hold conferences for the settlement or simplification of the issues;
   (B)   Administer oaths and affirmations;
   (C)   Hear testimony;
   (D)   Rule upon motions, objections, and the admissibility of evidence;
   (E)   Subpoena the attendance of relevant witnesses and the production of
relevant books, records, or other information, subject to the restrictions
contained in §
156.29 at the request of any party or on the administrative hearing officer’s
own motion;
   (F)   Preserve and authenticate the record of the hearing and all exhibits
and evidence introduced at the hearing;
   (G)   Regulate the course of the hearing in accordance with this chapter,
the rules adopted by the Bureau, or other applicable law;
   (H)   Discuss administrative adjudication proceedings with a supervisor, if
one is appointed;
   (I)   Issue a final order, which includes findings of fact and conclusions
of law;
   (J)   Impose penalties and fines, if any, and issue orders that are
consistent with applicable code provisions and assess costs upon finding a
party liable for the charged violation; provided, however, that an
administrative hearing officer does not have the authority to: impose a penalty
of imprisonment; or except in cases to enforce the collection of any tax
imposed and collected by the city, in which this limitation shall not apply,
impose a fine in excess of $10,000 exclusive of costs of enforcement or costs
imposed to secure compliance with this Code;
   (K)   Assess costs upon affirming the order or determination in any case in
which a party has sought review by the Bureau of an order or determination of
another city department or agency, when such review is authorized by this Code;
and
   (L)   Does not have the power to reduce, suspend or hold in abeyance any
minimum fine which may be established from time to time by resolution of the
City Council for any violation established in this chapter.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.22 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER TRAINING REQUIREMENTS.
   Before conducting any administrative adjudication proceeding, an
administrative hearing officer must have successfully completed a formal
training program which program shall be approved by the city, which includes
the following:
   (A)   Instruction on the rules of procedure of the administrative hearings,
which he or she will conduct;
   (B)   Orientation to each subject area of the code violations, which he or
she will adjudicate;
   (C)   Observation of administrative hearings; and
   (D)   Participation in hypothetical cases, including ruling on evidence and
issuing final orders.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.23 RULES; AVAILABLE FOR PUBLIC INSPECTION.
   The rules promulgated by the Bureau for the conduct of administrative
adjudication proceedings must be published within 60 days of the adoption of
this chapter and thereafter kept on file in the office of the City Clerk for
public inspection and copying during normal business hours.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.24 INSTITUTING ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEEDINGS.
   Any authorized department or agency of the city may institute an
administrative adjudication proceeding with the Bureau by forwarding a copy of
a notice of violation and a notice of hearing, which has been properly served
on the respondent, to the Bureau. Authorized local official means a city Police
Officer, Firefighter, Code Enforcement Officer, Building Official and/or
Building Official’s designee, Inspector and/or other city employee or agent,
who is authorized to issue blight violations in accordance with this chapter
and the provisions of this Code that are designated as blight violations. Any
authorized local official who institutes an administrative adjudication
proceeding with the Bureau shall contemporaneously with the service upon the
respondent of the notice of violation and notice of hearing, provide a copy of
the notice of violation and notice of hearing to the Building Official.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.25 ADJUDICATION BY MAIL.
   The rules adopted by the Bureau may provide that a respondent may elect to
contest an alleged violation through adjudication by mail rather than at an
administrative hearing.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.26 NOTICE.
   (A)   Before any administrative adjudication proceeding may be conducted,
the parties must be afforded notice in compliance with this section.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by law or rule, the issue of a notice of
violation or notice of hearing must specify in the notice his or her name and
department; where known, the name and address of the person or entity charged
with the violation; the date, time and place of the violation; the section of
the Code or departmental rule or regulation which was allegedly violated; and
certify the correctness of the specified information by signing his or her name
to the notice with the following: “I declare under the penalties of perjury
that the statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and
belief.” A notice of hearing including the date, time, and location of the
hearing and the penalties for failure to appear at the hearing must be
included.
   (C)   Unless otherwise provided by law or rule, a notice of violation or
notice of hearing must be served upon the alleged violator no less than 14
calendar days before the date of the hearing:
      (1)   By first class or express mail or by overnight carrier at the
violator’s residence address or, if the violator is a business entity, at any
address identified for its registered agent or at its principal place of
business;
      (2)   By personal service, including personal service upon an employee or
agent of the alleged violator at a place of business of the alleged violator or
otherwise if such service is reasonably calculated to give the alleged violator
actual notice; or
      (3)   If service cannot be made by either of division (C)(1) or (2)
above, when the alleged violator is the owner or manager of the property, by
posting a copy of the violation notice on the front entrance of the building or
other structure where the violation is found, or if the property is unimproved
or fenced off, by posting a copy of the violation notice in a prominent place
upon the property where the violation is found.
   (D)   In all non-emergency situations, if requested by the respondent, the
respondent has at least 15 days after the date of mailing or other service of a
notice of violation or notice of hearing to prepare for a hearing. For purposes
of this section “non-emergency situation” means any situation that does not
reasonably constitute a threat to the public interest, safety, or welfare.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.27 ADMINISTRATIVE HEARINGS.
   (A)   Any administrative adjudication proceeding conducted by the Bureau
must be conducted before an administrative hearing officer.
   (B)   An attorney who appears on behalf of any person must file with the
administrative hearing officer a written appearance on a form provided by or
approved by the Bureau for such purpose.
   (C)   The case for the city may not be presented by an employee of the
Bureau; provided, however, that documentary evidence, including the notice of
violation, which has been prepared by another department or agency of the city
may be presented at the hearing by the administrative hearing officer.
   (D)   The administrative hearing officer may grant a continuance only upon a
finding of good cause.
   (E)   All testimony must be given under oath or affirmation.
   (F)   The administrative hearing officer may issue subpoenas to secure the
attendance and testimony of relevant witnesses and the production of relevant
documents. Issuance of subpoenas is subject to the restrictions contained in §
156.29.
   (G)   Subject to division (J) of this section, the administrative hearing
officer may, in unusual circumstances, permit witnesses to submit testimony by
affidavit or by telephone. The administrative hearings officer shall use his
best efforts to verify the identity of any witness that may be allowed to
testify by telephone.
   (H)   The formal and technical rules of evidence do not apply in the conduct
of the hearing. Evidence, including hearsay, may be admitted only if it is of a
type commonly relied upon by reasonably prudent persons in the conduct of their
affairs.
   (I)   The office of the City Attorney must prove the violation by a
preponderance of the evidence; however, a violation notice, or a copy thereof,
issued and signed in accordance with §
156.26 is prima facie evidence of the correctness of the facts specified
therein.
   (J)   Upon the timely request of any party to the proceeding, any person,
who the administrative hearing officer determines may reasonably be expected to
provide testimony which is material and which does not constitute a needless
presentation of cumulative evidence, must be made available for cross-
examination before a final determination of liability.
   (K)   The record of all hearings before an administrative hearing officer
includes:
      (1)   A record of the testimony presented at the hearing, which may be
made by tape recording or other appropriate means;
      (2)   All documents presented at the hearing;
      (3)   A copy of the notice of violation or notice of hearing; and
      (4)   A copy of the findings and decision of the administrative hearing
officer.
   (L)   Upon conclusion of a hearing, the administrative hearing officer must
issue a final determination of liability or no liability. Upon issuing a final
determination of liability the administrative law officer may:
      (1)   Impose penalties and or fines that are consistent with applicable
provisions of this chapter;
      (2)   Issue orders that are consistent with applicable provisions of this
chapter; and/or
      (3)   Assess costs reasonably related to instituting the administrative
adjudication proceeding; provided, however, that the administrative hearing
officer may not impose a penalty of imprisonment or, except in cases to enforce
the collection of any tax imposed and collected by the city, where this
limitation does not apply, impose a fine in excess of $10,000 exclusive of
costs of enforcement and or costs imposed to secure compliance with this Code.
The administrative hearing officer does not have the power to reduce, suspend
or hold in abeyance any minimum fine which may be established from time to time
by resolution of the City Council for any violation established in this
chapter.
   (M)   In the issuance of a final determination of liability, an
administrative hearing officer must inform the respondent of his or her right
to seek judicial review of the final determination as provided in §
156.33.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.28 DEFAULT.
   (A)   If at the time set for a hearing the recipient of a notice of
violation or a notice of hearing, or his or her attorney of record, fails to
appear, the administrative hearing officer may find the recipient in default
and proceed with the hearing and accept evidence relevant to the existence of a
code violation and conclude with a finding, decision, and order. A copy of the
order of default must be served in any manner permitted by this section.
   (B)   The recipient of a notice of violation or a notice of hearing who is
found to be in default may petition the administrative hearing officer to set
aside the order of default and set a new hearing date in accordance with §
156.37.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.29 SUBPOENAS.
   (A)   An administrative hearing officer may issue a subpoena only if he or
she determines that the testimony of the witnesses or the documents or items
sought by the subpoena are necessary to present evidence that is:
      (1)   Relevant to the case; and
      (2)   Relates to a contested issue in the case.
   (B)   A subpoena issued under this chapter must identify:
      (1)   The person to whom it is directed;
      (2)   The documents or other items sought by the subpoena, if any; and
      (3)   The date, time, and place for the appearance of the witnesses and
or the production of the documents or other items described in the subpoena.
   (C)   The date identified for the appearance of the witnesses or the
production of the documents or other items must not be less than seven days
after service of the subpoena.
   (D)   Within three business days of being served with a subpoena issued in
accordance with this chapter, the recipient of the subpoena may appeal the
order authorizing the issuance of the subpoena to the Wayne Circuit Court or an
administrative hearing officer, who is not the same administrative hearing
officer who ordered the issuance of the subpoena.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.30 COMPLIANCE BOND.
   To ensure that code violations are remedied or fines are paid in a timely
manner, an administrative hearing officer, upon issuing a final determination
of liability, may require a code violator to post with the city a compliance
bond or, as appropriate, to consent to the granting and recording of a lien
against titled property. The administrative hearing officer may set the
compliance bond in an amount equal to the fines and costs. Whenever it is
necessary for the city to make repairs or otherwise expend funds relating to a
code violation for which a bond was posted, or whenever fines or costs remain
unpaid after a code violator has exhausted or failed to exhaust judicial review
procedures, the administrative hearing officer may, after giving the parties
notice and opportunity to be heard, issue an order permitting the city to draw
against the bond in an appropriate amount, or to foreclose on the lien. The
administrative hearing officer must order the bond or the titled property or
proceeds from the titled property, less the costs incurred by the city,
returned to the code violator upon proof of compliance with the applicable code
provisions and the payment of applicable fines or costs.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.31 VIOLATIONS OF ORDERS.
   (A)   Elements of the offense. A person violates this section if he or she:
      (1)   Receives notice and an opportunity to be heard under this Code; and
      (2)   Knowingly fails to comply with an order issued by an administrative
hearing officer under this chapter, including any requirement of a subpoena.
      (3)   Each day that the violation occurs is a separate and distinct
offense.
   (B)   Defenses. It is an affirmative defense to this section that the Wayne
County Circuit or any other court of competent jurisdiction stayed the order
issued by the administrative hearing officer before the effective date of the
order.
   (C)   Prohibited defenses. It is not a defense to this section that a
person:
      (1)   Came into compliance or attempted to come into compliance with the
order after the date the order by its terms required compliance; or
      (2)   Sought judicial review of the order but failed to obtain a stay of
the order before the date the order by its terms required compliance.
   (D)   Sentence/contempt. A person convicted under this section is guilty of
a misdemeanor and punishable by a period of jail not greater than 90 days, a
fine of not more than $500 and the costs of enforcement.
   (E)   Venue. The City Attorney must institute actions under this section in
a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.32 SEIZED/UNCLAIMED PROPERTY.
   After an administrative hearing officer has issued a final determination of
liability or no liability, any property seized by the city in relation to the
subject matter of the final determination of liability or no liability that is
not forfeited by operation of law may be reclaimed by the lawful owner provided
that all penalties and fees have been paid. The procedures for the reclamation
are within the discretion of the department head of the city department or
agency charged with maintaining custody of the property. After the expiration
of time during which judicial review of the final determination of liability
may be sought or 35 days after the final determination of no liability, unless
stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, any property not so reclaimed may
be disposed of by the city department or agency charged with maintaining
custody of the property as provided by law.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.33 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Any final decision by the Administrative Hearing Bureau that a code
violation does or does not exist is a final determination for purposes of
judicial review and is subject to review on appeal by the Wayne County Circuit
Court, except as otherwise may be provided by law for decisions issued before
the effective date of this chapter. An appeal must be filed within 28 days
after entry of the decision and order of the administrative hearing officer.
The circuit court’s review is subject to the requirements set forth in MCL
117.4q (16)–(19) which provides as follows:
      “(16)   Any final decision by a hearing officer that a blight violation
does or does not exist constitutes a final decision and order for purposes of
judicial review and may be enforced in the same manner as a judgment entered by
a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (17)   A party may file an appeal within 28 days after entry of the
decision and order by the hearing officer. An appeal of a final decision and
order of an administrative hearing officer is to the circuit court.
      (18)   An alleged violator who appeals a final decision and order to
circuit court shall post with the administrative hearings bureau, at the time
the appeal is taken, a bond equal to the fine and costs imposed. A party who
has paid the fine and costs is not required to post a bond. If a party who has
posted a bond fails to comply with the requirements of the supreme court rules
for an appeal to the circuit court, the appeal may be considered abandoned, and
the bureau may dismiss the appeal on 7 days’ notice to the parties. The
administrative hearings bureau must promptly notify the circuit court of a
dismissal, and the circuit court shall dismiss the claim of appeal. If the
appeal is dismissed or the decision and order are affirmed, the administrative
hearings bureau may apply the bond to the fine and costs. An appeal by the city
must be asserted by the city’s attorney and a bond is not required.
      (19)   An appeal to circuit court shall be a review by the court of the
certified record provided by the administrative hearings bureau. Pending
appeal, and subject to the bond requirement under subsection (18), the hearing
officer may stay the order and any sanctions or costs imposed. Once an appeal
is filed, and subject to the bond requirement under subsection (18), the court
may stay the order and any sanctions or costs imposed. The court, as
appropriate, may affirm, reverse, or modify the decision or order, or remand
the matter for further proceedings. The court shall hold unlawful and set aside
a decision or order of the hearing officer if substantial rights of an alleged
violator have been prejudiced because the decision or order is any of the
following:
         (a)   In violation of the constitution or a statute, charter, or
ordinance.
         (b)   In excess of the authority or jurisdiction of the agency as
conferred by statute, charter, or ordinance.
         (c)   Made upon unlawful procedure resulting in material prejudice to
a party.
         (d)   Not supported by competent, material, and substantial evidence
on the whole record.
         (e)   Arbitrary, capricious, or clearly an abuse or unwarranted
exercise of discretion.
         (f)   Affected by any other substantial and material error of law.”
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.34 ENFORCEMENT OF THE ADMINISTRATIVE HEARING OFFICER’S ORDER.
   (A)   Any fine, sanction, or cost imposed by an administrative hearing
officer’s order that remains unpaid after the exhaustion of, or the failure to
exhaust, judicial review procedures is a debt due and owing the city and, as
such, may be collected in accordance with applicable law.
   (B)   After the expiration of the period in which judicial review may be
sought, unless stayed by a court of competent jurisdiction, the findings,
decision, and order of an administrative hearing officer may be enforced in the
same manner as a judgment entered by a court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   In any case in which a respondent fails to comply with an
administrative hearing officer’s order to correct a code violation or imposing
a fine or other sanction as a result of a code violation, any expenses incurred
by the city to enforce the administrative hearing officer’s order, including
but not limited to, attorney’s fees, court costs, and costs related to property
demolition or foreclosure, after they are fixed by a court of competent
jurisdiction or an administrative hearing officer is a debt due and owing the
city. Before an administrative hearing officer fixes any expense, the
respondent must be provided notice that states that the respondent must appear
at a hearing before an administrative hearing officer to determine whether the
respondent has failed to comply with the administrative hearing officer’s
order. The notice must set the time for the hearing, which may not be less than
seven days from the date that notice is served. Notice is sufficient if served
by first class mail and the seven-day period begins to run on the date that the
notice is deposited in the mail.
   (D)   Upon being recorded in the manner required by the Uniform Commercial
Code, a lien is imposed on the real estate or personal estate, or both, of the
respondent in the amount of a debt due and owing the city. The lien may be
enforced in the same manner as a judgment lien pursuant to a judgment of a
court of competent jurisdiction.
   (E)   Nothing in this section prevents the city from enforcing or seeking to
enforce any order of an administrative hearing officer in any manner, which is
in accordance with applicable law.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.35 INTEREST.
   Except as otherwise provided by law, interest on any debt due and owing
accrues at the rate set for interest upon judgments.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.36 FINES PAYABLE TO THE OFFICE OF CITY TREASURER.
   All fines and other monies paid to the city under this chapter shall be
remitted to the Office of City Treasurer.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.37 PETITION TO SET ASIDE DEFAULT ORDER.
   (A)   An administrative hearing officer may set aside any order entered by
default and set a new hearing date, upon a petition filed within 21 days after
the issuance of the order of default, if the administrative hearing officer
determines that the petitioner’s failure to appear at the hearing was for good
cause or, at any time, if the petitioner establishes that the petitioner was
not provided with proper service of process. If the petition is granted, the
administrative hearing officer must proceed with a new hearing on the
underlying matter as soon as practical.
   (B)   If any order is set aside under this section, the administrative
hearing officer must enter an order extinguishing any lien which has been
recorded for any debt due and owing as a result of the vacated default order
and directing the city to refund any fines or penalties paid pursuant to the
vacated order.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.38 PETITION BY CITY DEPARTMENT FOR RELIEF FROM A FINAL ORDER OF LIABILITY
ENTERED IN ERROR.
   (A)   After an order of liability becomes final, the city department or
agency, which initiated or prosecuted an administrative adjudication before the
Administrative Hearings Bureau may file a written petition for relief from a
final order of liability entered in error with the Bureau.
   (B)   The written petition must be filed and signed by the department or
agency head of the initiating or prosecuting department or agency and must set
forth facts alleging that the order of liability: was entered in error; is
unsupported by the record; is inconsistent with applicable provisions of this
Code; and should be vacated to avoid a miscarriage of justice. The authority to
file and sign a petition under this section is expressly reserved to the
department or agency head and may not be delegated to other department or
agency officials or personnel.
   (C)   Upon the filing of a written petition by a department or agency head,
the Bureau must schedule a hearing on the petition. The scope of the hearing is
limited to the merits of the petition and may not be expanded to constitute a
re-litigation of the underlying notice of violation.
   (D)   If a petition is granted, the final order of liability must be
vacated. If an order is vacated under this section, the administrative hearing
officer must enter an order extinguishing any lien that has been recorded for
any debt due and owing as a result of the vacated order and direct the city to
refund any fines or penalties paid pursuant to the vacated order.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.39 ELECTION OF REMEDIES.
   The Bureau may not conduct an administrative adjudication proceeding for an
alleged violation of this Code where the requested remedy is a punishment of
imprisonment; provided, however, where a violation of the Code is punishable by
fines and other penalties in addition to imprisonment, the city may elect to
institute an action with the Bureau and thereby waive any imprisonment for the
code violation. Nothing in this chapter, however, precludes the city from
seeking the remedy of imprisonment in a court of law, including imprisonment
for failure to comply with the order of an administrative hearing officer,
pursuant to §
156.31.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.40 ADMINISTRATIVE ADJUDICATION PROCEDURES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, neither the Bureau’s
authority to conduct administrative adjudication procedures nor the institution
of such procedures under this chapter precludes the city from seeking any
remedies for Code violations through the use of any other administrative
procedure or court proceeding where authorized by law.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
VIOLATIONS
§ 156.50 GENERAL VIOLATIONS.
   Established violations of
Chapter 50, Garbage and Refuse, §§
50.01 through
50.06 and §
50.99;
Chapter 90, Abandoned and Inoperable Vehicles, §§
90.01 through
90.26;
Chapter 93, Health, Safety and Sanitation, §§
93.01 through
93.32;
Chapter 95, Noxious Weeds, §§
95.15 through
95.18 and §
95.99;
Chapter 150, Building and Property Maintenance, §§
150.001 through
150.240; and
Chapter 155, Zoning Code, §§ 155.001 through
155.214 and §
155.999; and
Chapter 157, Vacant and Neglected Property Registration, §§
157.01 through
157.15 and §
157.99, are blight violations and are subject to the procedures and penalties
outlined in this chapter. Each of those violations is considered as if more
fully set forth herein.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07; Am. Ord. 831, passed 11-15-10)
§ 156.51 SPECIFIC VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to §
156.50, the following violations are blight violations subject to the
procedures and penalties outlined in this chapter:
   (A)   Raw building materials. Except as may be permitted by a specific
business license or other city ordinance, it is a blight violation for any
person to store raw building materials on any property unless there is a valid
building permit issued according to this Code, and these materials are intended
for use in connection with the construction occurring on the property.
   (B)   Junk waste. It is a blight violation for any person to store,
accumulate, or permit the storage or accumulation of any junk or waste on
property owned, leased, rented, or occupied by him.
   (C)   Littering. It is a blight violation for any person to knowingly,
without the consent of the public authority having supervision of public
property or the owner of private property, dump, deposit, place, throw, or
leave, or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing, or
leaving of litter on public or private property other than property designated
and set aside for such purposes.
   (D)   Abandoned refrigerators.
      (1)   It is a blight violation for any person to leave outside of any
building or dwelling in a place accessible to children, any abandoned,
unattended, available or discarded icebox, refrigerator or any other container
of any kind which has an airtight door or lock which may not be easily released
for opening from the inside of such icebox, refrigerator, container, or
compartment.
      (2)   It is a blight violation for any person to leave outside of any
building or dwelling in a place accessible to children, any abandoned,
unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or any container of any kind, or
compartment of any kind, which has a snap lock or other device thereon, without
first removing the snap lock or the doors of such icebox, refrigerator,
container or compartment, unless the doors thereto are securely fastened by the
use of chains, locks or other devices adequate to prevent the opening of such
doors.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
§ 156.52 PENALTIES.
   All blight violations under this Code are subject to enforcement by the
procedures and penalties outlined in this chapter. The City Council will
establish a schedule for the potential fines for violations of this chapter by
resolution which may be amended from time to time.
(Ord. 810, passed 3-5-07)
CHAPTER 157: VACANT AND NEGLECTED PROPERTY REGISTRATION
Section
   
157.01   Purpose
   
157.02   Scope
   
157.03   Definition of vacant property
   
157.04   Registry of vacant properties
   
157.05   Vacant properties to be registered
   
157.06   Owner’s affidavit
   
157.07   Fees
   
157.08   Requirement
   
157.09   Inspections required
   
157.10   Maintenance and safety requirements
   
157.11   Fire damaged property
   
157.12   Duty of owner to keep property secure and free of blight
   
157.13   Annual publication required
   
157.14   Removal by city; account of expenses
   
157.15   Lien; procedure for recovery
 
   
157.99   Penalty
§ 157.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to help protect the health, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the City of Inkster by preventing blight, protecting
property values and neighborhood integrity, avoiding the creation and
maintenance of nuisances and ensuring safe and sanitary maintenance of
dwellings, commercial and industrial buildings. The city normally inspects
properties upon a change of ownership or use and, in the case of non owner-
occupied residential property, every three years, and annually in the case of
commercial properties. Due to economic conditions, mortgage fraud, and
increased bankruptcies, many homes and buildings have become vacant and
unsupervised. This has caused properties to become attractive nuisances for
minors and criminal activity. Vacant properties have a negative impact on
surrounding properties and neighborhoods. Potential buyers are deterred by the
presence of nearby vacant abandoned buildings. There is an increased instance
of unsecured or open doors and windows, broken water pipes, theft of metals and
other materials, overgrowth of grass, weeds, shrubs, and bushes, illegal
dumping, and rat and vermin activity at vacant structures. Such neglect
devalues properties and causes deterioration in neighborhoods and commercial
areas. The city also needs to be able to contact owners for fire safety and
police reasons.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.02 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing and future
vacant, abandoned or foreclosed residential, commercial and industrial
structures and all vacant, abandoned or foreclosed land in the City of Inkster.
Rental properties properly registered and certified in accordance with Chapter
150 (Building Regulations) are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.03 DEFINITION OF VACANT PROPERTY.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   VACANT PROPERTY. A lot, building, or structure that is not legally or
currently occupied. Evidence of vacancy shall include any condition that on its
own, or combined with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person
to believe that the property is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not
limited to: overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers,
circulars, flyers and/or mail; past-due utility notices and/or disconnected
utilities; accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris; boarded-up windows;
abandoned vehicles, auto parts or materials; the absence of window coverings
such as curtains, blinds and/or shutters; the absence of furnishings and/or
personal items consistent with habitation or occupancy; statements by
neighbors, passersby, delivery agents, or government employees that the
property is vacant.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.04 REGISTRY OF VACANT PROPERTIES.
   There is hereby created in the Department of Planning, Building and Economic
Development a registry of vacant residential, commercial and industrial lots,
buildings and structures.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.05 VACANT PROPERTIES TO BE REGISTERED.
   Owners and/or owners’ agents of real property are required to register all
vacant properties within 45 days of the vacancy. Existing vacant properties
shall be registered within 45 days from the date of adoption of this chapter.
Registration does not preclude emergency enforcement on properties or
structures that constitute an immediate threat to the public health, safety and
welfare.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.06 OWNER’S AFFIDAVIT.
   Owners who are required to register their properties pursuant to this
chapter shall submit a copy of a driver’s license and an affidavit containing
the following information:
   (A)   The name of the owner of the property;
   (B)   A mailing address where mail may be sent that will be acknowledged as
received by the owner. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent to
the address and the mail is returned marked “refused” or “unclaimed,” or if
ordinary mail sent to the address is returned for whatever reason, then such
occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the owner has failed to comply with
this requirement;
   (C)   The name of the individual responsible for the care and control of the
property. Such individual may be the owner, if the owner is an individual, or
may be someone other than the owner with whom he/she has contracted;
   (D)   A current address, phone number, fax, and e-mail address (if fax and
email addresses are available) where communications may be sent that will be
acknowledged as received by the individual responsible for the care and control
of the property. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent to the
address and the mail is returned marked “refused” or “unclaimed,” or if
ordinary mail sent to the address is returned for whatever reason, then such
occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the owner has failed to comply with
this requirement; and
   (E)   Permission to city authorized staff to access the exterior of the
property for inspection purposes.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.07 FEES.
   (A)   There shall be a registration fee established by resolution and may be
changed from time to time which includes the cost of routine property
maintenance and safety inspections. In addition, in the case where the owner
has failed to register, there shall be assessed the added costs of the city’s
expenses in having to determine ownership which may include, but are not
limited to, title searches. There shall be a fee for the filing of any
additional or new owner’s affidavit which is the same as the original
registration fee.
   (B)   A registration fee for the re-occupancy of a vacant property shall be
established by resolution and may be changed from time to time which includes
the cost of routine property maintenance and safety inspections. The re-
occupancy registration fee for a vacant property shall be exclusive of any
assessed fee for the original registration of the property.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10; Am. Ord. 850, passed 1-15-15)
§ 157.08 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP INFORMATION CURRENT.
   If at any time the information contained in the affidavit is no longer
valid, the property owner has ten days to file a new affidavit containing
current information. There shall be no fee to update the current owner’s
information.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.09 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   Owners of vacant or unoccupied buildings who are required to file an owner’s
affidavit under this chapter are subject to routine safety and maintenance
inspection of the building and property.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.10 MAINTENANCE AND SAFETY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this section shall be kept free of weeds, grass
more than six inches high, dry brush, dead vegetation, trash, junk, debris,
building materials, any accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers, notices,
except those required by federal, state or local law, discarded items
including, but not limited to, furniture, clothing, large and small appliances,
printed material, signage, containers, equipment, construction materials, or
any other items that give the appearance that the property is abandoned.
   (B)   The property shall be maintained free of graffiti, tagging or similar
markings by removal or painting over with an exterior grade paint that matches
the color of the exterior of the structure. All materials used to board-up or
secure structures, whether placed on the interior or exterior of a structure,
shall be sealed from the elements and painted with a color that closely matches
that of the structure upon which it is placed. No unpainted or unfinished
material shall be used for board up or for security purposes except those
materials that are manufactured with a color or pigmentation that matches the
exterior of the structure. All visible front and side yards shall be landscaped
and properly maintained. Landscaping includes, but is not limited to, grass,
ground covers, bushes, shrubs, hedges or similar plantings, decorative rock or
bark designed and maintained in an appropriate manner. Landscaping does not
include weeds, gravel, broken concrete, asphalt, decomposed materials, plastic
sheeting, indoor-outdoor carpet or any similar material. Maintenance includes,
but is not limited to, regular watering, irrigation, cutting, pruning and
mowing of required landscaping and removal of all trimmings.
   (C)   Pools, spas, and other water features shall be kept in working order
so the water remains clear and free of pollutants and debris or drained and
kept dry and free of debris. In either case, properties with pools and/or spas
must comply with the minimum security fencing and barrier requirements of the
Michigan Building, Construction and Maintenance Codes.
   (D)   Properties subject to this section shall be maintained in a secure
manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons. Secure manner
includes, but is not limited to, the closure and locking of windows, doors
(walk-through, sliding and garage), gates and any other opening of such size
that it may allow a child to access the interior of the property and/or
structure(s).
   (E)   The owner or the owner’s agent shall demonstrate that all water,
sewer, electrical, gas, HVAC, plumbing systems, exterior finishes and walls,
concrete surfaces, accessory buildings, roofing, structural systems,
foundations, drainage systems, gutters, doors, windows, parking areas, signage,
driveway apron(s), service walk(s), sidewalk(s), and other public areas are
sound operational, or properly disconnected. If the property is owned by a
corporation and/or the beneficiary/trustee/owner is located more than 30 miles
away, a local property management company shall be contracted to perform weekly
inspections to verify that the requirements of this section, and any other
applicable laws, are being met. Vacant commercial/industrial property shall be
posted with name and 24-hour contact phone number of the property management
company located within 30 miles of the subject property. The posting shall be
no less than 18 inches by 24 inches and shall be of a 72-point Arial font and
shall contain along with the name and 24-hour contact number, the words “THIS
PROPERTY MANAGED BY” and “TO REPORT PROBLEMS OR CONCERNS, CALL”. The posting
shall be placed on the interior of a window facing the street to the front of
the property so it is visible from the street, or secured to the exterior of
the building/structure facing the street to the front of the property so it is
visible from the street or if no such area exists, in a location that is
visible from the street to the front of the property but not readily accessible
to vandals. Exterior posting must be constructed of and printed with weather
resistant materials.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.11 FIRE DAMAGED PROPERTY.
   If a building is fire damaged, the owner has 90 days from the date of the
fire to apply for a permit to start construction or demolition. The director or
his/her designee may grant additional 90-day extensions, provided the owner can
demonstrate substantial progress towards completing repairs. Failure to do so
will result in the property being deemed vacant and subject to the requirements
of this chapter.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
§ 157.12 DUTY OF OWNER TO KEEP PROPERTY SECURE AND FREE OF BLIGHT.
   Property owners shall maintain their properties free of conditions of blight
as defined in this Code and shall provide security measures thereon sufficient
to prevent its deterioration from vandalism, infestation, exposure to the
outside elements (rain, snow, ice), overgrowth of vegetation, grass and noxious
weeds), and all other forms of blight as defined elsewhere in this Code.
(Ord. 850, passed 1-1-15)
§ 157.13 ANNUAL PUBLICATION REQUIRED.
   This subchapter shall be published for two consecutive weeks prior to May 1
and September 1 of each year with the last of said publication dates being not
less than 15 days nor more than 30 days prior to May 1 and prior to September 1
of each year in some newspaper published and circulated within the city.
(Ord. 850, passed 1-1-15)
§ 157.14 REMOVAL BY CITY; ACCOUNT OF EXPENSES.
   In case the owner, possessor, occupier of land or the person in charge
thereof shall refuse or neglect to comply with the provisions of this
subchapter within the time limited in said published notice, it shall be the
duty of the City Manager to cause all vacant, abandoned, neglected, foreclosed
residential, commercial and industrial structures and all vacant, abandoned or
foreclosed land to be registered, inspected, secured and boarded up to prevent
public access and deterioration from outside elements, and said Manager shall
keep an accurate account of the expenses incurred in carrying out the
provisions of this subchapter with respect to each parcel of land entered upon
therefor, and shall make a statement of said account and order same paid from
the fund for general city purposes in the city out of any moneys in the city
treasury not otherwise appropriated.
(Ord. 850, passed 1-1-15)
§ 157.15 LIEN; PROCEDURE FOR RECOVERY.
   It shall be the duty of the City Manager to forthwith certify to the City
Assessor any and all accounts so allowed, and the City Assessor shall add to
all said accounts so allowed 10% of the total of each several account and shall
cause all such expenditures so allowed, together with the additional 10%, to be
severally levied on the lands on which said expenditures were made, and the
same shall become a lien upon said land and shall be collected in the same
manner as city taxes are collected, and when collected shall be paid into the
general city fund to reimburse the outlay therefrom as hereinbefore authorized.
(Ord. 850, passed 1-1-15)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be enforced in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter and in accordance with the terms and conditions of
the Code of Ordinances of the City of Inkster.
   (B)   All blight violations under this Code are subject to enforcement by
the procedures and penalties established by the Administrative Hearings Bureau
pursuant to the provisions of
Chapter 156. The city council has established a schedule for the potential
fines by resolution for all blight violations which resolution may be amended
from time to time.
(Ord. 832, passed 11-15-10)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   CONTRACTS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: CONTRACTS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Approving and providing for the execution of Loan and
347      11-17-69    Capital Grant amendatory contract for urban renewal ('68
                     Code, 6-301 - 6-304)
                     Approving and providing for the execution of a contract
                     between the city and the sponsor with the authority as
531      11-10-78    third-party beneficiary to provide tax exemption for
                     senior citizen housing identified as Cherry Hill Place
                     Senior Citizen Development ('68 Code, 6-501 - 8-508)
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Granting Barden Cablevision of Inkster, Inc. a franchise
573      9-21-81     to construct, operate and maintain a cable television
                     system in the city ('68 Code, 7-901 7-932)
 
TABLE III: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     Rezoning lots 3B, 4B, 5B and 6B Fellrath's Westwood Garden
699      3-18-91     Subdivision part of the northeast quarter, Section 30, T2S
                     R10E, as recorded in Liber 68, page 99 of plats WCR, from
                     Light Industrial (M-1) to Office Building District (O-1).
                     Rezoning lots 566, 567, and 568 and the south eight feet
                     of vacated Carlysle Avenue and the north half adjacent
701      5-20-91     vacated alley, Inkster Gardens Subdivision, from R-1-B,
                     One-Family Residential District to M-1, Light Industrial
                     District.
                     Rezoning three parcels located in the vicinity of Avondale
703      7-15-91     and Beech Daly Roads from RM-1 Multiple-Family District
                     (low-rise) to R-1-A One-Family Residential District.
                     Rezoning the west 153 feet of Lot 4, Dearborn Tractor
729      12-20-93    Acres Subdivision, T2S, R9E, L39, P39, WCR, commonly known
                     as 388 Inkster Road, from R1-A, Single Family Residential,
                     to B-1, Local Business.
                     Rezoning lots 289 - 293, inclusive, Westwood Subdivision
738      2-7-94      of J.W. Daly Farm, T2S, R10E, as recorded in Liber 47,
                     page 19 of plats, WCR, from R-1B, One-Family Residential
                     to M-1, Light Industrial.
                     (1)Rezoning Lots 147, 148 and the north 50 feet of Lot
                     149, Robert M. Grindley's Subdivision #9 of Little Farms,
739      6-20-94     T2S, R10E, L34, P5, WCR, and the west 150 feet of Lot 146,
                     Robert M. Grindley's Subdivision #8 of Little Farms, T2S,
                     R10E, L34, P34, WCR, from R-1B, One-Family Residential
                     District to R-1C, One-Family Residential District.
                     (2)Rezoning Lot 150, except the south thirty feet thereof,
                     Robert M. Grindley's Subdivision #9 of Little Farms, T2S,
                     R10E, L34, P5, WCR, from R-1A, One-Family Residential
                     District, to R-1C, One-Family Residential District.
                     Including property described as east 200 feet, west 545.75
                     feet, of the south 33 feet, of the southwest of Section
743      2-9-95      25, except the south 33 feet thereof, 1.84 acres, Carver
                     Homes Subdivision, Liber 75, page 17, 19, WCR, commonly
                     known as 29150 Carlysle in R-1B, One-Family Residential
                     District.
                     Including westerly 190 feet of property described as north
                     170 feet of the south 680 feet of Lot 8 of Smalley's
744      2-9-95      Subdivision of the northeast and east of the northwest of
                     Section 30, T2S, R10E, Liber 1, page 26, WCR, commonly
                     known as 2728 Beech Daly Road in M-1, Light Industrial
                     District.
                     Rezoning part of the northwest , Section 30, T2S, R10E,
                     beginning at the northeast corner of Wiethoff Subdivision,
745      3-2-95      as recorded in Liber 65, page 42, WCR, commonly known as
                     27005 Michigan Avenue from M-1, Light Industrial District
                     to B-3, General Business District.
                     Rezoning west 153 feet of Lot 11 and Lot 12 also north
                     adj. vac street 50 feet wide, Dearborn Tractor Acres
748      11-14-95    Subdivision, Liber 39, page 91, WCR, commonly known as 646
                     Inkster Road from R-1A One-Family Residential District and
                     RM-1, Multiple-Family Residential (Low Rise) District to
                     B-1, Local Business District.
                     Including part of the southeast of Section 26, T2S, R9E,
749      11-29-95    commonly known as 30100 Michigan Avenue in B-3, General
                     Business District.
                     Rezoning Lots 166 and 167, Westwood Division of J.W. Daly
                     Farm, from B-1, Local Business District to B-2, Community
753      5-20-96     Business district; and Lot 168, Westwood Subdivision from
                     M-1, Light Industrial District to B-2, Community Business
                     District.
756      7-15-96     Reflecting changes in boundary for property located in
                     Fellrath's Westwood Gardens Subdivision.
                     Rezoning property located in Dearborn Hills, Manor #1 from
757      8-19-96     RM-2, Multiple Family (High Rise) District to B-3, General
                     Business District.
                     Rezoning Lots 28 and 29 of Wiethoff's Subdivision,
759      1-6-97      commonly known as 27033 Michigan Avenue, from R-1B (One-
                     Family Residential) District to B-3 (General Business)
                     District.
                     Rezoning two lots, commonly known as 29225 and 29245
761      3-17-97     Michigan Avenue, from M-1 (Light Industrial) District to
                     B-3 (General Business) District.
                     Rezoning parts of four lots, Assessor's Inkster Plat No.
762      6-18-97     7, a part of the Northeast 1/4 Section 24, T.2.S., R.9.E,
                     from RM-1 (Multiple-Family Residential [Low Rise])
                     District to B-1 (Local Business) District.
                     Rezoning part of Lot 257, Dearborn Hills Manor
765      10-6-97     Subdivision, commonly known as 1470 Inkster Road, from RM
                     (Restricted Multiple Dwelling [Low Rise]) to B-1 (Local
                     Business) District.
                     Rezoning Lots 470, 471, 472, 473, 474, and 475 of Westwood
774      12-21-98    Hills Subdivision No. I, commonly known as 1055, 1065 and
                     1075 Inkster Road, from B-1 (Local Business) to B-2
                     (Community Business) District.
                     Rezoning two parcels of land in the northeast quarter of
779      9-7-99      Section 23, commonly known as 30047 and 30059 Cherry Hill
                     Road, from R-1A (One Family Residential) to R-1B (One
                     Family Residential) District.
                     Rezoning the easterly 106 feet of the southerly 324.81
781      - -         feet of Lot 3, Fellrath's Westwood Gardens Subdivision,
                     from O-1 (Office Building) to M-1 (Light Industrial)
                     District.
                     Rezoning Lots 83 to 98, inclusive, also adjacent vacated
784      12-20-99    streets, Carver Homes Subdivision, T2S, R9E, L75, P17 to
                     19 WCR, from RM-1 Multiple Family Residential District
                     (low rise) to B-1 Local Business District.
                     Rezoning Lots 117 to 132, inclusive, except the east 7
785      12-20-99    feet thereof, Dearborn Hills Manor T2S, R9E, L52, P93,
                     WCR, from RM Restricted Multiple Dwelling District (low
                     rise) to B-1 Local Business District.
                     Rezoning the easterly 106 feet of the southerly 324.8 feet
786      12-20-99    of Lot 3, Fellrath's Westwood Gardens Subdivision from O-
                     1 Office Building District to M-1 Light Industrial
                     District.
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws
References to 1968 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS
MCL Section Code Section
MCL Section             Code Section
2.117d                  36.21
                        101.03,
15.231 - 15.246         101.16,
                        150.141
15.243(b)(iii)          113.193
15.261 - 15.275         150.141
24.201 - 24.328         70.03
24.286                  70.03
33.7101 et seq.         136.34
117.1 et seq.           Adopting Ordinance,
                        124.01
117.4l                  156.01
117.4l(2)               156.02
117.4q                  156.01
117.4q(16)-(19)         156.33
117.4r                  156.01
125.1352                72.17
125.1401 et seq.        36.20
125.1415a(1)            36.21
                        72.17,
125.1501 et seq.        150.141,
                        150.142
125.2301 et seq.        55.001,
                        55.006
                        32.015,
125.3101 et seq.        32.018,
                        32.019
                        32.015,
125.3801 et seq.        32.018,
                        32.019
205.93                  70.03
209.101 - 209.107       150.201
211.1 - 211.157         150.142
257.1d                  92.35
257.204a                70.03
257.226a                70.03
257.226b                70.03
257.319d                70.03
257.320a                70.03
257.322                 70.03
257.323                 70.03
257.625                 70.03
257.625 (1) - (7)       70.03
257.625b                70.03 
257.625m                70.03
257.625n                70.03
257.904                 70.03
257.904d                70.03
275.942(a)              72.17
280.1 et seq.           55.001,
                        55.005
320.1561 et seq.        132.05
324.101 et seq.         56.05
324.3101 et seq.        55.001
333.2451                92.35
333.6107                112.99
                        136.30,
333.7101 et seq.        136.32,
                        136.35,
                        136.38
333.7201 et seq.        136.30
333.12701 - 333.12771   117.75
333.16215               70.03
333.26421 et seq.       124.02
335.301 through 335.367 136.02
336.2301 et seq.        117.70
338.901 - 338.917       117.75
338.976                 117.75
338.1802 - 338.1806     116.37
338.2301 - 338.2313     150.141
436.2                   136.02
436.33b                 136.02
480.11 - 480.21         70.15
484.2102                101.01
484.2251                101.03
560.101 et seq.         55.001,
                        55.006
760.1 et seq.           70.03
780.751 - 780.834       70.03
                        
 
REFERENCES TO 1968 CODE
1968 Code Section 1992 Code Section
1968 Code Section 1992 Code Section
1-101.1           10.19
1-102             10.05
1-108             10.99
1-109             10.99
2-101             32.015
2-102             32.016
2-103             32.017
2-104             32.018
2-105             32.019
2-106             32.019
2-107             32.030
2-108             32.031
2-109             32.032
2-110             32.033
2-111             32.045
2-112             32.046
2-113             32.047
2-114             32.048
2-117             32.060
2-118             32.064
2-119             32.061
2-120             32.062
2-121             32.063
2-122             32.065
2-123             32.066
2-141             32.075
2-142             32.076
2-143             32.077
2-144             32.078
2-145             32.079
2-147             32.090
2-148             32.091
2-149             32.092
2-150             32.093
2-151             32.094
2-152             32.095
2-153             32.096
2-154             32.097
2-201             32.135,
                  36.20
2-202             32.136
2-203             32.137
2-204             32.138
2-205             32.139
2-206             32.140
2-207             32.139
2-208             32.141
2-209             32.142
2-210             32.143
2-211             32.144
2-301             37.01
2-302             37.02
2-303             37.03
2-304             37.03
2-401             51.01
2-402             51.01
2-403             51.01
2-404             51.02
2-405             51.03
2-406             51.04
2-407             51.05
2-408             51.05
2-409             51.05
2-410             51.05
2-411             51.06
2-412             51.07
2-413             51.08
2-414             51.09
2-415             51.08
2-416             51.08
2-417             51.10
2-418             51.10
2-419             51.11
2-420             51.11
2-421             51.12
2-422             51.13
2-423             51.14
2-424             51.15
2-425             51.16
2-426             51.17
2-501             35.01
2-502             35.02
2-601             33.30
2-602             33.31
2-603             33.32
2-604             33.32
2-605             33.32
2-606             33.32
2-607             33.33
2-701             36.01
2-702             36.02
2-703             36.03
2-704             36.04
2-705             36.05
2-706             36.06
2-901             33.01
                  34.01,
2-1001            34.02,
                  34.20
2-1002            34.01
2-1003            34.03
2-1005            34.04
2-1006            34.05
2-1007            34.06
2-1008            34.07
2-1009            34.08
2-1010            34.09
2-1101            32.001
2-1102            32.002
2-1103            32.003
2-1202            34.21
2-1203            34.22
2-1204            34.23
2-1205            34.24
2-1206            34.24
2-1207            34.25
2-1208            34.26
2-1209            34.27
2-1210            34.28
2-1211            34.29
2-1212            34.30
2-1213            34.30
2-1214            34.31
2-1216            34.31
2-1217            34.32
2-1218            34.33
2-1219            34.34
2-1301            35.15
2-1302            35.16
2-1401            32.170
2-1402            32.171
2-1405            32.172
2-1407            32.173
2-1408            32.174
2-1409            32.175
2-1410            32.176
2-1411            32.177
2-1412            32.178
2-1413            32.179
2-1415            32.180
2-1501            31.01
2-1502            31.02
2-1503            31.03
2-1504            31.04
2-1505            31.05
2-1506            31.05
2-1601            32.110,
                  32.113
2-1602            32.111
2-1603            32.112
2-1604            32.117
2-1606            32.114
2-1607            32.115
2-1608            32.116
2-1609            32.118
2-1610            32.119
2-1611            32.120
2-1612            32.121
2-1613            32.122
2-1701            37.15
2-1702            37.17
2-1703            37.18
2-1704            37.19
2-1705            37.20
2-1706            37.21
2-1707            37.22
2-1708            37.23
2-1709            37.24
2-1710            37.16
2-1801            39.01
2-1802            39.02
3-101             113.131
3-102             113.130
3-103             113.132
3-104             113.133
3-105             113.134
3-106             113.135
3-107             113.138
3-108             113.136,
                  113.137
3-109             113.110
3-110             113.111
3-111             113.115
3-112             113.113
3-113             113.114
3-114             113.116
3-115             113.117
3-116             113.118
3-117             113.119
3-118             113.112
3-119             113.001
3-120             113.002,
                  113.004
3-121             113.003
3-122             113.003
3-123             113.006
3-125             113.005
3-126             113.007
3-127             113.008
3-128             113.009
3-129             113.010
3-130             113.011
3-131             113.025
3-132             113.026
3-133             113.027
3-134             113.027
3-135             113.030,
                  113.032
3-136             113.028
3-137             113.029
3-138             113.031
3-140             113.033
3-141             113.034
3-142             113.070
3-143             113.071
3-144             113.072
3-145             113.073 -
                  113.076
3-146             113.077
3-147             113.078
3-148             113.079
3-149             113.999
3-149.1           113.080
3-150             113.090
3-151             113.091
3-152             113.092
3-153             113.094
3-154             113.095
3-155             113.093
3-156             113.096
3-157             113.097
3-158             113.098
3-158.1           113.045
3-159             113.046
3-160             113.047
3-161             113.048
3-162             113.051
3-163             113.053
3-164             113.050
3-165             113.049
3-166             113.054
3-167             113.055
3-168             113.056
3-169             113.052
3-170             113.057
3-172             113.058
3-201             121.55
3-202             121.56
3-203             121.58
3-203.1           121.59
3-204             121.57
3-301             122.01,
                  122.02
3-302             122.03
3-303             122.04
3-304             122.05
3-305             122.06
3-306             122.07
3-307             122.08
3-308             122.08,
                  122.09
3-309             122.10
3-401             115.66
3-402             115.65
3-501             114.02
3-502             114.04
3-503             114.01
3-504             114.03
3-505             114.05
3-506             114.04
3-507             114.03
3-508             114.06
3-509             114.07
3-601             117.50
3-602             117.51
3-603             117.52
3-604             117.53
3-605             117.56
3-606             117.54
3-607             117.55
3-608             117.57
3-609             117.58
3-610             117.58
3-702             120.156,
                  120.160
3-703             120.157
3-704             120.158
3-705             120.159
3-707             120.161
3-801             121.35
3-802             121.36
3-803             121.37
3-804             121.38
3-805             121.39
3-806             121.40
3-807             121.41
3-809             121.42
3-810             121.43
3-811             121.44,
                  121.45
3-901             115.25
                  115.26,
3-902             115.27,
                  115.28
3-903             115.29
3-904             115.30
3-905             115.31
3-906             115.32
3-907             115.26
3-1001            115.01
3-1002            115.02
3-1003            115.03,
                  115.04
3-1004            115.09
3-1005            115.05
3-1007            115.06
3-1008            115.07
3-1009            115.08
3-1010            115.10
3-1011            115.11
3-1012            115.12
3-1013            115.12
3-1014            115.13
3-1015            115.14
3-1016            115.45
3-1017            115.46
3-1018            115.47 -
                  115.50
3-1020            115.51
3-1021            115.52
3-1022            115.53
3-1023            115.54
3-1024            115.55
3-1201            117.01
3-1202            117.02
3-1203            117.03
3-1204            117.04
3-1205            117.03
3-1206            117.05
3-1207            117.06
3-1208            117.07
3-1209            117.08 -
                  117.10
3-1210            117.11
3-1211            117.12
3-1212            117.13
3-1213            117.15
3-1214            117.14
3-1301            122.35
3-1302            122.36
3-1303            122.37
3-1304            122.38
3-1305            122.39
3-1306            122.40
3-1307            122.41
3-1308            122.42
3-1401            113.170,
                  113.171
3-1402            113.172
3-1404            113.173
3-1501            117.25
3-1601            119.01
3-1602            119.02
3-1603            119.03
3-1604(a)         119.04
3-1604(b)         119.10
3-1605            119.05
3-1606            119.06
3-1607            119.07
3-1608            119.09
3-1609            119.08
3-1610            119.11
3-1611            119.12
3-1801            121.70
3-1802            121.71
3-1803            121.72
3-1804            121.73
3-1805            121.74
3-1806            121.75
4-102             92.01
4-103             92.30
4-104             92.02
4-105             92.99
4-201             92.15
4-202             92.16
4-301             117.35
4-302             117.36
4-303             117.37
4-305             112.15
4-306             112.01
4-307             112.16,
                  112.99
4-308             112.50
4-401             91.16
4-402             91.17
4-403             91.18
4-404             91.20
4-405             91.19
4-406             91.15
4-407             91.21,
                  91.22
4-408             91.55
4-409             91.23
4-410             91.24
4-412             91.24
4-413             91.25
                  91.35 -
                  91.40,
4-414             91.42,
                  91.43,
                  94.41
4-415             91.44
4-416             91.56
4-418             91.01
4-420             91.01
4-421             91.99
4-502             95.02
4-503             95.03
4-504             95.15
4-505             95.16
4-506             95.17
4-507             95.18
4-601             50.01
4-603             50.02
4-604             50.04
4-605             50.04
4-606             50.05
4-701             113.150
4-702             113.151
4-704             113.152
4-705             113.153
4-707             113.154
4-708             113.155 -
                  113.158
4-709             113.158
4-710             113.160
4-711             113.159
4-801             93.01
4-802             93.02
4-803             93.02
4-804             93.02
4-805             93.03
4-806             93.04
4-902             93.15,
                  93.16
4-903             93.17
4-1001            119.25
4-1002            119.26
4-1101            118.02
4-1102            118.04
4-1104            93.32
4-1301            111.21
4-1302            111.20
4-1401            33.15,
                  33.17
4-1402            33.16
4-1404            33.18
4-1501            92.03
4-1502            92.03
4-1601            122.55
4-1602            122.56
4-1603            122.57
4-1604            122.58
4-1605            122.59
4-1606            122.60
4-1607            122.61
4-1608            122.99
5-101             70.01
5-102             70.02
5-201             90.01
5-202             90.02
5-203             90.03
5-204             90.04
5-205             90.05
5-206             90.06
5-207             90.07
5-301             72.30
5-302             72.31
5-303             72.31
5-304             72.32
5-305             72.33
5-306             72.34
5-401             73.01
5-402             73.02
5-403             73.03
5-404             73.04
5-405             73.05
5-406             73.06
5-417             91.03
5-491             91.01
5-501             120.001
5-502             120.004
5-503             120.015
5-504             120.016
5-505             120.018
5-506             120.019
5-507             120.020
5-508             120.017
5-509             120.021
5-510             120.022
5-511             120.023
5-512             120.024
5-513             120.025
5-514             120.085
5-515             120.086
5-516             120.086
5-517             120.087
5-518             120.088
5-519             120.035
5-520             120.036
5-521             120.037
5-522             120.038,
                  120.046
5-523             120.039
5-524             120.040
5-525             120.041
5-526             120.042
5-527             120.043
5-528             120.044
5-529             120.045
5-531             120.055
5-532             120.063
5-533             120.056
5-534             120.100
5-535             120.101
5-536             120.102
5-537             120.057
5-538             120.075
5-539             120.076
5-540             120.078
5-541             120.058
5-542             120.077
5-543             120.059
5-544             120.060
5-545             120.061
5-546             120.062
5-547             120.002
5-548             120.003
5-601             120.115
5-602             120.117
5-603             120.118
5-604             120.119 -
                  120.122
5-605             120.123
5-606             120.116
5-607             120.124
5-701             120.155,
                  121.01
5-702             121.03
5-703             121.04
5-704             121.05
5-705             121.07
5-706             121.08
5-707             121.09
5-708             121.10
5-709             121.11
5-710             121.11
5-711             121.12
5-712             121.13
5-713             121.14
5-714             121.06
5-715             121.15
5-716             121.16
5-717             121.17
5-718             121.19
5-719             121.20
5-720             121.21
5-721             121.22
5-722             121.18
5-723             121.02
5-801             90.20
5-802             90.21
5-803             90.22
5-804             90.24
5-805             90.25
5-806             90.23
5-807             90.26
5-901             120.135
5-902             120.136
5-903             120.138
5-904             120.140
5-905             120.141
5-906             120.142
5-907             120.139
5-908             120.143
5-909             120.144
5-910             120.145
5-911             120.137
5-1001            122.20
5-1002            122.21
5-1003            122.22
5-1004            122.23
5-1005            122.24
5-1006            122.25
5-1007            122.26
5-1101            70.99
5-1102            70.99
5-1201            72.45
5-1202            72.46
5-1203            72.48
5-1204            72.47
5-1205            72.99
5-1301            72.01
5-1302            72.01
5-1401            72.60
5-1402            72.61
5-1403            72.66
5-1404            72.67
5-1405            72.65
5-1406            72.68
5-1407            72.69
5-1408            72.62
5-1409            72.74
5-1410            72.75
5-1411            72.64
5-1412            72.70
5-1413            72.71
5-1414            72.72
5-1415            72.73
5-1416            72.63
5-1417            72.99
5-1501            71.15
5-1502            71.16
5-1503            71.17
5-1504            71.19
5-1505            71.18
5-1506            71.20
5-1507            71.20
5-1601            72.15
5-1602            72.16
5-1603            72.17
6-401             99.01
6-402             99.03
6-403             99.04
6-404             99.08
6-405             99.05
6-406             99.06
6-407             99.02
6-408             99.07
6-409             99.99
6-801             111.01
6-802             111.02
6-803             111.03
6-804             111.04
6-805             111.05
6-806             111.06
6-807             111.07
6-808             111.08
6-809             111.09
6-901             150.140
6-902             150.141
6-903             150.142
6-904             150.143
6-905             150.144
6-906             150.145
6-1101            151.237
6-1401            154.01
6-1401(d)         154.20,
                  154.21
6-1402            154.02
6-1403            154.03
6-1404            154.15
6-1405            154.16
6-1405(a)         154.17
6-1405(b)         154.18
6-1405(c)         154.19
6-1406            154.22
6-1407            154.23
6-1408            154.24
6-1409            154.25
6-1410            154.35
6-1411            154.36
6-1412            154.75
6-1413            154.50
6-1414            154.51
6-1415            154.76
6-1417            154.60
6-1418            154.61
6-1419            154.62
6-1420            154.63
6-1421            154.99
6-1601            152.01
6-1602            152.02
6-1603            152.03
6-1604            152.04
6-1605            152.05
6-1606            152.06
6-1607            152.07
6-1608            152.07
6-1609            152.08
6-1610            151.09
6-1701            50.35
6-1702            50.36
6-1703            50.37
6-1704            50.38
6-1705            50.39
6-1802            150.176,
                  150.177
6-1803            150.178
6-1804            150.179
6-1806            150.180
6-1807            150.182
6-1808            150.181
6-2001            150.110
6-2002            150.111
6-2101            97.095
6-2102            97.096
6-2103            97.097,
                  97.098
6-2104            97.099
6-2105            97.100
6-2106            97.101
6-2107            97.102
6-2201            92.45
6-2202            72.46
6-2203            92.47
6-2204            92.45
6-2301            151.001
6-2302            151.002
6-2303            151.003
6-2304            151.004
6-2305            151.005
6-2306            151.006
6-2307            151.020
6-2308            151.021
6-2309            151.022
6-2310            151.023
6-2311            151.024
6-2312            151.025
6-2313            151.026
6-2314            151.027
6-2315            151.028
6-2316            151.029
6-2317            151.030
6-2318            151.031
6-2319            151.032
6-2320            151.033
6-2321            151.045
6-2322            151.046
6-2323            151.047
6-2324            151.048
6-2326            151.049
6-2328            151.049
6-2329            151.049
6-2330            151.050
6-2331            151.047
6-2332            151.051
6-2333            151.060,
                  151.077
6-2334            151.061
6-2335            151.062
6-2336            151.075,
                  151.076
6-2339            151.078
6-2340            151.079
6-2341            151.090
6-2342            151.091
6-2343            151.092
6-2344            151.093
6-2345            151.094
6-2346            151.095
6-2347            151.105
6-2348            151.106
6-2349            151.107
6-2350            151.108
6-2351            151.120
6-2352            151.121
6-2353            151.135
6-2354            151.136
6-2355            151.150
6-2356            151.151
6-2357            151.160
6-2358            151.161
6-2359            151.162
6-2360            151.175
6-2361            151.176
6-2362            151.177
6-2363            151.190
6-2364            151.191
6-2365            151.205
6-2366            151.206
6-2367            151.220,
                  151.221
6-2368            151.235
6-2369            151.236
6-2370            151.250
6-2371            151.251
6-2372            151.265
6-2373            151.266
6-2374            151.275
6-2376            151.999
6-2377            151.007
7-101             52.40
7-102             52.41
7-105             52.13
7-107             52.06
7-108             52.14
7-109             52.25
7-110             52.27
7-111             52.28
7-112             52.29
7-113             52.30
7-114             52.26
7-115             52.99
7-301             150.160,
                  150.161
7-303             150.162
7-304             150.163
7-305             150.164
7-306             150.165
7-502             97.005
7-502.1           97.002
7-504             97.115
7-505             97.001,
                  97.015
7-507             97.016
7-508             97.017
7-509             97.045
7-510             97.046
7-511             97.047
7-513             97.049,
                  97.050
7-514             97.048
7-515             97.051
7-517             97.030
7-518             97.031
7-519             97.003
7-520             97.061
7-521             97.062
7-522             97.063
7-523             97.064
7-524             97.065
7-525             97.060
7-526             97.066
7-527             97.067
7-528             97.068
7-529             97.069
7-531             153.02
7-532             153.05
7-533             153.01
7-534             153.03
7-535             153.04
7-601             98.01
7-602             98.02
7-603             98.21
7-603.1           98.16
7-604             98.15
7-605             98.17
7-606             98.18
7-607             98.23
7-608             98.22
7-609             98.19
7-610             98.24
7-611             98.18
7-612             98.20
7-701             96.01
7-702             96.35
7-703             96.15
7-704             96.36
7-705             96.16
7-706             96.17
7-707             96.18
7-708             96.21
7-709             96.20
7-710             96.22
7-711             96.24
7-712             96.23
7-713             96.19
7-801             97.080
7-802             97.081
7-803             97.082
7-804             97.083
7-805             97.084
7-806             97.085
7-807             97.999
7-103(1)          52.02
7-103(2)          52.03,
                  52.42
7-105(5)          52.11
7-106(1)          52.08
7-106(2)          52.09
7-106(3)          52.09
7-106(4)          52.11
7-106(6)          52.11
7-106(7)          52.07
7-106(8)          52.12
7-106(9)          52.10
7-106(10)         52.04
7-106(11)         52.05
7-511(2)          97.999
7-1801            150.175
7-5051            97.004
8-101             131.01
8-102             130.06
8-103             134.01
8-104             134.01
8-105             91.02
8-106             131.02
8-107             130.01
8-107A            130.02
8-108             130.05,
                  131.04
8-109             131.03
8-110             130.07
8-111             131.08
8-112             135.01
8-113             135.02
8-114             132.03
8-115             132.01
8-116             130.03
8-117             131.09
8-120             131.06
8-201(a)          136.30
8-201(b)          136.31
8-202             136.37
8-302             132.04
8-304             132.02
8-309             136.01
8-310             136.02
8-311             136.05
8-312             136.03
8-313             136.04
8-401             110.01
8-402             110.02
8-403             110.03
8-404             110.06
8-405             110.04
8-406             110.07
8-407             110.05
8-408             110.08
8-409             110.10
8-410             110.09
8-501             94.01,
                  95.01
8-502             94.02
8-503             94.15
8-504             94.16
8-505             94.17
8-506             94.18
8-507             94.19
8-508             94.20
8-509             94.21
8-510             94.22
8-511             94.23
8-512             94.24
8-513             94.25
8-514             94.26
8-515             94.27
8-601             136.15
8-602             136.16
8-603             136.17
8-604             136.18
8-605             136.19
8-606             136.20
8-701             113.210,
                  113.215
8-702             113.211
8-703             113.212
8-704             113.213
8-705             113.214
8-706             113.218
8-708             113.216
8-709             113.999
8-710             113.999
8-711             113.217
8-801             116.01
8-802             116.15
8-803             116.16
8-805             116.65
8-806             116.17
8-807             116.20,
                  116.21
8-808             116.35
8-809             116.36
8-810             116.18
8-811             116.19
8-812             116.16
8-813             116.50
8-814             116.51
8-815             116.37
8-901             135.15
8-902             135.16
8-903             135.17
8-904             135.19
8-905             135.18
8-907             135.30
8-908             135.31
8-909             135.33
8-910             135.32
8-1001            130.20
8-1002            130.21
8-1003            130.22
8-1004            130.23
8-1005            130.24
8-1101            133.01
8-1103            133.02,
                  133.03
8-1104            133.99
8-1301            130.04
8-1302            130.04
8-1303            130.04
8-8014            116.16
9-189             155.272
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
18       4-5-38      130.01
19       3-5-38      130.07
24       8-4-39      113.130 -
                     113.138
30       - -         10.99
                     97.001,
32       7-2-40      97.004,
                     97.005,
                     97.115
32.1     6-12-58     97.004
33       8-6-40      32.015 -
                     32.019
48       6-2-42      134.01
51       10-9-42     91.02
61       8-1-44      115.65,
                     115.66
64       - -         Ch. 54
69       - -         70.03
69       11-6-45     70.03
70       11-6-45     131.02
72       2-5-46      117.50 -
                     117.58
80       11-6-46     130.06,
                     131.01
81       12-13-46    117.35 -
                     117.37
83       3-11-47     132.04
91       7-19-48     120.115 -
                     120.124
91.1     2-4-54      120.118
                     151.09,
92       - -         152.01 -
                     152.08
99       8-2-50      32.030 -
                     32.033
104      12-4-51     115.25 -
                     115.32
104.1    9-9-58      115.26 -
                     115.28
104.2    7-21-59     115.30,
                     115.31
110      10-7-52     122.01 -
                     122.10
110.1    5-13-58     122.08,
                     122.09
111      4-15-68     72.30 -
                     72.34
112.1    5-22-53     50.35 -
                     50.39
113      4-24-53     93.01 -
                     93.04
114      6-19-53     51.01 -
                     51.17
114.1    1-18-57     51.08
114.2    9-10-57     51.05
116      10-2-53     131.08
117      6-4-54      97.015 -
                     97.017
120      7-16-54     97.030,
                     97.031
124      10-28-54    130.05,
                     131.04
126      12-2-54     114.01 -
                     114.07
127      12-3-54     35.01,
                     35.02
128.1    11-12-57    37.01 -
                     37.03
129      4-1-55      97.045 -
                     97.051
129.1    - -         97.047
129.1    8-5-55      97.050
132      9-16-55     113.090 -
                     113.098
145      9-24-57     97.061 -
                     97.065
                     97.060,
146      9-24-57     97.066 -
                     97.069
150      6-24-58     121.55 -
                     121.58
151      - -         91.24
                     91.15 -
                     91.20,
                     91.22 -
                     91.25,
                     91.35 -
151      8-12-58     91.40,
                     91.42 -
                     91.44,
                     91.55,
                     91.56,
                     94.41
151.1    1-11-60     91.18
152      8-26-58     90.01 -
                     90.07
152.1    11-12-58    90.04,
                     90.05
156      1-8-59      120.155 -
                     120.161
157      - -         150.175 -
                     150.182
161      4-11-60     117.01 -
                     117.15
163      10-31-60    135.01
164      10-31-60    135.02
165      10-31-60    132.03
166      6-6-88      92.15,
                     92.16
171      2-14-61     113.025 -
                     113.034
                     113.001 -
172      - -         113.003,
                     113.005 -
                     113.011
173      - -         122.37
                     122.35,
173      2-14-61     122.36,
                     122.38 -
                     122.42
174      3-28-61     135.02
179      10-2-61     131.01
185      3-5-62      51.05
186      3-21-62     51.05
187      4-19-62     95.01 -
                     95.03
189      4-16-62     115.01 -
                     115.14
190      4-16-62     115.45 -
                     115.55
191      5-7-62      95.15 -
                     95.18
194      8-6-62      113.001,
                     113.009
195      8-17-62     113.009
196      10-15-62    32.060 -
                     32.066
196      3-6-72      32.075 -
                     32.079
202      3-4-63      91.03
212      - -         110.03
                     110.01,
212      2-3-64      110.02,
                     110.04 -
                     110.10
214      3-16-64     91.15
                     52.01 -
215      4-20-64     52.14,
                     52.40 -
                     52.42
                     94.01,
216      5-20-64     94.02,
                     94.15 -
                     94.27
220      7-20-64     113.098
224      11-2-64     70.03
235      2-1-65      70.03
                     96.01,
                     96.15 -
238      3-1-65      96.24,
                     96.35,
                     96.36
239      3-15-65     70.03
242      4-19-65     52.06
243      - -         150.110,
                     150.111
246      7-6-65      97.004
247      - -         150.110
249      10-4-65     121.01 -
                     121.22
255      3-15-56     136.15 -
                     136.20
261      4-5-66      121.35 -
                     121.45
262      6-6-66      36.01 -
                     36.06
264      6-20-66     119.25,
                     119.26
266      7-18-66     90.20 -
                     90.26
267      - -         150.160 -
                     150.165
268      9-6-66      32.066
269      9-19-66     120.135 -
                     120.145
270      10-3-66     97.095 -
                     97.102
273      12-5-66     50.37
276      5-15-67     33.01
278      7-3-67      122.07
281      7-17-67     97.003
287      10-2-67     113.110 -
                     113.119
290      10-16-67    70.03
293      2-5-68      91.18
294      2-19-68     113.112,
                     113.115
299      3-18-68     70.03
                     98.01,
                     98.02,
301      4-1-68      98.15,
                     98.17 -
                     98.24
                     50.01,
303      4-1-68      50.02,
                     50.03
304      - -         153.01 -
                     153.05
305      4-1-68      131.01
                     91.24,
308      4-1-68      91.25,
                     91.55,
                     91.56
309      4-1-68      130.05,
                     131.04
312      4-15-68     131.03
313      4-15-68     73.01 -
                     73.06
314      4-15-68     91.17
315      5-6-68      51.08
                     120.001 -
                     120.004,
                     120.015 -
                     120.025,
                     120.035 -
                     120.046,
                     120.055 -
319      7-15-68     120.063,
                     120.075 -
                     120.078,
                     120.085 -
                     120.088,
                     120.100 -
                     120.102,
                     120.999
327      - -         36.20
334      4-21-69     98.16
337      6-2-69      131.01
340      7-7-69      97.002
347      11-17-69    T.S.O. I
351      1-5-70      131.01
352      1-5-70      131.01
353      1-19-70     131.01
353      6-1-90      115.04
355      3-2-70      131.01
357      3-2-70      121.44,
                     121.45
358      4-7-70      132.02
360      6-1-70      70.03
361      6-1-70      52.13
362      6-1-70      151.237
363      6-1-70      115.01,
                     115.03
366      10-19-70    131.01
368      11-16-70    131.01
370      12-21-70    118.02
371      12-21-70    113.004
378      2-15-71     91.24
382      3-15-71     113.170 -
                     113.173
383      4-5-71      121.59
384      4-5-71      117.25
385      4-19-71     111.20,
                     111.21
387      5-1-71      113.171
389      6-21-71     120.036
390      6-21-71     119.01 -
                     119.12
391      7-6-71      117.36
410      3-6-72      33.15 -
                     33.18
                     116.01,
                     116.15 -
                     116.21,
412      1-24-73     116.35 -
                     116.37,
                     116.50,
                     116.51,
                     116.65
414      4-3-72      32.090 -
                     32.097
416      5-1-72      50.04
417      5-1-72      70.03
418      5-1-72      113.150 -
                     113.160
419      7-5-72      132.04
420      7-5-72      51.05
424      8-21-72     93.15 -
                     93.17
                     154.01 -
                     154.03,
                     154.15 -
                     154.17 -
                     154.25,
                     154.35,
434      1-24-73     154.36,
                     154.50,
                     154.51,
                     154.60 -
                     154.63,
                     154.75,
                     154.99
436      11-20-72    132.01
437      11-20-72    130.03
438      12-18-72    70.03
445      3-5-73      131.01
452      5-22-73     91.21
456      9-17-73     50.03
458      10-1-73     113.130
459      10-1-73     97.066 -
                     97.069
465      6-21-74     131.09
467      6-3-74      96.24
473      9-3-74      135.15 -
                     135.19
474      9-3-74      135.30 -
                     135.33
476      9-16-74     120.001
479      10-21-74    93.32
480      11-18-74    36.20
483      12-21-74    34.20 -
                     34.34
486      1-6-75      131.06
487      2-3-75      34.22
488      3-3-75      35.15,
                     35.16
490      3-17-75     52.01
491      4-7-75      130.20 -
                     130.24
498      12-12-75    91.01
498      12-15-75    91.99
                     133.01 -
499      12-15-75    133.03,
                     133.99
500      1-5-76      155.272
                     52.25 -
505      4-5-76      52.30,
                     52.99
506      4-5-76      120.077
506      4-22-76     120.040
507      6-7-76      95.15,
                     95.16
508      9-7-76      32.091
                     113.210 -
511      1-18-77     113.218,
                     113.999
513      4-18-77     70.03
                     92.46,
515      6-20-77     92.45,
                     92.47
516      6-20-77     122.20 -
                     122.26
517      7-18-77     32.170 -
                     32.180
522      2-6-78      121.70 -
                     121.75
531      11-10-78    T.S.O. I
                     112.01,
                     112.15,
535      6-4-79      112.16,
                     112.50,
                     112.99
536      6-18-79     121.37
540      8-6-79      31.01 -
                     31.05
541      8-6-79      70.99
544      1-7-80      92.03
                     72.45 -
549      5-19-80     72.48,
                     72.99
550      6-2-80      72.01
554      9-15-80     32.045 -
                     32.048
559      11-17-80    31.05
                     72.60 -
563      12-15-80    72.75,
                     72.99
                     97.080 -
564      12-15-80    97.085,
                     97.999
567      2-2-81      120.019
568      3-16-81     71.15 -
                     71.20
569      4-20-81     113.080
570      4-20-81     32.173
571      7-20-81     72.15 -
                     72.17
573      9-21-81     T.S.O. II
578      6-6-82      121.45
578      6-7-82      121.44
580      7-6-82      70.01,
                     70.02
584      8-16-82     97.047,
                     97.999
585      8-16-82     97.030,
                     97.031
                     34.01 -
589      12-6-82     34.09,
                     37.17
                     122.55 -
592      12-20-82    122.61,
                     122.99
                     32.110 -
593      1-4-83      32.119,
                     32.121,
                     32.122
596      1-18-83     150.163
596      4-4-83      70.03
598      4-4-83      70.03
                     113.070 -
599      4-18-83     113.079,
                     113.999
600      4-18-83     113.045 -
                     113.058
                     37.15,
603      8-15-83     37.16,
                     37.18 -
                     37.24
                     99.01 -
604      9-6-83      99.08,
                     99.99
609      10-15-84    32.117,
                     32.120
610      10-15-84    111.01 -
                     111.09
612      12-3-84     32.135 -
                     32.144
617      6-17-85     33.30 -
                     33.33
618      6-17-85     32.139
624      8-1-85      150.140 -
                     150.145
628      3-3-86      130.04
639      8-4-86      39.01,
                     39.02
643      1-5-87      130.02
                     136.30,
644      2-2-87      136.31,
                     136.37
                     151.001 -
                     151.007,
                     151.020 -
                     151.033,
                     151.045 -
                     151.051,
                     151.060 -
                     151.062,
                     151.075 -
                     151.079,
                     151.090 -
                     151.095,
                     151.105 -
                     151.108,
                     151.120,
                     151.121,
                     151.135,
                     151.136,
646      2-2-87      151.150,
                     151.151,
                     151.160 -
                     151.162,
                     151.175 -
                     151.177,
                     151.190,
                     151.191,
                     151.205,
                     151.206,
                     151.220,
                     151.221,
                     151.235,
                     151.236,
                     151.250,
                     151.251,
                     151.265,
                     151.266,
                     151.275,
                     151.999
651      6-15-87     136.01 -
                     136.05
658      11-2-87     32.001 -
                     32.003
                     92.01,
664      6-6-88      92.02,
                     92.30,
                     92.99
                     32.110 -
666      11-7-88     32.120,
                     32.122
667      12-19-88    131.07
672      4-3-89      32.003
677      7-3-89      70.03
678      7-17-89     72.85
679      7-17-89     97.050
                     95.01 -
682      10-16-89    95.03,
                     95.99
687      3-19-90     32.155 -
                     32.160
690      7-2-90      38.01 -
                     38.07
                     73.20 -
692      11-5-90     73.25,
                     73.99
693      11-19-90    37.17
694      1-7-91      40.01 -
                     40.05
695      1-7-91      40.15 -
                     40.19
696      1-7-91      70.03,
                     70.99
697      1-7-91      70.03
698      2-18-91     118.01 -
                     118.13
699      3-18-91     T.S.O. III
                     136.30 -
700      4-15-91     136.33,
                     136.35 -
                     136.37
701      5-20-91     T.S.O. III
702      7-1-91      50.20 - 50.22
703      7-15-91     T.S.O. III
704      1-6-92      53.55 - 53.63
705      1-21-92     95.02
707      2-17-92     70.03
                     70.15 -
708      2-17-92     70.19,
                     70.99
709      5-18-92     70.03
710      12-7-92     112.30 -
                     112.40
711      12-7-92     Adopting Ordinance
712      1-4-93      50.50 -50.54,
                     50.99
713      2-15-93     90.22,
                     90.23
720      5-3-93      150.200 -
                     150.204
                     123.01 -
721      5-3-93      123.06,
                     123.99
                     92.01,
722      5-17-93     92.02,
                     92.30,
                     92.99
723      8-16-93     131.10
725      10-4-93     100.01 -
                     100.17
726      10-4-93     121.23
727      11-16-93    93.40
728      12-21-93    120.039
729      12-20-93    T.S.O. III
                     92.01,
735      1-4-94      92.011,
                     92.02
                     117.70 -
736      1-4-94      117.84,
                     117.99
738      2-7-94      T.S.O. III
739      6-20-94     T.S.O. III
741      11-21-94    32.161
742      12-19-94    36.20
743      2-9-95      T.S.O. III
744      2-9-95      T.S.O. III
745      3-2-95      T.S.O. III
748      11-14-95    T.S.O. III
749      11-29-95    T.S.O. III
753      5-20-96     T.S.O. III
754      7-1-96      136.38
755      7-15-96     52.15
756      7-15-96     T.S.O. III
757      8-19-96     T.S.O. III
758      1-6-97      132.05
759      1-6-97      T.S.O. III
760      1-6-97      37.23
761      3-17-97     T.S.O. III
762      6-18-97     T.S.O. III
763      7-21-97     94.27
764      8-4-97      50.06
765      10-6-97     T.S.O. III
                     92.01,
766      10-20-97    92.011,
                     92.02
770      4-6-98      Ch. 53
773      5-18-98     150.142
774      12-21-98    T.S.O. III
775      4-19-99     97.069,
                     97.070
778      7-19-99     50.22, 50.50 - 50.54
779      9-7-99      T.S.O. III
781      --          T.S.O. III
782      12-6-99     150.210 -
                     150.220
783      12-6-99     150.140 -
                     150.145
784      12-20-99    T.S.O. III
785      12-20-99    T.S.O. III
786      12-20-99    T.S.O. III
787      12-20-99    70.03
788      11-29-00    150.230 -
                     150.240
789      3-19-01     90.20,
                     90.26
                     155.011 -
                     155.020,
                     155.029, 155.031 -
                     155.036,
                     155.041 -
                     155.049,
                     155.061,
                     155.071 -
                     155.082,
                     155.111 -
                     155.142,
                     155.151 -
                     155.153,
                     155.161 -
                     155.167,
                     155.181 -
792      12-3-01     155.187,
                     155.201 -
                     155.205,
                     155.207,
                     155.211 -
                     155.217,
                     155.231 -
                     155.245,
                     155.250 -
                     155.253,
                     155.271 -
                     155.275,
                     155.281 -
                     155.298,
                     155.300 -
                     155.304,
                     155.321,
                     155.322
                     101.01 -
795      10-21-02    101.18,
                     101.99
                     150.233,
796      11-4-02     150.237,
                     150.238
                     70.25,
797      1-6-03      70.26,
                     70.99
798      3-3-03      155.019
799      1-5-04      155.072
800      2-16-04     32.045
801      2-16-04     32.096
802      6-7-04      91.65 -
                     91.67
803      9-20-04     131.01
                     94.02,
                     94.15,
804      6-7-04      94.16,
                     94.17,
                     94.24,
                     94.27
                     53.01 -
                     53.13,
806      12-19-05    53.99,
                     Ch. 53, Appendices A,
                     B,
                     C
807      12-19-05    41.01,
                     41.02
808      1-4-06      40.25 -
                     40.30
                     150.211,
                     150.212,
                     150.213,
                     150.214,
                     150.215, 150.218,
                     150.232,
810      3-5-07      150.233,
                     150.234,
                     150.236,
                     150.237,
                     150.238,
                     150.239,
                     156.01 -
                     156.52
812      7-2-07      32.034
813      6-6-07      155.143
815      8-6-07      120.086
                     113.185 -
816      2-20-08     113.200,
                     113.999
        155.241
821      5-4-09      32.065
822      5-4-09      32.096
823      5-4-09      155.203,
                     155.999
824      7-10-09     36.21
                     53.01-
                     53.13, 53.99,
825      9-30-09     Ch. 53, Appendices A,
                     B,
                     C
                     55.001 -
                     55.006,
                     55.020 -
                     55.022,
                     55.035,
                     55.036,
                     55.050,
826      11-9-09     55.065,
                     55.066,
                     55.080,
                     55.081,
                     55.095 -
                     55.104,
                     55.115,
                     55.116
827      12-7-09     155.049
828      12-7-09     155.083
                     94.01,
                     94.02,
829      12-21-09    94.15 -
                     94.23,
                     94.24 -
                     94.27
                     155.046,
830      12-21-09    155.144,
                     155.202,
                     155.999
831      11-15-10    155.202,
                     156.50
                     157.01 -
832      11-15-10    157.11,
                     157.99
833      8-7-06      150.141 -
                     150.145
834      2-21-11     113.192
835      2-21-11     134.02,
                     134.03
                     155.029,
                     155.036,
836      2-21-11     155.046 -
                     155.049,
                     155.145
837      3-21-11     32.091
                     155.046 -
838      8-15-11     155.049,
                     155.218
839      2-20-12     155.142
                     32.015,
840      8-15-11     32.017 -
                     32.019
842      8-20-11     92.31 -
                     92.39
844      9-17-12     155.049
845      9-17-12     155.047,
                     155.128
846      2-3-14      155.142
847      10-15-14    54.09
848      10-15-14    52.13
849      12-17-14    155.049
                     157.07,
850      1-15-15     157.12 -
                     157.15,
                     157.99
                     150.001,
                     150.110,
                     150.111,
                     150.140 -
                     150.145,
                     150.160 -
                     150.165,
851      2-20-15     150.175 -
                     150.182,
                     150.200 -
                     150.204,
                     150.210 -
                     150.220,
                     150.230 -
                     150.240
                     155.021,
852      3-16-15     155.029,
                     155.048,
                     155.146
853      1-5-15      155.047,
                     155.147
855      9-21-15     155.046
                     124.01 -
856      3-17-16     124.11,
                     124.99
                     155.014,
                     155.019,
                     155.021,
                     155.029,
                     155.033,
                     155.036,
                     155.041 -
                     155.049,
                     155.061,
                     155.072 -
                     155.077,
                     155.080 -
                     155.083,
                     155.111,
                     155.113,
                     155.115,
                     155.126,
                     155.128,
                     155.129,
                     155.131,
                     155.134,
                     155.140,
                     155.141,
                     155.143,
                     155.145 -
                     155.149,
                     155.151,
—      2-20-17     155.164,
                     155.167,
                     155.182,
                     155.184,
                     155.186A,
                     155.202,
                     155.216,
                     155.217,
                     155.233,
                     155.234,
                     155.239,
                     155.244,
                     155.250,
                     155.251,
                     155.253,
                     155.255,
                     155.256,
                     155.271,
                     155.272,
                     155.274,
                     155.275,
                     155.282,
                     155.284 -
                     155.286,
                     155.288,
                     155.289,
                     155.291,
                     155.292
                     31.03,
                     31.05,
                     32.002,
                     32.003,
                     32.031,
                     32.116,
                     32.118,
                     32.120,
                     34.01,
                     34.03,
                     37.02,
                     37.03,
                     40.28,
                     52.41,
                     55.050,
857      4-17-17     73.02,
                     73.24,
                     90.26,
                     91.17,
                     91.21,
                     91.23 -
                     91.25,
                     91.55,
                     91.56,
                     92.011,
                     95.03,
                     95.17,
                     95.18,
                     98.02,
                     98.16,
                     100.04,
                     100.09
                     124.01 -
858      7-17-17     124.11,
                     124.99
                     52.25 -
859      7-17-17     52.31,
                     52.99
860      8-21-17     92.60,
                     92.99
861      8-21-17     118.01 -
                     118.13
                     155.029,
                     155.036,
                     155.048,
862      9-18-17     155.146,
                     144.148,
                     155.150 -
                     155.150C
                     155.049,
                     155.204,
863      10-2-17     155.272,
                     155.286,
                     155.289,
                     155.304
864      12-20-17    150.230 -
                     150.240
865      12-20-17    150.141 -
                     150.145
                     123.01 -
866      3-5-18      123.06,
                     123.99
867      3-5-18      155.262,
                     155.999
                     102.01 -
868      3-5-18      102.10,
                     102.99
                     155.146,
                     155.148,
870      4-5-18      155.150,
                     155.150A,
                     155.150C
871      7-18-18     39.02
                     155.029,
                     155.036,
                     155.046,
872      11-15-18    155.048,
                     155.049,
                     155.149A,
                     155.149B
                     155.029,
                     155.036,
873      11-19-18    155.045,
                     155.048,
                     155.049,
                     155.261
874      4-18-19     56.01 -
                     56.23
875      4-18-19     95.01,
                     95.03
                    
 
