KINGSLEY, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2020 S-7 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 19-03, passed 10-14-2019
Published by:
American Legal Publishing Corporation
One West Fourth Street, Third Floor
Cincinnati, Ohio  45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Fax: (513) 763-3562
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCES
ORDINANCE NO. 01 06-06
AN ORDINANCE ADOPTING AND ENACTING A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF
KINGSLEY, MICHIGAN, AMENDING, REPEALING, REVISING, RESTATING, CODIFYING AND
COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF KINGSLEY
DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SUCH CODE OF ORDINANCES.
WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of the Village of
Kingsley are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form
and substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety
and general welfare of the Village of Kingsley and for the proper conduct of
its affairs; and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the Legislature of the State of Michigan (MCL 66.3a)
empower and authorize the Village of Kingsley to revise, amend, restate, codify
and compile any existing ordinances and all new ordinances not heretofore
adopted or published and to incorporate such ordinances into one ordinance in
book form; and
WHEREAS, the Village Council of Kingsley has authorized a general compilation,
revision and codification of the ordinances of the Village of Kingsley of a
general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinance in book form;
and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
Village of Kingsley and for the immediate preservation of the public peace,
health, safety and general welfare of the Village of Kingsley that this
ordinance take effect at an early date.
NOW, THEREFORE, 
THE VILLAGE OF KINGSLEY HEREBY ORDAINS:
SECTION 1.  In accordance with the laws of the State of Michigan, including but
not limited to MCL 66.3a, the general ordinances of the Village of Kingsley as
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form and published
by American Legal Publishing Corporation are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the "Code of Ordinances of the Village of Kingsley."
SECTION 2.  Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of
the following titles:
KINGSLEY, MICHIGAN
TABLE OF CONTENTS
   Chapter
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
      10.   Rules of Construction; General Penalty
      11.   Civil Infractions
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
      30.   Village Council and Officials
      31.   Village Organizations
      32.   Finance and Revenue
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
      50.   Water Supply
      51.   Sewers
      52.   User Fees for Water and Sewer Systems
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
      70.   Traffic Regulations
      71.   Parking Regulations
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
      90.   Hazardous Materials
      91.   Fire Prevention and Protection
      92.   Streets and Sidewalks
      93.   Public Nuisances
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      110.   Cable Television
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
      130.   General Offenses
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
      150.   General Provisions
      151.   Subdivision Regulations
      152.   Zoning Code
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      I.   Franchises
      II.   Bonds
      III.   Zoning Map Changes
SECTION 3.  All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such
Code of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date
of this ordinance except as they are included and reordained in whole or in
part in such Code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed
or penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of
this ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances
levying taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory,
establishing franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons,
authorizing public improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing
of money, authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property,
granting or accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use,
vacating or setting the boundaries of streets or other public places; nor shall
such repeal affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or
pertaining to subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
SECTION 4.  Such Code shall be deemed published as of the day of its adoption
and approval by the Village Council and the Clerk of the Village of Kingsley is
hereby authorized and ordered to file a copy of such Code of Ordinances in the
Office of the Clerk.
SECTION 5.  Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
6, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded, and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
SECTION 6.  This Code shall take full force and effect upon publication.
Published date June 15th, 2006
 
TITLE I:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
      
11.   CIVIL INFRACTIONS
CHAPTER 10:  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not re-enacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
   
10.12   Responsibility
   
10.13   Rules, regulations, permits, and applications for permits
   
10.14   Construction
   
10.15   Notice
   
10.16   Application of state and federal law
   
10.17   Disposition of copies of the code
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01  HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “Kingsley Village Code.”
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE.  The Kingsley Village Code as designated in
§ 10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code; when
expressed in days, it shall be computed by excluding the first day and
including the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it
shall be excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday
or a legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY.  County of Grand Traverse, Michigan.
      JUVENILE.  Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR.  A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by
this code or any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this
code or any other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions,
including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §
600.4801, as amended.  A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included
offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE.  Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Kingsley, Michigan.”  Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES.  The ordinances of the Village of Kingsley and all amendments
thereto.
      PERSON.
         (a)   Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association,
or corporation.  Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section.
         (b)   The singular includes the plural.  The masculine gender includes
the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE.  The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE.  The Village of Kingsley, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL or COUNCIL.  The Village Council of the Village of
Kingsley.
§ 10.03  SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted. 
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, or division.
§ 10.04  CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code.
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any evidence of the
village's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions; no parking zones; specific
speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning;
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all the ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. 
The ordinances are on file in the Village Clerk's office.
§ 10.05  CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06  PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07  ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT RE-ENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
re-enacted.  The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not
impair or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08  AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language:  “That section _____ of the Kingsley Village
Code, is hereby amended to read as follows:...”  The new provisions shall then
be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used:  “That the Kingsley Village Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which the section
reads as follows:...”  The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
§ 10.09  SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council.  A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code.  For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____  to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10  APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9c, as amended, when the public
servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed an offense
in violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Village Manager;
   (B)   Grand Traverse County Sheriff and deputies;
   (C)   Village Zoning Administrator;
   (D)   Battalion Fire Chief; and
   (E)   Grand Traverse Rural Fire Chief.
§ 10.11  SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.12  RESPONSIBILITY.
   Every person concerned in the commission of an act prohibited by this code,
whether he or she directly commits the act, or prosecutes, counsels, aids, or
abets in its commission, may be prosecuted and held responsible under the
provisions of this code as if he or she had directly committed the act.
(1992 Code, § 1.7)
§ 10.13  RULES, REGULATIONS, PERMITS, AND APPLICATIONS FOR PERMITS.
   Copies of all rules, regulations, permits, and applications for permits
promulgated pursuant to authority granted in this code shall be kept in the
office of the Village Clerk for public inspection and distribution.  The Clerk
shall establish a system of assigning unique numbers or names to the rules,
regulations, or other materials and shall maintain a list of all rules,
regulations, and other materials.
(1992 Code, § 1.8)
§ 10.14  CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The singular masculine pronoun shall include the feminine, neuter, and
plural, and vice versa.
   (B)   All provisions and sections of this code shall be liberally construed
in order to protect and preserve the peace, health, safety, and welfare of the
inhabitants of the village.
(1992 Code, § 1.10)
§ 10.15  NOTICE.
   (A)   Notice regarding any matters as to which notice is required or
permitted to be provided under the terms of this code, including notice
regarding any act required by this code, the expense of which, if performed by
the village, may be collected from the property owner, shall be served as
follows, in addition to any other means of service of notice required by law:
      (1)   By delivering the notice personally or by leaving it at the
person's residence, office, or place of business with some person of suitable
age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by registered or certified mail to the person
at his or her last known address; or
      (3)   If the identity of a property owner is not known, or if his or her
whereabouts cannot be ascertained after diligent search and inquiry, by posting
the notice in some conspicuous place on the premises concerned not fewer than 5
days prior to the date set therein for compliance.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal, or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by the village unless permission is
given to remove it.
(1992 Code, § 1.11)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 10.16  APPLICATION OF STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   No person or business shall engage in any activity, conduct, use or venture
that is contrary to any federal, state, or local law or ordinance, nor any rule
or regulation adopted by any duly authorized federal, state, or local agency. 
No enumeration of particular laws, rules, or regulations in the ordinances of
the Village of Kingsley shall be held to be exclusive.
(1992 Code, § 1.12)  (Am. Ord. 03 10-10, passed 10-18-2009)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 10.17  DISPOSITION OF COPIES OF THE CODE.
   The Village Clerk shall maintain the official copy of this code and all
amendments thereto for inspection at reasonable times by any interested
person.  The Clerk shall distribute copies of this code to each member of the
Village Council and other village officials.
(1992 Code, § 1.15)
§ 10.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided in this code or in any
amendment thereof, a person convicted of a violation of any section or chapter
or provision of this code or convicted of the commission of any act declared to
be a misdemeanor or an offense by this code shall be punished by a fine which
shall not exceed the sum of $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days,
or by both such fine and imprisonment.
      (2)   This code may also be enforced by suit for injunction, action for
damages, or by or through any other legal process appropriate to the
enforcement thereof.
   (B)   Aiding and abetting.  Whenever any act or omission to act is a
violation of this code or of any rule or regulation adopted hereunder, any
person who causes, secures, aids or abets such violation may be prosecuted and
any conviction thereof shall be punished as if he or she had directly committed
such violation.
CHAPTER 11:  CIVIL INFRACTIONS
Section
   
11.01   Definitions
   
11.02   General penalties and sanctions for violations of village ordinances;
continuing violations; injunctive relief
   
11.03   Schedule of civil fines established
   
11.04   Enforcement; action, commencement; issuance and service of citations;
contents of citations
   
11.05   Authorized village officials
§ 11.01  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  Public Act No. 236 of 1961 (M.C.L.A. § 600.101 et seq.)
   AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL.  The Grand Traverse County Sheriff and his or
her deputies, a police officer or other personnel of the village authorized by
ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction citations.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.  An act or omission that is prohibited by
village ordinance, but which is not a crime under this chapter or other
ordinances of the village, and for which civil sanctions, including without
limitation fines, damages, expenses and costs, may be ordered, as authorized by
Chapter 87 of Public Act No. 236 of 1961 (M.C.L.A. § 600.8701 et seq.). A
MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense of a violation of
the village ordinances which is a criminal offense.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION.  A civil action in which the defendant is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION.  A written complaint prepared by an
authorized village official, directing a person to appear at court of law
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by the person cited.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION DETERMINATION.  A determination that a defendant
is responsible for a municipal civil infraction by one of the following:
      (1)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction;
      (2)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction
with explanation;
      (3)   A preponderance of the evidence at an informal hearing or formal
hearing; or
      (4)   A default judgment for failing to appear as directed by citation or
other notice.
   VIOLATION.   Any act which is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful
or an offense by this chapter or any ordinance, and any omission or failure to
act where the act is required by this chapter or any ordinance.
(Ord. 7 09-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11.02  GENERAL PENALTIES AND SANCTIONS FOR VIOLATIONS OF VILLAGE ORDINANCES;
CONTINUING VIOLATIONS; INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   (A)   Unless a violation of this Code of Ordinances or any ordinance of the
village is specifically designated as a municipal civil infraction, the
violation shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor. It shall also be a misdemeanor
for any person who makes a knowing false statement, representation or
certification in an application, report, record or plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to an ordinance; or willfully continues
or violates an ordinance after suspension or revocation of a permit authorized
under this chapter, other ordinances or state law.
   (B)   The penalty of a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not exceeding
$500 (plus costs of prosecution), or imprisonment not exceeding 90 days, or
both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the violation by this
chapter or any ordinance. Each act of violation and every day upon which such
violation shall occur or continue shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by this chapter or any
ordinance, plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized
under Chapter 87 of Public Act 236 of 1961 (M.C.L.A. § 600.8701 et seq.), and
other applicable laws. Municipal civil infractions shall be subject to the
enforcement procedures as set forth below in
§ 11.04.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular municipal
civil infraction violation by this chapter or any ordinance, the civil fine for
a violation shall be not less than $50 nor more than $500, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
      (2)   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated violations by a
person of any requirement or provision of this chapter or any ordinance. As
used in this section, the term REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provisions committed by a person within any 12-month period (unless some other
period is specifically provided by this chapter or any ordinance) and for which
the person admits responsibility or is determined to be responsible. Unless
otherwise specifically provided by this chapter or any ordinance for a
particular municipal civil infraction violation, the increased fine for a
repeat offense shall be as follows:
         (a)   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense shall
be no less than $250, plus costs.
         (b)   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense or any
subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $500, plus costs.
         (c)   Repeat offenses are determined on the basis of the date of the
commission of the offenses.
         (d)   The judge or magistrate shall be authorized to reduce a fine
upon a determination of extraordinary circumstances.
         (e)   The judge or magistrate shall also be authorized to impose
costs, damages and expenses as provided by law.
         (f)   In addition to ordering the defendant determined to be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction to pay a civil fine, costs,
damages and expenses, the judge or magistrate shall be authorized to issue any
judgment, writ or order necessary to enforce, or enjoin violation of this
chapter or any village ordinance.
   (D)   In addition to any penalties provided for in this chapter, any
equitable or other remedies available may be sought.
(Ord. 7 09-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11.03 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES ESTABLISHED.
   A schedule of civil fines payable to the village for admissions or
responsibility by persons served with municipal ordinance violation notices may
be adopted by resolution by the Village Council. If no specific civil fines are
established by resolution for a particular municipal civil infraction
violation, the civil fine shall be as follows:
      1st violation within a 12-month period      $50 - $125
      2nd violation within a 12-month period      $250 - $499
      3rd violation within a 12-month period      $500
(Ord. 7 09-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11.04  ENFORCEMENT; ACTION, COMMENCEMENT; ISSUANCE AND SERVICE OF CITATIONS;
CONTENTS OF CITATIONS.
   (A)   A municipal civil infraction may be commenced upon the issuance by an
authorized village official of a municipal civil infraction citation directing
the alleged violator to appear in court.
   (B)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized village officials as follows:
      (1)   The time for appearance specified on a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
      (2)   The place for appearance specified on a citation shall be the 86th
District Court unless the person cited for a municipal civil infraction is
under the age of 17 at the time of the occurrence of the violation, at which
time the matter shall be referred to the Grand Traverse County Probate Court.
      (3)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively, shall be in the form
approved by the state court administrator, and shall consist of the following
parts:
         (a)   The original, which is a complaint and notice to appear, shall
be filed with the county district court;
         (b)   The first copy shall be retained by the village and/or the
ordinance enforcing agency;
         (c)   The second copy shall be issued to the alleged violator if the
violation is a municipal civil infraction; and
         (d)   The third copy shall be issued to the alleged violator if the
violation is a misdemeanor.
      (4)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an authorized
village official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation alleged
in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the complaint
and if the citation contains the following statement immediately above the date
and signature of the official: “I declare under the penalties of perjury that
the statements above are true to the best of my information, knowledge and
belief.”
      (5)   An authorized village official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
      (6)   An authorized village official may issue a citation to a person if:
         (a)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
         (b)   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly
witnessed the person violate an ordinance, a violation of which is a municipal
civil infraction, the official has reasonable cause to believe that the person
is responsible for an infraction and if the Village Attorney approves in
writing the issuance of the citation.
      (7)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served by an
authorized village official as follows:
         (a)   Except as provided in subsection (7)(b) of this section, an
authorized village official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon
the alleged violator.
         (b)   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the municipal civil
infraction citation does not need to be personally served upon the alleged
violator, but may be served upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or
structure by posting the copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building
or structure. In addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first class
mail to the owner of the land, building or structure at the owner's last known
address. A citation served in accordance with this subsection for a violation
involving the use or occupancy of land or a building or other structure shall
be processed in the same manner as a citation served personally upon a
defendant.
   (C)   Contents of citations.
      (1)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall contain the name of the
plaintiff and the name and the address of the alleged violator, the municipal
civil infraction alleged, the place where the alleged violator shall appear in
court, the telephone number of the court, and the time at or by which the
appearance shall be made.
      (2)   A municipal civil infraction citation shall inform the alleged
violator to do one of the following:
         (a)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by mail,
in person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for appearance.
         (b)   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction with
explanation by mail by the time specified for appearance, in person or by
representation.
         (c)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
            1.   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the village.
            2.   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with
the opportunity of being represented by an attorney. A party requesting a
formal hearing shall notify the court and the other party of the request at
least 10 days before the hearing date, which request may be made in person, by
representation, by mail or by telephone.
      (3)   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of the
following:
         (a)   That if the alleged violator desires to admit responsibility
with explanation in person or by representation, the alleged violator must
apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by representation
within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time
for an appearance.
         (b)   That if the alleged violator desires to deny responsibility, the
alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or
by representation within the time specified to appear for a hearing unless a
hearing date is specified on the citation.
         (c)   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal
hearing is requested by the alleged violator or the village.
         (d)   That at an informal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the opportunity of
being represented by an attorney.
         (e)   That at a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear in
person before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
   (D)   The citation shall contain a notice in boldface type that the failure
of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the citation or
at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor and will
result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on the
municipal civil infraction. Return of the citation with an admission of
responsibility and with full payment of applicable civil fines and costs,
return of citation with an admission of responsibility with explanation, or
timely application to the court for a scheduled date and time for an appearance
under subsection (3)(a) or a hearing under subsection (3)(b) of this section
constitutes a timely appearance.
   (E)   If an authorized village official issues a citation as set forth in
this section, the court may accept an admission with explanation or an
admission or denial of responsibility without the necessity of a sworn
complaint. If the defendant denies responsibility for the municipal civil
infraction, further proceedings shall not be held until a sworn complaint is
filed with the court. A warrant for arrest for failure to appear on the
municipal civil infraction citation shall not be issued until a sworn complaint
relative to the municipal civil infraction is filed with the court.
(Ord. 7 09-05, passed 9-12-2005)
§ 11.05  AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village Manager, the Grand Traverse County Sheriff and his or her
deputies, and the village Zoning Administrator, are designated as the
authorized village officials to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) as provided by this chapter.
(Ord. 7 09-05, passed 9-12-2005)
TITLE III:  ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL AND OFFICIALS
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   FINANCE AND REVENUE
CHAPTER 30:  VILLAGE COUNCIL AND OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.001   Number of signatures required on a nominating petition for President
or Trustee
   
30.002   Terms of office for President and Trustees
   
30.003   Delegation of Council functions
   
30.004   Compensation of village officials
Village Treasurer
   
30.015   Office of Village Treasurer
   
30.016   Appointment of Village Treasurer
   
30.017   Term of office
   
30.018   Termination of appointment; removal
   
30.019   Residency requirements
   
30.020   Compensation
   
30.021   Duties and responsibilities
   
30.022   Effective date
Village Clerk
   
30.035   Office of Village Clerk
   
30.036   Appointment of Village Clerk
   
30.037   Term of office
   
30.038   Termination of appointment; removal
   
30.039   Residency requirements
   
30.040   Compensation
   
30.041   Duties and responsibilities
   
30.042   Effective date
Village Manager
   
30.055   Creation of office
   
30.056   Appointment of Village Manager
   
30.057   Function and duties
   
30.058   Oversight
   
30.059   Emergencies
   
30.060   Compensation
   
30.061   Vacancy
   
30.062   Effective date
Cross-reference:
   Civil Infractions, see
Ch. 11
   Village Organizations, see
Ch. 31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.001  NUMBER OF SIGNATURES REQUIRED ON A NOMINATING PETITION FOR PRESIDENT
OR TRUSTEE.
   (A)   In order to use the numerical standards established by the State of
Michigan as part of its General Election Law for nominating petitions for
nonpartisan office, the Village of Kingsley hereby adopts this section in
accordance with Chapter III, § I of the General Law Charter, and as authorized
by state statute, as follows.
   (B)   The number of signatures required for the village office of either
President or Trustee shall be as set forth in the General Election Law of the
State of Michigan, M.C.L.A. §§ 168.1 to 168.992, as may from time to time be
modified in accordance with the most recent federal census.
(Ord. 03-03, passed 5-28-2003)
§ 30.002  TERMS OF OFFICE FOR PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES.
   (A)   President.  The Village President shall henceforth hold his or her
office for the term of 4 years, commencing from the second Monday of the year
2004 when elected, and shall continue to serve until his or her respective
successor is elected and qualified.
   (B)   Trustees.  All of the Village Trustees shall henceforth hold their
respective offices for a term of 4 years, commencing from the second Monday of
the year 2004 when elected, and until their respective successors are elected
and qualified.
   (C)   Extension.  The terms of the Trustees which would otherwise end in
March 2005 are by means of this section extended for an additional 12 months
until the March 2006 election.
   (D)   Authority.  This section is adopted pursuant to the Charter provisions
for the Village of Kingsley, a Michigan general law village, being Public Act 3
of 1895, being M.C.L.A. §§ 62.1, as amended.
   (E)   Effective date.  This section shall become effective 15 days after
publication in a newspaper of general circulation within the village, and shall
govern and control for elections of a Village President and Village Trustees at
future general elections commencing with March 2004.
(Ord. 02-03, passed 5-5-2003)
§ 30.003  DELEGATION OF COUNCIL FUNCTIONS.
   The Village Council may, from time to time as considered necessary, delegate
the responsibility for the administration, oversight, and enforcement of this
code and any other ordinances to any village officer, or employee, or
committee.
(1992 Code, § 1.17)
§ 30.004  COMPENSATION OF VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   (A)   The President and each Trustee shall receive compensation for the
performance of these offices only as provided by ordinance, which shall specify
the manner and method of compensation.
   (B)   The President and Trustees shall receive no other compensation for
service performed for and on behalf of the village during their term of office.
   (C)   Except as otherwise provided by law, other village officers shall
receive the compensation as may be prescribed by the Council.
(1992 Code, § 1.18)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 30.015  OFFICE OF VILLAGE TREASURER.
   (A)   The position of Village Treasurer is hereby designated an appointed
position under the General Village Law Charter, being Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch.
2, § 1, being M.C.L.A. § 62.1, as amended.
   (B)   The statutory duties of the Treasurer, which are incorporated in
§§ 30.015et seq. by reference, are found in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. IV, §§ 9
to 12, being M.C.L.A. § 64.9 to 64.11, as amended, the same constituting the
Charter for the Village of Kingsley.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.016  APPOINTMENT OF VILLAGE TREASURER.
   The Village Treasurer shall be appointed by the Village Council after
nomination of the individual by the Village Council President.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.017  TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall be appointed for an indefinite term of
office and shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   At all times during the term of office, the Treasurer shall not be in
default to the village (as defined in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. 2, § 7, being
M.C.L.A. § 62.7) and shall give and maintain any bond or security required for
the performance of his or her office as required by Public Act 3 of 1895, being
M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to 75.12.
   (C)   The Treasurer shall, within 30 days after receiving notice of his or
her appointment to the position of Village Treasurer, take the oath of office
prescribed by the Constitution of the state and file the oath according to
statute.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.018  TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   As set forth in
§§ 30.015et seq., the Treasurer's term being for an indefinite period and the
individual serving “at will” at the pleasure of the Village Council, the
appointment of the Treasurer may be terminated at any time when the Village
President, acting with the approval of the Village Council, deems the same to
be in the best interest of the public.
   (B)   In addition, the Treasurer may be suspended for neglect of duty by the
Village President and may be, with the approval of the Village Council, removed
when the Council and the President deem the same to be in the best interest of
the public.
   (C)   (1)   In the event of suspension or removal by the Village President
and not termination by full action by the Village Council, the Treasurer shall
be entitled to a “due process” hearing before the Village Council as a whole,
in accordance with procedures established for hearings relating to appointed
officials.
      (2)   The action of the Village Council, as a whole, in removing the
Village Treasurer or upholding the suspension shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.019  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Treasurer need not be a resident of the village but, in
accordance with the terms and provisions of
§§ 30.015et seq. and the statute, must not be “in default” to the village and
must take the constitutional oath of office and give and maintain the bond or
security as may be required by statute.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.020  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Treasurer shall receive the compensation as the
Council shall determine on an annual basis, with the amount to be fixed by
resolution.
      (2)   The compensation shall not be decreased, as to the monetary amount
to be received for the full performance of duties during the year the
resolution is in effect.
      (3)   The compensation may be increased or decreased on an annual basis
at the time the Village Council establishes compensation by resolution.
   (B)   In the event the Village Treasurer is removed from office during the
time period in which the resolution is in effect, he or she shall be paid for
all work performed to the time of removal and, in addition thereto, shall
receive the equivalent of 60-days additional pay as “termination/removal
compensation” and shall have no other or further monetary claim against the
village arising out of his or her appointment as Village Treasurer.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.021  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Village Treasurer shall have the following duties as described in
Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. 4, being M.C.L.A. § 64.1 to 64.21, being the Village
Charter:
      (1)   Has custody of and receives all village money, bonds, mortgages,
notes, leases, and evidence of value;
      (2)   Keeps an account of all receipts and expenditures;
      (3)   Collects and keeps an account of all taxes and money
appropriations, keeping a separate account of each fund;
      (4)   Performs duties relating to levying taxes; and
      (5)   Makes periodic reports to the Clerk and Council as required by law.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to those statutory duties and responsibilities as
set forth in Public Act 3 of 1895,being M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to 75.12, the Council
may establish further duties and responsibilities for the Village Treasurer as
may be from time to time set forth by Council.
      (2)   The statutory duties and responsibilities may be supplemented by
those duties and responsibilities created by the Village Council by resolution
or as set forth in any “job description” created and approved by Council.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.022  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Sections 30.015 et seq. shall be effective 45 days after adoption, and
shall be applicable not earlier than the first term for which the nomination
deadline is at least 30 days after the effective date of
§§ 30.015et seq. or when the office is vacated, whichever event first occurs.
   (B)   Pursuant to Public Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to 75.12, as
amended by Public Act 255 of 1998, being M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to 75.12,
§§ 30.015et seq. shall take effect 45 days after the date of adoption unless a
petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered electors of the village
is filed with the Village Clerk within the 45-day period.  If such a petition
is filed, the effective date of
§§ 30.015et seq. shall be delayed until it is approved after an election held
on the question.
(Ord. 18-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 30.035  OFFICE OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   (A)   The position of Village Clerk is hereby designated an appointed
position under the General Village Law Charter, being Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch.
2, § 1, being M.C.L.A. § 62.1, as amended.
   (B)   The statutory duties of the Clerk, which are incorporated in
§§ 30.035et seq. by reference, are found in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. IV, §§ 5
to 8, being M.C.L.A. § 64.5 to 64.8, as amended, the same constituting the
Charter for the Village of Kingsley.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.036  APPOINTMENT OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   The Village Clerk shall be appointed by the Village Council after nomination
of the individual by the Village Council President.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.037  TERM OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall be appointed for an indefinite term of office
and shall serve at the pleasure of the Council.
   (B)   At all times during the term of office, the Clerk shall not be in
default to the village (as defined in Public Act 3 of 1895, being Ch. 2, § 7,
being M.C.L.A. § 62.7) and shall give and maintain any bond or security
required for the performance of his or her office as required by Public Act 3
of 1895, being M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to 75.12.
   (C)   The Clerk shall, within 30 days after receiving notice of his or her
appointment to the position of Village Clerk, take the oath of office
prescribed by the Constitution of the state and file the oath according to
statute.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.038  TERMINATION OF APPOINTMENT; REMOVAL.
   (A)   As set forth in
§§ 30.035et seq., the Clerk's term being for an indefinite period and the
individual serving “at will” at the pleasure of the Village Council, the
appointment of the Clerk may be terminated at any time when the Village
President, acting with the approval of the Village Council, deems the same to
be in the best interest of the public.
   (B)   The Clerk may be suspended for neglect of duty by the Village
President and may be, with the approval of the Village Council, removed when
the Council and the President deem the same to be in the best interest of the
public.
   (C)   (1)   In the event of suspension or removal by the Village President
and not termination by full action by the Village Council, the Clerk shall be
entitled to a “due process” hearing before the Village Council as a whole, in
accordance with procedures established for hearings relating to appointed
officials.
      (2)   The action of the Village Council, as a whole, in removing the
Village Clerk or upholding the suspension shall be deemed final.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.039  RESIDENCY REQUIREMENTS.
   The Village Clerk need not be a resident of the village but, in accordance
with the terms and provisions of
§§ 30.035et seq. and the statute, must not be “in default” to the village and
must take the constitutional oath of office and give and maintain the bond or
security as may be required by statute.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.040  COMPENSATION.
   (A)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall receive the compensation as the Council
shall determine on an annual basis, with the amount to be fixed by resolution.
      (2)   The compensation shall not be decreased as to the monetary amount
to be received for the full performance of duties during the year the
resolution is in effect.
      (3)   Provided further, however, that the compensation may be increased
or decreased on an annual basis at the time the Village Council establishes
compensation by resolution.
   (B)   In the event the Village Clerk is removed from office during the time
period in which the resolution is in effect, he or she shall be paid for all
work performed to the time of removal and, in addition thereto, shall receive
the equivalent of 60-days additional pay as “termination/removal compensation”
and shall have no other or further monetary claim against the village arising
out of his or her appointment as Village Clerk.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.041  DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall have the following duties as described in
Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. 4, being M.C.L.A. § 64.1 to 64.21, being the Village
Charter:
      (1)   Attend all regular and special Village Council meetings and record
Council proceedings;
      (2)   Prepare and process official minutes of Council meetings;
      (3)   Maintain minutes, resolutions, ordinances, contracts, deeds, and
other Village Council documents;
      (4)   Administer oaths of office and sign official documents;
      (5)   Conduct all public bidding processes;
      (6)   Answer inquiries, handle complaints, provide explanation of taxes,
special assessments, rates, fees, ordinances, resolutions, and Council actions
in a timely, professional, and courteous manner; and
      (7)   Financial officer:
         (a)   Maintain control over all savings, checking, and local unit of
government accounts and prepare monthly bank account reconciliations with the
general ledger;
         (b)   Invest, track, and post earnings on village funds;
         (c)   Coordinate and administer annual operating and capital budget
preparations, implementation, monitoring, and amendments;
         (d)   Certify fund availability to the Council and Manager;
         (e)   Coordinate annual audit and make needed adjustments to financial
records;
         (f)   Prepare monthly and quarterly revenue/expense reports for the
Manager/Council;
         (g)   Coordinate accounts payable/receivable, utility billing,
payroll, and tax collection;
         (h)   Assist Village Treasurer, Assessor, and county staff with annual
property tax revenue settlement process;
         (i)   Coordinate, monitor, and collect special assessments;
         (j)   Assist Manager, Council, and public with analysis, preparation,
publicity, and issuance of general or special debt instruments; and
         (k)   Perform related duties as required by the Village Manager.
   (B)   (1)   In addition to those statutory duties and responsibilities as
set forth in Public Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to 75.12, the Council
may establish further duties and responsibilities for the Village Clerk as may
be from time to time set forth by Council.
      (2)   The statutory duties and responsibilities may be supplemented by
those duties and responsibilities created by the Village Council by resolution
or as set forth in any “job description” created and approved by Council.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
§ 30.042  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   Sections 30.035 et seq. shall be effective 45 days after adoption, and
shall be applicable not earlier than the first term for which the nomination
deadline is at least 30 days after the effective date of
§§ 30.035et seq. or when the office is vacated, whichever event first occurs.
   (B)   (1)   Pursuant to Public Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to
75.12, as amended by Public Act 255 of 1998, being M.C.L.A. § 61.1 to 75.12,
§§ 30.035et seq. shall take effect 45 days after the date of adoption unless a
petition signed by not less than 10% of the registered electors of the village
is filed with the Village Clerk within the 45-day period.
      (2)   If such a petition is filed, the effective date of
§§ 30.035et seq. shall be delayed until it is approved after an election held
on the question.
(Ord. 17-2001-R, passed 11-5-2001)
VILLAGE MANAGER
§ 30.055  CREATION OF OFFICE.
   In accordance with the authority for the appointment of a Village Manager,
as Council shall deem necessary for the execution of the powers granted to the
village contained in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. V, § 8, being M.C.L.A. § 65.8,
as amended, which is the Charter of this village, there is hereby created the
position of Village Manager.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 30.056  APPOINTMENT OF VILLAGE MANAGER.
   (A)   (1)   The President shall, with concurrence of a 2/3 majority or more
members of the Village Council, appoint a Village Manager for an indefinite
term.
      (2)   The Village Manager shall be the administrative officer of the
village and shall hold office at the pleasure of the Village Council.
      (3)   He or she shall be selected solely on the basis of the executive
and administrative qualifications, with special reference to his or her
training and experience and without regard to his or her political preferences.
   (B)   (1)   He or she need not be a resident of the village at the time of
his or her appointment, but shall become a resident within 6 months after his
or her appointment, with extensions permitted upon approval of the Council.  He
or she shall reside in the village thereafter during the term of his or her
office.
      (2)   No elected official of the village shall be appointed to the
position of Village Manager within 2 years from the termination of the elective
office.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 30.057  FUNCTION AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally.  The Village Manager shall be responsible to the Village
Council for the proper administration of all of the affairs of the village and,
to that end, subject to the provisions of the Village Charter, he or she shall
have the following functions and duties.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   To take the steps as may be necessary to insure enforcement of all
village laws and ordinances;
      (2)   To take the steps as may be reasonably necessary to ensure that all
village contracts and franchises are honored and compliance is had with the
terms and conditions of the same;
      (3)   To supervise all village public utilities, improvements, works, and
undertakings and the finances of the village;
      (4)   With the consent of the Village Council, to employ and discharge
the officers and employees in the departments under the Village Manager's
jurisdiction;
      (5)   To attend all meetings of the Village Council and to take part
therein but without a vote;
      (6)   To prepare the annual itemized budget and to keep the Council fully
advised as to the financial conditions and needs of the village;
      (7)   To purchase all materials, supplies, or equipment, including
insurance, for which funds are provided in the budget, but he or she may not
purchase any item which exceeds $5,000, absent specific authorized action by
the Village Council;
      (8)   Recommend to the Village Council for adoption the measures as he or
she may deem necessary or expedient;
      (9)   Be an ex officio member of all committees of the village (except
Planning Commission) and serve as advisory staff to the Planning Commission;
      (10)   Be responsible to the Village Council for the efficient
administration of all village departments and utilities;
      (11)   Be responsible to the Village Council for the proper discharge of
all obligations of the village;
      (12)   Make investigations into the affairs of the village or any
department or division thereof and investigate all complaints in relation to
all matters concerning the government of the village in regard to service
maintained by the public utilities in the village and see that all franchises,
permits, and privileges granted by the village are faithfully observed;
      (13)   Devote his or her entire work time to the discharge of official
duties and he or she shall have no outside employment or retainer, unless
approved by the Village Council or as may be authorized pursuant to the Village
Manager's contract; and
      (14)   Perform the other duties as the Village Council may direct that
naturally pertain to the general management of village affairs and he or she
shall execute and perform all administrative functions of the village that are
not imposed by the Charter or any village ordinance upon other officials.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 30.058  OVERSIGHT.
   Except for the purposes of inquires, the Village Council and its members
shall deal with the administrative service solely through the Village Manager
and neither the Village Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinates of the Village Manager, either publicly or privately.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 30.059  EMERGENCIES.
   In case of accidents or other circumstances creating an emergency, the
Village Manager may, with the consent of the Council, award contracts and make
purchases, without submitting the contracts or purchases to a competitive
bidding process, for the purposes of repairing damages caused by the accident
or meeting the public emergency, but he or she shall file promptly with the
Council a certificate showing the emergency and the necessity of the action,
together with an itemized account of all expenditures.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 30.060  COMPENSATION.
   The Village Manager shall receive the compensation as the Council shall fix
from time to time by ordinance or resolution.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 30.061  VACANCY.
   (A)   Any vacancy in the office of the Village Manager shall be filled
within a reasonable time after the effective date of the vacancy.
   (B)   During temporary absence or disability of the Village Manager, the
Council, in lieu of appointing an Acting Village Manager, may temporarily
delegate the Village Manager's duties (as set forth herein) to another
administrative office of the village.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
§ 30.062  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections
30.055et seq. shall take immediate effect upon enactment and shall be published
within 10 days of the date of adoption.
(Ord. 99-2, passed 8-2-1999)
CHAPTER 31:  VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Creation
Downtown Development Authority
   
31.15   Establishment and name
   
31.16   Downtown District
   
31.17   Powers
   
31.18   Board
   
31.19   Fiscal year
   
31.20   Budget
   
31.21   Dissolution
   
31.22   Effective date; publication and filing
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01  CREATION.
   (A)   The Village of Kingsley, Grand Traverse County, Michigan, does hereby
create a Village Planning Commission, consisting of 7 members pursuant to the
requirements of Public Act 285 of 1931, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 to 125.45, as
amended.
   (B)   All the powers and duties of the Village Council under the City or
Village Zoning Act, being Public Act 207 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. § 125.581 to
125.590, as amended, shall be transferred to the Village Planning Commission.
   (C)   The previously appointed Planning Commission members remain members of
the Planning Commission for the terms of their earlier appointment.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall re-adopt its Bylaws or Rules of
Procedure at its earliest convenience.
(Ord. 02-04-04, passed 10-4-2004)
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 31.15  ESTABLISHMENT AND NAME.
   (A)   (1)   A Downtown Development Authority, designated the Village of
Kingsley Downtown Development Authority (the “Authority”) is hereby created,
established, and incorporated, pursuant to and in accordance with the Public
Act 197 of 1975, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681.
      (2)   The Authority shall be a public body corporate which may sue and be
sued in any court of the State of Michigan.
   (B)   The Authority is established pursuant to the Public Act 197 of 1975,
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681 by the village to accomplish the public
purposes enumerated in the Public Act 197 of 1975, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to
125.1681 including, without limitation, the use of tax increment financing and
other permitted means to halt property value deterioration and increase
property tax valuation where possible in the District and to eliminate the
causes of that deterioration and to promote economic growth in the District.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 31.16  DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   (A)   The boundaries of the District within which the Authority shall
exercise its powers are described on Exhibit A, attached to Ordinance 02-10-03.
   (B)   The District shall be known as Village of Kingsley Downtown
Development Authority District No. 1.
   (C)   The village shall not incorporate additional property into the
District without notice and public hearing pursuant to the Public Act 197 of
1975, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 31.17  POWERS.
   To accomplish the public purposes set forth in
§ 31.15, the Board of the Authority may do the following:
   (A)   Prepare an analysis of economic changes taking place in the District;
   (B)   Study and analyze the impact of metropolitan growth upon the District;
   (C)   Plan and propose the construction, renovation, repair, remodeling,
rehabilitation, restoration, preservation, or reconstruction of a public
facility, an existing building, or a multiple-family dwelling unit which may be
necessary or appropriate to the execution of a plan which, in the opinion of
the Board, aids in the economic growth of the District;
   (D)   Plan, propose, and implement an improvement to a public facility
within the District to comply with the barrier free design requirements of the
State Construction Code, being Public Act 197 of 1975, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to
125.1681;
   (E)   Develop long-range plans, in cooperation with the Village Planning
Commission, designed to halt the deterioration of property values in the
District and to promote the economic growth of the District, and take the steps
as may be necessary to encourage property owners to implement the plans to the
fullest extent possible;
   (F)   Implement any plan of development in the District necessary to achieve
the purposes of the Public Act 197 of 1975, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681,
in accordance with the powers of the authority as granted by the Public Act 197
of 1975, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681;
   (G)   Make and enter into contracts necessary for or incidental to the
exercise of its powers and the performance of its duties;
   (H)   Acquire by purchase or otherwise, on terms and conditions and in a
manner the Authority deems proper to own, convey, or otherwise dispose of, or
lease as lessor or lessee, land and other property, real or personal, or rights
and interests therein, which the Authority determines is reasonably necessary
to achieve the purposes of
§§ 31.15et seq., and to grant or acquire licenses, easements, and options with
respect thereto;
   (I)   Improve land and construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore, and
preserve, equip, improve, maintain, repair, and operate any building, including
multiple-family dwellings, and any necessary or desirable appurtenances
thereto, within the District for uses permitted by the Public Act 197 of 1975,
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681;
   (J)   Fix, charge, and collect fees, rents, and charges for the use of any
building or property under its control or any part thereof, or facility
therein, and pledge the fees, rents, and charges for the payment of revenue
bonds issued by the Authority;
   (K)   Lease any building or property under its control, or any part thereof;
   (L)   Accept grants and donations of property, labor, or other things of
value from a public or private source;
   (M)   Acquire and construct public facilities;
   (N)   Issue bonds and otherwise finance the authorized activities of the
Authority pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Public Act 197 of 1975,
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681; and
   (O)   In general, to exercise the other powers which are or hereafter may be
conferred by law upon an authority organized pursuant to the Public Act 197 of
1975, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1681, as amended.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 31.18  BOARD.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the Village President and 8 members.
      (2)   Members shall be appointed by the Village President, subject to the
approval of the Village Council.
      (3)   Not less than a majority of the members shall be persons having an
interest in property located in the District.
   (B)   Terms.
      (1)   Each member of the Board shall serve for a term of 4 years except
that of the members first appointed, an equal number of the members, as near as
practicable, shall be appointed for 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, and 4 years,
respectively.
      (2)   A member shall hold office until the member's successor is
appointed.
   (C)   Vacancies.  An appointment to fill a vacancy on the Board shall be
made by the Village President for the unexpired portion of the term.
   (D)   Compensation.  Members shall serve without compensation, but may be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in the performance of
their duties.
   (E)   Chairperson.  The Board shall elect a Chairperson.
   (F)   Oath of office.  Before assuming the duties of office, each member
shall qualify by taking and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
   (G)   Rules of procedure.
      (1)   The Board shall adopt rules governing its procedure and the holding
of regular and special meetings, subject to the approval by the Village
Council.
      (2)   Meetings of the Board shall be open to the public in accordance
with the Michigan Open Meetings Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 to 15.275.
   (H)   Public records.  The financial records of the Authority shall be open
to the public in accordance with the Michigan Freedom of Information Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246.
   (I)   Director.
      (1)   The Board, in its discretion, may employ and fix the compensation
of a Director, subject to the approval of the Village Council.
      (2)   The Director shall serve at the pleasure of the Board.
      (3)   The Director shall furnish bond in an amount prescribed by the
Board.
      (4)   A member of the Board is not eligible to hold the position of
Director.
   (J)   Treasurer.
      (1)   One of the Board Members may be elected Treasurer of the Authority,
or the Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Treasurer.
      (2)   The Treasurer shall keep the financial records of the Authority and
perform other duties delegated by the Board.
      (3)   The Treasurer shall furnish bond in an amount prescribed by the
Board.
   (K)   Secretary.
      (1)   One of the Board Members may be elected Secretary of the Authority
or the Board may employ and fix the compensation of a Secretary.
      (2)   The Secretary shall maintain custody of the records, books,
documents, and other papers not required to be maintained by the Treasurer.
      (3)   The Secretary shall attend meetings of the Board, keep a record of
its proceedings and perform other duties delegated by the Board.
   (L)   Legal counsel.
      (1)   The Board may retain legal counsel to advise the Board in the
proper performance of its duties.
      (2)   The legal counsel may represent the Authority in actions brought by
or against the Authority.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 31.19  FISCAL YEAR.
   The Authority shall operate on the basis of a fiscal year beginning January
1 and ending December 31.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 31.20  BUDGET.
   (A)   The Board of the Authority shall prepare and approve a budget for the
operation of the Authority for the ensuing fiscal year, subject to the prior
approval of the Village Council, in accordance with the Public Act 197 of 1975,
§ 28, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1678.
   (B)   The budget shall generally contain the types of financial information
included in village budgets.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 31.21  DISSOLUTION.
   (A)   Upon completion of the purposes for which the Authority was organized,
the Authority shall be dissolved by ordinance of the Village Council.
   (B)   The property and assets of the Authority remaining after the
satisfaction of all obligations of the Authority shall belong to the Village.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
§ 31.22  EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION AND FILING.
   Sections 31.15 et seq. shall take effect upon:
   (A)   Its publication in a local newspaper of general circulation within the
Village; and
   (B)   The filing of a certified copy of
§§ 31.15et seq. with the Secretary of State.
(Ord. 02-10-03, passed 2-10-2003)
CHAPTER 32:  FINANCE AND REVENUE
Section
   
32.01   Downtown Development and Tax Increment Financing Plan
   
32.02   Bonds
§ 32.01  DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   The Kingsley Village Downtown Development and Tax Increment Financing
Plan (herein referred to as the Plan) submitted by the Kingsley Village
Downtown Development Authority (herein referred to as the DDA) pursuant to
Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 to 125.1680, as amended,
(herein referred to as the DDA Act) is determined to constitute a public
purpose and is hereby approved by the Kingsley Village Council.
   (B)   The Plan meets the requirements of the DDA Act.
   (C)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and the
DDA has the ability to arrange the financing.
   (D)   The development planned is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of the DDA Act.
   (E)   The land included within the development area to be acquired, if any,
is reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan and of the DDA
Act in an efficient and economically satisfactory manner.
   (F)   The Plan is in reasonable accord with the Village of Kingsley Master
Plan.
   (G)   Public services are or will be adequate to service the project area.
   (H)   The changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections, and
utilities, if any, are reasonably necessary for the projects and the village.
   (I)   The effective date of this section shall be the 12-15-2003.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 12-15-2003)
§ 32.02  BONDS.
   In addition to special requirements for particular bonds, all bonds running
to the village shall be corporate, surety, or cash bonds and shall be approved
by the Village President and filed with the Village Clerk.
(1992 Code, § 1.16)
TITLE V:  PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SUPPLY
      
51.   SEWERS
      
52.   USER FEES FOR WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
      
53.   STORM WATER
CHAPTER 50:  WATER SUPPLY
Section
   
50.01   Control of water supply system
   
50.02   Permit required for connection
   
50.03   Application for connection
   
50.04   Payment of fees as prerequisite to permit
   
50.05   Inspection
   
50.06   Repair and maintenance
   
50.07   Installation of water systems
   
50.08   Use of hydrants
   
50.09   Lawn watering
   
50.10   Cross-connections
   
50.11   Prohibited acts
   
50.12   Repair of service
   
50.13   Reimbursement for damage
   
50.14   Inspection by village
   
50.15   Supervision of system
   
50.16   Enforcement
 
   
50.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Housing Regulations, see
§§ 150.15 et seq.
   Sewers, see
Ch. 51
   User Fees for Water and Sewer Systems, see
Ch. 52
§ 50.01  CONTROL OF WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   (A)   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair, and management of the
village water system shall be under the supervision and control of the village.
   (B)   The village:
      (1)   May employ the person or persons in the capacity or capacities as
it deems advisable to carry out the efficient management and operation of the
water system; and
      (2)   May make the rules, orders, and regulations as it deems advisable
and necessary to ensure the efficient management and operation of the water
system.
(1992 Code, § 8.1)
§ 50.02  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   Requirement.
      (1)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connections with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public water facility or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
      (2)   All connections with the public water system of the village shall
be made only by written authorization and permit issued by the village and on
the forms and on payment of the fees as shall be established from time to time
by the village.
      (3)   All connections to the village water system must be made by
employees of the village or approved representatives or contractors.
      (4)   (a)   At the time of application, an applicant for connection
shall, in addition to the payment of all applicable fees, deposit the sum of
$125 with the village.
         (b)   This deposit is refundable after final inspection, which will
include an as built curb stop brought up to final grade and completed.
         (c)   The deposit will be refunded within 7 days after the village
inspection and approval.
         (d)   If the curb stop is not brought up to final grade within 2 weeks
of completion of topsoil on the parcel:
            1.   The village will make final adjustments to the water box;
            2.   The deposit will be deemed forfeited; and
            3.   The applicant will be subject, in addition to a miscellaneous
customer fee, in the event the village expense in the circumstances exceeds the
amount of the deposit.
   (B)   Publication.
      (1)   A true copy or a summary of this section shall be published in
Traverse City Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village, within 15
days after the adoption of this section by the Village Council.
      (2)   Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time
and place of the publication in the record of ordinances.
   (C)   Effective date.  This section shall be in full force and effect as of
3-1-2001.
   (D)   Mandatory connection to village water system.
      (1)   All property owners within the village that utilize water usage are
required to connect to the municipal water system.
      (2)   No private wells constructed after March 3, 2008, within the
village may be used as potable water.
(1992 Code, § 8.2)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001; Am. Ord. passed 3-3-2008)
Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.03  APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   (1)   All applicants for connection to the village water system shall
submit plans and specifications of all plumbing construction within the
building or premises.
      (2)   The plans and specifications shall meet the requirements of:
         (a)   The Plumbing Code of the State of Michigan;
         (b)   All orders, rules, and regulations of the Department of Public
Health; and
         (c)   All provisions of this code.
   (B)   The approval of connection shall also be contingent upon the
availability of the capacity in the village water system.
   (C)   When the plans and specifications have been approved by the village or
by the officials as it may designate, a water permit (in combination with a
sewer permit, if applicable) shall be issued, subject to final inspection and
approval when construction is completed.
   (D)   Final approval will be subject to compliance with the Plumbing Code of
the State of Michigan, and all orders, rules, and regulations of local and
state regulatory agencies.
(1992 Code, § 8.3)  Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.04  PAYMENT OF FEES AS PREREQUISITE TO PERMIT.
   (A)   All fees as provided in
Chapter 52 shall be paid at the time of application.
   (B)   No permit shall be issued unless all fees have been paid.
(1992 Code, § 8.4)  Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.05  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for a permit to connect to the village water system
shall notify the village when the installation is ready for inspection.
   (B)   (1)   The village or its designated representatives shall then inspect
the building and plumbing construction.
      (2)   If the construction meets with the previous requirements as so
approved under the permit, a water connection permit shall be issued, subject
to the applicable provisions of other sections of the village ordinances.
   (C)   Upon final approval of any water connection, all water supports,
testing, backfilling, and other elements contingent on completion of
installation, shall comply with the State of Michigan Plumbing and Village
Building Codes.
(1992 Code, § 8.5)  Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.06  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The cost of all repairs, maintenance, and replacement of water
installations and their connection to the village water system shall be borne
by the property owner.
   (B)   The owner shall make application for a permit to perform the work to
the village.
   (C)   The property owner shall indemnify and hold the village harmless from
all loss or damage that may directly be occasioned by the installation of
connections to the village water system.
(1992 Code, § 8.6)
§ 50.07  INSTALLATION OF WATER SYSTEMS.
   If a property owner, for purposes of development of a mobile home park,
subdivision, industrial park, or other use of property, installs a water
system, then the system shall comply with the more restrictive of the
requirements imposed by the village or by the Department of Public Health.
(1992 Code, § 8.7)  Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.08  USE OF HYDRANTS.
   (A)   No person shall, without written authority from the village, draw
water from any public hydrant or other public connection with the water system
except in emergencies for the purpose of extinguishing fire or for training by
the regularly organized fire department.
   (B)   Permission to use specific hydrants at specific times for specific
purposes may be granted by the Village Clerk.
(1992 Code, § 8.8)  Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.09  LAWN WATERING.
   The village may impose by resolution restrictions on, or suspend, lawn or
garden watering in times of water shortage to ensure an adequate water supply
for fire fighting and domestic use.
(1992 Code, § 8.9)
§ 50.10  CROSS-CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BACKFLOW.  Water of questionable quality, wastes, or other contaminants
entering the village's water system due to a reversal of flow.
      SAFE AIR GAP.  The minimum distance of a water inlet or opening above the
maximum high water level or overflow rim in a fixture, device, or container to
which public water is furnished which shall be not less than 2 times the inside
diameter of the water inlet pipe, but shall not be less than 1 inch and need
not be more than 12 inches.
      SECONDARY WATER SUPPLY.  A water system maintained in addition to the
village water system, including, but not limited to, water systems from ground
or surface sources not meeting the requirements of Public Act 399 of 1976,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.1001 to 325.1023, or water from a public water supply
which in any way has been treated, processed, or exposed to any possible
contaminant or stored in other than an approved storage facility.
      SUBMERGED INLET.  A water pipe or extension thereto from a public water
supply terminating in a tank, vessel, fixture, or appliance which may contain
water of questionable quality, waste, or other contaminant, and which is
unprotected against backflow.
   (B)   (1)   The village shall develop a comprehensive control program for
the elimination and prevention of all cross-connections.
      (2)   The plan for the program shall be submitted to the Michigan
Department of Public Health for review and approval.
      (3)   After the plan has been approved by the Michigan Department of
Public Health, the village shall implement the program for removal of all
existing cross-connections and prevention of all future cross-connections.
      (4)   The village shall report annually to the Department of Public
Health on the status of the cross-connection control program, as required by
the Department of Public Health.
   (C)   The following shall be prohibited.
      (1)   A cross-connection shall not be made between the village water
system and a secondary water supply.
      (2)   A cross-connection shall not be made by submerged inlet.
      (3)   A cross-connection shall not be made between the village water
system and piping which may contain sanitary waste or a chemical contaminant.
      (4)   A cross-connection shall not be made between the village water
system and piping immersed in a tank or vessel which may contain a contaminant.
   (D)   (1)   A user of the village water system shall obtain written approval
from the village of any proposed corrective action or protective device before
using or installing it.
      (2)   The time allowed for completion of the necessary corrections shall
be contingent upon the degree of hazard involved and include the time required
to obtain and install equipment.
      (3)   If the cross-connection has not been removed, after a reasonable
period of time, the village shall physically separate the public water supply
from the on-site plumbing system in such a manner that the 2 systems cannot
again be connected by any unauthorized person.
   (E)   (1)   When a secondary water source is used in addition to a public
water system, exposed public water and secondary water piping shall be
identified by distinguishing colors or tags and so maintained that each pipe
may be traced readily in its entirety.
      (2)   If piping is so installed that it is impossible to trace it in its
entirety, it will be necessary to protect the public water system at the
service connection in a manner acceptable to the Department of Public Health
and the village.
   (F)   A private water storage tank supplied from a public water system shall
be deemed a secondary water supply unless it is designed and approved for
potable water usage.
   (G)   It shall be the responsibility of the property owner to maintain
cross-connection prevention devices in good working order and to make no piping
or other arrangements for the purpose of altering or bypassing the devices.
   (H)   (1)   The village is hereby authorized to discontinue water service
after reasonable notice to any premises where a cross-connection exists.
      (2)   The village may take the other precautionary measures as necessary
to eliminate any danger of contamination of the water system.
      (3)   Water service to the premises shall not be restored until the
cross-connection has been eliminated and the customer pays a turn-on charge.
   (I)   (1)   The village shall immediately stop water service to any customer
discovered to have a cross-connection which creates an imminent health hazard.
      (2)   Water service shall not be restored until the violation is
permanently corrected.
   (J)   (1)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served
by the village water system shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this chapter and by the state and village plumbing code.
      (2)   Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic
purposes and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a
conspicuous manner as:  “WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING.”
   (K)   This section does not supersede the State Plumbing Code, but is
supplementary to it.
(1992 Code, § 8.10)  Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.11  PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful for any person to maliciously, willfully, or
negligently break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any
structure, appurtenant, water meter or other equipment which is part of the
water works system.
   (B)   Any person responsible for any injury or damage to the water system:
      (1)   Shall reimburse the village therefor and for the loss of water
cause thereby; and
      (2)   Shall be responsible for any damage caused by escaping water.
(1992 Code, § 8.13, as amended) (Am. Ord. 04 08-2015, passed 8-10-2015) 
Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.12  REPAIR OF SERVICE.
   If the service line from the curb stop to the meter is found to be
deteriorated or leaking, the village may condemn or discontinue the service to
the premises and require that the same be repaired or replaced at the expense
of the customer.
(1992 Code, § 8.12)
§ 50.13  REIMBURSEMENT FOR DAMAGE.
   Any damage or destruction to or of a water meter resulting from carelessness
of the owner, agent, or tenant or from neglect of any of them, to properly
secure and protect the water meter, as well as any damage which may be wrought
by frost, hot water, or steam backing from a boiler or vent shall, in addition
to or in the alternative to the penalties provided in §
50.16 and §
50.99 below, shall be paid for by the owner of the property with respect to any
repair and/or replacement to the village on presentation of a bill by the
village; and in cases where the bill is not paid, the water shall be shut off
and shall not be turned on until all charges have been paid to the village.
(1992 Code, § 8.3, as amended) (Ord. 04 08-2015, passed 8-10-2015)  Penalty,
see §
50.99
§ 50.14  INSPECTION BY VILLAGE.
   The duly authorized representatives, employees or agents of the village,
County Health Department and the MDEQ bearing proper identification shall be
permitted to enter at any time upon prior notice (absent an emergency) during
reasonable or usual business hours in and upon all properties connected to the
system for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
testing and emergency repairs.  All reasonable safety rules imposed by the
owner of the premises shall be observed.  Any person who applies for and
receives sewer services from the village shall be deemed to have given consent
for all such activities including entrance upon that person's property.
(1992 Code, § 8.14)
§ 50.15  SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance, and management of the village water system,
including the billing and collection of fees and charges, shall be under the
immediate supervision and control of the Village Council.
(1992 Code, § 8.15)
§ 50.16  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall also be enforceable through the
bringing of appropriate action for injunction, mandamus, or otherwise, in any
court having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
(1992 Code, § 8.17)  Penalty, see
§ 50.99
§ 50.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in Title I,
General Provisions,
§ 10.99. The provisions of
Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply to violations of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned to the
village by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 51:  SEWERS
Section
Sewer Connection
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Connection with system
   
51.03   Plats; building permits; approval conditioned on connection
   
51.04   Permit required for connection
   
51.05   Application for connection
   
51.06   Payment of fees a prerequisite to permit
   
51.07   Inspection
   
51.08   Repair and maintenance
   
51.09   Installation of sewer systems
   
51.10   Service outside village limits
Sewer Use
   
51.25   Use of public sewers required
   
51.26   Private sewage disposal
   
51.27   Use of the public sewers
   
51.28   Inspection by village
   
51.29   Supervision of system
   
51.30   Enforcement
   
51.31   Sewer backup policy
 
   
51.99   Penalty
SEWER CONNECTION
§ 51.01  DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this chapter and
Chapter 52, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      B.O.D. or BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedures in 5 days at 20°C, expressed in parts per million by weight.
      BUILDABLE SITE.
         (a)   A premises or a portion of a premises upon which a single-family
home could be constructed in compliance with the village zoning code in effect
at the date of publication of Ordinance No. 56, now repealed.
         (b)   A premises may contain 1 or more BUILDABLE SITES.
      BUILDING DRAIN.  The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives the discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside of the walls of the building and conveys to the building sewer,
beginning 5 feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
      BUILDING SEWER.  The extension from the building drain to the public
sewer or other place of disposal.
      COMBINED SEWER.  A sewer receiving both surface run-off and sewage.
      COUNTY.  The County of Grand Traverse, Michigan.
      C.O.D. or CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND.  The oxygen consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in wastewater.
      CHARGES FOR SEWER SERVICES.  Includes the user charge, trunkage
connection fee, sanitary sewer availability fee, and miscellaneous customer
fee.
      COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT.  The pollutants which are treated and removed to a
substantial degree by the treatment works.  These pollutants are biochemical
oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and fecal coliform, phosphorus and its
compounds, and nitrogen and its compounds.
      COUNCIL.  The Village Council of the Village of Kingsley, the legislative
and governing body thereof.
      DIRECT CONNECTION.  Shall refer to the connection of the building sewer
directly to the public sewer system.
      EPA ADMINISTRATOR.  The head of the Environmental Protection Agency.
      GARBAGE.  Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of
food, and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
      INDIRECT CONNECTION.  Shall refer to the connection of a building sewer
to a sewage collection system which is installed and paid for by private funds
(for example, if a developer constructs sanitary sewer in a plat and connects
the resulting collection sewers to the public sewer system, the connection of
each lot in the plat would be an indirect connection).
      INDUSTRIAL WASTES.  The liquid wastes from industrial processes as
distinct from sanitary sewage.
      MAJOR CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY.  An industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment:
         (a)   Having a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per work day;
         (b)   Having a flow greater than 5% of the total flow carried by the
municipal system receiving the waste;
         (c)   Having in its discharge a toxic pollutant in amounts exceeding
the desired limits; and
         (d)   Is found by the permit issuance authority, in connection with
the issuance of an NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving
the waste, to have significant impact, either singly or in combination with
other contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works.
      MAY.  Is permissive.
      MG/L.  Milligrams per liter.
      NPDES PERMIT.  National Pollution Discharge Elimination System Permit. 
According to the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, as amended by Public Law
92-500, being 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., it prohibits any person from
discharging pollutants into a waterway from a point source unless his or her
discharge is authorized by a permit issued either by the U.S. Environmental
Protection Agency or by an approved state agency.
      NATURAL OUTLET.  Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake,
outlet, or other body of surface or ground water.
      NORMAL STRENGTH DOMESTIC WASTES.  Wastes which have a B.O.D. of 200
milligrams per liter, suspended solids of 170 milligrams per liter, phosphorus
of 10 milligrams per liter, have a pH between 6.5 and 9.5 and do not contain a
concentration of other constituents which will interfere with the normal
wastewater treatment process.
      OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.  The satisfactory provision for assuring
proper and efficient functioning of the system in accordance with any National
Pollution Discharge Elimination System Permit issued by either the U.S.
Environment Protection Agency or by an approved state agency and United States
Environmental Protection Agency grant conditions.
      PERSON.  Any individual, firm, company, association, society,
corporation, or group.
      pH.  The logarithm of the reciprocal of the hydrogen ion concentration in
moles per liter.
      PPM.  Parts per million.
      PREMISES.  The lands included within the boundaries of a single
description as set forth, from time to time, on the general tax rolls of the
village as a single taxable item in the name of the taxpayer or taxpayers at 1
address, provided that:
         (a)   In the case of platted lots, PREMISES shall be deemed to mean a
single platted lot unless an existing building or structure is so located on
more than 1 lot as to make the same a single description for purposes of
assessment or conveyance now or hereafter; and
         (b)   In the case of a mobile home park, PREMISES shall be deemed to
mean a single lot for a mobile home.
      PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE.  The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of foods that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than ½ inch in any dimension.
      PUBLIC SEWER.  A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have
equal rights, and is controlled by public authority.
      REPLACEMENT.  Expenditures for obtaining and installing equipment,
accessories, or appurtenances which are necessary during the service life of
the treatment works to maintain the capacity and performance, for which the
works were designed and constructed.
      SANITARY SEWAGE.  The liquid- or water-carried waste discharged from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings (including apartment houses and hotels),
office buildings, commercial and industrial establishments, institutions, and
other structures.
      SANITARY SEWER.  A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm,
surface, and ground waters are not intentionally admitted.
      SANITARY SEWER AVAILABILITY FEE.  The amount charged at the time and in
the amount hereinafter provided to certain premises in the village for the
availability of the system to directly serve the premises.
      SEWAGE.  A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences,
business buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with
the ground surface, and storm waters as may be present.
      SEWAGE SERVICES.  The collection, transportation, treatment, and disposal
of sanitary sewage emanating from premises now or hereafter.
      SEWAGE WORKS.  All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
      SEWER.  A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
      SHALL.  Is mandatory.
      STORM SEWER STORM DRAIN.  A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and/or storm drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
      STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES.  A building in which
toilet, kitchen, laundry, bathing, or other facilities which generate water-
carried sanitary sewage, are used or are available for use for household,
commercial, industrial, or other purposes.
      SUSPENDED SOLIDS.  Solids that either float on the surface of, or are in
suspension in water, sewage, or other liquids, and which are removable by the
wastewater treatment process.
      SYSTEM.  The complete sanitary sewer system of the village, including all
sewer mains, laterals, and treatment facilities, including all appurtenances
thereto now owned by the village or hereafter acquired and all extensions and
improvements thereto hereafter made, located in the village.
      TRUNKAGE CONNECTION FEE.  The amount charged at the time and in the
amount hereinafter provided, to each premises in the village for connecting or
being connected to the system and represents the proportionate cost allocable
to the premises and the cost of inspecting and approving the physical
connections to the system and the issuance of a connection permit.
      U.S. EPA.  The United States Environmental Protection Agency, which
assures the protection of the environment by abating or controlling pollution
on a systematic basis.
      UNIT or UNITS.
         (a)   A term relating to the quantity of sewer use and the benefits
derived from the sewer use ordinarily arising from the occupancy of a residence
building by a single-family of ordinary size (but the term shall not
necessarily be related to actual use arising from any such building) and shall
be defined or determined from time to time by the village through its Village
Council.
         (b)   The UNITS are set forth in Appendix A to Chapter 52, according
to the type of use to which the property is put.
         (c)   Any use not enumerated in Appendix A shall, in the discretion of
the Village President, upon authority of the Village Council, possess those
units which attach to the property based upon the most similar use enumerated
in Appendix A.
      USER CHARGE.  A charge levied on users of a system and treatment works
for the user's proportionate share of the cost of operation and maintenance
(including replacement) and debt service on village debt incurred to pay part
or all of the acquisition, construction and related costs of the system.
      USER CLASS.  That the recipient of wastewater treatment services will be
assigned to 1 of the 3 classes as discussed in § 52.18.
      VILLAGE.  The Village of Kingsley, Michigan, and/or its duly authorized
agent or representative.
      WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT.  Any arrangement of devices and structures
used for treating sewage.
      WATERCOURSE.  A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either
continuously or intermittently.
   (B)   Amendments to this section.
      (1)   Publication.
         (a)   A true copy or a summary of the amendments to this section
passed by Amending Ordinance No. 4-01 shall be published in Traverse City
Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village, within 15 days after the
adoption of Amending Ordinance No. 4-01 by the Village Council.
         (b)   Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time
and place of the publication in the record of ordinances.
      (2)   Effective date.  The amendments to this section passed by Amending
Ordinance No. 4-01 shall be in full force and effect as of 3-1-2001.
(1992 Code, § 9.1)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 51.02  CONNECTION WITH SYSTEM.
   (A)   The owner of all structures in which sanitary sewage originates
situated within the limits of the Village of Kingsley and located now or in the
future not more than 275 feet from the system located in a right-of-way,
easement, highway, street, or public way which crosses, adjoins, or abuts upon
the premises on which the structures are located is hereby required, at his or
her expense, to promptly install suitable toilet facilities therein and connect
the structure directly with the system.
   (B)   In no event shall the connections be completed later than 12 months
after date of official notice to make the connection or the modification or
construction of a structure so as to become a structure in which sanitary
sewage originates, whichever occurs last.
(1992 Code, § 9.2)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.03  PLATS; BUILDING PERMITS; APPROVAL CONDITIONED ON CONNECTION.
   Plats for premises subdivided into 4 or more lots or parcels and permits to
improve platted or unplatted premises, after the effective date hereof, which
premises are within the area in the village served by the system shall not be
approved or issued on behalf of the village and none of the premises shall be
improved hereafter by the erection thereon of a building or structure for human
use or occupancy unless lateral sewers, the design of which is approved by an
engineer designated by the village to serve all of the premises, as subdivided
or to be improved are provided and connected to the system as part of the
system, the extensions to be installed at private cost or by special assessment
(or a bond furnished or the estimated cost thereof deposited with the village,
as otherwise provided by law).
(1992 Code, § 9.3)
§ 51.04  PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   No unauthorized person shall uncover, make any connection with or
opening into, use, alter, or disturb any public sewer facility or appurtenance
thereof without first obtaining a written permit from the village.
   (B)   All connections with the village sewer system of the village shall be
made only by written authorization and permits issued by the village and on the
forms and on payment of the fees as shall be established from time to time by
the village.
   (C)   (1)   All connections to the village sewer system must be made by
employees of the village or approved representatives or contractors.
      (2)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the “Y” branch, if the branch is available at a simple location.
(1992 Code, § 9.4)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.05  APPLICATION FOR CONNECTION.
   (A)   (1)   All applicants for connection to the village sewer system shall
submit plans and specifications of all plumbing construction within the
building or premises.
      (2)   The plans and specifications shall meet the requirements of:
         (a)   The Plumbing Code of the State of Michigan;
         (b)   All orders, rules, and regulations of the Department of Public
Health; and
         (c)   All provisions of this code.
   (B)   The approval of connection shall also be contingent upon the
availability of capacity in the downstream sewer, lift stations, force mains,
and the village's sewage treatment plant, including B.O.D. in suspended solids
capacity.
   (C)   When the plans and specifications have been approved by the village or
by the officials as they may designate, a sewer permit (in conjunction with a
water permit if applicable) shall be issued, subject to final inspection and
approval when construction is completed.
   (D)   Final approval will be subject to compliance with the Plumbing Code of
the State of Michigan, and all orders, rules, and regulations of local and
state regulatory agencies.
   (E)   In addition, an applicant for connection to the sewer system which
will be discharging any waste other than domestic waste shall comply with the
provisions of
§ 51.27.
(1992 Code, § 9.5)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.06  PAYMENT OF FEES A PREREQUISITE TO PERMIT.
   (A)   Except as provided in
Chapter 52, all fees imposed pursuant to
Chapter 52 shall be paid at the time of application.
   (B)   No permit will be issued unless all fees have been paid.
(1992 Code, § 9.6)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.07  INSPECTION.
   (A)   The applicant for a permit to connect to the village sewer system
shall notify the village when the installation is ready for inspection.
   (B)   The village or its designated representatives shall then inspect the
building and plumbing construction, and if the construction meets the previous
requirements as so approved in the permit, a sewer connection permit shall be
issued, subject to the applicable provisions of other sections of the village
ordinances.
   (C)   Upon final approval of any sewer connection, all sewer supports,
testing, backfilling, and other elements contingent on completion of
installation, shall comply with the State of Michigan Plumbing and Village
Building Codes.
(1992 Code, § 9.7)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.08  REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   The cost of all repairs, maintenance, and replacement of building
sewers and their connection to the village sewer system shall be borne by the
property owner.
   (B)   The owner shall make application for a permit to perform the work to
the village.
   (C)   The property owner shall indemnify and hold the village harmless from
all loss or damage that may directly be occasioned by the installation of
connections to the village sewer system.
(1992 Code, § 9.8)
§ 51.09  INSTALLATION OF SEWER SYSTEMS.
   If a property owner, for purposes of development of a mobile home park,
subdivision, industrial park, or other use of property, installs a sewer
system, then the system shall comply with the more restrictive of the
requirements imposed by the village or by the Department of Public Health.
(1992 Code, § 9.9)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.10  SERVICE OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   (A)   The village may provide sanitary sewer service to premises located
outside the limits of the Village of Kingsley in Paradise Township at the
request of the owner of the premises with the consent of Paradise Township and
subject to the terms of the sanitary sewer agreement approved as to substance
and form by the Village Council.
   (B)   The agreement shall provide, at a minimum, that:
      (1)   The sewer extension, connection, and use so authorized for the
premises shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the village sewer
ordinances in the same manner as if the premises were located within Village
limits; and
      (2)   Charges for sewer services as defined in
§ 51.01 shall be paid with respect to the premises at 200% of the amount
charged with respect to premises located within the village limits.
(1992 Code, § 9.10)
SEWER USE
§ 51.25  USE OF PUBLIC SEWERS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to discharge or cause to be discharged into any
storm sewer, natural watercourse, or artificial water course, any sewage or
other polluted waters other than storm water or uncontaminated industrial
wastes as heretofore defined; or to increase an approved use except upon
special agreement or arrangement with the village and in accordance with the
rules and procedures of appropriate agencies of the State of Michigan.
   (B)   Except as herein provided, it shall be unlawful to construct or
maintain any privy, privy vault, septic tank, cesspool, or other facility
intended or used for the disposal of sewage.
(1992 Code, § 10.1)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.26  PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sanitary or combined sewer is not available under the
provisions of
§ 51.02, the building sewer shall be connected to a private sewage disposal
system constructed in compliance with state and local laws.
   (B)   (1)   Where private sewage disposal systems are constructed, they must
be located at least 50 feet from any surface water, natural or artificial
drain, or open joint, sub-surface ground water, or tile drain unless otherwise
approved by the village.
      (2)   All installations shall comply with existing state laws and
regulations.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a
property served by a private sewage disposal system, as provided by
§ 51.02, a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with
§§ 51.01et seq., and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned and filled with suitable materials.
         (b)   All filling and demolition subject to approval of the village.
      (2)   (a)   Upon application of the owner of the property, the village
may grant a delay of not more than 1 year, before making connection to public
sewer.
         (b)   The delay to be granted only if private facilities are
satisfactory and create no nuisance or health hazard.
   (D)   (1)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the village.
      (2)   Whenever any private sewage disposal facility shall become
offensive to the safety, health, comfort, or convenience of the public, the
Village Clerk shall notify the occupant of the premises as provided in
§ 10.15 to clean, remove, or alter the private sewage disposal facility within
5 days from the date of the notice.
      (3)   If the owner or occupant of the premises fails to clean, remove, or
alter the private sewage disposal facility within 5 days after notice, then the
owner or occupant shall be in violation of this code.
      (4)   Should the owner or occupant of the premises fail to clean, remove,
or alter the private sewage disposal facility within 5 days from the date of
the notice, the Village Clerk shall cause the work to be done and the expense
of the work shall be collected by an appropriate civil action against the owner
and/or occupant of the premises, together with the costs of the action.
   (E)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the village or other
regulatory agencies with respect to private sewage disposal.
(1992 Code, § 10.2)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.27  USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof run-off, subsurface drainage, cooling water
or unpolluted industrial process waters to any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   (1)   Storm water and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to the sewers as are specifically designated as storm sewers, or to
a natural outlet approved by the village, and in compliance with rules and
procedures of various agencies of the State of Michigan.
      (2)   Industrial cooling water or unpolluted process waters may be
discharged, upon approval of the village to a storm sewer or natural outlet.
      (3)   The village has the right to exclude industrial or commercial waste
in whole or in part, for any reason.
   (C)   Except as hereinafter provided, no person shall discharge or cause to
be discharged any of the following described waters or wastes to any public
sewer:
      (1)   Any liquid or vapor having a temperature higher than 150°F;
      (2)   Any gasoline, benzene, naphtha, fuel oil, or other flammable or
explosive liquid, solid, or gas;
      (3)   Any garbage that has not been properly shredded;
      (4)   Any ashes, cinders, sand, mud, straw, shavings, metal, glass, rags,
feathers, tar, plastics, wood, paunch manure, or any other solid or viscous
substance capable of causing obstruction to the flow in sewers or other
interference with the proper operation of the sewage works;
      (5)   Any wastes having any other corrosive properties capable of causing
damage or hazard to structures, equipment, and personnel of the sewage works;
      (6)   Any waters or wastes containing a toxic or poisonous substance in
sufficient quantity to injure or interfere with any sewage treatment process,
constitute a hazard to humans or animals, fish or aquatic life, or create any
hazard in the receiving waters or in the wastewater treatment plant;
      (7)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids of the character
and quantity that unusual attention or expense is required to handle the
materials at the wastewater treatment plant;
      (8)   Any noxious or malodorous gas or substance capable of creating a
public nuisance;
      (9)   Any water and/or waste not complying to all NPDES permit
requirements, pretreatment standards, and all other unspecified state and
federal regulations;
      (10)   Any waters or wastewaters having chlorine demand in excess of 15
mg/l;
      (11)   Any waters or wastes having pH less than 5.5 and greater than 9.5;
      (12)   Any water or waste which may contain more than 100 parts per
million (100 PPM), by weight, of fat, oil, or grease or exceed a daily average
of 25 parts per million (25 PPM);
      (13)   Any grease, oil, or other substance that will become solid or
viscous at temperatures between 32°F and 150°F, including mineral oils from the
viscosity range of kerosene on up; and/or
      (14)   Any wastes that contain insoluble solids in excess of 10,000 parts
per million (10,000 PPM) or exceed a daily average of 500 parts per million
(500 PPM) or that contain a combination of soluble and insoluble material in
excess of 20,000 parts per million (20,000 PPM) and must not contain any
insoluble substance having a specific gravity greater than 2.65.
   (D)   (1)   (a)   Grease, oil, sand interceptors, and conventional grease
traps shall be provided when, in the opinion of the village they are necessary
for the village for the proper handling of liquid wastes containing grease in
excessive amounts, or any flammable wastes, sand, and other harmful
ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required for single-
family dwellings.
         (b)   All interceptors shall be of a type and capacity approved by the
village, and shall be located as to be readily and easily accessible for
cleaning and inspection.
      (2)   (a)   Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of
impervious materials capable of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in
temperature.
         (b)   They shall be of substantial construction, watertight, and
equipped with easily removable covers which when bolted in place shall be
gastight and watertight.
   (E)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (F)   (1)   Where necessary in the opinion of the village, the owner shall
provide, at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be necessary
to:
         (a)   Reduce objectionable characteristics or constituents to within
the maximum limits as provided for in divisions (B) and (C) above; or
         (b)   Control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
      (2)   Plans, specifications, and any other pertinent information relating
to proposed preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the
approval of the village and of the state regulation agencies, and no
construction of the facilities shall be commenced until the approvals are
obtained in writing.
   (G)   Application for use of sewers requires each person or establishment,
with any other than domestic waste discharge, to do any or all of the
following:
      (1)   Request service for sanitary sewer, storm sewer, other; and/or
      (2)   Request to include all of the following:
         (a)   State nature of business or enterprise;
         (b)   State source and volume of water used both in processing,
cooling, and waste transportation;
         (c)   State volumes in gallons of water to be discharged to sanitary,
storm, or other surface or ground areas;
         (d)   List all substances of a chemical, biological, or radioactive
nature, other than those found in the source water supply, which are now or
will be found in all wastewater discharges;
         (e)   Provide plan maps of buildings, waste treatment works, process
flow patterns, outfall lines, and in-plant drainage lines;
         (f)   Sample, test, and file reports with the village and appropriate
state agencies on specified waste characteristics.  All schedules, locations,
and methods to be approved by the village;
         (g)   Place waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste
streams, or other facilities generating wastes or possessing potential waste
problems under designated control and supervision of person who has been
approved by appropriate state agencies;
         (h)   Provide a report on all raw materials entering the process of
support systems, including analyses and assays provided by suppliers of raw
materials; and
         (i)   Maintain records and file reports on final disposal of specific
liquids, solids, sludges, oils, radioactive materials, solvents, or other
hazardous wastes.
   (H)   (1)   Upon completion of any or all of the items under division (G)
above, the village will, after reviewing applications, issue a sewer use permit
which will include all or part of the following:
         (a)   State location of discharge points into sanitary, storm sewers,
or surface water areas;
         (b)   Designation of maximum allowable volumes of wastewater to be
discharged at discharge points;
         (c)   Designation of any discharge restrictions;
         (d)   Designation of types and sizes of containment facilities to
control process spills to the designated sewers;
         (e)   Provision for sampling and analysis of waste discharged to
designated sewers;
         (f)   Provisions for filing reports on waste analysis with the
village;
         (g)   Provisions for notifying the village of any changes in process
and/or wastes or proposed additional waste, or connections to the designated or
other sewers;
         (h)   Establish limits on specific waste constituents in mg/l and in
pounds per day.  Limits can include, but are not limited to, B.O.D., COD,
temperature, pH, suspended solids, volatile suspended solids, soluble metal
wastes, toxins, pesticides, herbicides, solvents, detergents, and other wastes
capable of creating hazards to humans, animal, or aquatic life or which might
create any hazards to sewers, sewage treatment plant or the receiving waters;
         (i)   Establishment of any fees deemed necessary to defray costs of
sampling, and/or analysis by the village; and/or
         (j)   The village reserves the right, at any time, to reappraise the
requirements of any industry for its use permit.
      (2)   Any industry that does not normally discharge to the sanitary
sewer, storm sewer, or receiving stream, but has the potential to do so from
accidental spills or other circumstances, may be requested by the village to
file or accomplish any of the above listed items.
   (I)   If the character of sewage from any manufacturing or industrial plant,
or from any other building or premises, is so that it imposes an unreasonable
burden upon the village's sewage system, in the discretion of the village, the
owner may be required to separately and satisfactorily treat the sewage before
being emptied into any public sewer, or the right to empty the sewage may be
denied, if necessary, for the protection of the system, public health, or
safety.
   (J)   Where preliminary treatment facilities are provided for any waters or
wastes, they shall be maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective
operation by the owner at his or her expense.
   (K)   (1)   When required by the village, the owner of any property served
by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a suitable control
manhole in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling, and
measurement of the wastes.
      (2)   The control manhole may be required by the village for any
industrial or commercial building sewer whose water supply is from an unmetered
private well.
      (3)   The manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and safely located,
and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by the village.
      (4)   The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense,
and shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all
times.
   (L)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
water and wastes to which reference is made in division (C) above, shall be
determined in accordance with “Standard Methods for the Examination of Water
and Sewage,” and shall be determined at the control manhole provided for in
division (K) above, or upon suitable sample taken at the control manhole.
      (2)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (3)   In addition to the “Standard Methods,” all testing should conform
with “Guidelines Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants,” as
published in 10-16-1973, 40 C.F.R. pt. 136.
   (M)   (1)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
industrial concern whereby an industrial waste of unusual strength or character
may be accepted by the village for treatment, subject to payment therefore by
the industrial concern.
      (2)   The strength of any wastes referred to herein shall be determined
under the requirements of division (L) above.
(1992 Code, § 10.3)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.28  INSPECTION BY VILLAGE.
   The duly authorized representatives, employees or agents of the village,
County Health Department and the MDEQ bearing proper identification shall be
permitted to enter at any time upon prior notice (absent an emergency) during
reasonable or usual business hours in and upon all properties connected to the
system for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
testing and emergency repairs.  All reasonable safety rules imposed by the
owner of the premises shall be observed.  Any person who applies for and
receives sewer services from the village shall be deemed to have given consent
for all such activities including entrance upon that person's property.
(1992 Code, § 10.4)
§ 51.29  SUPERVISION OF SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance, and management of the system including the
billing and collection of fees and charges shall be under the immediate
supervision and control of the Village Council.
(1992 Code, § 10.5)
§ 51.30  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall also be enforceable through the
bringing of appropriate action for injunction, mandamus, or otherwise, in any
court having jurisdiction.
   (B)   Any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
(1992 Code, § 10.7)  Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.31  SEWER BACKUP POLICY.
   (A)   This section has been adopted in accordance with Act 222 of the Public
Acts of Michigan of 2001 (“Act 222”) to set forth the notice and claim
procedures applicable to an overflow or backup of the system, which, as defined
in Act 222, shall be referred to for purposes of this section as a “sewage
disposal system event.”  To afford property owners, individuals and the village
greater efficiency, certainty and consistency in the provision of relief for
damages or physical injuries caused by a sewage disposal system event, the
village and any person making a claim for economic damages, which, as defined
in Act 222, shall be referred to for purposes of this section as a claimant,
shall follow the following procedures:
      (1)   A claimant is not entitled to compensation unless the claimant
notifies the village of a claim of damage or physical injury, in writing,
within 45 days after the date the damage or physical injury was discovered by
the claimant, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence should have been
discovered by the claimant.
      (2)   The written notice under subsection (1) shall contain the
claimant’s name, address, and telephone number, the address of the affected
property, the date of discovery of any property damages or physical injuries,
and a brief description of the claim.  As part of the description of the claim,
the claimant shall submit an explanation of the sewage disposal system event
and reasonable proof of ownership and the value of any damaged personal
property.  Reasonable proof of ownership and the purchase price or value of the
property may include testimony or records.  Reasonable proof of the value of
the property may also include photographic or similar evidence.
      (3)   The written notice under subsection (1) shall be sent to the
Village President, who is hereby designated as the individual at the village to
receive such notices pursuant to Section 19 of Act 222.
      (4)   If a claimant who owns or occupies affected property notifies the
village orally or in writing of a sewage disposal system event before providing
a notice of a claim that complies with  subsections (1), (2) and (3), the
Village President shall provide the claimant with a written explanation of the
notice requirements of subsections (1), (2) and (3) sufficiently detailed to
allow the claimant to comply with the requirements.
      (5)   If the village is notified of a claim under subsection (1) and the
village believes that a different or additional governmental agency may be
responsible for the claimed property damages or physical injuries, the village
shall notify the contacting agency of each additional or different governmental
agency of that fact, in writing, within 15 business days after the date the
village receives the claimant's notice under subsection (1).
      (6)   If the village receives a notice from a claimant or a different or
additional governmental agency that complies with this section, the village may
inspect the damaged property or investigate the physical injury.  A claimant or
the owner or occupant of affected property shall not unreasonably refuse to
allow the village or its duly authorized representatives to inspect damaged
property or investigate a physical injury.
      (7)   Prior to a determination of payment of compensation by the village,
the claimant shall provide to the village additional documentation and proof
that:
         (a)   At the time of the sewage disposal system event, the village-
owned or operated, or directly or indirectly discharged into, that portion of
the system that allegedly caused damage or physical injury;
         (b)   The system had a defect;
         (c)   The village knew, or in the exercise of reasonable diligence,
should have known, about the defect in the system;
         (d)   The village, having the legal authority to do so, failed to take
reasonable steps in a reasonable amount of time to repair, correct or remedy
the defect in the system; and
         (e)   The defect in the system was a proximate cause that was 50% or
more of the cause of the sewage disposal system event and the property damage
or physical injury.
      (8)   Prior to a determination of payment of compensation by the village,
the claimant shall also provide to the village additional documentation and
proof that neither of the following were a proximate cause that was 50% or more
of the cause of the sewage disposal system event:
         (a)   An obstruction in a service connection, a building sewer or
building drain that was not caused by the village; or
         (b)   A connection on the affected premises, including, but not
limited to, a footing drain, sump system, surface drain, gutter, down spout or
connection of any other sort that discharged any storm water, surface water,
ground water, roof runoff, subsurface drainage, cooling water, unpolluted air
conditioning water or unpolluted industrial process waters to the system.
      (9)   If the village and a claimant do not reach an agreement on the
amount of compensation for the property damages or physical injury within 45
days after the receipt of notice under subsection (1), the claimant may
institute a civil action in accordance with Act 222.
         (a)   To facilitate compliance with this section, the village shall
make available to the public information about the notice and claim procedures
under this section.
         (b)   The notice and claim procedures set forth in this section shall
be applicable to a sewage disposal system event involving the system.
         (c)   The village does not own or operate any storm sewer, storm drain
or combined sewer and, accordingly, the notice and claim procedures set forth
in this section, with the exception of subsection (5), do not apply to a sewage
disposal system event involving a storm sewer, storm drain or a combined sewer.
         (d)   In the event of a conflict between the notice and claim
procedures set forth in this section and the specific requirements of Act 222,
the specific requirements of Act 222 shall control.
         (e)   As provided in Section 19(7) of Act 222, the notice and claim
procedures of this section do not apply to claims for non-economic damages (as
defined in Act 222) arising out of a sewage disposal system event.
   (B)   Any word, term or phrase used in this section, if defined in Act 222,
shall have the same meaning provided under Act 222.
(1992 Code, § 10.8)
§ 51.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in Title I,
General Provisions,
§ 10.99. The provisions of
Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply to violations of this
chapter.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
liable to the village for any expense, loss, or damage occasioned to the
village by reason of such violation.
CHAPTER 52:  USER FEES FOR WATER AND SEWER SYSTEMS
Section
   
52.01   Fees for water and sewer; connection and periodic charges
   
52.02   Connection to the sewer system; trunkage connection fees; availability
fees
   
52.03   Connection to the water system; connection fees
   
52.04   Periodic charges for water service
   
52.05   Fire hydrant rentals
   
52.06   Periodic charges for sewer service
   
52.07   No free service
   
52.08   Miscellaneous customer fee
   
52.09   Sewer rates and charges for users located outside village limits
   
52.10   Payment of charges and miscellaneous customer fees
   
52.11   Interest; violations
   
52.12   Discontinuation of service; security deposit
   
52.13   Charges lien on premises
   
52.14   Enforcement
   
52.15   Fiscal year
   
52.16   Annual audit
   
52.17   User classification
   
Appendix A:  Unit factors
   
Appendix B:  Initial water and sewer rates
§ 52.01  FEES FOR WATER AND SEWER; CONNECTION AND PERIODIC CHARGES.
   Fees for connection to and use of the village water and sewer systems shall
be as provided in this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 11.1)
§ 52.02  CONNECTION TO THE SEWER SYSTEM; TRUNKAGE CONNECTION FEES; AVAILABILITY
FEES.
   (A)   Improved premises.  Owners of premises which as of 7-1-1980 were
improved by a structure in which sanitary sewage originates within the area in
the village served by the system, who make application and receive a permit for
connection to the system which premises are hereafter connected directly or
indirectly to the system shall pay a trunkage connection fee for connection to
the system in the amount of $500 per unit, which amount shall be payable in
cash at the time of application.
   (B)   Buildable sites.
      (1)   Owners of premises all of which or a portion of which constitute a
buildable site, and as of 7-1-1980 were not improved by a structure in which
sanitary sewage originates, who make application and receive a permit for
connection of the premises or portion thereof to the system shall pay a
trunkage connection fee for connection to the system in an amount equal to 1.15
times the actual cost incurred in constructing the wye and/or service lead to
the property line of the premises or $500, whichever is greater, in cash at the
time of application, provided that the owner of the premises shall not be
required to pay the charges for sewer services imposed by
§ 52.06 below, until connection required by
§ 51.02 above, is completed.
      (2)   If the owner of a subdivision or mobile home park pays all costs of
constructing the lateral sewers, including the wye and/or service lead to the
property line of each premises located in the subdivision or mobile home park,
in accordance with applicable village specifications, then the trunkage
connection fee payable pursuant to this division (B) shall be $100 per unit.
   (C)   Buildable sites; trunkage connection fee paid.
      (1)   Owners of premises which contain 1 or more buildable sites, which
buildable sites as of 7-1-1980, were not improved by a structure in which
sanitary sewage originates, but excluding those premises or buildable sites for
which a trunkage connection fee was paid pursuant to § 4.01(a)(i) of Ordinance
No. 56, as amended and now repealed, shall pay a sanitary sewer availability
fee of $500 per buildable site, which amount shall be payable in 10 equal
annual installments, with interest on the unpaid balance from time to time from
9-1-1980, payable annually at the rate of 5% per annum, the first installment
being payable on or before 9-1-1980, and succeeding installments being payable
on or before each September 1 thereafter.
      (2)   Any such owner may discharge the obligation to pay the sanitary
sewer availability fee by the payment of $500 without interest in cash for each
buildable site on or before 9-1-1980, or may pay any part of the sanitary sewer
availability fee in cash without interest on or before 9-1-1981, and thereafter
prepayment of the sanitary sewer availability fee may be made in advance by
paying interest on the amount prepaid to the next succeeding September 1
following the date of prepayment.
      (3)   The unpaid balance of the sanitary sewer availability fee, if any,
outstanding on the date an application for connection is made, pursuant to
division (B) above, shall be waived upon payment of accrued interest to the
date on the balance at the above stated rate.
   (D)   Trunkage connection fee effective 3-1-2001.
      (1)   Effective 3-1-2001, the trunkage connection fee shall be a rate per
unit established from time to time for direct connections and indirect
connections by resolution of the Village Council.
      (2)   In addition to the trunkage connection fee for premises for which
the wye and/or service lead was not constructed by the village as part of the
original construction of the village sewer system, the owner shall also pay
1.15 times the actual cost incurred by the village to construct the wye and/or
service lead to the property line of the premises.
   (E)   Credit for trunkage connection fee.
      (1)   There shall be a credit against the trunkage connection fee in the
principal amount or portion thereof of the sanitary sewer availability fee
imposed by division (C) above that has actually been paid for the premises or a
portion of the premises.
      (2)   Credit for the same sanitary sewer availability fee may not be
taken more than once.
   (F)   Unit factors.
      (1)   The number of units to be assigned to any particular premises used
for other than single residence purposes shall be determined by the Village
Council based on unit factors set forth in Appendix A.
      (2)   The Village Council, if the circumstances justify, may assign more
than 1 unit to a single-family dwelling.
      (3)   No less than 1 unit shall be assigned to each premises but units in
excess of 1 may be computed and assigned to the nearest tenth.
      (4)   Once any premises have been connected to the system and have been
assigned 1 or more units, subsequent changes in the character of the user or
type of occupancy of the premises (including destruction, removal, or
abandonment of any or all improvements thereon) shall not abate the obligation
to continue the payment of the trunkage connection fee charged to the premises
in the amount and for the period hereinabove provided.
      (5)   If the subsequent changes at any time increase the amount of sewer
service to the premises, the Village Council shall increase the number of units
assigned to the premises.
   (G)   Nonpayment of installment of trunkage connection or availability fee.
      (1)   If any installment of a trunkage connection or availability fee is
not paid on or before the due date, the same shall draw interest at the rate of
½ of 1% per month until paid.
      (2)   In the event that the installment remains unpaid for 90 days or
more after the due date, service may be discontinued as provided in
§ 52.12 and shall not be restored until all amounts due are paid plus the shut-
off and turn-on charges so provided are paid.
   (H)   Compliance with laws and regulations.  The system shall be used,
operated, and maintained at all times in accordance with existing state and
federal law and applicable state and federal regulations.
   (I)   Hardship deferment.  The owner of a premises may file a hardship
application with the Village Council seeking a deferment in the partial or
total payment of charges imposed under divisions (A), (B), (C), or (D) above,
based on a showing of financial hardship and in accordance with state laws.
   (J)   Publication.
      (1)   A true copy or a summary of this section shall be published in
Traverse City Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village, within 15
days after the adoption of this section by the Village Council.
      (2)   Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time
and place of the publication in the record of ordinances.
   (K)   Effective date.  This section shall be in full force and effect as of
3-1-2001.
(1992 Code, § 11.2)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 52.03  CONNECTION TO THE WATER SYSTEM; CONNECTION FEES.
   (A)   (1)   Upon application for connection to the village water system, the
owner of a premises shall pay a connection fee in an amount per unit which
shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Village Council, provided
that the owner of the premises retains, at his or her cost, a contractor to
install the connection to the water distribution line, subject to village
inspection.
      (2)   Upon payment of this connection fee, the village shall provide and
install a 1-inch water meter.
   (B)   In the event the owner of a premises requests the village to install
the water connection, the owner shall pay, in addition to the connection fee,
1.15 times the actual cost incurred by the village in making the connection
(exclusive of the cost of inspection by the village and the installed cost of
the water meter).
   (C)   The connection fee imposed pursuant to this section is the amount
charged each premises in the village to make the water system available to
serve the premises and includes the cost of inspection and an installed 1-inch
water meter.
   (D)   (1)   A true copy or a summary of this section shall be published in
Traverse City Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village, within 15
days after the adoption of this section by the Village Council.
      (2)   Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time
and place of the publication in the record of ordinances.
   (E)   This section shall be in full force and effect as of 3-1-2001.
(1992 Code, § 11.3)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 52.04  PERIODIC CHARGES FOR WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   Water furnished to each premises shall be measured by a water
meter installed and controlled by the village.
      (2)   The village, through its authorized representative, shall have
access to the meter and all other water and plumbing fixtures at reasonable
times for the purposes of reading, repairing, or inspecting the same.
   (B)   (1)   The water system of the village shall, as far as possible, be
operated and maintained on a public utility basis as authorized by law.
      (2)   Each premises within the village connected to and using facilities
of the system shall pay user rates and charges as fixed and established from
time to time by resolution of the Village Council.
      (3)   The village shall annually review the user rates and charges as
required by Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 to 141.138, as
amended.
(1992 Code, § 11.4)
§ 52.05  FIRE HYDRANT RENTALS.
   (A)   Unmetered public fire hydrants will be maintained at the expense of
the water system.
   (B)   The village shall pay $108 per quarter, which fee shall be set forth
by resolution from time to time, on the first day of January, April, July, and
October of each year commencing 1-1-1993 for each hydrant for this service and
the unrestricted right to use the hydrants to provide fire protection to the
residents of the village.
(1992 Code, § 11.5)
§ 52.06  PERIODIC CHARGES FOR SEWER SERVICE.
   (A)   (1)   The user charge for sewer service to each premises within the
village connected to the system shall consist of a rate per unit per month
which shall be set from time to time by resolution of the Village Council.
      (2)   These charges shall be payable in the first month the system
becomes operational and monthly thereafter.  On new construction, user charges
for sewer services shall begin to accrue upon the earlier of (a) the date of
issuance of an occupancy permit by the county or (b) the 150th calendar day
after the application for connection is filed with the village in accordance
with §
51.05.  If necessary, the initial billing of the user charges for sewer
services may include a pro rata billing in arrears to the accrual date
determined in the manner provided above.
      (3)   This minimum monthly charge shall be due and payable for each
premises without regard to the use of the premises on a part-time or seasonal
basis.
   (B)   (1)   The sanitary sewer system of the village shall, as far as
possible, be operated and maintained on a public utility basis as authorized by
law.
      (2)   Each premise within the village connected to and using facilities
of the system shall pay user rates and charges as fixed and established from
time to time by the village.
      (3)   The village shall annually review the user rates and charges as
required by Public Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 to 141.138, as
amended, and Public Law 92-500, being U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   (C)   (1)   A true copy or a summary of this section shall be published in
Traverse City Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village, within 15
days after the adoption of this section by the Village Council.
      (2)   Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time
and place of the publication in the record of ordinances.
   (D)   This section shall be in full force and effect as of 3-1-2001.
(1992 Code, § 11.6)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001 ; Am. Ord. 02 05-07,
passed 5-7-2007 )
§ 52.07  NO FREE SERVICE.
   (A)   No free water or sewer service shall be furnished to any person, firm,
or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or instrumentality.
   (B)   Charges for sewer and water shall be billed and collected as provided
in this chapter.
(1992 Code, § 11.8)
§ 52.08  MISCELLANEOUS CUSTOMER FEE.
   (A)   There shall be imposed upon any person or entity which uses the sewer
or water system, a miscellaneous customer fee to reimburse the village for the
cost of shutting off or turning on a water or sewer service, repairing damage
to the water or sewer system caused by the person or entity, or the cost of
rectifying violations of this chapter, including the cost of engineering,
administrative, legal, and all other fees.
   (B)   (1)   A true copy or a summary of this section shall be published in
Traverse City Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village, within 15
days after the adoption of this section by the Village Council.
      (2)   Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time
and place of the publication in the record of ordinances.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect as of 3-1-2001.
(1992 Code, § 11.9)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 52.09  SEWER RATES AND CHARGES FOR USERS LOCATED OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   Notwithstanding the above, owners of premises located outside the village
limits in Paradise Township and connected to the sewer system shall pay charges
for sewer services as defined in
§ 51.01 at 200% of the amount charged with respect to premises located within
the village.
(1992 Code, § 11.10)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 52.10  PAYMENT OF CHARGES AND MISCELLANEOUS CUSTOMER FEES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be the duty of the Village Treasurer to collect all
connection and periodic service charges for water service, sewer service, and
miscellaneous customer fees and to keep the books of account thereof.
      (2)   Payment shall be made in a location designated by the Village
Council.
      (3)   The Village Treasurer shall bill each customer in arrears for
periodic charges for sewer services on or before the twentieth day of each
month and payment shall be due on or before the twentieth day of the next
succeeding month.
      (4)   The Village Treasurer shall bill each customer in arrears for
periodic water services on a quarterly basis in March, June, September, and
December based on the metered water usage, and payment shall be due within 30
days after the date of the bill.
      (5)   The Village Treasurer shall render a bill for miscellaneous
customer fees as the village incurs the costs which comprise the miscellaneous
customer fees, and issue additional bills as the village continues to incur
costs comprising miscellaneous customer fees.
      (6)   Miscellaneous customer fees shall be paid within 15 days after the
date of the bill.
      (7)   Billings for different services may be combined on 1 bill if the
time of billing coincides.
   (B)   (1)   A true copy or a summary of this section shall be published in
Traverse City Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village, within 15
days after the adoption of this section by the Village Council.
      (2)   Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time
and place of the publication in the record of ordinances.
   (C)   This section shall be in full force and effect as of 3-1-2001.
(1992 Code, § 11.11)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001)
§ 52.11  INTEREST; VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   If any periodic service charges for water or sewer are not paid on or
before the due date, then a penalty equal to 2% of the unpaid amount shall
accrue and be owed from the date the payment was due for each month, or
fraction of a month, until the unpaid service charge is paid in full.
   (B)   If periodic charges, or a miscellaneous customer fee, billed to any
premises are not paid within 90 days after the due date thereof, the service
may be discontinued.
   (C)   Service so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums then due
and owing, including interest and penalties, plus any expenses incurred by the
village for shutting off and turning on the service, are paid.
   (D)   Water service may be discontinued for failure to pay sewer service
charges.
(1992 Code, § 11.12)  (Am. Ord. 01-02-15, passed 2-26-2015)
§ 52.12  DISCONTINUATION OF SERVICE; SECURITY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   Water or sewer service shall not be discontinued until 10 days after
written notice of discontinuation is given to the property owner and/or any
other individual who it has been brought to the village's attention is
responsible for payment of water, sewer, or refuse disposal charges.
   (B)   The notice shall state that service will be discontinued if payment is
not made and that any interested party may request an informal hearing before
the Treasurer to present reasons why service should not be discontinued.
   (C)   After discontinuation of water or sewer service, an appropriate notice
of discontinuation will be posted on the property.
   (D)   Where the water or sewer service to any premises is turned off to
enforce the payment of water or sewer service charges, the water or sewer
service shall not be resumed until all delinquent charges have been paid and a
deposit is paid in the amount established from time to time by resolution of
the Village Council.
   (E)   In any other case where, in the discretion of the Village Clerk, the
collection of charges for water or sewage disposal service may be difficult or
uncertain, the Village Clerk may require a similar deposit.
   (F)   The deposits may be applied against any delinquent water or sewer
service charges and the application thereof shall not affect the right of the
Clerk of the village to turn off the water or sewer service to any premises for
any delinquency thereby satisfied.
   (G)   No deposit shall bear interest and the deposit, or any remaining
balance thereof, shall be returned to the customer making the same when the
customer shall discontinue receiving water or sewer service or, any 8
successive quarterly bills shall have been paid by the customer with no
delinquency.
(1992 Code, § 11.13)
§ 52.13  CHARGES LIEN ON PREMISES.
   (A)   Connection and periodic service charges, including industrial cost
recovery charges, for sewer and water for any premises, the sewer trunkage
connection fee, and the sanitary sewer availability fee, the water connection
fee and the miscellaneous customer fees, including installments thereon,
pertaining to any premises shall be a lien thereon.
   (B)   The lien shall become effective immediately upon the provision of
services to the premises and the official records of the village shall
constitute notice of the pendency of the lien or liens.
   (C)   The lien or liens shall have priority over all other liens except
taxes and special assessments.
   (D)   All unpaid fees for water and sewer service delinquent for 6 months or
more shall be certified by the Village Clerk annually on March 1 of each year
to the village tax assessing officer who shall enter the same upon the next tax
roll against the premises to which the service shall have been rendered, and
the charges shall be collected and the lien shall be enforced in the same
manner as provided for the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll and the
enforcement of the lien therefor.
   (E)   However, in all cases when a tenant is responsible for the payment of
the charges and the village is so notified in writing (including a true copy of
any lease), then the charges shall not become a lien against the premises from
and after the date of the notice.
   (F)   From and after the notice no further service shall be rendered to the
premises until a cash deposit of not less than 1 full year's service shall have
been made as security for payment of the charges.
(1992 Code, § 11.14)
§ 52.14  ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall also be enforceable through the
bringing of appropriate action for collection of monies owed, injunction,
mandamus, or otherwise, in any court having jurisdiction.
(1992 Code, § 11.15)
§ 52.15  FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the water and sewer systems shall coincide with the
fiscal year of the village.
(1992 Code, § 11.16)
§ 52.16  ANNUAL AUDIT.
   (A)   The Village shall maintain complete books and records relating to the
operations of the sewage works and its financial affairs and will cause the
books and records to be audited annually at the end of each fiscal year and an
audit report to be prepared.
   (B)   A copy of each audit report will be made available upon written
request to holders of outstanding debt incurred to finance part or all of the
cost of the sewage works and to the U.S. EPA.
(1992 Code, § 11.17)
§ 52.17  USER CLASSIFICATION.
   (A)   The recipients of wastewater treatment services will be assigned to 1
of the following classes:
      (1)   Class I.
         (a)   Any nongovernmental user identified in the Standard Industrial
Classification Manual, 1972, Office of Management and Budget, as amended and
supplemented, under Divisions A, B, D, E, and I.
         (b)   A user in the divisions listed may be excluded from Class I and
placed in Class II if it is determined that it will introduce primarily
segregated domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (2)   Class II.  Any commercial, institutional, or governmental user
determined to be introducing wastes of unusual volume or strength, or wastes in
variance with
§ 51.27(C); and
      (3)   Class III.  All users, which produce primarily segregated domestic
wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   (B)   The user may appeal his or her assigned classification by submitting a
written appeal to the village 30 days in advance of a regularly scheduled
Village Council meeting at which time the appeal will be heard.
(1992 Code, § 11.18)
APPENDIX A:  UNIT FACTORS
   (A)   Table.
Usage Unit Factor
Usage         Unit Factor
Apartment     1.0 per rental unit
Auto Dealers
and Repair    1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
Facilities
Banks         1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
Barber Shops  1.0 per unit up to 1,000 square feet; thereafter 1.0 per 1,000 square feet
Bars          .02 per seat
Beauty Shops  1.0 per unit up to 1,000 square feet; thereafter 1.0 per 1,000 square feet
Boarding      .166 per person
Houses
Car Washes -
manual wand   1.0 per bay
type
Car Washes -
automatic/
with or       12 per lane
without
attendant
Churches      1.0 per church
Churches with
community     1.0 per hall plus unit factor for church
halls
Cleaners      1.5 per 1,000 square feet plus 2 per press
Clothing or   1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
shoe stores
Clinics -
Medical or    1.0 per doctor
Dental
Clubhouse     1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
Convalescent
or Nursing    .25 per bed
Homes
Drapery Shop
or Fabric     1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
Retail Store
Drug Store    1.0 per unit up to 1,000 square feet; thereafter 1.0 per 1,000 square feet
Factories -
exclusive of  .50 per 1,000 square feet plus unit factor for “wet” or “dry” industrial process
industrial
waste
Fraternal     1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
Organizations
Furniture     1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter.50 per 1,000 square feet
Stores
Gift Shops    1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
Gyms - with   3.0 per unit up to 8000 square feet; thereafter 1.0 per 1,000 square feet
showers
Gyms - Add
for snack bar To be determined at time of application
w/seats
Hotels or
Motels up to  .50 per unit w/o kitchen
400 square
feet
Hotels or
Motels up to  .25 additional w/kitchen
400 square
feet
Hotel or
Motels over   1.0 per unit
400 square
feet
Laundry -     .30 per washer
self-service
Industry -
dry water     To be determined at time of application
process
Industry -    To be determined at time of application
wet process
Mobile Home   1.0 per mobile home plus unit factor for office, gym, clubhouse, and/or laundry
Parks
Office        1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
Building
Public
Meeting       1 per 1,000 square feet
Spaces
Restaurants -
food and      .04 per seat
beverage
Schools       .67 per classroom
Schools with  .67 per classroom plus unit factor for Gym
gyms
Service       1.0 per unit up to 1,000 square feet; thereafter 1.0 per 1,000 square feet
Stations
Snack Bars -
drive-in      1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter .50 per 1,000 square feet
restaurants
Stores -
other than    1.0 per unit up to 2,000 square feet; thereafter.50 per 1,000 square feet
listed
Supermarkets
and Grocery   .80 per 1,000 square feet
Stores
Theaters -    1.0 per 1,000 square feet
indoor
Warehouses
with bathroom .10 per 1,000 square feet
or floor
drain
Single-Family 1.0 per residence
Residence
Two or more
Family        1.0 per residence
Residences
 
   (B)   Publication.  A true copy or a summary of this appendix shall be
published in Traverse City Record Eagle, a newspaper circulated in the village,
within 15 days after the adoption of this appendix by the Village Council. 
Upon the publication, the Clerk shall immediately enter the time and place of
the publication in the record of ordinances.
   (C)   Effective date.  This appendix shall be in full force and effect as of
3-1-2001.
(1992 Code, Table A to Chapter XI)  (Am. Ord. 4-01, passed 2-5-2001)
APPENDIX B:  INITIAL WATER AND SEWER RATES
Editor’s Note:
The rates used for the purposes of this Appendix B are 2006 rates effective at
the time of the code’s publication. Please be aware that rate changes are as
set from time to time by village resolution and maintained by the Village
Clerk.
   (A)    The monthly sewer rate ($31.00) never changes unless there is a sewer
rate increase.
   (B)   The minimum monthly water rate is $10.
   (C)    If you move into a residence of the village, you are required to pay
a $100 security deposit.  If you are the owner of a vacant home, you will still
be charged a monthly fee for the sewer ($31.00).  This is by the Code of
Ordinances of the Village of Kingsley.
   (D)    Bills are usually sent out around the twenty-seventh of one month,
and due around the twenty- fifth of the next month.
   (E)   Bills are made out for the month prior, (such as, your May bill is for
the water/sewer usage in April.)
   (F)   Every quarter the meters are read by the DPW Department; March, June,
September, and December.
   (G)   Each household is allotted 2,000 gallons per month (or 6,000 gallons
per quarter).
   (H)   Any water usage over the 2,000 gallons per month (or 6,000 gallons per
quarter) the charge is $1 for every 1,000 gallons over the 6,000-gallon
allotment.
   (I)   If your water is shut-off for nonpayment, or the DPW Department makes
a house call to collect a past due amount, you will be charged a $25 service
fee and will be required to pay a $100 deposit fee.
   (J)   Example:
      February bill (January usage)   $10.00   water
                    31.00   sewer
                  $41.00   water/sewer bill
      March bill (February usage)   $10.00   water
                    31.00   sewer
                  $41.00   water/sewer bill
      April bill (March usage)   $15.00   water   ($10 minimum plus $5 for the
additional 5,000 gallons used based on the
               quarterly meter reading)
                    41.00   sewer
                  $46.00   water/sewer bill
CHAPTER 53:  STORM WATER
Section
   
53.01   Applicability
   
53.02   Design standards
   
53.03   Enforcement agent
   
53.04   Earth change permit
   
53.05   Storm water management easements
   
53.06   Performance guarantees
   
53.07   Final inspection and approval or denial of completed storm water
control measures or devices
   
53.08   Maintenance
   
53.09   Fees
   
53.10   Enforcement
   
53.11   Waiver
   
53.12   Appeals
   
53.13   Notice defined
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01  APPLICABILITY.
   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, any earth changes, as defined
in M.C.L.A. § 324.9101(9), as amended, that meet any of the following criteria
require a Storm Water Runoff Control Permit:
   (A)   Disturb 1 or more acres of land;
   (B)   Within 500 feet of ordinary high water mark of a lake or stream;
   (C)   Commercial use development;
   (D)   Mobile home park or manufactured home development;
   (E)   Multiple family residential development or P.U.D.;
   (F)   Site condominium or condominium developments, development as defined
by M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 - 559.272, as amended;
   (G)   Platted subdivision development; and/or
   (H)   Private roads which access 3 or more development parcels.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 53.02  DESIGN STANDARDS.
   “Design standards” as used in this chapter means the Uniform Storm Water
Control Design and Installation Standards for Municipalities in Grand Traverse
County, which are adopted as Appendix A attached to Ordinance 02 06-07.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 53.03  ENFORCEMENT AGENT.
   The Grand Traverse County Drain Commissioner is authorized as the primary
enforcement agent for the village for carrying out this chapter, and may
designate such agents, as the Drain Commissioner deems necessary to carry out
the purposes of this chapter.  In addition, the village is also authorized to
act as enforcement agent, and retains the discretion to enforce this chapter by
the village’s Ordinance Enforcement Officer if, in the village’s discretion,
exigent or other appropriate circumstances require  the village to enforce this
chapter.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 53.04     EARTH CHANGE PERMIT.
   (A)   Application.  Permit applications shall be submitted to the
enforcement agent.  Copies of the permit application form shall be made
available by the enforcement agent.  Application for a permit and issuance of
the permit shall be made prior to the start of any earth change requiring a
permit under this chapter.  Submission of an application for permit shall
constitute consent by the property owner for the enforcement agent or his
designated representative to enter upon the property for purposes of
inspections attendant to the application.  The application shall contain, at a
minimum, all of the following:
      (1)   A map or maps at a scale of not more than 200 feet to the inch or
as otherwise determined by the enforcement agent, including a legal description
and site location sketch the includes the proximity of any proposed earth
change to lakes, streams, and/or wetlands; predominant land features; and
contour intervals or slope description and all applicable setbacks;
      (2)   A soils survey or a written description of the soil types of the
exposed land areas contemplated for the earth change;
      (3)   A description and the location of the physical limits of each
proposed earth change;
      (4)   The location of all lakes, streams, and wetlands partially or
completely contained within the boundaries of the site or within 50 feet of the
site boundary;
      (5)   A description and the location of all existing and proposed on-site
storm water management and dewatering facilities;
      (6)   The timing and sequence of each proposed earth change;
      (7)   The location and description for installing and removing all
proposed temporary soil erosion and sedimentation control measures;
      (8)   A description and the location of all proposed permanent storm
water control measures or devices;
      (9)   The enforcement agent may require, as defined in §
53.01, that the storm water runoff control plan be prepared by a State of
Michigan licensed landscape architect, architect, land surveyor or professional
engineer.  If the enforcement agent also requires an additional professional
consultant (engineer and/or attorney) to review the plans submitted, all review
costs shall be paid for by the developer; and
      (10)   The person(s) or organization(s) responsible for maintenance shall
be designated in the plan.  Options include:
         (a)   Property owner;
         (b)   Homeowner’s association, provided that provisions for financing
necessary maintenance are included in deed restrictions or other contractual
agreements; or
         (c)   Grand Traverse County Drain Commissioner, in accordance with the
Michigan Drain Code, M.C.L.A. § 280.1 et seq., as amended, if the storm water
conveyance facilities are within a designated Drain District.
   (B)   Sequential application.
      (1)   If a development on a site is so large or complex that a storm
water control plan encompassing all phases of the project cannot reasonably be
prepared prior to initial ground breaking, then an application for a permit for
successive major incremental earth change activities may be allowed.
      (2)   Requests for sequential applications shall be approved by the
enforcement agent prior to initial permit application.  Approval of sequential
applications shall take place in 2 phases.  First, the overall conceptual plan
for the entire development shall be submitted for review and approval.  Second,
detailed plans for sections of the total project shall be submitted for review
and approval upon the request of the enforcement agent.
      (3)   All permits processed and issued for phases of a project shall be
clearly defined as to the nature and extent of work covered.  Each phase of the
project must be reviewed and permitted by the enforcement agent prior to
construction.
   (C)   Permit application review.  Concurrent with and pursuant to the Grand
Traverse County Soil Erosion Control Ordinance #25, the enforcement agent shall
approve, approve with conditions, or deny the application after the completed
application is submitted together with all required plans and fees.  The
enforcement agent shall reject any application which is incomplete. 
   (D)   Approval; certification not required.  Approval shall be granted if
the storm water control plan meets the requirements set forth in the design
standards and the requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Approval; certification required.  For any site requiring that a storm
water control plan be prepared by a State of Michigan  registered professional,
the enforcement agent shall grant approval if the storm water control plan
meets the requirements set forth in the design standards and upon receipt  by
the enforcement agent of a letter from the registered professional certifying
that the storm water control plan meets all the requirements of the design
standards.
   (F)   Approval with conditions.  If the application is approved with
conditions, the enforcement agent must state in writing the conditions upon
which approval is based.
   (G)   Denial.  The enforcement agent shall notify the applicant in writing
if the application is denied and the reasons for the denial.
   (H)   Permit expiration.  All permits approved by the enforcement agent
shall expire upon the occurrence of project completion date provided on the
application or 1 year, whichever occurs first.  The enforcement agent may
extend the permit for a period not to exceed 1 year  upon good cause shown by
the landowner or permit applicant.  The enforcement agent may charge an
additional fee to cover the cost of continued inspections, the amount of which
is specified in the current permit and review fee schedule, in effect for the
Grand Traverse County Drain Commissioner’s Office and may be amended by the
county concurrent with and pursuant to the Grand Traverse County Soil Erosion
Control Ordinance #25.  All fees are to cover administrative  expenses of
processing the storm water control permit and the soil erosion control permit
including inspections and monitoring of projects.
   (I)   (1)   Permit revocation or suspension.  A permit issued under this
ordinance may be revoked or suspended by the enforcement agent for any of the
following reasons:
         (a)   A violation of a condition of the permit;
         (b)   Misrepresentation or failure to fully disclose relevant facts in
the application;
         (c)   A change in the condition that requires a temporary or permanent
change in the activity;
         (d)   Authorized work is abandoned or suspended for a period of 6
months or more;
         (e)   A non-approved waiver of the buffers and setbacks established in
the design standards.
      (2)   Notification of a revocation or suspension shall be made in
writing.  The notice will specify the reason(s)  for the revocation or
suspension and the time for an appeal of the revocation or suspension.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.05  STORM WATER MANAGEMENT EASEMENTS.
   All easements that are necessary to implement the approved drainage plan and
to otherwise comply with this chapter in form and substance shall be recorded
with the Grand Traverse County Register of Deeds prior to the issuance of a
permit by the enforcement agent.  The easements shall assure access for proper
inspection and maintenance of storm water runoff facilities and shall provide
adequate emergency overland flow-ways.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.06  PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   As a condition of issuance of a permit, the enforcement agent may require
the applicant to deposit cash, a certified check, or an irrevocable letter of
credit acceptable to the enforcement agent in an amount sufficient to assure
installation and completion of the storm water control plan.  Irrevocable
letters of credit, if used as a performance guarantee, shall extend for a
minimum of 1 year with the option of renewal.  The required security shall be
held in the office of the enforcement agent, and shall be released only upon
final inspection and approval of the storm water control systems.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.07  FINAL INSPECTION AND APPROVAL OR DENIAL OF COMPLETED STORM WATER
CONTROL MEASURES OR DEVICES.
   Upon completion of a storm water control plan, the property owner,
applicant, or other authorized representative of the property owner shall
notify the enforcement agent.  The enforcement agent shall conduct a final
inspection within 10 days after being notified of the completion.  The
enforcement agent shall either approve or not approve the completed storm water
control measures and devices on a form prepared by the enforcing agent within
30 days following inspection.  If changes occur to the original plan during the
course of construction, the enforcement agent may require final “as built”
drawings before making a final inspection or in making a determination as to
final approval or denial or the installed storm water control plan.
   (A)   Approval; certification not required.  Approval shall be granted if
the storm water control measures as completed meet the requirements set forth
in the storm water control plan.
   (B)   Approval; certification required.  For any site requiring that a storm
water control plan be prepared by a registered professional, the enforcement
agent shall grant approval if the storm water control measures as completed
meet the requirements set forth in the storm water control plan and upon
receipt by the enforcement agent of a letter from a licensed professional civil
engineer certifying that all storm water measures have been completed in
accordance with the storm water control plan.
   (C)   Denial.  The enforcement agent shall notify the applicant in writing
if the request for closure of the permit is denied and the reasons for the
denial.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08  MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   Routine maintenance.
      (1)   All storm water control plans shall be maintained according to the
measures outlined in the design standards, and as approved in the permit.
      (2)   The person(s) or organization(s) responsible for maintenance shall
be designated in the plan.  Options include:
         (a)   Property owner;
         (b)   Homeowner’s association, provided that provisions for financing
necessary maintenance are included in deed restrictions or other contractual
agreements; or
         (c)   Grand Traverse County Drain Commissioner, in accordance with the
Michigan Drain Code, M.C.L.A. § 280.1 et seq., as amended, if the storm water
conveyance facilities are within a designated Drain District.
      (3)   Maintenance agreements shall specify responsibilities for
financing  maintenance and shall be recorded with the Register of Deeds before
the permit can be closed.
   (B)   Non-routine maintenance.  Non-routine maintenance includes maintenance
activities that are expensive but infrequent, such as pond dredging or major
repairs to storm water structures.
      (1)   Non-routine maintenance shall be performed on an as needed basis
based on information gathered during regular inspections.
      (2)   If non-routine maintenance activities are not completed in a timely
manner or as specified in the approved plan, the Grand Traverse County Drain
Commissioner may complete the necessary maintenance at the owner’s/operator’s
expense.
   (C)   Maintenance Inspections.
      (1)   The person(s) or organization(s) responsible for maintenance shall
inspect storm water control systems on a regular basis, as outlined in the
plan.
      (2)   Authorized representatives of the enforcement agent may enter at
reasonable times to conduct on-site inspections or routine maintenance.
      (3)   For storm water control systems maintained by the property owner or
homeowner’s association, inspection and maintenance reports shall be filed with
the enforcement agent as provided in the plan.
      (4)   Authorized representatives of the enforcement agent may conduct
inspections to confirm the information in the reports filed under this
division.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09  FEES.
   All fees shall be paid to Grand Traverse County in accordance with the
current permit and review fee schedule, in effect for the Grand Traverse County
Drain Commissioner’s Office and may be amended by the county concurrent with
and pursuant  to the Grand Traverse County Soil Erosion Control Ordinance #25. 
All fees are to cover administrative expenses of processing  the storm water
control permit and the soil erosion control permit including inspections and
monitoring of projects.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)  Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10  ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations.  It shall be a violation of this chapter to do any of the
following:
      (1)   To make an earth change without first obtaining a permit as
required by this chapter;
      (2)   To provide false or misleading information in an application for
permit;
      (3)   To fail to follow approved storm water control plan;
      (4)   To fail to maintain a storm water control measure or device in
accordance with an approved storm water control plan.
   (B)   Notice of violation.  Whenever there is a failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter, the enforcement agent shall notify the applicant or
owner that he or she has 5 calendar days from the receipt of the notice to
temporarily correct the violation and 30 calendar days from receipt of the
notice to permanently correct the violation.  The enforcement agent for good
cause demonstrated by the permitee may make reasonable extensions.  Notice
shall be made by certified mail, return receipt requested.
   (C)   Enforcement actions.  Should the applicant or owner fail to take the
corrective actions specified in the notice of violation, the enforcement agent
may take any or all of the following actions:
      (1)   Issue or cause to be issued a municipal infraction;
      (2)   Take whatever remedial actions are necessary and assert a lien on
the subject property in an amount equal to the costs of remedial actions.  The
lien shall be enforced in the manner provided or authorized by law for the
enforcement of common law liens on personal property.  The lien shall be
recorded with the Grand Traverse County Register of Deeds and shall incur legal
interest from the date of recording.  The imposition of any penalty shall not
exempt the offender from compliance with the provisions of this chapter,
including assessment of a lien on the property.
   (D)   Emergency actions.  When emergency actions are necessary to moderate a
nuisance, to protect public safety, health, welfare, and/or to prevent the loss
of life, injury, or damage to property, the enforcement agent is authorized to
carry out or arrange for all such emergency actions, and to enforce penalties
and/or liens as described herein.
   (E)   Cease and desist orders.  The enforcement agent may issue a cease and
desist order or revoke a permit upon the determination that there is a
violation of this chapter.  A cease and desist order, when issued, shall
require all earth change activities to stop immediately.
   (F)   Injunctive relief.  Notwithstanding any other remedy available under
this chapter, the enforcement agent may maintain an action in a court of
competent jurisdiction for an injunction or other process against a person to
restrain or prevent violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 53.11  WAIVER.
   The enforcement agent responding to a specific earth change as provided for
in §
53.03 may waive certain requirements specified in this chapter upon being
provided with demonstrable evidence of special circumstances warranting waiver,
but only upon finding that both of the following requirements are met:
   (A)   The application of this chapter will present or cause practical
difficulties  for a development or development site; provided, however, that
practical difficulties shall not include the need for the developer to incur
additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with this chapter; and
   (B)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
nor result in less effective management of storm water runoff.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 53.12  APPEALS.
   (A)   Any person aggrieved by the action or inaction of the enforcement
agent related to this chapter may appeal to the Grand Traverse County
Construction Code Board of Appeals.  All requests for appeal shall be filed in
writing within 30 days of the action or inaction appealed from and shall
include the basis of the appeal.  In considering any such appeal, the Board may
grant a variance from the terms of this chapter so as to provide relief, in
whole or in part, from the action being appealed, but only upon finding that
both of the following requirements are met:
      (1)   The application of this chapter’s provision(s) being appealed will
present or cause practical difficulties  for a development or development site;
provided, however, that practical difficulties shall not include the need for
the developer to incur additional reasonable expenses in order to comply with
this chapter; and
      (2)   The granting of the relief requested will not substantially prevent
nor result in less effective management of storm water runoff.
   (B)   The filing of an appeal does not preclude other remedies available to
either party, nor does it act as a stay of any order from the enforcement agent
for the installation of measures or controls to reduce or eliminate storm water
runoff pending the outcome of appeal.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 53.13  NOTICE DEFINED.
   NOTICE means delivery by first class mail unless otherwise specified in this
chapter.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 53.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal infraction punishable by a
fine not exceeding $500 per day of violation.
   (B)   A knowing violation of this chapter or interference with the
enforcement of this chapter by the enforcement agent or any person duly
authorized  to carry out the purposes of this chapter is a misdemeanor
punishable by imprisonment for up to 90 days, and/or fine of up to $500 or
both.
   (C)   An action for the violation of this chapter shall be instituted in the
86th District Court for Grand Traverse County.  Fines and costs imposed or
assessed in such an action shall be distributed in accordance with M.C.L.A. §
600.8379.
(Ord. 02 06-07, passed 6-4-2007)
TITLE VII:  TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70:  TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
   
70.01   Code and amendments and revisions adopted
   
70.02   Referenced in code
   
70.03   Notice to be published
   
70.04   Current regulations and traffic control orders
   
70.05   Manual and specifications for traffic control devices
   
70.06   Amendments to Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.07   Closed or restricted streets
   
70.08   Temporary traffic control orders
   
70.09   File of traffic control orders
 
   
70.99   Penalties
Cross-reference:
   Parking Regulations, see
Ch. 71
§ 70.01  CODE AND AMENDMENTS AND REVISIONS ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages as
promulgated by the Director of the Michigan Department of State Police pursuant
to the Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201
to 24.328 and made effective October 20, 2002, and all future amendments and
revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated and effective
in this state are incorporated by reference.
   (B)   The Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to 257.923,
and all past and future amendments and revisions to the Michigan Vehicle Code
when they are effective in this state are incorporated and adopted by
reference.  Nothing herein shall affect the previous adoption of the Uniform
Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages and traffic control orders
issued thereunder.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 70.02  REFERENCED IN CODE.
   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages
to a “governmental unit” shall mean the Village of Kingsley.  References in the
Michigan Vehicle Code to “local authorities” shall mean the Village of
Kingsley.  References to “traffic engineer” in the Uniform Traffic Code shall
mean “Kingsley Village Manager.”
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 70.03  NOTICE TO BE PUBLISHED.
   The Village Clerk shall publish this chapter in the manner required by law
and shall publish, at the same time, a notice stating the purpose of the
Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages, and Michigan Vehicle
Code, and the fact that a complete copy of the codes are available to the
public at the office of the Clerk for inspection.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-08)
§ 70.04  CURRENT REGULATIONS AND TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDERS.
   All intersection stops and yield right-of-way requirements, regulations on
stopping, standing or parking; one-way streets, roadways or alleys; crosswalks;
restricted turns; through streets; play streets; angle parking; parking meter
zones; all night parking restrictions; curb loading zones; speed limits and
other traffic control orders or devices heretofore established hereunder shall
remain effective until rescinded or modified as herein provided.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 70.05  MANUAL AND SPECIFICATIONS FOR TRAFFIC-CONTROL DEVICES.
   All traffic-control signs, signals and devices shall conform to the official
Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices or shall be approved by the
Council.  All signs and signals required by this Code for a particular purpose
shall, so far as practicable, be uniform as to type and location throughout
this governmental unit.  All traffic-control devices so erected and not
inconsistent with the provisions of state law or this Code shall be official
traffic-control devices.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 70.06  AMENDMENTS TO UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   The following sections and subsections of the Uniform Traffic Code for
Cities, Townships and Villages, as adopted in § 70.01, are hereby amended or
deleted as set forth and additional sections and subsections are added as
indicated.  Subsequent section numbers used in this chapter shall refer to the
like numbered sections of the Uniform Traffic Code.
      § 70.06(A) OPERATION OF ALL TERRAIN VEHICLES IN PUBLIC PARKS.
         No all terrain vehicles shall be operated in any public park within
the Village of Kingsley. 
      § 70.06(B)  SPEEDING.
         No person shall drive a motor vehicle in the corporate limits of the
village in excess of 25 MPH unless a different speed is authorized and has been
marked by adequate signs giving notice of such permissible speed.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 70.07  CLOSED OR RESTRICTED STREETS.
   Whenever any street or part of a street is closed to traffic and so
indicated by authorized signs or barriers, no vehicle shall proceed into the
street or portion thereof except as directed by the signs.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)  Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.08  TEMPORARY TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDERS.
   The Village Manager shall have authority to issue temporary traffic control
orders within the village.  Temporary traffic control orders shall expire after
90 days unless approved as permanent by the Village Council.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 70.09  FILE OF TRAFFIC CONTROL ORDERS.
   A book shall be maintained by the Village of Kingsley containing traffic
control orders, including date of issue and location of the traffic control
order.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
§ 70.99 PENALTIES.
   The penalties provided by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages are adopted by reference.  The penalties provided by the Michigan
Vehicle Code are adopted by reference, provide however, that the village may
not enforce any provision of the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum
period of imprisonment is greater than 93 days.  Violation of this chapter
shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.  The provisions of Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply
to violations of this chapter.
(Ord. 01 01-08, passed 1-7-2008)
CHAPTER 71:  PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
   
71.01   Parking during periods of snow removal
   
71.02   Year-round parking restrictions
 
   
71.99   Penalty
§ 71.01  PARKING DURING PERIODS OF SNOW REMOVAL.
   No person shall park a vehicle on any street, alley, or public place within
the village limits during the periods of time as may be designated by the
Village Council for snow removal purposes, as same may be posted in those
places or indicated by public notice. This prohibition shall not apply to
physicians, ambulance drivers, or undertakers on emergency calls.
(1992 Code, § 3.4)  Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.02  YEAR-ROUND PARKING RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall park a vehicle on any paved street between 3:00 a.m.
and 6:00 a.m. of any day except physicians, ambulance drivers, or undertakers
on emergency calls.
   (B)   No person shall park a motor vehicle on any street or alley between 3:
00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. from November 15 through April 1 of the following year,
except physicians, ambulance drivers, or undertakers on emergency calls.
   (C)   No person shall park or stand a vehicle upon any street, alley, or
public parking lot for longer than 72 hours.
   (D)   No person shall park a vehicle for longer than 15 minutes in the
parking space in front of the post office.
   (E)   No trailer shall be parked upon any streets of the village for a
longer period than 2 hours at any 1 time.
   (F)   No person shall push or move a vehicle not owned by that person into
any prohibited area.
(1992 Code, § 3.5)  Penalty, see
§ 71.99
§ 71.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in Title I,
General Provisions,
§ 10.99.  The provisions of
Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply to violations of this
chapter.
TITLE IX:  GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   RIGHTS-OF-WAY, STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   PUBLIC NUISANCES
      
94.   HOUSING TAX EXEMPTION
      
95.   MUNICIPAL TREES AND SHRUBS
CHAPTER 90:  HAZARDOUS MATERIALS
Section
Hazardous Spills Expense Recovery
   
90.01   Intent
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Notice and response
   
90.04   Liability for costs
   
90.05   Recovery of costs
   
90.06   Civil suit
   
90.07   Conflict with state or federal law
   
90.08   Nonexclusive remedy
   
90.09   Effective date
HAZARDOUS SPILLS EXPENSE RECOVERY
§ 90.01  INTENT.
   Surface waters, groundwater, soils, vegetation, and atmosphere inside the
village are susceptible to damage from the handling, storage, use, processing,
and disposal of hazardous material and the expense incurred by the taxpayer as
a result of the village or its designee having to respond in an emergency to
protect life, property, and the environment when there has been a release of
hazardous materials should be recovered from the person responsible for the
emergency.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 90.01et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   C.F.R.  The Code of Federal Regulations.
   COMPRESSED GAS.  Any material regulated as a compressed gas by the United
States Department of Transportation by regulations found in 49 C.F.R. pt.
173.300.
   DESIGNEE.  The Northwestern Regional Hazardous Materials Response Team or
the other public or private agency authorized in writing by the village to
respond to hazardous materials incidents within the village.
   EMERGENCY ACTION.  All of the activities conducted in order to prevent or
mitigate injury to human health or to the environment inside the village from a
release or threatened release of any material into or upon the environment.
   EXPLOSIVE.  Any material regulated as a class A of class B explosive by the
United States Department Transportation by regulations found in C.F.R. pt.
173.53 and pt. 173.88.
   FLAMMABLE LIQUID.  Any material regulated as a flammable liquid by the
United States Department of Transportation by regulations found in 49 C.F.R.
pt. 173.115.
   FLAMMABLE SOLID.  Any material regulated as a flammable solid by the United
States Department of Transportation by regulations found in 49 C.F.R. pt.
173.150.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL.  Any of the following:
      (1)   Any material listed in the list of toxic pollutants found in 40
C.F.R. pt. 401.15, as amended;
      (2)   Any material designated as hazardous material by applicable state
law; and/or
      (3)   Any compressed gas, explosive, flammable liquid, flammable solid,
oxidizer, poison, or radioactive material.
   OXIDIZER.  Any material regulated as an oxidizer by the United States
Department of Transportation by regulations found in 49 C.F.R. pt. 173.151.
   PERSON.  Any individual, corporation, association, partnership, firm,
trustee, or legal representative.
   POISON.  Any liquid or gas that is life threatening when mixed with air in
small amounts, and shall also include all those materials regulated as poison
class A by the United States Department of Transportation by regulations found
in 49 C.F.R. pt. 8173.326.
   RADIOACTIVE MATERIAL.  Any material required by the United States Department
of Transportation to have type A packaging or other special protection or
closed transport vehicles, under regulations found in 49 C.F.R. pt. 5173.425.
   RELEASE.  Any material required by the United States Department of
Transportation to have type A packaging or other special protection or closed
transport vehicles, under regulations found in 49 C.F.R. pt. 173.425.
   THREATENED RELEASE.  Any imminent or impending event potentially causing but
not resulting in a release, but causing the village to undertake an emergency
action.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.03  NOTICE AND RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any person who has damaged the surface waters, groundwater, soils, or
atmosphere by the handling or storage of hazardous materials, or who has
violated any local, state, or federal environmental laws with respect to
hazardous materials, is required to immediately notify the village.
   (B)   The requirements of
§§ 90.01et seq. shall not be construed to forbid or forgive any person from
using all diligence necessary to control a hazardous material release prior or
subsequent to the notification of the village, especially if the efforts shall
result in the containment of the release or the abatement of extreme hazard to
the employees or the general public.  Delays in reporting releases due to in-
house notification of off-site owners or supervisors shall result in
penalties.  Nothing in
§§ 90.01et seq. shall be construed to exempt or release any person from any
other notification or reporting required by any state or federal agency.
   (C)   The village, the village's designee, the Rural Division Fire Chief,
the Battalion Fire Chief, or the designee of either of the Chiefs are
authorized to direct an emergency action and the clean up and abatement of any
release, or threatened release within the village.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 90.04  LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Any person causing or contributing to the causing of a release or
threatened release which results in an emergency action shall be liable to the
village for the recoverable costs resulting from the emergency action.
   (B)   The following described persons shall be jointly and severally liable
to the village for the payment of all costs incurred by the village as a result
of the clean up or abatement activity:
      (1)   Any person whose negligent or willful act or omission proximately
caused the release, discharge, or deposit;
      (2)   The person who owned or had custody or control of the hazardous
material or the material at the time of the release, discharge, or deposit,
without regard to fault or proximate cause; and
      (3)   The person who owned or had custody or control of the container
which held the hazardous material at the time of or immediately prior to the
release, discharge, or deposit, without regard to fault or proximate cause.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.05  RECOVERY OF COSTS.
   (A)   The village or its designee shall keep an itemized record of
recoverable costs resulting from an emergency action.
   (B)   The village or its designee shall submit a written itemized claim to
the responsible person for the total costs incurred by the village or its
designee for the emergency action and a written notice that unless the amounts
are paid in full within 30 days after the date of the mailing of the claim and
notice, the township will file civil action seeking recovery for the stated
amount plus any amounts occasioned by the suit.
   (C)   For the purposes of
§§ 90.01et seq., costs of the village or its designee shall mean all direct and
indirect costs and shall include, but are not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Actual labor cost of personnel, including workers compensation
benefits and fringe benefits;
      (2)   Administrative overhead;
      (3)   Costs of equipment operation;
      (4)   Costs of materials;
      (5)   Laboratory costs of analyzing samples taken during the emergency
action;
      (6)   Medical expenses incurred as a result of response activities;
      (7)   Costs of any contract labor;
      (8)   Costs to supervise or verify the adequacy of the cleanup or
abatement by others; and
      (9)   Legal expenses that may be incurred as a result of the emergency
action, including actions for recoverable expenses pursuant to
§§ 90.01et seq.
   (D)   The authority to recover costs under
§§ 90.01et seq. shall not include actual fire suppression services which are
normally or usually provided by the Fire Department.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.06  CIVIL SUIT.
   The village may bring a civil action for payment of the recoverable expenses
against any and all persons liable under
§§ 90.01et seq.  All costs of the suit, including actual attorney fees, shall
also be a recoverable cost within the same civil action.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.07  CONFLICT WITH STATE OR FEDERAL LAW.
   Nothing in
§§ 90.01et seq. shall be construed to conflict with state or federal laws
requiring persons causing or responsible for release or threatened releases
from engaging in remediation activities or paying the cost thereof, or both.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.08  NONEXCLUSIVE REMEDY.
   The remedies provided by
§§ 90.01et seq. shall be in addition to any other remedies available in equity
or at law and the penalties as provided by law or ordinance.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
§ 90.09  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 90.01 et seq. shall become effective on the day following the date
of publication of
§§ 90.01et seq.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 4-2-2001)
CHAPTER 91:  FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Regulations
   
91.01   Adoption of International Fire Code 2003 Edition
   
91.02   International Fire Code 2003 changes
   
91.03   Deletion and substitution, Appeal Board
   
91.04   Deletion and substitution, Electrical Code
   
91.05   Fee schedule
Open Burning
   
91.20   Title
   
91.21   Purpose
   
91.22   Prohibited open burning
   
91.23   Permitted open burning; restrictions; permits; fees
   
91.24   Compliance with federal and state law
 
   
91.99   Penalty
GENERAL REGULATIONS
§ 91.01  ADOPTION OF INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE 2003 EDITION.
   The International Fire Code 2003 Edition, including Appendix Chapters A
through G, as published by the International Code Council, 2 copies of which
are on file at the village office, is adopted as the Fire Prevention Ordinance
of the village for regulating the safeguarding of the life and property from
the fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling and use of
hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions hazardous to
life or property in the occupancy of buildings or premises in the village and
providing for the issuance of permits and the collection of fees.  All of the
regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of the International
Fire Code 2003 Edition and any future amendments to that code, published by the
International Code Council, on file in the office of the Village Clerk, are
adopted and made a part of this chapter as if fully set forth in this chapter,
with the additions, insertions, deletions, and changes, if any, prescribed in §
91.02.
(Ord. 01-02-06, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 91.02  INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE 2003 CHANGES.
   (A)   The following sections of the International Fire Code 2003 edition
adopted in §
91.01, are added, deleted, or changed as follows:
   101.1 Title.
      These regulations shall be known as the Fire Prevention Ordinance of the
Village of Kingsley, referred to below as "this code."
   103.1 General.
      The department of fire prevention is established within the jurisdiction
under the direction of the Grand Traverse Metro Fire Department Board and the
Grand Traverse Rural Fire
      Department Board.  The Grand Traverse Metro Fire Chief and Grand Traverse
Rural Fire Chief (and/or their designate(s)) shall be named the Fire Code
Official for their respective departments.  The function of the Fire Code
Official shall be the implementation, administration and enforcement of the
provisions of this code.
   103.2  Appointment.
      The fire code official(s) shall be appointed by the Grand Traverse Fire
Department Administrative Board; and the Fire Code Official(s) shall not be
removed from office except for cause and after full opportunity to be heard on
specific and relevant charges by and before the appointing authority.
   105.7.13 New Construction.
      Any owner or authorized agent who intends to construct, enlarge, alter,
repair, move, demolish, or change the occupancy of a building or structure, or
to erect, install, enlarge, alter, repair, remove, convert or replace any fire
alarm and detection system and related equipment, fire suppression system and
related equipment including fire pump, standpipe systems and water supply
piping and hydrants, the installation of which is regulated by this code, or to
cause any such work to be done, shall first make application to the fire code
official and obtain the required permit.
      Exceptions:
         1.   One- and two-family residential (Residential Group R-3).
         2.   Utility and miscellaneous group U structures.
   109.3 Penalties.
      A.   A person who violates any provision of this code is responsible for
a civil infraction, punishable by a maximum fine of $500.00 plus court costs. 
Each day that a violation continues after due notice has been served in
accordance with this ordinance shall be deemed a separate offense.
      B.   A person who knowingly or willfully violates any provision of this
code, or a person who shall erect, install, alter, repair or do work in
violation of the approved construction documents or directive of the Fire Code
Official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this code, or
who refuses to correct a violation of the code after receiving due notice,
interferes with the Fire Code Official's enforcement of the code, or retaliates
against another who has made complaint of a violation of this code, is guilty
of a misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment not exceeding 90 days and/or a
fine of not more than $500 plus court costs.  Each day that a violation
continues after due notice has been served in accordance with this code shall
be deemed a separate offense.
   111.4 Failure to comply.
      Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a
stop work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to
remove a violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable to a fine of not less
than $500.  Each day that a violation of the stop work order continues after
due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate offense.
   307 Open burning.
      Is deleted in its entirety.
   503.6 Security gates.
      The installation of security gates across a fire apparatus access road
shall be approved by the Fire Chief.  Where security gates are installed, they
shall have an approved means of emergency operation.  The security gates and
the emergency operation shall be maintained operational at all times. 
Automatic security gates shall comply with the applicable provisions set forth
in Appendix H of this code.  Manual security gates shall comply with the
applicable provisions set forth in Appendix I of this code.
   506.1 Where required.
      Where access to or within a structure or an area is restricted because of
secured openings or where immediate access is necessary for life-saving or
fire-fighting purposes, the Fire Code Official is authorized to require a key
box to be installed in a approved location.  Such lock boxes shall be installed
on all structures of Use Group A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, B, E, F-1, F-2, H-1, H-2, H-
3, H-4, I-1, I-2, I-3, I-4, M, R-1, R-2, R-4, S-1, S-2, or any Mixed Use Group,
where the structure is equipped with a fire protection system.  Approved lock
box containers shall be installed in the location that is designated by the
Fire Department.  The key box shall be of an approved type and shall contain
keys to gain access as required.
   903.4.2 Alarms.
      Approved visual devices shall be connected to every automatic sprinkler
system. Such sprinkler water-flow alarm devices shall be activated by water
flow equivalent to the flow of a single sprinkler of the smallest orifice size
installed in the system.  Alarm devices shall be provided on the exterior of
the building in an approved location.  The visual device shall be a white
strobe light.  Where a fire alarm system is installed, actuation of the
automatic sprinkler system shall actuate the building fire alarm system.
   (B)   The limits or restrictions referred to in certain sections of the
International Fire Code are hereby established as follows:
   3204.3.1.1 Locations (outdoor storage).
      Storage of flammable cryogenic fluids in stationary containers outside of
buildings is prohibited with the limits established by the Zoning Ordinance of
the local governmental unit wherein the storage occurs or is proposed.
   3308.2.2.1 Proximate audience displays - where allowed.
      Proximate audience displays are allowed in Group A-1 occupancies only. 
Such occupancy shall be equipped throughout with an automatic fire sprinkler
system designed and installed in accordance with §
903.3.1.1 of this code.
   3404.2.9.5.1 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited.
      Storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of
buildings is prohibited within the limits established by the Zoning Ordinance
of the local governmental unit wherein the storage occurs or is proposed.
   3406.2.4.4 Locations where above-ground tanks are prohibited. 
      The storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks is prohibited
within the limits established by the Zoning Ordinance of the local governmental
unit wherein the storage occurs or is proposed.
   3804.2 Maximum capacity within established limits. 
      Within the limits established by the Zoning Ordinance of the local
governmental unit wherein the storage occurs or is proposed restricting the
storage of liquefied petroleum gas for the protection of heavily populated or
congested areas, the aggregate capacity of any one installation shall not
exceed a water capacity of 2,000 gallons (7570L).
(Ord. 01-02-06, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 91.03  DELETION AND SUBSTITUTION, APPEAL BOARD.
   Appendix A regarding the Appeal Board is deleted and the following shall be
substituted:  The Board of Appeals for this International Fire Code shall be
the state authorized Construction Code Board of Appeals of Grand Traverse
County created under the State Construction Code or its successor and one
additional person appointed by the Board of Commissioners in the same manner as
other members of the Construction Code Board of Appeals and who has experience
in design, installation and operation of fire suppression systems.
(Ord. 01-02-06, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 91.04  DELETION AND SUBSTITUTION, ELECTRICAL CODE.
   Any reference to the International Electrical Code appearing in the
International Fire Code is deleted and such references therein shall be
substituted with the State of Michigan Electrical Code.
(Ord. 01-02-06, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 91.05  FEE SCHEDULE.
   The Fire Department shall, at each new code cycle, review and establish a
fee schedule for the implementation and enforcement of this chapter.  The fee
structure shall then be submitted for approval by the Village Council.  The fee
schedule to implement this chapter shall be published at the time of
publication of this chapter.
(Ord. 01-02-06, passed 2-6-2006)
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.20  TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Village of
Kingsley’s Open Burning Ordinance.
(Ord. 2-08-14, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 91.21  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prohibit certain types of burning
within the village and to regulate and control certain limited types of open
burning within the village subject to restrictions as set forth in this
subchapter.
(Ord. 2-08-14, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 91.22  PROHIBITED OPEN BURNING.
   The following types of open burning are expressly prohibited within the
village. No person or entity shall bur or cause to be burned outside the
following types of materials unless otherwise permitted under §
91.23.
   (A)   The open burning of leaves, dead grass, grass clippings, hedge
clippings, weeds and similar types of materials.
   (B)   The open burning of trees, logs, tree trimmings, branches, brush and
similar types of materials unless burned in a bonfire regulated and permitted
under §
91.23.
   (C)   The open burning of building debris or construction debris by a
general contractor, sub-contractor, property owner, or their agents or
employees, or by any other person or entity.
   (D)   The open burning of rubbish, refuse, trash, waste paper, garbage, or
other types of waste materials.
   (E)   The open burning of any materials by a general contractor, sub-
contractor, property owner, their agents or employees, or by any other person
or entity for the purpose of melting, thawing or warming the sand or ground
around, at or near a construction site. The use of a propane tank/flame shall
be permitted for such melting, thawing or warming purposes.
   (F)   The open burning of all other materials not permitted under §
91.23.
(Ord. 2-08-14, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 91.23  PERMITTED OPEN BURNING; RESTRICTIONS; PERMITS; FEES.
   The following types of open burning shall be permitted within the village
subject to the restrictions set forth herein.
   (A)   Open burning within an outside grill or barbeque for the expressly
limited purpose of food preparation.
   (B)   Open burning of bonfires for recreational purposes only, provided that
any such bonfire shall be no more than three feet in diameter and shall be at
least 20 feet from all property lines and structures. Bonfires shall be
permitted under the direct and constant supervision and control of a person at
east 18 years of age.
   (C)   Open burning permitted under this section shall not result in the
emitting of burning sparks or burning embers upon adjoining, adjacent,
neighboring or nearby properties or premises.
   (D)   All open burning permitted under this section shall be conducted and
performed in such a manner so as not to endanger the health, safety or welfare
of the public or endanger public or private property.
(Ord. 2-08-14, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 91.24  COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL LAW.
   Notwithstanding anything set forth in this subchapter, all open burning
permitted under the terms and provisions of this subchapter shall also be
conducted and performed in compliance with all federal and state laws,
statutes, rules and regulations applicable thereto.
(Ord. 2-08-14, passed 8-11-2014)
§ 91.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Whoever violates any provision of §§
91.20 through
91.24 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction pursuant to
Chapter 11 of the Village of Kingsley Code of Ordinances.
   (B)   The Village of Kingsley’s Zoning Administrator and all Grand Traverse
Sheriff’s Department Officers are the officials authorized to issuem municipal
infraction violations notices for violations of §§
91.20 through
91.24.
(Ord. 2-08-14, passed 8-11-2014)
CHAPTER 92:  RIGHTS-OF-WAY, STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
   
92.01   Compliance required
   
92.02   Placement of wires
   
92.03   Permit required and obstructions
   
92.04   Insurance and bonds
   
92.05   Prohibition after paving or resurfacing
   
92.06   General regulations pertaining to construction, repair, excavations and
obstructions
   
92.07   Removal of encroachment
   
92.08   Complete installation
   
92.09   Supplemental street construction, repair and maintenance regulations
   
92.10   Supplemental sidewalk construction, repair and maintenance regulations
   
92.11   Street vacation
   
92.12   Street names
   
92.13   Relocation of buildings
   
92.14   Damage by tree or bush
   
92.15   As-builts
   
92.16   Violations; cease work
§ 92.01  COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   All maintenance and repair of public streets, sidewalks, alleys, and other
public ways, and the placement and maintenance of aerial or above ground wires,
cable, lines, conduit and utility poles in, on or across the streets or public
rights-of-way of the village, shall be under the supervision and control of the
Village Council.  No person shall excavate, cut or otherwise work within, cause
any damage to, place any article in, or obstruct any street or public right-of-
way in the village, except pursuant to a permit issued as provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 92.02  PLACEMENT OF WIRES.
   Unless exceptions have been granted by the Village Council, upon
recommendation of the Village Engineer, all new or replacement distribution
lines for electricity, telephone, television, or similar services distributed
by wire or cable shall be placed entirely underground throughout the area.
Electrical distribution lines shall be defined in accordance with the rules and
regulations of the Michigan Public Service Commission.  Such conduits or cables
shall be placed within private easements provided to such service companies by
the proprietor, or within dedicated public ways.  All such facilities placed in
public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground
utilities.  All such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with
standards approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission.  Private
easements for underground utilities shall be shown on the site plan.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.03  PERMITS, APPLICATIONS, FEES AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Except for work performed under a contract with the village, no work
shall take place in a public right-of-way or street without a permit issued by
the Village of Kingsley Street Administrator.  All work permitted in the public
right-of-way or street is subject to the following conditions: 
      (1)   No zoning permit for construction or alteration of any structure
requiring utility lines shall be issued permits required under this chapter for
such utility work unless full compliance is adhered to as contained herein.
      (2)   All work shall be performed in such a fashion so as to minimize
inconvenience to pedestrian and vehicular traffic and to protect the public
health and safety. The Village Street Administrator may limit construction
times, may require changes in precautionary measures and may otherwise impose
reasonable requirements to enhance public health and safety and to enhance
pedestrian and vehicular traffic flow. However, the responsibility for the
public health and safety shall lie solely with the person(s) performing the
work pursuant to any permit.  No dirt or other material shall be placed on
sidewalks or roadways.
      (3)   All facilities, both below ground and above ground, shall be
constructed, installed and located only as permitted by the Street
Administrator.  If at any time the position of the utility lines or other
facilities interfere with any work the village plans to perform or allow to be
performed in, on or over the street or public right-of-way, it shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the utility lines or other facilities, at that
owner's sole expense, to remove or relocate the lines or other facilities to a
location satisfactory to the village. 
      (4)   Persons performing the work shall obtain and maintain any other
permits or approvals that may be required by other local, state or federal
agencies and/or utilities. 
      (5)   When the work is fully completed, the street or public right-of-way
shall be restored to the condition it was in prior to that work.
      (6)   Anyone doing work in a street or right-of-way pursuant to a permit
shall hold the village (which, for purposes of this requirement, includes its
officers and employees) harmless from, indemnify the village for and defend the
village (with legal counsel reasonably acceptable to the village) against any
pending or threatened claim, cause of action, administrative proceeding, award,
judgment or order, for any injuries, deaths or property damage which may arise
as a result of the work done under the permit. 
      (7)   The Village of Kingsley, its employees, and assigns shall not be
held liable or responsible for the placement of any fencing, landscaping, or
other item within a public right-of-way or road owned by or within the
jurisdiction of the Village of Kingsley. No person, firm, agent, or other
entity shall place fencing, landscaping, or any other non-vegetative
obstruction or item within a public right-of-way or road owned by or within the
jurisdiction of the Village of Kingsley without first obtaining a permit from
the village.  The village may require that any fence, landscaping, or other
item located within a public road right-of-way or road owned by or within the
jurisdiction of the Village of Kingsley be removed at any time (regardless of
whether a permit or approval for such items was given by the Village of
Kingsley) if the Village of Kingsley determines that such item constitutes a
traffic hazard, has not been maintained, or is aesthetically offensive.
   (B)   (1)    Permits authorized by this chapter shall be obtained by making
application to the Village of Kingsley Street Administrator.
      (2)   An applicant for a permit for construction, repair excavation,
obstruction, or use of any street, sidewalk, curb, alley, or other public way
shall furnish to the Village Clerk or Village of Kingsley Street Administrator
a signed application setting forth the location of the activities, the purpose
and extent thereof, the location of the construction, excavation, obstruction,
or repair, the duration of the activities, the name of the person responsible
for performing the work, and the other information as the Street Administrator
or Village Clerk may request.
      (3)   The Street Administrator or Village Clerk may cause the matter to
be investigated, and if satisfied that the work or other activity is reasonable
and necessary, shall give written approval to the application.  Reasonable
conditions may be placed on the permit, and the permit shall be issued only
upon full compliance with any such conditions.
      (4)   From time-to-time, the Village Council may establish a fee for the
permit by resolution.
   (C)   (1)   A person, firm, corporation, or any other entity shall not place
or deposit, or cause to be placed or deposited, snow, ice, slush, leaves, or
debris onto, into, or across any roadway or highway. This prohibition shall
include, but not be limited to, snowplowing and snow blowing.
      (2)   A person, firm, corporation, or other entity shall not remove or
place, or cause to be removed or placed, snow, ice, slush, leaves, or debris
onto, into, or across a roadway or highway or the shoulder of the roadway or
highway in a manner which interferes with traffic or obstructs the safety
vision of the driver of a motor vehicle other than off-road vehicles. For the
purpose of this subsection, "safety vision" is defined as an unobstructed line
of sight enabling a driver to travel upon, enter, or exit a roadway or highway
in a safe manner.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04  INSURANCE AND BONDS.
   (A)   A permit applicant shall provide proof of general liability insurance
that includes the village (including its officers and employees) as an insured
or additional insured.  Such insurance shall provide coverage in an amount not
less than the following: a minimum of $1,000,000.00 for public liability and
$1,000,000.00 for property damage.  A duplicate executed copy of the original
of such certificate of insurance showing the insurance to be in place and the
premium fully paid shall be filed with the village.  Such insurance shall
provide that coverage may not be terminated or modified without at least 15
days prior written notice to the village.  Upon request of the village, copies
of the policies and all endorsements shall be filed with the village. 
   (B)   The village may require the applicant to furnish a bond in an amount
deemed adequate for the proposed activity.  In lieu of or in addition to a
bond, the village may require the applicant to furnish a deposit to cover the
expense to the village if the construction or other activities are not
performed in accordance with the permit, village ordinance, or other applicable
law.  The deposit shall be paid to the Village Clerk and will be used only for
that purpose.  Upon completion of the work, any surplus not used by the village
to correct any failures to comply with the conditions of the permit and this
chapter shall be refunded to the applicant, without interest.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.05  PROHIBITION AFTER PAVING OR RESURFACING.
   No permit to make any opening or excavation in or under a paved street shall
be granted to any person within a period of 2 years after the completion of any
paving or resurfacing unless those doing the work provide a seamless re-
surfacing of an area determined to be appropriate given the size of the paving
or resurfacing project.  The Village Council may suspend this prohibition where
a street opening is required to protect the public health or safety.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.06  GENERAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, EXCAVATIONS,
AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   (A)   Proper bracing for excavations shall be maintained to prevent the
collapse of adjoining lands.
   (B)   (1)   No injury shall be done to any pipes, cables, conduits, other
underground structures, or any aboveground utility or sign in making
excavations.
      (2)   Before making excavation in which the pipes, cables, or conduits
may be disturbed, the person making the excavation shall give reasonable notice
to the person maintaining the pipes, cables, or conduits.
   (C)   To the extent possible, provision shall be made for allowing the
passage of pedestrian and vehicular traffic past the site of the work.
   (D)   After completion of excavation, all trenches and excavations shall be
promptly backfilled and thoroughly settled by wetting and tamping, and all
excess material promptly removed from the site.
   (E)   All openings, excavations and obstructions shall be properly
barricaded and railed off, and provided with prescribed nighttime warning
lights all in a manner so as to provide protection in a manner consistent with
general industry practice or as further enhanced by direction of the Village
Manager.  All traffic control devices shall conform to the Michigan Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (F)   Each day as work progresses, and after work is finished, all streets
shall be thoroughly cleaned of excess earth and other debris resulting from the
work, at the expense of the person receiving the permit.
   (G)   No provision of this chapter shall be construed to prevent the work as
may be necessary for the preservation of life or property or for the location
of improper or unsafe conditions in any conduit or pipe, or for making
emergency repairs, provided that the person conducting the work shall apply to
the Street Administrator or Village Clerk for an appropriate permit on the
first working day after the emergency work is commenced.
   (H)   It shall be unlawful to disturb or to interfere with any barricade or
railing lawfully placed to protect a mark ending new pavement, construction,
excavation, or opening in a public street, curb, alley, sidewalk, or other
public way.
   (I)   No person shall construct, reconstruct, repair, or remove any curb,
gutter, or structure for regulating, governing, or facilitating the flow of
water, except in accordance with the line, grade, or specifications established
by the village.
   (J)   Any person receiving a permit for the work who shall fail to comply
fully with all provisions of the permit, or other village ordinances, shall be
subject to the suspension of the permit by the Village Manager or the Village
Council.  In the event of the suspension, the person shall not proceed with the
work for which the permit was issued until after the permit shall be reissued.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.07  REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENT.
   Any encroachment, obstruction or excavation in a street or public right-of-
way which was not permitted under this chapter shall be removed upon notice by
the Village Street Administrator.  If, due to a lack of knowledge who is
responsible for the encroachment, obstruction, or excavation, due to the
exigency of the circumstances, or due to a failure of a notified party to
remove it, the village undertakes its removal, the expense of doing so shall be
the responsibility of the persons or parties responsible for the encroachment,
obstruction or excavation.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 92.08  COMPLETE INSTALLATION.
   Any installation of wires, cables, lines, conduit or similar transmission
materials in the vicinity of the public right-of-way shall be completed such
that no such materials are left lying upon or over the street or public right-
of-way or placed in or upon trees or other vegetation located in the right-of-
way.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.09  SUPPLEMENTAL STREET CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR AND MAINTENANCE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to construct or repair any curb or pavement on
any public street, highway, alley, sidewalk, or other public way without having
first secured a permit from the village.
   (B)   The repair or replacement of existing streets, or extension of
streets, or construction of new streets (for example, within a new plat) by a
private party (but not the village) shall conform with all applicable County
Road Commission standards.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.10  SUPPLEMENTAL SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION, REPAIR, AND MAINTENANCE
REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person shall construct, reconstruct, repair, or remove any sidewalk
except in accordance with the line, grade, slope, and other specifications
established by the village.
   (B)   No person shall permit any sidewalk which adjoins property owned by
him or her to fall into a state of disrepair or to be unsafe.
   (C)   (1)   If a new driveway is to be constructed, or an existing driveway
relocated, the owner of the real property shall, if the proposed driveway
crosses an existing village sidewalk, cause a portion of the sidewalk to be
replaced with a new sidewalk a minimum of 16 feet (or the width of the
driveway) in length, 4 feet in width, and 6 inches in depth of concrete or
cement, unless the sidewalk already meets these specifications and is in good
condition.
      (2)   The sidewalk improvement shall occur at the same time as the
construction or relocation of the driveway and shall be in accordance with the
line, grade, slope, and other specifications established by the village.
      (3)   For new construction of a building or residence with appurtenant
driveway, the specifications of the replacement sidewalk, together with its
location and other specifications, shall be part of the land use permit issued
pursuant to the Village of Kingsley Zoning Ordinance.
   (D)   Whenever the Village Clerk shall determine that a sidewalk is in a
state of disrepair or is unsafe, notice shall be given to the owner of the
property adjoining that sidewalk as provided in §
10.15.
   (E)   If the owner fails to repair the sidewalk within 5 days after delivery
or posting of notice to repair, the owner shall be in violation of this Code.
   (F)   If a sidewalk remains out of repair for longer than 5 days after
notice has been given, the village may cause the sidewalk to be repaired, and
cause the expense of the work, plus a penalty of 10%, to be specially assessed
to the owner of the adjoining property, and charged against the lot or
premises.  In the alternative, the village may bring a civil suit to collect
the cost of repair, penalty, and cost of maintaining the suit.
   (G)   If the village causes any sidewalk to be repaired because of the
failure of the abutting owner to do so after notice as provided in division (D)
above, the following procedure shall be followed if the village determines to
levy the cost of repair as a special assessment.
      (1)   The village shall hold a public hearing to consider the special
assessment proposed to be levied against the property or properties.  Notice of
the hearing shall be given, in accordance with §
10.15, to each owner of property as indicated on the tax rolls, and in addition
to the other individuals or entities whose interest in the property is recorded
in the County Register of Deeds.  The notice shall be given at least 7 days
before the time and place set for hearing, and shall include the amount
proposed to be specially assessed against each property.
      (2)   The notice of hearing shall inform all to whom notice is given that
appearance and protest at the hearing is a prerequisite to filing an appeal of
the special assessment with the Michigan Tax Tribunal.  The notice shall inform
all to whom it is given that an appearance may be made in person, or through an
authorized representative at the meeting, or may be made in writing before the
meeting.
      (3)   The village shall hold the public hearing, and consider the
comments of the owner of property and others concerned, and shall determine and
confirm the special assessment to be levied against the property to pay for the
repairs.
      (4)   Notice of the special assessment shall be given, in the manner
prescribed in §
10.15, to the parties to whom notice of the hearing of the special assessment
was given.  The notice of special assessment shall include the amount to be
assessed, and shall state that the special assessment may be appealed by filing
a petition, in writing, with the Michigan Tax Tribunal within 30 days after the
special assessment was confirmed by the Village Council.
   (H)   Any person who causes damage to any sidewalk in the village shall,
within 5 days notice from the village, repair the damage to the satisfaction of
the village.  Failure to so repair the damage shall be a violation of this
chapter.  If the damage remains unrepaired for 5 days after notice is given,
then the village may repair the damage, and bring a civil suit against the
person causing the damage to recover the expenses of repair, a penalty of 10%,
and cost of bringing suit.
   (I)   No person shall, by activities including but not limited to plowing
private driveways, parking lots, and sidewalks, place snow, ice, slush, leaves
or debris onto, into, or across any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public
way.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.11  STREET VACATION.
   (A)   When the Council considers it advisable to vacate, discontinue, or
abolish a street, alley, or other public way, or part of a street, alley, or
other public way, it shall by resolution declare its intent and appoint a time
not less than 4 weeks after the date of the resolution, when it shall meet and
hear objections to the resolution.  Notice of the meeting, with a copy of the
resolution, shall be given in the manner prescribed by the Open Meetings Act,
as amended or replaced.  An objection to the proposed action of the Council may
be filed with the Clerk in writing, and if an objection is filed, the highway,
street, lane, alley, or public ground, or part of a highway, street, lane,
alley, or public ground, shall not be vacated or discontinued, except by a vote
of 2/3 of the members of the Council.
   (B)   Vacated portions of streets and alleys shall be shown on the village
street map and/or applicable plat.  The vacating of a street, alley, or other
public way shall be done by resolution, which resolution shall amend the street
map and/or plat.
   (C)   Every resolution or ordinance discontinuing or vacating any street,
lane, alley, or public ground shall also be recorded in a book of street
records and the record shall be prima facie evidence of all matters therein set
forth.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 92.12  STREET NAMES.
   All streets shall be known and designated by the names applied thereto,
respectively, on the map of the village, and plats in reference thereto, filed
with the Village Clerk, which map and plats are hereby adopted and made a part
hereof.  The naming of any new street or the changing of a name of any street
shall be done by resolution, which resolution shall amend the map and/or plat.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 92.13  RELOCATION OF BUILDINGS.
   (A)   No person shall move or cause to be moved or aid in moving any
building upon or across any street, alley, or other public place without first
obtaining a written permit from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The permit shall require that the building be in continuous movement,
without interruption as long as the building is upon the street or alley,
except in cases of emergency.
   (C)   The permit shall allow movement of the building only upon a particular
route approved by the Village Clerk, and during particular times approved by
the Village Clerk.
   (D)   The person responsible for moving the building shall make appropriate
arrangements to avoid damage to utilities.
   (E)   A bond shall be furnished to the village in an amount not less than
$5,000 as security for any damage to any public property which may result
directly or indirectly from moving the building.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)  Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.14  DAMAGE BY TREE OR BUSH.
   (A)   When in the judgment of the Village President the roots of any tree or
bush are causing damage to any sewer, sidewalk, pavement, or other public
property, the same may be declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   Notice shall be given to the property owner as provided in §
10.15.
   (C)   The notice will set a time for hearing at the next regular Village
Council meeting which is at least 30 days from the giving or posting of notice.
   (D)   If, at the hearing before the Village Council, the Council determines
that a public nuisance exists, the owner shall then be given 14 days in which
to remove the tree or bush and to repair, or pay for the repair of, the public
property damaged.
   (E)   If the owner fails to remove the tree or bush within 14 days, then the
owner shall be deemed to have committed a nuisance, and the village may abate
the nuisance.
   (F)   In addition to the fines and penalties as may be assessed against the
property owner for committing a nuisance, the village may recover the cost of
abating the nuisance and repairing damage caused by the nuisance in a civil
action against the property owner, or by any other means permitted by law.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 92.15  AS-BUILTS.
   Upon the completion of any work in any street or right-of-way, the person(s)
performing such work shall file with the village detailed, as-built drawings
showing what was installed in what location, what materials were used in
restoration and such other information as may be required by the Village
Manager.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)
§ 92.16  VIOLATIONS; CEASE WORK.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, trust, partnership, or other legal
entity which violates or refuses to comply with any provision of this chapter
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and shall be subject to
fines, costs, and other relief as provided for in Title I,
Chapter 11 of the Codified Ordinances of the Village of Kingsley.
   (B)   In addition to any other penalties or remedies available, the village
is authorized and empowered to direct the property owner to remove or otherwise
abate the nuisance.  If such notice is given, it shall be in writing, addressed
to the property owner as it appears on the latest ad valorem property tax
assessment roll, or current owner if such is different and known to the village
and be mailed via first class or posted at the property in violation, and shall
inform the property owner of the following:
      (1)   The nature of the violation/nuisance.
      (2)   The time in which the violation/nuisance must be abated.
   (C)   Upon failure, neglect or refusal of any property owner to comply with
the provisions of this chapter, the Village or its authorized contractor, or
other designee, is authorized and empowered to enter the property owner's
property to abate the nuisance, or to provide and to make payment for the
abatement of the nuisance maintained.
   (D)   When the village abates a nuisance as provided herein, the cost of any
abatement, including legal expenses and the authorized administrative fee will
be billed to the property owner.  The cost and fee will be a debt of the
property owner to the village.
   (E)   The failure to receive the notice as provided for in division (B) is
not a defense to any action brought by a member of the public for injury or by
the village to collect the costs of abatement or impose penalties or other fees
authorized by this chapter.
   (F)   The Village Manager may suspend or revoke any permit and order any
permitted work to cease by serving notice of such action and the reason
therefore. The Village Manager may also order the permittee to remove or
correct work that threatens the health, welfare or safety.  If a permittee
fails to remove or correct the work, the village may remove or correct the same
and the permittee shall be responsible for all costs and expenses the village
incurs to do so.  This remedy shall be in addition to all remedies available to
the village under this chapter, at law or in equity.
(Ord. 02 10-09, passed 10-12-2009)
CHAPTER 93:  PUBLIC NUISANCES
Section
   
93.01   Generally
   
93.02   Animals
   
93.03   Dismantled or inoperable motor vehicles
   
93.04   Handbills, stickers, posters, and the like
   
93.05   Undesirable trees and shrubs
   
93.06   Solicitation of contributions
   
93.07   Solicitation; generally
   
93.08   Refrigerators
   
93.09   Antennas
   
93.10   Junk prohibited
   
93.11   Noise prohibited
   
93.12   Free-standing outdoor furnaces designed for structure heat
   
93.13   Garage sales prohibited
   
93.14    Temporary repair materials
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01  GENERALLY.
   (A)   Whatever annoys, injures, or endangers the safety, health, comfort,
and convenience of the public; offends public decency; interferes with or
obstructs any public place, street, highway, stream, or public utility in the
village; or in any way renders the public insecure in life or property, is
hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
   (B)   Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall commit, create, or maintain any public nuisance.
   (D)   (1)   The Village President may enforce the provisions of this chapter
by any method, or combination of methods, permitted by law.
      (2)   The village’s cost of abating any nuisance shall be collected from
the owner or occupant of the property on which the nuisance was committed,
created, or maintained, in a civil action, and in addition, or in the
alternative, from the person responsible for maintaining the nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 4.1)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.02  ANIMALS.
   (A)   No person shall be cruel to any animal or bird.
   (B)   No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any
outdoor and exposed public or private place where it may endanger any bird or
domestic animal.
   (C)   No person shall keep swine within the limits of the Village of
Kingsley.
   (D)   No person shall keep, maintain, care for, or assist in keeping,
maintaining, or caring for any foxes, mink, or other furbearing animals for
profit.
   (E)   No person shall keep any animal or bird which causes annoyance by
barking, howling, braying, crowing, or making other sounds common to its
species.
   (F)   No owner, caretaker, or custodian of any animal shall fail to maintain
any structure, pen, coop, or yard where any animal is kept in a clean and
sanitary condition.
   (G)   No owner, caretaker, or custodian of any animal shall fail to keep the
animal confined on his or her own premises.
   (H)   No person shall deposit, place, or throw any fatally sick or injured
animal, or improperly dispose of any dead animal or part thereof, on any public
or private place within the village limits.
   (I)   No person shall bury any dead animal or fowl, or any part thereof,
within the village limits.
   (J)   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, protect, or keep any dog
within the village limits unless the dog has been licensed in accordance with
the laws of the State of Michigan.
   (K)   (1)   No person shall own, protect, or keep any vicious animal within
the village limits unless that animal is securely confined by a fence, leash,
or other means, to the owner’s, protector’s, or keeper’s premises.
      (2)   No person shall allow any vicious animal to leave the premises of
the owner, keeper, or protector of that animal unless the animal is securely
muzzled and led by a leash.
      (3)   Any animal shall be deemed vicious which has bitten or attacked a
person or domestic animal without molestation, or which, by its actions, gives
indication that it is likely to bite or attack any person or domestic animal
without molestation.
   (L)   No person shall own, protect, or keep any wild animal, exotic animal
not normally domesticated, or snake within the village limits.
(1992 Code, § 4.2)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.03  DISMANTLED OR INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DISMANTLED AND PARTIALLY DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLES.  Motor vehicles from
which some part or parts ordinarily a component of the motor vehicle has been
removed or is missing.
      INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLES.  Motor vehicles which, by reason of
dismantling, disrepair, accident, lack of licensing, or other cause are either
incapable of being propelled under their own power or are prevented by law from
being so propelled.
      MOTOR VEHICLE. Any wheeled vehicle which is designed to be self-
propelled.
   (B)   No person shall park or store any dismantled, partially dismantled, or
inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof outdoors on any premises within the
village limits of Kingsley for a period of more than 30 days, and no person
shall permit any dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicle
or parts thereof to remain outdoors on any premises within the village limits
for a period of more than 30 days.
   (C)   Any person who is repairing, or is about to have the motor vehicle
repaired, may obtain a nonrenewable permit from the Village Clerk to permit the
motor vehicle to remain on the premises for an additional 30 days.
(1992 Code, § 4.4)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.04  HANDBILLS, STICKERS, POSTERS, AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall distribute, throw, drop, or scatter in any street,
alley, public or private place any posters, handbills, cards, samples, or other
matter in such a manner as to result in the littering of any streets, alleys,
public or private place.
   (B)   No person shall attach any handbills, cards, papers, or advertising
material of any kind to the exterior of any motor vehicle, parked or standing
in any street, alley, or public place, nor deposit the material within the
vehicle so parked or standing.
   (C)   No person shall attach, paint, place, write, stamp, paste, or
otherwise affix any message, sign, advertisement, or other matter upon any
lamppost, utility pole, railway sign or equipment, tree, fire hydrant or box
covering it, or on any pavement, sidewalk, crosswalk, public building, or any
property or thing belonging to the village, or located in the public streets,
alleys, parks, or other public places, except for public officials doing so for
any public purpose.
   (D)   No person shall attach, paint, place, write, stamp, paste, or
otherwise affix any sign, advertisement, or other matter upon any house, wall,
fence, gate, post, or tree on private property without having first obtained
the permission of the owner or occupant of the premises.
(1992 Code, § 4.5)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.05  UNDESIRABLE TREES AND SHRUBS.
   No person shall set out or plant any tree, shrub, or bush of the species
commonly known as “poplar” in or upon any street, alley, public place, or
private premises within the village limits.
(1992 Code, § 4.6)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.06  SOLICITATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   No person shall solicit funds or secure subscriptions for the
payment thereof within the village limits without first securing a permit from
the Village Clerk.
      (2)   This section shall not apply to the charitable solicitations of any
organizations which solicit funds solely from its own members or from its own
assemblies not using public streets or public places for those purposes.
   (B)   An applicant for such a permit shall be required to truthfully provide
the following information:
      (1)   The legal name of the organization applying for the permit and its
address, and the name and address of any parent organization;
      (2)   The name, address, and telephone number of the person or persons
who will be in charge of conducting the charitable solicitations campaign;
      (3)   The method or methods to be used in conducting the charitable
solicitations campaign; and
      (4)   The period of time during which the charitable solicitations
campaign shall be conducted, including proposed dates for beginning and ending
the campaign.
   (C)   The applicant shall swear or affirm:
      (1)   That all money or other property collected, in excess of the cost
to the organization or person of any goods sold or distributed as part of the
charitable solicitations campaign, will be put to the use specified in the
application for permit;
      (2)   That no person who will be soliciting charitable contributions will
receive compensation based solely on the amount of contributions received by
that person or the organization as a whole, or on the basis of the hours spent
soliciting charitable contributions; and
      (3)   That the person or agents of the organization seeking charitable
contributions will observe all ordinances of the village.
   (D)   (1)   Upon providing the information and making the representations
described in divisions (B) and (C) above, the Village Clerk shall issue a
permit.
      (2)   All persons who are soliciting contributions shall keep a copy of
that permit in their possession and shall exhibit it to any other person upon
demand.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful to make any untruthful statement in connection
with applying for a permit for solicitation of contributions.
(1992 Code, § 4.7)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.07  SOLICITATION; GENERALLY.
   No solicitor, peddler, hawker, itinerant merchant, transient vendor of
merchandise, or other person shall go in and upon private residences or private
premises in the village for the purpose of soliciting orders for the sale of
services, goods, wares, and merchandise unless previously invited to do so by
the owner or owners, occupant or occupants of the private residences.
(1992 Code, § 4.8)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.08  REFRIGERATORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep on premises within his or
her ownership or control, or for any person to leave or abandon within the
village limits, any refrigerator, freezer, icebox, or other device having an
automatic lock on a compartment large enough to enclose a human being, other
than inside a securely locked building, unless the door of the device is
removed or securely padlocked open or shut.
   (B)   (1)   Any person so authorized by the Village President shall
immediately take steps to make safe any device so found within the village
limits.
      (2)   The cost of these steps may be recovered from the property owner
and the owner of the offending device in a civil action, in addition to any
fine levied for maintenance of a public nuisance.
(1992 Code, § 4.9)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.09  ANTENNAS.
   No person shall place, maintain, or use any radio wire or antenna, any part
of which is above or below, over, or under any public or private utility wire
or line which carries a voltage in excess of 300 volts.
(1992 Code, § 4.10)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.10  JUNK PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Purpose.  For the purpose of this section, the term JUNK shall mean
any motor vehicle, machinery, appliance, product or merchandise, scrap metal,
other scrap materials which are damaged, deteriorated, or that are in a
condition which prevents their use for the purpose for which they were
intended, and household trash.
   (B)   Prohibited acts.  No person shall place, discard, or abandon junk in a
place where it is visible from a highway, street, or other public way, or where
it is visible to an abutting landowner from that portion of the land used on a
regular basis.  No person shall place, discard, or abandon junk on public
property or the private property of another, regardless if visible from a
highway, street, or other public way, or from adjoining land.
   (C)   Enforcement.  The Grand Traverse County Sheriff and his or her
deputies are authorized as local enforcement officers of this section.
(Ord. 4 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.11  NOISE PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person within the village shall cause a noise disturbance, which is
defined as sound created by human activity with or without the use of any
device, which by reason of its volume, intensity, location, or time of day
impairs the health, welfare, or peace of another person of normal human
sensibilities.
   (B)   The following acts and activities are declared to be noise
disturbances and are prohibited.  This enumeration shall not be deemed
exclusive.
      (1)   The playing of any radio, television, phonograph, other sound
reproduction device, or musical instrument in such a manner or at such a volume
as to be sufficiently audible to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort, or repose
of persons in the vicinity.
      (2)   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or
long continued noise, shall disturb the comfort and response of any person in
the vicinity.
      (3)   The use of any motor vehicle, including motorcycles, in such a
manner as to create a disturbing noise, including, but not limited to, the
screeching of tires and the discharge into the open air of exhaust from the
engine without a sufficient muffler.
      (4)   Shouting or other raucous or boisterous behavior for an
unreasonable length of time.
   (C)   The Grand Traverse County Sheriff and his or her deputies are
authorized as local enforcement officers of this section.
   (D)   Exempted from this section is any activity defined as a “farm
operation” by the Michigan Right to Farm Act, 1980 P.A. 93, being M.C.L.A. §
286.471 et seq.
   (E)   Nothing in this section impairs or precludes a separate cause of
action provided by statute or common law for conduct prohibited herein.
(Ord. 5 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 93.99
§ 93.12  FREE-STANDING OUTDOOR FURNACES DESIGNED FOR STRUCTURE HEAT.
   (A)   Purpose. 
      (1)   It is the purpose of this section to prohibit or limit the
construction and operation of free-standing outdoor furnaces within certain
zoning districts in the village for the purpose of securing and promoting the
public health, comfort, convenience, safety, welfare and prosperity of the
village and its inhabitants. It is generally recognized that the types of fuel
used, and the scale and duration of the burning by such furnaces create noxious
and hazardous smoke, soot, fumes, odors, air pollution, particles, and other
products of combustion that can be detrimental to citizens health, and can
deprive neighboring residents of the enjoyment of their property or premises.
      (2)   The adoption of this section is based on evidence and reports
concerning the adverse health effects of wood smoke, increased air pollution,
and smoke as nuisance as found in studies and in reports made available to the
Village Council, including a report called "Smoke Gets in Your Lungs: Outdoor
Wood Boilers in New York State" and the studies contained therein.
   (B)   Definition.  For purposes of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      FREE-STANDING OUTDOOR FURNACE.  Any device or structure that:
         (a)   Is designed, intended, or used to provide heat and/or hot water
to any residence or other structure;
         (b)   Operates by the burning of wood or any other solid fuel,
including but not limited to, coal, paper pellets, and agricultural products,
or any other type of combustible material; and
         (c)   Is not located within a residential structure.
         (d)   Excluded from the definition of a FREE-STANDING OUTDOOR FURNACE
is any device which is not designed or used to heat a structure other than the
structure in which it is located.
   (C)   Prohibition. 
      (1)   It shall be unlawful to install or operate a free-standing outdoor
furnace, and to cause or permit the installation or operation of a free-
standing outdoor furnace, within the R1, R2, R3, R4, and C1 zoning districts.
      (2)   In addition to prohibiting free-standing outdoor furnace in the R1,
R2, R3, R4, and C1 zoning districts, no free-standing outdoor furnace will be
allowed in any other zoning districts (C2, Industrial) within 200 feet of the
nearest lot line in districts R1, R2, R3, R4, and C1.  Any free-standing
outdoor furnace allowed in districts C2 and Industrial will be limited to
heating a single structure.
      (3)   This prohibition shall not apply to an industrial manufacturer or
processor, located within the Industrial district of the village, which
produces wood waste products in its manufacturing or processing operation.
      (4)   This prohibition is not intended to prohibit typical fire pits and
backyard campfires in any zoning district, so long as they are safely
constructed and attended and in accordance with authorized burn regulations of
the Department of Natural Resources.
   (D)   Conflicts.  This section shall not be construed as an exemption or
exception to any other provision of any other code or ordinance of the
village.  In the event of a conflict between the provisions of this section and
any other ordinance or other provision of law, the more restrictive provision
shall apply.
   (E)   Existing uses.  This section shall not apply to any free-standing
outdoor furnace that was installed, connected, and operating as of the
effective date of this section.  However, this section shall not be deemed as
specific authorization for the use of any preexisting free-standing outdoor
furnace and shall not be deemed to bar, limit, or otherwise affect the rights
of any person to take private legal action regarding damage to nuisance caused
by the use of a free-standing outdoor furnace.
   (F)   Violations; declaration of nuisance.  Any free-standing outdoor
furnace installed or operated in violation of this section is hereby declared
to be nuisance per se.
(Ord. 5 09-06, passed 9-11-2006; Am. Ord. 01 05-07, passed 5-7-07 )  Penalty,
see §
93.99
§ 93.13  GARAGE SALES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, a GARAGE SALE is defined as the
occasional, nonbusiness, public sale of secondhand household and other goods. 
The goods must be incidental to household uses.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this section to limit the type and length of
garage sales within the village.
   (C)   Garage sales, as described in this section,  may not be conducted for
more than 4 consecutive days, nor for more than  a total of 20 days in any
calendar year.
   (D)   Signs advertising garage sales may be posted on neighboring properties
with the property owners’ permission.  Garage sale signs shall not be posted in
any public right-of-way, including attachment to public structures such as
light poles, traffic lights, street signs or utility boxes.  Garage sale signs
must be removed from public sight at the conclusion of the garage sale.  Any
signs improperly posted will be removed and discarded by the village.
(Ord. 04 09-07, passed 9-10-2007) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.14  TEMPORARY REPAIR MATERIALS.
   (A)   Plastic, canvas or vinyl tarps.  Tarps shall be allowed to protect the
interior of structures from inclement weather as a result of roof leaks, storm
damage or other natural event for a period not to exceed 180 days.  The tarp
must be kept free of holes and tears and be kept securely fastened to the roof
until the final roof repairs have been made.
   (B)   Plywood.  Plywood boards or other temporary enclosures shall be
allowed to cover windows, doors and other openings for a maximum of 180 days to
protect the interior of a structure damaged by fire, storm or other disaster.
(Ord. 1-8-11, passed 8-15-2011)
§ 93.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Any violation of
§ 93.10 is a municipal civil infraction, subject to a maximum fine of $500 and
court costs.  Commencing 30 days after receiving notice of a violation, if not
abated, each day the violation continues shall constitute a separate violation.
(Ord. 5 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
   (C)   (1)   Any violation of
§ 93.11 is a municipal civil infraction, subject to a maximum fine of $500 plus
court costs.
      (2)   Any person who refuses to abate a noise disturbance upon the demand
of an authorized local enforcement officer, interferes with the officer's
enforcement of this section, or retaliates against another who had made
complaint of a noise disturbance is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
maximum 90 days in jail and a fine of $500 plus court costs.
   (D)   Whoever violates §
93.12 is responsible for a municipal civil infraction.  Each day that a
violation exists or continues shall constitute a separate and additional
violation.
(Ord. 5 09-06, passed 9-11-2006)
CHAPTER 94: HOUSING TAX EXEMPTION
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Title
   
94.03   Preamble
   
94.04   Definitions
   
94.05   Class of housing development
   
94.06   Establishment of annual service charge
   
94.07   Limitation on the payment of annual service charge
   
94.08   Contractual effect of chapter
   
94.09   Payment of service charge
   
94.10   Duration
   
94.11   Filing of annual audit
§ 94.01  PURPOSE.
   This chapter authorizes and approves an annual service charge in lieu of
taxes for residential housing developments that:
   (A)   Serve low income or moderate income persons (as defined in the State
Housing Development Authority Act, M.C.L.A. § 125.1401 et seq., as amended, and
this chapter);
   (B)   Are financed or assisted by the authority in accordance with M.C.L.A.
§ 125.1401 et seq.;
   (C)   Are located within the village; and
   (D)   Comply with this chapter.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.02  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Kingsley Tax
Exemption Ordinance.”
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.03  PREAMBLE.
   (A)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for low income
citizens and to encourage the development of such housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with M.C.L.A. § 125.1401
et seq.  The village is authorized by M.C.L.A. § 125.1401 et seq. and this
chapter to establish or change the annual service charge to be paid in lieu of
taxes by any and all classes of housing exempt from taxation under M.C.L.A. §
125.1401 et seq. at any amount it chooses not to exceed the taxes that would be
paid but for M.C.L.A. § 125.1404 et seq.  It is further acknowledged that
housing for low income persons and families is a public necessity, and as the
village will be benefitted and improved by such housing, the encouragement of
the same by providing certain real estate tax exemptions for such housing is a
valid public purpose; further, that the continuance of the provisions of this
chapter for tax exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the
period contemplated in this chapter are essential to the determination of
economic feasibility of housing developments which are constructed and financed
in reliance on such tax exemption.
   (B)   The village acknowledges that T.J. Fife Lake Limited Dividend Housing
Association Limited Partnership (the “Sponsor” as defined in §
94.04) has offered, subject to receipt of the tax credits from the Michigan
State Housing Development Authority, to rehabilitate, own and operate a housing
development identified as “Kingsley Arms Apartments” on certain property
located on Madison Avenue within the village, which is legally described in §
94.04, to serve low income or moderate income persons, and that the sponsor has
offered to pay and will pay to the village, on account of the housing
development, an annual service charge for public services in lieu of all taxes.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT.  The State Housing Development Authority Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1401
et seq., as amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT.  The total actual collections during each calendar year
from all occupants of a housing development representing rents or occupancy
charges, which rental amounts shall be exclusive of charges for gas,
electricity, heat, or other utilities furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY.  The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CLASS.  The housing development known as Kingsley Arms Apartments for low
income or moderate income persons.
   CONTRACT RENTS.  As defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to the U.S. Housing Act of
1937, as amended.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.  A development which contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial recreational, industrial, communal, and educational facilities as
the Authority determines to improve the quality of the development as it
relates to housing for persons for low income.  For the purposes of this
chapter, HOUSING DEVELOPMENT means Kingsley Arms Apartments located on the
property legally described as: Lot 4 through Block 8, Brownson’s Addition No.
2, Village of Kingsley.
   LOW INCOME OR MODERATE INCOME PERSONS.  Shall be defined as in the Act, as
amended, from time to time, and shall include low income or moderate income
families and the elderly.
   SPONSOR.  Person(s) or entities which have applied to the Authority for the
tax credits to finance a housing development provides housing for low income
and moderate income persons and is financed or assisted by the Authority
pursuant to the Act.
   TAX CREDITS.  The low income housing tax credits made available by the
Authority to the Sponsor for rehabilitation of the housing development by the
sponsor in accordance with the Low Income Tax Housing Tax Credit Program
administered by the Authority under § 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
as amended.
   UTILITIES.  Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electric service,
which are paid by the housing development.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.05  CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   This chapter shall apply only to the housing development to the extent that
the housing development provides housing for low income and moderate income
persons and is financed or assisted by the Authority pursuant to the Act. 
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.06  ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The village acknowledges that the sponsor and the Authority have
established the economic feasibility of the housing development in reliance
upon the enactment and continuing effect of this chapter and the qualification
of the housing development for exemption from all property taxes and payment of
an annual service charge in lieu of taxes in an amount established in
accordance with this section.  In consideration of the sponsor’s offer to
rehabilitate, own and operate the housing development, subject to receipt of
the tax credits from the Authority, the village agrees to accept payment of an
annual service charge for public services in lieu of all ad valorem property
taxes that would otherwise be assessed to the housing development under
Michigan law.
      (1)   Effective upon the adoption of this chapter and subject to the
receipt by the village of the “Notification of Exemption” (or such other
similar notification) by the sponsor and/or the Authority, the annual service
charge shall be equal to $6,304.
      (2)   Each year thereafter, the annual service charge to be paid by the
sponsor to the village, as stated in division (A)(1) of this section, shall
increase 2%.  Assuming the housing development is exempt from taxes and subject
to the annual service charge in lieu of taxes beginning in the year 2007, the
amounts due under the terms of this chapter will be as follows:
Year of PILOT Calendar Year Annual Service Charge 2% Annual Increase
Year of PILOT Calendar Year Annual Service Charge 2% Annual Increase
1             2007          $6,304.00             $126.08
2             2008          $6,430.08             $128.60
3             2009          $6,558.68             $131.17
4             2010          $6,689.86             $133.80
5             2011          $6,823.65             $136.47
6             2012          $6,960.13             $139.20
7             2013          $7,099.33             $141.99
8             2014          $7,241.31             $144.83
9             2015          $7,386.14             $147.72
10            2016          $7,533.86             $150.68
11            2017          $7,684.54             $153.69
12            2018          $7,838.23             $156.76
13            2019          $7,995.00             $159.90
14            2020          $8,154.90             $163.10
15            2021          $8,317.99             $166.36
16            2022          $8,484.35             $169.69
17            2023          $8,654.04             $173.08
18            2024          $8,827.12             $176.54
 
   (B)   The housing development, and the property on which it shall be
constructed, shall be exempt from all property taxes from and after the
commencement of rehabilitation of the housing development by the sponsor under
the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.07  LIMITATION ON THE PAYMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   Notwithstanding §
94.06, if any portion of the housing development is occupied by other than low
income and moderate income persons, the service charge in lieu of taxes to be
paid each year for those units within the housing development shall be equal to
the full amount of the taxes that would be paid on those units of the housing
development if the housing development were not tax exempt.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.08  CONTRACTUAL EFFECT OF CHAPTER.
   Notwithstanding M.C.L.A. § 125.1415a(5) of the Act to the contrary, and
subject to the terms of this chapter including, but not limited to §
94.11 herein, this chapter constitutes a contract between the village and the
sponsor to provide an exemption from ad valorem  property taxes and to accept
the payment of an annual service charge in lieu of such taxes, as previously
described in this chapter.  It is expressly recognized that the Authority is a
third party beneficiary to this chapter.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.09  PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes shall be payable to the village in the
same manner as ad valorem property taxes are payable, except that the annual
payment shall be paid on or before March 1 of each year for the previous
calendar year.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.10  DURATION.
   (A)   Subject to division (B), below, this chapter shall remain in effect
and shall not terminate for a maximum term of 18 years and so long as the
housing development remains subject to income and rent restrictions pursuant to
§ 42 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
   (B)   This chapter shall automatically terminate if rehabilitation of the
housing development (a) does not commence within 2 years from the effective
date of this chapter, or (b) is not completed within 1 year of commencement of
rehabilitation.  For purposes of this section, “completed” means the issuance
of a certificate of occupancy by the Village Building and/or Zoning Official.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
§ 94.11  FILING OF ANNUAL AUDIT.
   The sponsor, or its successor, shall file a copy of any and all audits 
required to be provided to the federal government, the State of Michigan, and/
or the Authority simultaneously with the village.  The audit shall include
detail with respect to occupancy of the housing development, annual shelter
rents received from the housing development, and the cost for utilities during
the audit period.
(Ord. 05 10-07, passed 10-1-2007)
CHAPTER 95:  MUNICIPAL TREES AND SHRUBS
Section
   
95.01   Title
   
95.02   Purpose; intent
   
95.03   Applicability; jurisdiction
   
95.04   Definitions
   
95.05   Person or department responsible for trees
   
95.06   Tree advocacy group
   
95.07   Authority to enforce
   
95.08   Authority to accept monies
   
95.09   Permits
   
95.10   Standards and specifications manual
   
95.11   Tree protection; preservation
   
95.12   Obstruction
   
95.13   Nuisance and condemnation of trees on public and private property
   
95.14   Appeals
   
95.15   Interference
   
95.16   Emergencies
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the municipal tree and shrub chapter for the
Village of Kingsley, Grand Traverses County, State of Michigan.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.02  PURPOSE; INTENT.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the protection, management,
removal, and replacement of trees on public property and public right-of-way. 
Proper planning and care will help insure that these assets will continue to
thrive and benefit the citizens of the village in the future.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.03  APPLICABILITY; JURISDICTION.
   The Village Manager, or designee, shall have exclusive jurisdiction,
authority, control, supervision and direction over all trees, plants, shrubs,
and grassy areas planted or growing in or upon the public right of ways and
public places of the village and the planting, removal, care, maintenance and
protection thereof, and he or she may promulgate and adopt rules and
regulations to effectuate the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.04  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANOPY.  The part of the crown composed of leaves and small twigs.
   DISEASED TREE.  Any tree with a combination of structural defect and/or a
health condition which makes it subject to a high probability of failure.
   LAWN EXTENSION.  That part of a street or highway, not covered by sidewalk
or other paving, lying between the property line and that portion of the street
or highway usually used for vehicular traffic.
   LINE CLEARANCE.  The regulated trimming and the removal of trees near, under
and along utility lines to maintain reliable distribution of electricity.
   MUNICIPAL FORESTER OR DESIGNEE.  Someone who possesses general knowledge of
specific trees and a broader knowledge base on the overall roles trees play in
the community setting.
   PARK.  All public parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the
municipality, or to which the public has free access.
   PARK TREE.  Trees, shrubs, bushes and all other woody vegetation in public
parks having individual names, and all areas owned by the municipality, or to
which the public has free access as a park.
   PUBLIC PLACE.  Any public street, public highway, public park or any
property owned or held by the municipality within the boundaries of the
municipality.
   PUBLIC RIGHT OF WAY (ROW).  Land owned and maintained by the municipality. 
Land dedicated for streets sidewalks, utilities, and similar public uses such
as parks, lawn extensions and the like.
   PUBLIC TREE.  Any tree located on property owned or controlled by the
municipality.
   SHRUB.  A low, small plant, the branches of which grow directly from the
earth without any supporting trunk, or stem.  Any tree with a potential growth
of less than 15 feet shall be considered a shrub.
   STREET TREE.  Trees, shrubs, bushes, and all other woody vegetation on land
lying between property lines on either side of all streets, avenues, or ways
within the municipality.
   TREE.  A woody perennial plant, usually having one dominant vertical trunk
and capable of achieving a height greater than 15 feet.
   TREE ADVOCACY GROUP.  A group of people designated by ordinance to advise a
governing body on matters related to an urban and community forestry program.
   UTILITY RIGHT OF WAY.  Public right of way land where utilities such as gas,
electric, water, and the like are maintained.
(Ord. 01 -3-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.05  PERSON OR DEPARTMENT RESPONSIBLE FOR TREES.
   The Village Manager, or designee, as municipal forester, shall have
authority over any and all trees on public right-of-ways or any public property
in the Village of Kingsley.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.06  TREE ADVOCACY GROUP.
   (A)   Creation and establishment.  Village Council has the authority to
create a tree advocacy group for the Village of Kingsley on an as needed basis,
which shall consist of 5 members, citizens and residents of this municipality,
who shall be appointed by the Village President with the approval of the
Council.  The members shall come from different interest groups including
homeowners, tree professionals, street department, and municipal government.
   (B)   Terms of office.  The term of the 5 persons to be appointed by the
Village President shall be set by Council.  In the event that a vacancy shall
occur during the term of any member, his/her successor shall be appointed for
the unexpired portion of the term.
   (C)   Compensation.  Members of tree advocacy group shall serve without
compensation.
   (D)   Duties and responsibilities.
      (1)   It shall be the responsibility of the tree advocacy group to advise
and assist in the study, investigation, counsel, development and administration
of a written plan for the care, preservation, pruning, planting, replanting,
removal or disposition of trees and shrubs in parks, along streets, and in
other municipal areas.  Such plan could be presented annually to the Village
Council for possible acceptance and approval to constitute the official
comprehensive community tree plan if so desired by the Village Manager, or
designee.
      (2)   The tree advocacy group shall promote and supervise the
establishment of a tree inventory for street and park trees. The inventory
shall be updated with the results of ground inspections every 3 years.
      (3)   The tree advocacy group, when requested by the Village Council,
shall consider, investigate, make finding, report and recommend upon any
special matter or question coming within the scope of its work.
      (4)   If called on to do so, additional duties of the tree advocacy group
may include coordinating annual Arbor Day celebrations; coordinating tree
plantings, volunteer efforts to install or maintain plantings or other
beautification projects on public land with citizens groups; provide a means to
involve the public in community forestry management plan; and promote new and
existing tree programs by motivating both local government and the public to
support community forestry management.
   (E)   Operation.  The tree advocacy group shall choose its own officers, and
keep a journal of its proceedings.  A majority of the members shall be a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (F)   Meetings.  The tree advocacy group shall meet as needed, and in
addition, meetings can be called by the chairperson or by the Village
President.
   (G)   Quorum.  A majority of the members shall constitute a quorum and any
actions of the tree advocacy group may be taken by a majority of the members
present at the meeting at which the action is taken. 
   (H)   Administrative support staff.  Staff support to the tree advocacy
group shall be appointed by the Municipal Administrator, or designee.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.07  AUTHORITY TO ENFORCE.
   The Department of Public Works, under the direction of the Village Manager,
or designee, shall be responsible for enforcing the provisions of this
chapter.  The Director of Public Works, or designee, shall have the authority
to perform site inspections and order the correction of unsafe trees on public
and private property that are a potential danger to the health and safety of
public or municipal property.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.08  AUTHORITY TO ACCEPT MONIES.
   The Clerk and Treasurer, or either of them, are hereby authorized to accept,
on behalf of the Municipality, all gifts of money for the purpose of planting
and maintaining trees.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.09  PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall plant, spray, prune, remove, cut above or below
ground, or otherwise disturb any tree on any street or municipal-owned property
without first filing an application and procuring a permit from the Village
Manager, or designee, or otherwise specified municipal authority.  The person
receiving the permit shall abide by the arboricultural specifications and
standards of practice adopted by the Village Manager, or designee.  No permit,
however, shall be required for any municipal employee doing such work in the
pursuit of their public service endeavors.  No permit shall be required to
cultivate or water public trees, shrubs or plants.
   (B)   The Village Manager, or designee, shall have the authority to require
posting of a bond adequate to fully repay the Village of Kingsley for any and
all costs attendant to the completion of the work under the permit.  In
addition, the contractor is required to show adequate insurance from potential
damages during the execution of the work, name the Village of Kingsley as an
additional insurance rider, and sign a hold harmless clause.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.10  STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS MANUAL.
   The Tree Standards and Specifications Manual that accompanies Ord. 01 01-09
shall contain regulations and standards for planting, maintenance, and removal
of trees, shrubs and other plants on municipally owned property.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.11  TREE PROTECTION; PRESERVATION.
   (A)   Prohibiting the mutilation of public trees.  It shall be a violation
of the provisions of this chapter for any person to abuse, destroy or mutilate
any tree, plant or shrub in a public parking strip or any other public place,
or to attach or place any rope, wire (other than one used to support a young or
broken tree), sign, poster, handbill, or other things to or on any tree growing
in a public place, or to cause or permit any wire charged with electricity to
be placed or attached to any such tree, or allow any gaseous, liquid, or solid
substance which is harmful to such tree to come in contact with their roots,
trunks, or leaves.
   (B)   Requiring protection of trees during construction, new developments,
sidewalk repair, utility work below ground.  Trees of desirable species and
good health shall be protected as much as possible from damage during
construction, sidewalk repair, utilities work below ground, and other similar
activities. The zone of protection shall include the ground beneath the canopy
and the drip-line of the tree.  In new subdivisions or when the new development
of commercial property occurs, the Village Manager, or designee, shall review
landscaping plans and may require street trees to be planted in any of the
streets, parking lots, parks, and other public places abutting lands henceforth
developed and/or subdivided. 
   (C)   Requiring protection of trees during utility work above ground. 
Utility companies are responsible for conducting a courtesy call to the
municipal administrator, or designee, to review all upcoming utility line
clearance work to be performed within the following 4 to 6 weeks.  All utility
line clearance work will be performed based upon growth rates specific to
individual tree species and in accordance to the International Society of
Arboriculture’s Proper Pruning Techniques publication, found in Appendix C of
the Standards and Specifications Manual accompanying Ord. 01 01-09.
   (D)   Establishing standards to replace trees removed and protect endangered
trees.  Whenever any vegetation is removed by any person, including the
municipality, for the construction of any public improvement, the Director of
Public Works, whenever practicable, shall require the replanting of at least
50% of the removed diameter base with a similar tree or shrub to take the place
of those removed.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.12  OBSTRUCTION.
   If private property, a lawn extension or municipal right-of-way is not
maintained as required by this chapter, the Municipal Administrator, or
designee, may have the work done to bring the property lawn extension or
municipal right-of-way into compliance.  In the case of an immediate hazard to
public safety no prior notice shall be necessary.  The actual costs of the work
needed to bring the property, lawn extension or municipal right-of-way into
compliance, plus an administration fee of $50 may be assessed to the owner in
addition to any other penalties provided by law.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.13  NUISANCE AND CONDEMNATION OF TREES ON PUBLIC AND PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   (A)   Generally.  All street trees planted in violation of, or not
maintained in strict compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the
Standards and Specifications Manual, or that are dead or dangerous are declared
to constitute a public nuisance.  The Village Manager, or designee, shall cause
written notice to be served on the property owner requiring such nuisances to
be corrected within 30 days or the cost of correction will be assessed against
the property owner.
   (B)   Dead or diseased tree removal on private property.  Upon the discovery
of any destructive or communicable disease or other pestilence which endangers
the growth or health of trees, or threatens to spread disease or insect
infestations, the Village Manager, or designee, shall at once cause written
notice to be served upon the owner of the property upon which such diseased or
infested tree is situated, and the notice shall require such property owner to
eradicate, remove, or otherwise control such condition within reasonable time
to be specified in such notice.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.14  APPEALS.
   Any person deciding to appeal a decision made by the Village Manager, or
designee, shall be granted a meeting with the person or department responsible
trees to discuss the issue.  The person or department responsible for trees
must be notified of the desire to meet within 14 days from when the decision
was publicized.  If a discussion satisfying both parties cannot be met, a
written appeal may be submitted to the Village Council within 14 days
thereafter.  The decision of the Village Council shall be final.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.15  INTERFERENCE.
   No person shall prevent, delay, or interfere with the Village Manager or
designee, in the execution or enforcement of the chapter.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.16  EMERGENCIES.
   In case of emergencies involving, but not limited to, tornadoes, windstorms,
floods, freezes, or other natural disasters, the requirements of this chapter
may be waived by the Village President or emergency manager.  This section
shall not be used to circumvent the tree chapter.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
§ 95.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is responsible for a
Municipal civil infraction pursuant to
Chapter 11 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 01 03-09, passed 3-9-2009; Am. Ord. 01 01-09, passed 3-9-2009)
TITLE XI:  BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
111.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110:  CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
110.01   Short title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Nonexclusive franchises
   
110.04   Franchise binding
   
110.05   Franchise required
   
110.06   Franchise duration
   
110.07   Franchise fee
   
110.08   Bi-annual subscriber review
   
110.09   Cherry Capital Cable Council
   
110.10   Franchise transfer
   
110.11   Bonds and insurance
   
110.12   Abandonment
   
110.13   Authorization for use of right-of-ways
   
110.14   Construction; approval required
   
110.15   Joint pole attachments
   
110.16   Underground facilities
   
110.17   Construction standards; safety
   
110.18   Street openings; barricades and warning lights
   
110.19   Relocation of facilities
   
110.20   Costs for work by governmental entity
   
110.21   Regulation of service rates
   
110.22   Customer service standards
   
110.23   Subscriber contracts
   
110.24   Refund policy
   
110.25   Franchise enforcement
§ 110.01  SHORT TITLE.
   This franchise ordinance shall be known as the “Cable Television Ordinance”
or this chapter.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICABLE LAW.  Any law, statute, charter, ordinance, rule, regulation,
code, license, certificate, franchise, permit, writ, ruling, award, executive
order, directive, requirement, injunction (whether temporary, preliminary or
permanent), judgment, decree or other order issued, executed, entered or deemed
applicable by any governmental authority.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE.  Any service tier which includes the retransmission of
local television broadcast signals. BASIC CABLE SERVICE as defined herein shall
be consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 543(b)(7), as it may be amended from time to
time.
   CABLE SERVICE or SERVICE.  The 1-way transmission to subscribers of video
programming or  other programming service, and subscriber interaction, if any,
which is required for the selection or use of such video programming or other
programming service. CABLE SERVICE as defined herein shall be consistent with
the definition set forth in 47 U.S.C. § 522(6), as it may be amended from time
to time.
   CABLE SYSTEM or SYSTEM.  A facility, consisting of a set of closed
transmission paths and associated signal generation, reception, and control
equipment that is designed to provide CABLE SERVICE which includes video
programming and which is provided to multiple subscribers within a community,
but such term does not include:
      (1)   A facility that serves only to retransmit the television signals of
1 or more television broadcast stations;
      (2)   A facility that serves subscribers without using any public right-
of-way;
      (3)   A facility of common carrier which is subject, in whole or in part,
to the provisions of 47 U.S.C. § 201 et seq., except that such facility shall
be considered a cable system (other than for purposes of 47 U.S.C. § 541(c)) to
the extent such facility is used in the transmission of video programming
directly to subscribers, unless the extent of such use is solely to provide
interactive on-demand services;
      (4)   An open video system that complies with 47 U.S.C. § 653; or
      (5)   Any facilities of any electric utility used solely for operating
its electric utility systems.
   CHANNEL or CABLE CHANNEL.  A portion of the electromagnetic frequency
spectrum which is used in a cable system and which is capable of delivering a
television channel.
   CABLE COUNCIL.  The Cherry Capital Cable Council or its successors or
delegations, including representatives of the member municipalities as may
exist pursuant the Intergovernmental Agreement for Coordinated Regulation of
Cable Television.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission and any legally appointed,
designated or elected agent or successor.
   FRANCHISE FEE.  Any tax, fee, or assessment of any kind imposed by the
village or other governmental entity on the grantee or subscriber, or both,
solely because of their status as such. It does not include any tax, fee, or
assessment of general applicability (including any such tax, fee, or assessment
imposed on both utilities and cable operators or their services but not
including a tax, fee, or assessment which is discriminatory against grantees or
cable subscribers); capital costs which are required by the franchise to be
incurred by grantee for public, educational, or governmental access facilities;
requirements or charges incidental to the awarding or enforcing of the
franchise, including payments for bonds, security funds, letters of credit,
insurance, indemnification, penalties, or liquidated damages; or any fee
imposed under Title 17 of the United States Code.
   GRANTEE.  A person who, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter,
executes a franchise with the village for the nonexclusive privilege to erect,
construct, operate, maintain, or dismantle a cable system in the village.
   GROSS REVENUE.  Any and all revenue derived by the grantee from the
operation of its cable system to provide cable service within the village
including, but not limited to all cable service fees; franchise fees (unless
otherwise indicated by the village in writing); late fees, returned check fees;
installation and reconnection fees; upgrade and downgrade fees; local, state
and national advertising revenue; home shopping commissions; equipment rental
fees; guide revenue; and production charges. GROSS REVENUES shall include cable
modem service only to the extent such service is considered a cable service
under applicable law. The term GROSS REVENUE shall not include bad debts or any
taxes or fees on services furnished by the grantee imposed upon subscribers by
any municipality, state or other governmental unit, including the FCC
regulatory fee, credits, refunds and any amounts collected from subscribers for
deposits, PEG fees or PEG support. The village and grantee acknowledge and
agree that the grantee will maintain its books and records in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).
   INSTALLATION.  The connection of the cable system from feeder cable to the
point of connection including standard installations and custom installations
with the subscriber converter or other terminal equipment.
   INTERNET.  The international computer network of both federal and non-
federal interoperable packet switched data networks, known as the internet.
Consistent with 47 U.S.C. § 230(e)(1), as may from time to time be amended.
   MEMBER MUNICIPALITIES.  Those municipalities that are parties to a then
valid and existing Intergovernmental Agreement for Coordinated Regulation of
Cable Television which include Acme Township, Bingham Township, Blair Township,
East Bay Township, Elmwood Township, Garfield Township, Green Lake Township,
Village of Kingsley, Long Lake Township, Paradise Township, Peninsula Township,
and Traverse City, Michigan.
   NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS.  Those hours during which most similar businesses in
the village are open to serve subscribers. In all cases, NORMAL BUSINESS HOURS
must include some evening hours, at least 1 night per week and/or some weekend
hours.
   NORMAL OPERATING CONDITIONS.  Those service conditions which are within the
control of the grantee. Those conditions which are not within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, natural disasters, civil
disturbances, power outages, telephone network outages, and severe or unusual
weather conditions. Those conditions which are ordinarily within the control of
the grantee include, but are not limited to, special promotions, pay-per-view
events, rate increases, regular peak or seasonal demand periods, and
maintenance or upgrade of the cable system.
   OTHER PROGRAMMING SERVICE.  Information that a grantee makes available to
all subscribers generally.
   PEG.  Public, educational and governmental.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY or RIGHTS-OF-WAY.  The area on, below, or above any real
property in the village in which the village has an interest including, but not
limited to any street, road, highway, alley, sidewalk, parkway, park, skyway,
or any other place, area, or real property owned by or under the control of the
village, including other dedicated rights-of-way for travel purposes and
utility easements.
   SERVICE AREA or FRANCHISE AREA.  The geographic boundaries of the village
and shall include any additions and/or deletions thereto by annexation or other
legal means.
   SERVICE INTERRUPTION.  The loss of picture or sound on 1 or more cable
channels.
   STANDARD INSTALLATION.  Any residential or commercial installation which can
be completed using a drop of 125 feet or less.
   SUBSCRIBER.  Any person who lawfully receives cable service via the system.
   VIDEO PROGRAMMING.  Programming provided by, or generally considered
comparable to programming provided by a television broadcast station.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.03  NONEXCLUSIVE FRANCHISES.
   The village, upon approval of the Cable Council, may grant a nonexclusive
franchise for the occupation and use of streets, roads, and rights-of-way in
the village for the construction, operation and maintenance of a cable system.
Nothing in this chapter or in any franchise shall affect the right of the
village to grant other nonexclusive franchises for cable television purposes or
for telecommunications purposes. When considering the grant of additional
franchises, the village shall, to the maximum extent permitted by applicable
law, ensure that the overall franchise terms are not materially more favorable
nor less burdensome than those of an existing franchise cable operator in the
village.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.04  FRANCHISE BINDING.
   All provisions of this chapter and any franchise shall be binding upon the
grantee, its successors, lessees of the system, or assignees. In the event of a
conflict between this chapter and the franchise, the terms of the franchise
shall govern.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.05  FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   No cable system shall occupy or use the streets, roads, alleys, or rights-
of-way of the village and no cable operator shall operate a cable system in the
village without an executed franchise granted pursuant to this chapter.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 110.06  FRANCHISE DURATION.
   A cable television franchise may be granted for a maximum of 10 years. A
franchise may be renewed pursuant to the provisions of this chapter and
applicable laws.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.07  FRANCHISE FEE.
   (A)   During the term of a franchise, the grantee shall pay quarterly to the
village or its delegates a franchise fee in an amount equal to 5% of its
quarterly gross revenues.
   (B)   The village shall submit 30% or 1.5 of the 5% franchise fee payment
received from the grantee to the Cable Council for ongoing franchise
administration and PEG access operating support based upon approved budgets
provided by the Cable Council.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.08  BI-ANNUAL SUBSCRIBER REVIEW.
   Not less than once every 2 years, a grantee shall solicit and receive
subscriber input regarding the cable system. A synopsis of such subscriber
input shall be promptly submitted in writing to the Village Clerk and the Cable
Council.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.09  CHERRY CAPITAL CABLE COUNCIL.
   In order to ensure that the residents of the village have the benefit of
cable service and in order to distribute the costs of regulation, and
coordinate regulation and franchising, the Cable Council has been formed under
the provisions of the Urban Cooperation Act, M.C.L.A. § 124.501 et seq; MSA
5.4088(1) et seq. The village is a party to the Intergovernmental Agreement for
Coordinated Regulation of Cable Television. The village shall select a grantee,
but delegates regulating, monitoring, reporting, and complaint processes to the
Cable Council including the following functions:
   (A)   Regulate basic cable service and equipment rates of the cable service
pursuant to FCC certification and procedures.
   (B)   Review cable service rates in accordance with applicable law.
   (C)   Recommend franchise requirements.
   (D)   Act as liaison between member municipalities, the grantee, schools,
lessees of cable service, subscribers, and citizens.
   (E)   Hear and decide citizen and subscriber complaints and make
recommendations as may be set out in the local franchises.
   (F)   Advise member municipalities on laws, regulations and technical
aspects of cable television.
   (G)   Enforce the customer service requirements established by the FCC, this
chapter or any franchise issued hereunder.
   (H)   Perform such other functions as may be requested by participating
member municipalities.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.10  FRANCHISE TRANSFER.
   (A)   No sale or transfer of the franchise, or sale, transfer, or
fundamental corporate change of or in the grantee shall take place without the
prior written consent of the village which consent shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
   (B)   No such consent shall be required, however, for a transfer in trust,
by mortgage, or by other hypothecation, or by assignment of any rights, title,
or interest of the grantee in the franchise or the cable system to secure
indebtedness. The grantee shall not be required to obtain approval from the
village if the sale, transfer or assignment is to an entity controlling,
controlled by, or under common control with the grantee. However, the grantee
shall provide written notice to the village explaining such internal
reorganization.
   (C)   The grantee shall file, in addition to all documents, forms and
information required to be filed by applicable laws, either FCC Form 394 or all
contracts, agreements or other documents that constitute the proposed
transaction and all exhibits, attachments, or other documents referred to
therein which are necessary in order to understand the terms thereof. The
village shall have such time as is permitted by applicable law to review a
transfer request.
   (D)   In no event shall a sale, transfer, corporate change, or assignment of
ownership or control pursuant to this section be approved without any new
grantee becoming a signatory to the franchise and assuming all rights and
obligations thereunder, and assuming all other rights and obligations of the
transferor to the village including, but not limited to, any adequate
guarantees or other security instruments required by the village.
   (E)   The approval of any sale, transfer or assignment pursuant to this
section shall not be deemed to waive any rights of the village to subsequently
enforce noncompliance issues relating to the franchise even if such issues
predate the approval, whether known or unknown to the village.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 10.99
§ 110.11  BONDS AND INSURANCE.
   (A)   Prior to operating or constructing, a grantee shall file a bond with
the Cable Council in an amount set forth in the franchise to ensure compliance
with this chapter.
   (B)   The grantee shall pay, and by its acceptance of the franchise
expressly agrees to pay, all damages and penalties which the village may
legally be required to pay as a result of the grantee's negligence in the
construction, operation or maintenance of the system authorized herein.
However, the village shall provide prompt notice to the grantee of such a
claim, afford the grantee the opportunity to defend, settle or otherwise
resolve the claim in the grantee's discretion and assist the grantee therein in
any reasonable way, upon the request of the grantee. The grantee shall carry
and pay the cost of liability insurance in support of its undertaking, to hold
the village harmless from loss sustained on account of the negligence of the
grantee, for injury to or death of persons and injury to or destruction of
property. The amount of the insurance shall be established by the franchise.
   (C)   The grantee shall comply with the Workers' Compensation Law of
Michigan.
   (D)   Any insurance policy or bond shall contain a provision that it shall
not be terminated, cancelled or otherwise allowed to expire without first
providing 30 days written notice to the certificate holder/obligee.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.12  ABANDONMENT.
   Upon the expiration, revocation or non-renewal of any franchise granted
pursuant to this chapter, if facilities are not salvaged within a reasonable
time, title to all property shall pass to the village.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.13  AUTHORIZATION FOR USE OF RIGHT-OF-WAYS.
   A franchise granted pursuant to this chapter shall confer upon the holder
named therein the nonexclusive right to erect, install, construct, reconstruct,
replace, remove, repair, maintain and operate in, upon, under, above, across
and from the streets, easements and right-of-ways, all necessary towers, poles,
wires, cables, coaxial cables, transformers, amplifiers, underground conduits,
manholes and other television or radio conductors and fixtures for the
installation, construction, maintenance and operation of a cable system or for
the furnishing of a cable service.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.14  CONSTRUCTION; APPROVAL REQUIRED.
   Prior to the erection or installation of any towers, poles, guys, anchors,
underground conduits, manholes or fixtures for use in connection with the
installation, construction, maintenance or operation of a system under a
franchise granted pursuant to this chapter, the grantee desiring to erect or
install such facilities for use in connection with its system shall first
submit to the Village Clerk for approval, a concise description of the
facilities proposed to be erected or installed, including engineering drawings,
if required, together with a map indicating the proposed location of such
facilities. The erection or installation shall not be commenced until the same
is approved by the village. The approval shall not be unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.15  JOINT POLE ATTACHMENTS.
   Upon written request of a public utility or municipality, a grantee shall
grant it reasonable attachment space on its facilities within the right-of-way
at a reasonable rental charge. The utility shall pay costs incurred in
providing attachment space, including the costs of rearranging the grantee's
wires, cables or equipment and replacement costs if required.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.16  UNDERGROUND FACILITIES.
   In areas or portions of the village where all transmission or distribution
facilities of both public utilities providing telephone service and electric
service are underground, or are required to be underground, any grantee shall
likewise install, construct, maintain and operate its transmission and
distribution facilities in like manner underground.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.17  CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS; SAFETY.
   All construction, installation, maintenance and operation of any cable
system or of any facilities employed in connection therewith shall be in
compliance with the National Electric Safety Code as well as all other
applicable standards issued by the FCC, or other local, state or federal
regulatory agencies in relation thereto. Each system installed, constructed,
maintained or operated shall be so designed, constructed, installed, maintained
and operated as not to endanger or interfere with the safety of persons or
property.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.18  STREET OPENINGS; BARRICADES AND WARNING LIGHTS.
   Any opening or obstruction in, disturbance of or damage to a road, street,
alley, public right-of-way or public place by any person in the exercise of any
right granted pursuant to a franchise shall be properly guarded by barriers,
lights, signals and warnings so as to prevent danger to any person or vehicle
using such road, street, alley, public right-of-way or public place and shall
be promptly repaired, at the grantee's expense, all in a manner specified and
approved by the government having jurisdiction. The approval shall not be
unreasonably withheld.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.19  RELOCATION OF FACILITIES.
   A grantee or a person acting under a grantee shall, at its expense, and
without reimbursement from the village, upon request of the village relocate,
remove, temporarily disconnect, protect or support facilities in the roads,
streets, alleys, easements, public right-of-ways or public places. A grantee
shall also, at the request of a private party holding an appropriate permit
issued by a governmental entity, temporarily raise or lower its transmission or
distribution wires or cables to permit the moving of any building or other
structure, provided that the actual expense of such temporary raising or
lowering shall be paid in full by the party requesting the same. The requests
shall be made not less than 30 days in advance of the activity requested,
unless an emergency situation exists.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.20  COSTS FOR WORK BY GOVERNMENTAL ENTITY.
   If, after reasonable notice and opportunity to correct, a grantee or any
person acting under a grantee fails to commence, pursue or complete any work
required by law or this chapter to be done in any road, street, alley, public
right-of-way, easement or public place, the appropriate governmental entity may
cause such work to be done, and the grantee shall pay to the governmental
entity the cost thereof within 30 days of receipt of an itemized statement of
such cost.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.21  REGULATION OF SERVICE RATES.
   The village reserves the right to regulate rates for the provision of cable
service, equipment, or any other communications service provided over the
system in accordance with applicable federal law, in particular 47 C.F.R. Part
76 subpart N. In the event the village chooses to regulate rates it shall, in
accordance with 47 C.F.R. § 76.910, obtain certification from the FCC, if
applicable. The village shall follow all applicable FCC rate regulations and
shall ensure that appropriate personnel are in place to administer such
regulations. The village reserves the right to regulate rates for any future
services to the extent permitted by law.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.22  CUSTOMER SERVICE STANDARDS.
   (A)   The grantee shall comply with the customer service obligations set
forth in this chapter and such authority for enforcement is hereby delegated to
the Cable Council. The grantee shall comply with the standards and requirements
for customer service set forth in 47 C.F.R. § 76.309 and §§ 76.1601 - 761.1604,
and shall comply with all applicable regulations relating to customer service
obligations, including any amendments to FCC regulations should FCC regulations
change during the term of a franchise. Should FCC regulations change, or for
other good cause shown, the grantee may petition the village for modification
of the requirements of division (C) approval of which shall not be unreasonably
withheld.
   (B)   The grantee shall maintain a convenient local customer service and
bill payment location, or a substantial equivalent, in the area served by the
Cable Council for receiving subscriber payments, handling billing questions,
equipment replacement and customer service information.
   (C)   At a minimum, the grantee shall comply with the following customer
service obligations:
      (1)   The cable system office hours and telephone availability.
         (a)   The grantee will maintain a local, toll-free or collect call
telephone access line, which will be available to its subscribers 24 hours a
day, 7 days a week.
            1.   Trained grantee representatives will be available to respond
to customer telephone inquiries during normal business hours.
            2.   After normal business hours, the access line may be answered
by a service or an automated response system, including an answering machine.
Inquiries received after normal business hours must be responded to by a
trained grantee representative on the next business day.
         (b)   Under normal operating conditions, telephone answer time by a
customer representative, including wait time, shall not exceed 30 seconds when
the connection is made. If the call needs to be transferred, transfer time
shall not exceed 30 seconds. These standards shall be met no less than 90% of
the time under normal operating conditions, measured on a quarterly basis.
         (c)   The grantee shall not be required to acquire equipment and/or
perform surveys to measure compliance with the telephone answering standards
above unless an historical record on complaints indicates a clear failure to
comply.
         (d)   Under normal operating conditions, the customer will receive a
busy signal less than 3% of the time.
         (e)   The customer service center and bill payment locations will be
open at least during normal business hours and will be conveniently located.
      (2)   Installations, outages and service calls. Under normal operating
conditions, each of the following standards will be met no less than 95% of the
time measured on a quarterly basis:
         (a)   Standard installations will be performed within 7 business days
after an order has been placed. Standard installations are those that are
located up to 125 feet from the existing distribution system.
         (b)   Excluding conditions beyond the control of the grantee, the
grantee will begin working on service interruptions promptly and in no event
later than 24 hours after the interruption becomes known. The grantee must
begin actions to correct other service problems the next business day after
notification of the service problem.
         (c)   The appointment window alternatives for installations, service
calls, and other installation activities will be either a specific time or, at
maximum, a 4-hour time block during normal business hours. (The grantee may
schedule service calls and other installation activities outside of normal
business hours for the express convenience of the customer.)
         (d)   The grantee may not cancel an appointment with a customer after
the close of business on the business day prior to the scheduled appointment.
         (e)   If the grantee's representative is running late for an
appointment with a customer and will not be able to keep the appointment as
scheduled, the customer will be contacted. The appointment will be rescheduled,
as necessary, at a time which is convenient for the customer.
      (3)   Communications between the grantee and subscribers.
         (a)   Notifications to subscribers.
            1.   The grantee shall provide written information on each of the
following areas at the time of installation of service, at least annually to
all subscribers, and at any time upon request:
               a.   Products and services offered;
               b.   Prices and options for programming services and conditions
of subscription to programming and other services;
               c.   Installation and service maintenance policies;
               d.   Instructions on how to use the cable service;
               e.   Channel positions of the programming carried on the system;
and
               f.   Billing and complaint procedures, including the address and
telephone number of the village.
            2.   Subscribers will be notified of any changes in rates,
programming services or channel positions as soon as possible in writing.
Notice must be given to subscribers a minimum of 30 days in advance of such
changes if the changes are within the control of the grantee. In addition, the
grantee shall notify the subscribers 30 days in advance of any significant
changes in the other information required by subsection (C)(3)(a). The grantee
shall not be required to provide prior notice of any rate changes as a result
of a regulatory fee, franchise fee, or other fees, tax, assessment or charge of
any kind imposed by any federal agency, state or village on the transaction
between the operator and the subscriber.
            3.   All programming decisions remain the discretion of the grantee
in accordance with the franchise, the grantee shall comply with rules regarding
notice to customers in accordance with 47 C.F.R. § 76.1603.
         (b)   Billing.
            1.   Bills will be clear, concise and understandable. Bills must be
fully itemized, with itemizations including, but not limited to, basic and
premium service charges and equipment charges. Bills will also clearly
delineate all activity during the billing period, including optional charges,
rebates and credits.
            2.   In case of a billing dispute, the grantee must respond to a
written complaint from a subscriber within 30 days.
         (c)   Refunds. Refund checks will be issued promptly, but no later
than either:
            1.   The subscriber's next billing cycle following resolution of
the request or 30 days, whichever is earlier; or
            2.   The return of the equipment supplied by the grantee if service
is terminated.
         (d)   Credits. Credits for service will be issued no later than the
subscriber's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted.
         (e)   Upon request, the grantee shall provide the village with a
quarterly compliance report specific to the system in the service area, which
report shall describe in detail the grantee's compliance with the provisions of
this section and any additional customer service requirements contained in the
franchise.
   (D)   In addition to the customer service standards set forth above, the
following customer service obligations are hereby established.
      (1)   Dispute resolution procedure. The grantee shall establish a
procedure for resolving subscriber complaints that includes an opportunity for
a meeting in the Village of Kingsley with an employee of the grantee having
authority to resolve the dispute. The procedure shall also include an appeal
after such meeting to the Cable Council who shall hear all sides of the dispute
and may render a non-binding recommendation that includes an opportunity for a
meeting in the Village of Kingsley  with an employee of the grantee having
authority to resolve the dispute. The procedure shall also include an appeal
after such meeting to the Cable Council who shall render a non-binding
decision.
      (2)   Advance review notice to Cable Council of brochure and subscriber
review. The grantee will endeavor to provide any locally-produced customer-
oriented materials or communications, including the bi-annual subscriber review
included in
§ 110.08, to the Cable Council prior to sending material or communications to
subscribers for the purpose of review and notice.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.23  SUBSCRIBER CONTRACTS.
   The grantee shall file with the village any standard form residential
subscriber contract utilized by the grantee. A list of the grantee's current
subscriber rates and charges for cable service shall be maintained on file with
village and shall be available for public inspection.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.24  REFUND POLICY.
   (A)   If a grantee's cable service is interrupted or discontinued for 24 or
more consecutive hours, the subscribers will be credited pro rata for such
interruption, upon request. Credits must be issued no later than the
subscriber's next billing cycle following the determination that a credit is
warranted. For this purpose, every month will be assumed to have 30 days.
   (B)   In the event a subscriber establishes or terminates service and
receives less than 1 full month of service, the grantee shall prorate the
monthly rate on the basis of the number of days in the period for which the
service was rendered to the number of days in the billing.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
§ 110.25  FRANCHISE ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   If the village believes that the grantee has not complied with the
terms of the franchise, the village shall first informally discuss the matter
with the grantee. If these discussions do not lead to resolution of the
problem, the village shall notify the grantee in writing of the exact nature of
the alleged noncompliance (the “violation notice”).
      (1)   The grantee shall have 30 days, or such longer period of time as
the grantee can reasonably demonstrate is necessary, from receipt of the
violation notice to respond to the village, contesting the assertion of
noncompliance, or to cure such default.
      (2)   If the grantee fails to respond to the violation notice received
from the village, or if the default is not remedied within the cure period set
forth above, the village shall schedule a public hearing if it intends to
continue its enforcement procedure. The village shall provide the grantee at
least 10 to 14 days prior written notice of the hearing, which specifies the
time, place and purpose of the hearing, notice of which shall be published by
the village in accordance with applicable law. The grantee shall have the right
to present evidence and to challenge the validity of the alleged noncompliance.
The village shall determine if the grantee has committed a violation and shall
make written findings of fact relative to its determination.
      (3)   In the event the village, after the hearing set forth in subsection
(2) above, determines that the grantee is in default of any provision of the
franchise, the village may:
         (a)   Seek specific performance of any provision, which reasonably
lends itself to such remedy, as an alternative to damages or determine damages
of up to $500 per day for each day of violation. The damages may be determined
by village on the grantee or drawn by the village from any bond or other
security posted by the grantee under any franchise granted hereunder; or
         (b)   In the case of a substantial default of a material provision of
the franchise, seek to revoke the franchise following the procedure in division
(B).
      (4)   If a violation is found, the grantee shall have the right to appeal
such decision to any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (B)   Procedures for revocation.
      (1)   The village shall provide the grantee with written notice of a
cause for revocation and the intent to revoke and shall allow the grantee an
additional 30 days subsequent to receipt of the revocation notice in which to
correct the violation or to provide adequate assurance of performance in
compliance with the franchise. In the revocation notice, the village shall
provide the grantee with the basis of the revocation.
      (2)   The grantee shall be provided the right to a public hearing, in
addition to the public hearing required under subsection (A)(2), affording due
process before the Village Board prior to the effective date of revocation,
which public hearing shall follow the 30-day notice provided in subsection (A)
(1). Following conduct of the public hearing, the village shall provide the
grantee with written notice of its decision together with written findings of
fact.
      (3)   Only after the public hearing and upon written notice of the
determination by the village to revoke the franchise, may the grantee appeal
the decision with an appropriate state or federal court or agency.
      (4)   During the appeal period, the franchise shall remain in full force
and effect unless the term thereof sooner expires or unless continuation of the
franchise would endanger the health, safety and welfare of any person or the
public.
(Ord. 1 4-05, passed 4-4-2005)
CHAPTER 111: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Definitions
   
111.03   Marihuana establishments
 
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01  TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Village of Kingsley
Prohibition of Marihuana Establishments Ordinance.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 111.02  DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, as may be amended.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 111.03  MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The Village of Kingsley hereby prohibits all marihuana retailers (i.e.
marihuana retailers, marihuana microbusinesses, marihuana provisioning centers,
and dispensaries) within the boundaries of the village pursuant to § 6.1 of
Initiated Law 1 of 2018, as may be amended.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 12-10-2018)
§ 111.99  PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys, neglects, or refuses to comply with any
stipulation set forth in this chapter or who causes, allows, or consents to any
of the same shall be deemed to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
pursuant to Chapter 11 of the Code of Ordinances. A violation of this chapter
is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of
the court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the
village to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper remedies.
Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses,
direct and indirect, which the village incurs in connection with the municipal
civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the village may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the village or by such other person(s) as designated by
the Village Council and Chapter 11 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 18-01, passed 12-10-2018)
TITLE XIII:  GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   GENERAL OFFENSES
CHAPTER 130:  GENERAL OFFENSES
Section
   
130.01   General prohibited conduct
   
130.02   Curfew
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01  GENERAL PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Engage in any illegal occupation or business;
   (B)   Be under the influence of intoxicating liquor, narcotic drugs, or
other controlled substances upon any public street or in any public place;
   (C)   Discharge any firearm or air rifle within the village limits except by
written permission of the Village Clerk;
   (D)   Explode any fireworks or firecrackers, except by written permission of
the Village Clerk;
   (E)   Engage in window peeping;
   (F)   Beg in any street, alley, or public place;
   (G)   Loiter in any street, alley, or public place, and any person so
loitering shall be considered a vagrant;
   (H)   Insult, accost, molest, or otherwise annoy, either by word of mouth or
by sign or motion, any person in a street, alley, or other public place;
   (I)   Wrongfully destroy, deface, or injure any public property, or any
public property not his or her own;
   (J)   Create a disturbance in a public place or within any lawful assembly;
   (K)   Engage in any fray, or commit any assault or assault and battery upon
another, or commit any act whatsoever amounting to a breach of the peace; or
   (L)   Engage in any gaming, lottery, or game of chance, or permit same on
any premises occupied or controlled by him or her, except as permitted by state
law.
(1992 Code, § 7.1)  Penalty, see
§ 130.99
§ 130.02  CURFEW.
   (A)   No minor child under the age of 18 years shall be abroad upon the
public streets, alleys, parks, or other public places of the village, or in any
places of amusement or entertainment, between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00
a.m. of the following day, official city time, unless accompanied by a parent,
guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody of the minor.
   (B)   No parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care and custody
of a minor child under the age of 18 years shall permit that minor to be abroad
upon the public streets, alleys, or other public places of the village, or
places of amusement or entertainment, during the hours of curfew as
hereinbefore set forth.
   (C)   No person shall be in violation of this section if the minor is abroad
during the hours of curfew upon an emergency errand or legitimate business
directed by his or her parent, guardian, or other adult person having the care
and custody of the minor.
(1992 Code, § 7.2)  Penalty, see
§ 130.99
§ 130.99  PENALTY.
   Violation of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in Title I,
General Provisions,
§ 10.99.  The provisions of
Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply to violations of this
chapter.
TITLE XV:  LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
151.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
152.   ZONING CODE
      
153.   SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
      
154.   MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITIES
CHAPTER 150:  GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Division of lots within a platted subdivision; application and
procedure
   
150.02   Mobile homes
Housing Regulations
   
150.15   Adoption of Housing Law of Michigan
   
150.16   Prohibition of dangerous structures
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivision Regulations, see
Ch. 151
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 152
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01  DIVISION OF LOTS WITHIN A PLATTED SUBDIVISION; APPLICATION AND
PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   (a)   This section is intended to provide a means for owners of
lots in platted subdivisions, within the Village of Kingsley, to acquire
portions of adjoining subdivision lots for purposes of expanding the area on
which a structure might be erected under the zoning ordinance.
         (b)   This section is passed pursuant to the provisions of § 263 of
the Subdivision Control Act of 1967 (now the Land Division Act; M.C.L.A. §
560.263).
      (2)   (a)   It is not the intent of this section to authorize, in any
fashion, the creation of new lots within a platted subdivision, not to affect
the boundaries of any lots or portions of the platted subdivision.
         (b)   Rather, it is the intent to allow a property owner within a
platted subdivision to acquire a portion of an adjoining lot in the
subdivision, the same being a “lot division” for purposes of expanding the
buildable portion of the lot owner's property for the purposes as may be
authorized under the zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Lot division.
      (1)   The division of the lot in a recorded plat is prohibited, unless
approved following application to the Village Council.
      (2)   No lot in a recorded plat shall be divided into more than 2 parts
and the resulting lots shall be no less in area, nor less in width, than
permitted in the various zoning districts.
      (3)   No lot splits will be approved for other than adding a part of a
lot to an adjacent lot.
      (4)   No new lots will be created by this provision.
   (C)   Application for lot division.
      (1)   (a)   The application for a lot division shall be filed with the
Village Clerk and shall state the reasons for the proposed division.
         (b)   The application shall include, in addition to the reasons for
the proposed division, a plat drawn to scale and showing the proposed lot split
in sufficient detail to enable a determination of whether the proposed split
meets requirements for lot size, driveway access, drainage, provision for
utilities, and effect on adjacent properties.
      (2)   It is required that once a lot is split, the owner, as part of the
application, agrees to place in the deed (or deeds) exchanging land or
splitting a lot a restriction to the effect that the portion of the split lot
shall be a part of the lot with which it is combined for all future transfers
or assignments, and may be transferred or assigned only in conjunction with the
lot with which it is combined, as the split portion is not a separate,
buildable lot.
   (D)   Review procedure.
      (1)   The Village Council may submit the request for division to the
Planning Commission for review and recommendation prior to making a decision on
the requested division.
      (2)   (a)   Upon receipt of a request for division of a lot in a platted
subdivision, the Village Council, if it does not refer the matter to the
Village Planning Commission for review, or the Village Planning Commission, if
the application is referred to the Commission, shall, within 30 days, hold a
public hearing upon the application, after at least notice by 1 publication in
a newspaper of general circulation in the village, which notice shall be
published not more than 15 days, nor less than 5 days, prior to the date of the
hearing.
         (b)   Notice of the public hearing and request for comments shall also
be sent to:
            1.   The County Road Commission;
            2.   The County Drain Commissioner; and
            3.   The Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Officer.
      (3)   (a)   In reviewing the proposed division, the Village Council or
Planning Commission, whichever is applicable, shall consider the following.
         (b)   The splitting of a platted lot is authorized when it is
necessary to resolve:
            1.   A boundary dispute as between parties that has resulted from a
surveyor's error;
            2.   A verifiable builder's mistake;
            3.   An excusable mistake on the part of the owners, which has
resulted in either an encroachment or violation of village setback
requirements; or
            4.   To enlarge 2 lots by splitting a third lot.
      (4)   Following review, the Village Council may, if it reserves review of
the application to Council, or upon receipt of a recommendation from the
Planning Commission, if the application is referred to the Planning Commission,
approve or deny the lot division.
   (E)   Violations.  In the event of a violation of the provisions of this
section pertaining to lot division within a platted subdivision, the same shall
constitute a civil infraction punishable by fine and the costs as, from time to
time, may be set by the Village Council and/or ordered by a court of
appropriate jurisdiction.
   (F)   Effective date.  This section shall become effective immediately upon
publication in a newspaper in general circulation within the Village of
Kingsley.
(Ord. 2000-LD-1, passed 9-11-2000)  Penalty, see
§ 150.99
§ 150.02  MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   Parking on dwelling premises.
      (1)   Not more than 1 trailer coach may be parked, used, and occupied on
the premises of any dwelling for exceeding a period of 3 weeks and then only
when the occupants of the vehicle have free access to and unlimited use of the
sanitary facilities of the dwelling on the premises with written consent of the
owner or of the occupant in control of the dwelling premises on the lot or
tract or site and provided that application is made for permit to park, use,
and occupy same, the permit to be obtained from the Village Clerk who shall
approve same only if the Clerk shall find that adequate facilities are afforded
on the premises for the disposal of waste and excreta.
      (2)   Upon filing application thereof with the Village Clerk in payment
of a fee in an amount set by Council from time to time, the Clerk shall issue a
permit which shall limit the time of the parking, use, or occupancy to a period
of not longer than 3 weeks.
      (3)   Not more than 1 permit shall be issued for the trailer coach or
mobile home or to any such dwelling owner or trailer coach or mobile home
occupant in any 12-month period.
   (B)   Other permissive use.
      (1)   Nothing herein shall be construed as preventing the parking of the
aforesaid type vehicle on the land of the owner thereof for the owner's own
personal storage purposes providing the vehicle be not occupied.
      (2)   (a)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the parking and
occupancy and use of the type vehicle on land or site, lot, field, or tract
owned by owner of the type vehicle provided same is for the purpose of
occupancy during construction of dwelling on the land but same shall be then
only parked thereon during the time of construction of dwelling and provided
that permit is obtained for same from Village Clerk, fee paid as aforesaid, and
the vehicle is serviced by and connected to adequate water and sanitary
facilities meeting all requirements of the Michigan Department of Health and
any other governmental agency having jurisdiction and authority over
installation and requirements as to the facilities.
         (b)   The permit which shall be identified as a “During Construction
Permit,” shall be for not longer than a 6-month period and shall be renewable
by Village Clerk only on showing of hardship and inability to complete
construction prior to expiration of permit.
         (c)   Any “During Construction Permit” shall be prominently displayed
on the exterior of the trailer coach or mobile home.
      (3)   Nothing in SECTION TWO (d) nor division (A) above shall be
construed as affecting any mobile home being presently used as an established
dwelling together with the particular lot or parcel of land on which the mobile
home is presently located, nor any replacement of the mobile home on the
parcel, nor sale of the lot or parcel with the mobile home thereon, now or in
the future, provided that the present mobile home is supplied with proper water
and sanitary facilities meeting requirements of public health authorities
having jurisdiction thereover and that no additional mobile home or homes be
placed on the parcel and that the mobile home is not removed from the parcel
except for a replacement mobile home and in the latter case the time between
removal and replacement does not exceed 60 days.
   (C)   Effective date.  This section shall take effect 21 days after passage
thereof.
(Ord. passed - -)  Penalty, see
§ 150.99
HOUSING REGULATIONS
§ 150.15  ADOPTION OF HOUSING LAW OF MICHIGAN.
   The provisions of the Housing Law of Michigan, Public Act 167 of 1917, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 to 125.543 , as amended, relating to private dwellings and
2-family dwellings is hereby adopted by reference.
(1992 Code, § 5.1)
§ 150.16  PROHIBITION OF DANGEROUS STRUCTURES.
   In addition to the remedies and penalties provided by the Housing Law of
Michigan, Public Act 167 of 1917, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.401 to 125.543, it shall be a
misdemeanor, punishable by fine and/or imprisonment pursuant to
§ 150.99, to own or occupy a “dangerous building” as that term is defined in §
139 of the Housing Law, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.539.
(1992 Code, § 5.2)  Penalty, see
§ 150.99
§ 150.99  PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in Title I,
General Provisions,
§ 10.99.  The provisions of
Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply to violations of this
chapter.
CHAPTER 151:  SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Conveyance of platted lands
   
151.03   Subdivision of land
   
151.04   Suspension of requirements
   
151.05   Preliminary plat map and information
   
151.06   Final plat map
   
151.07   Miscellaneous provisions
   
151.08   Effective date
 
   
151.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Division of lots within a platted subdivision; application and procedure,
see
§ 150.01
   Housing Regulations, see
§§ 150.15 et seq.
   Mobile homes, see
§ 150.02
   Public Works, see
Title V
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 92
   Zoning Code, see
Ch. 152
§ 151.01  DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SUBDIVIDE.  Has the same meaning defined in Public Act 172 of 1929, being
M.C.L.A. § 560.102(f) and amendments thereto.
   (B)   All provisions herein shall be read in light of and subject to the
general provisions of the Act.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)
§ 151.02  CONVEYANCE OF PLATTED LANDS.
   No person shall sell or convey any lot in any plat by reference thereto
until the plat has been duly recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds of
Grand Traverse County.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)  Penalty, see
§ 151.99
§ 151.03  SUBDIVISION OF LAND.
   No person shall hereafter subdivide any land, or any part or portion
thereof, within village limits without:
   (A)   Submitting to Village Council a preliminary map with supplementary
information before commencing the necessary surveys (see § 151.05 hereafter);
   (B)   Submitting to Village Clerk 4 final plats with request for approval-
resolution by Council satisfactorily showing complete and correct survey, plan,
and map of the ground and the subdivisions thereof platted and subdivided,
position and location of lots, streets, and alleys with respect to adjacent
lots and streets of the village and the other information as the Council may
request plus compliance with provisions of this chapter hereinbefore and
hereinafter set forth;
   (C)   (1)   Paying to the Village Clerk the sum of $10 plus $2 for each
proposed lot or fraction thereof within the plat boundaries which are within
the village limits.
      (2)   The sum shall include all expenses required for inspection of land
or meetings of the Council or other fees and be paid at time of submission of
preliminary maps.
      (3)   Provided, however, that the amount paid the Village Clerk shall in
no case exceed $40 for each plat.
   (D)   Complying with all applicable provisions of this chapter and with the
provisions of the Land Division Act, being Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 to 560.293.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)  Penalty, see
§ 151.99
§ 151.04  SUSPENSION OF REQUIREMENTS.
   A suspension of any of the foregoing requirements may be granted by the
Village Council, unless same would be contradictory of State of Michigan
platting requirements, in a particular case, provided that the application for
the suspension shows that:
   (A)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the property
in question;
   (B)   The suspension is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the applicant; and
   (C)   The suspension, if granted, will not be materially detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)
§ 151.05  PRELIMINARY PLAT MAP AND INFORMATION.
   (A)   Map data.  The preliminary map required by
§ 151.03(A) above shall be submitted in duplicate and contain the following
information:
      (1)   The name or title under which it is proposed to record the
subdivision;
      (2)   The name and address of all owners of record or subdividers;
      (3)   The location, width, approximate grade, and radius of curvature of
proposed and existing streets, alleys, highways, and ways included in the plat
together with similar facts regarding the adjacent property;
      (4)   The location of all existing features affecting the subdivision,
such as railroads, buildings, wooded areas, easements, ditches, watercourses,
and the like;
      (5)   The location and size of the nearest available public sewers, water
mains, and power lines existing or planned;
      (6)   The location, size, and grade of the sewers with which it is
proposed to serve the area or the location and description of other proposed
means of sewage disposal; and
      (7)   The approximate dimensions of lots, approximate radii of curves,
and the approximate location of all setback lines.
   (B)   Topographical map.  When in the opinion of the Council a topographical
map of the area is required, the subdivider shall furnish the map with contour
intervals of not more than 5 feet.
   (C)   Scale.
      (1)   Maps shall be drawn to clearly show all information, including date
and cardinal points.
      (2)   The scale shall be not more than 100 feet to the inch except that
maps required to show the location of nearest available public sewers or water
mains may be drawn to a scale of 400 feet to the inch.
   (D)   Supplementary data.  The following supplementary information shall be
filed with the preliminary maps:
      (1)   Sufficient legal description to define the boundaries of the
proposed subdivision;
      (2)   A written statement or a zoning map indicating the proposed use of
the various parcels;
      (3)   A description of the improvements to be made; and
      (4)   Tree planting plans, if any planting is contemplated.
   (E)   Approval.
      (1)   At the first regular meeting after receipt of the preliminary data,
the Village Council shall cause the studies to be made as it may deem necessary
to examine the proposed data for compliance with this chapter and sound
engineering practice.
      (2)   Thereafter and within not more than 30 days from above the first
regular meeting, the Village Council shall approve or disapprove the data and
shall notify the subdivider of its action.
   (F)   Survey.  After receipt of approval of preliminary data from Council,
subdivider shall:
      (1)   Cause accurate survey to be made in accordance with the preliminary
map and any recommended alterations; and
      (2)   Proceed with steps for final approval.
   (G)   Expiration of approval.
      (1)   Council's approval of preliminary data shall expire at the end of 1
year from the date of the approval.
      (2)   The subdivider shall be required to make a new application for
approval before proceeding with the final plat if he or she has not had the
plat recorded within 1 year from the preliminary approval date.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)
§ 151.06  FINAL PLAT MAP.
   (A)   Compliance with state law.  The final map shall be prepared and
submitted in accordance with requirements of all state laws and amendments
thereto and with the additional requirements as may be provided herein.
   (B)   Street names.  Approval of street names shall be secured from the
Village Council before inscribing them upon the map.
   (C)   Hearing.
      (1)   The plat submitted to Village Council shall be accompanied by the
name and address of person or persons to whom notice of hearing shall be sent.
      (2)   No plat shall be acted upon by the Council without affording a
hearing thereon.
      (3)   Notice of hearing shall be sent to the person at the address by
certified mail and shall state time and place of the hearing.
      (4)   Same shall be mailed not less than 5 days before the date fixed
therefor.
      (5)   Notice required by this section may be waived in writing.
   (D)   Field survey.  If the Village Council determines it necessary to make
a field survey or a detailed check of the mathematical data and computations
and setting of monuments, the expense thereof shall be borne by the subdivider.
   (E)   Approval.
      (1)   The submitted final plat shall be approved, modified, or
disapproved by Village Council within 60 days after the submission thereof.
      (2)   However, applicant-subdivider may waive this requirement and
consent to an extension of time.
      (3)   Approval by the Council shall be certified on the map in manner and
form by certificate endorsed thereon by the Village Clerk, under the seal of
the village, showing that the plat and dedication has been approved by the
Council.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)
§ 151.07  MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Generally.  Unless waived or suspended by Council for hardship to
subdivider or other reason, all plats will conform to the following
requirements.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Continuation of streets.
         (a)   1.   New subdivisions shall make provision for continuation of
principal existing streets in adjoining or adjacent subdivisions; and
            2.   The streets shall be of the width as great, or greater, as
that of the streets so continued or projected.
         (b)   The center lines of the streets shall continue with the center
lines of existing streets.
         (c)   In general, the streets shall extend to the boundary of the
subdivision to:
            1.   Provide proper access to adjoining property; and
            2.   Provide for proper connection with the highway system for
contiguous and adjacent land.
      (2)   Adaptation to contour.  The above may be modified if necessary to
conform with contour of the land and with appropriate regard for water courses
and other topographical features.
      (3)   Street widths.
         (a)   Widths of local streets shall, in general, be not less than 66
feet.
         (b)   A half-street or half-alley may be dedicated along the boundary
of a subdivision provided that a remaining ½ is made available by adjoining
property owner.
         (c)   Whenever there exists a dedicated and recorded ½ street or ½
alley on an adjoining plat, the other ½ must be dedicated on the proposed plat
to make the street or alley complete.
      (4)   Alleys.
         (a)   1.   In general, alleys shall be at least 33 feet in width; and
            2.   If alleys are not required by Village Council, then easements
not less than 7 ½ feet in width so as to provide a total width of 15 feet shall
be provided on the rear of all lots.
         (b)   The 15-foot total shall not be required in the plat if land
owner adjoining the plat shall make available remaining 7 ½ feet for utility
easement purposes.
      (5)   Dead-end streets.  Where dead-end streets are approved by reason of
topography or other reason, the center line diameter of the turning area at the
end of the street shall not be less than 100 feet.
      (6)   Street and alley intersection.  Intersections of streets shall be
at an angle of 90 degrees or as close to the angle as practical, but never less
than 300 degrees.
      (7)   Grades of streets.  Recommended maximum is 5%; approvable maximum
8%; all the foregoing unless topographical conditions justify excess.
      (8)   Curve radii of streets.
         (a)   Center line radii, in general, shall be not less than 500 feet
but may be reduced to 200 feet if topographical conditions necessitate.
         (b)   Reverse or compound curves of any street shall be separated by a
tangent of not less than 50 feet.
      (9)   Blocks.
         (a)   Streets shall be platted a sufficient distance apart to allow
for a block width containing 2 tiers of lots with an alley or easement between.
         (b)   Blocks longer than 600 feet between street lines shall provide
for public walkways and utility easements at the approximate center of the
block or the other points as Village Council may require.
      (10)   Lots.
         (a)   All lots shall face upon a public street and side lot lines
shall be approximately perpendicular to street.
         (b)   Lots must not be cut by a village boundary line.
         (c)   All residential lots shall have street frontage of not less than
50 feet.
         (d)   All business lots shall have street frontage of not less than 25
feet.
         (e)   Lots shall have a depth of not less than 125 feet.
         (f)   Modification may be made in reference to the front lot line of
lots on a dead-end street loop.
      (11)   Improvements required in plat.  The following minimum standards of
improvements will be required as a condition precedent to the approval of the
plat by the Village Council.
         (a)   All clearing and grubbing of streets and alleys shall be
completed.
         (b)   Grading of streets and alleys shall be completed, including
satisfactory protection of slopes from erosion.
         (c)   Installation of necessary drainage structure shall be completed,
but installation of a complete storm sewer system will not be required.
         (d)   All streets shall be surfaced to a width of not less than 22
feet with material not inferior to a 6-inch compacted gravel surface consisting
of crushed gravel, clay, and calcium chloride in proper amounts to ensure
stability.
         (e)   Installation of sanitary sewers shall be completed if a useable
trunk sewer is located within 500 feet of any boundary of the subdivision.
         (f)   If trunk sewers are not available, any required facilities for
the disposal of sewage as approved in the preliminary plan shall be installed.
         (g)   Installation of water mains shall be completed.
         (h)   Subdivider shall dedicate to the village an amount of land
agreed upon with the Council for tot-lot play areas.
      (12)   Acceptance of plat before completion of improvements.  In the
event improvements required herein have not been completed at the time the
final map is presented to Council for acceptance, Council shall have the option
of accepting the plat if subdivider guarantees same in manner satisfactory to
Council.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)  Penalty, see
§ 151.99
§ 151.08  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 21 days after passage thereof.
(Ord. passed 9-6-1967)
§ 151.99  PENALTY.
   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable as provided in Title I,
General Provisions,
§ 10.99.  The provisions of
Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply to violations of this
chapter.
CHAPTER 152:  ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   General limitation of zoning code
   
152.003   Structure of zoning code
   
152.004   Effective date
   
152.005   Definitions
Zoning Districts
   
152.020   Establishment of districts
   
152.021   Zoning Districts Map
   
152.022   District boundaries
   
152.023   Land use permits
Residential District R-1
   
152.035   Purpose
   
152.036   Permitted uses
   
152.037   Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
   
152.038   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.039   Dimensional requirements
Residential District R-2
   
152.050   Purpose
   
152.051   Permitted uses
   
152.052   Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
   
152.053   Yard requirements
   
152.054   Building height
Residential District R-3
   
152.065   Purpose
   
152.066   Permitted uses
   
152.067   Yard requirements
   
152.068   Building height
Residential District R-4
   
152.080   Purpose
   
152.081   Permitted uses
   
152.082   Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
   
152.083   Yard requirements
   
152.084   Building height
   
152.085   Licensed mobile home park requirements
Village Residential District VR
   
152.090    Purpose
   
152.091    Uses
   
152.092    Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
   
152.093    Dimensional requirements
Forests/Parks/Recreation District
   
152.100   Purpose
   
152.101   Permitted uses
   
152.102   Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
Commercial District C-1
   
152.115   Purpose
   
152.116   Permitted uses
   
152.117   Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
   
152.118   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.119   Lot and yard area requirements
   
152.120   Special requirements
Commercial District C-2
   
152.130   Purpose
   
152.131   Permitted uses
   
152.132   Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
   
152.133   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures
   
152.134   Lot and yard area requirements
   
152.135   Outdoor storage and land use
   
152.136   Parking requirements
   
152.137   Off-street loading and unloading requirements
   
152.138   Signs
   
152.139   Outdoor lighting
   
152.140   Screening
Industrial District I
   
152.155   Purpose
   
152.156   Permitted uses
   
152.157   Uses permitted when authorized by special use permit
   
152.158   Use requirements
   
152.159   Site plan review procedure
Planned Unit Development District
   
152.170   Description and purpose
   
152.171   Definitions
   
152.172   Permitted uses
   
152.173   Uses specifically prohibited
   
152.174   Minimum size for eligibility for PUD rezoning
   
152.175   Procedures for PUD rezoning
   
152.176   Preliminary development plan
   
152.177   Review of preliminary development plan
   
152.178   Transmittal of recommendation on preliminary development plan
   
152.179   Submission of final development plan and petition for rezoning
   
152.180   Contents of final development plan
   
152.181   Public hearing by Planning Commission
   
152.182   Recommendation of Planning Commission
   
152.183   Action by Village Council
   
152.184   General provisions for PUD Districts
Condominium Subdivisions
   
152.195   Intent
   
152.196   Generally
   
152.197   Required plans and conditions
   
152.198   Streets
   
152.199   Water supply and sewage disposal systems
   
152.200   Trees
   
152.201   Wetland and flood plain restrictions
   
152.202   Plans required for the control of erosion and sedimentation
   
152.203   Plan application; date and information required
   
152.204   Preliminary engineering plans
   
152.205   Lighting standards
   
152.206   Review procedures
   
152.207   Conditions and duration of approval
Accessory Dwelling Units
   
152.210    Purpose
   
152.211    Definitions
   
152.212    Conditions and requirements
   
152.213    Yard and height requirements
   
152.214    Notice of use requirements for an accessory dwelling unit
Supplementary ProvisionsSupplementary Provisions
   
152.220   Accessory buildings
   
152.221   Fences
   
152.222   Night sky
   
152.223   Nonconforming lots, nonconforming uses of land, nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures and premises
   
152.224   Parking requirements
   
152.225   Public and municipal utilities
   
152.226   Screening of unsightly areas
   
152.227   Sign regulations
   
152.228   Site plan review
   
152.229   Special use permits
   
152.230   Supplemental lot and yard provisions
   
152.231   Unlisted property uses
   
152.232   Waterfront lots
Wireless Telecommunications Towers and Antennas
   
152.245   Purpose
   
152.246   Definitions
   
152.247   Applicability
   
152.248   General requirements
   
152.249   Permitted uses
   
152.250   Administratively approved uses
   
152.251   Special use permits
   
152.252   Buildings or other equipment storage
   
152.253   Removal of abandoned antennas and towers
   
152.254   Nonconforming uses
   
152.255   Effective date
Administration
   
152.270   Zoning Administrator
   
152.271   Duties and powers of Zoning Administrator
   
152.272   Fee schedule
   
152.273   Special administrative review process
   
152.274   Public notification
Violations
   
152.285   Nuisance per se
   
152.286   Violations
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
152.300   Members
   
152.301   Appeals to the Appeals Board
Sexually-Oriented Businesses
   
152.315   Purpose and findings
   
152.316   Definitions
   
152.317   Administration and enforcement
   
152.318   License required
   
152.319   Issuance of license
   
152.320   Suspension
   
152.321   Revocation
   
152.322   Judicial review
   
152.323   Other appeals
   
152.324   Inspection
   
152.325   Transfer of license
   
152.326   Location restrictions
   
152.327   Additional requirements pertaining to adult cabarets
   
152.328   Additional regulations for adult motels
   
152.329   Additional regulations for escort agencies
   
152.330   Additional regulations for nude model studios
   
152.331   Regulations pertaining to exhibition of sexually explicit films and
videos
   
152.332   Exterior portions of sexually-oriented businesses; hours of operation
   
152.333   Persons younger than 18 prohibited from entry; attendant required
   
152.334   Massages or baths administered by persons of opposite sex
   
152.335   Exemption
   
152.336   Notices
   
152.337   Non-conforming uses
   
152.338   Fees
   
152.339   Injunction
   
152.340   Nuisance per se
Amendments
   
152.355   Amendments
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001  SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Village of Kingsley Zoning Ordinance and
will be referred to herein as this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 1.01)
§ 152.002  GENERAL LIMITATION OF ZONING CODE.
   (A)   Existing uses of lands, buildings, and structures.  At the discretion
of the property owner, the lawful uses of any dwelling, building, or structure,
and of any land or premises as existing and lawful on the effective date of
this chapter may be continued, although the use may not be in conformity with
the provisions herein.
   (B)   Existing nonconformities.
      (1)   No nonconformity existing on the effective date of this chapter
shall be enlarged upon, expanded, or extended, other than in conformity with
the provisions of this chapter (
§ 152.223).
      (2)   The continuance of all nonconforming uses and structures shall be
subject to conditions and requirements as after provided in
§ 152.223.
   (C)   Future uses of land and future erection and use of buildings and
structures.  Beginning with the effective date of this chapter, and except as
otherwise hereinafter provided, no land or premises shall be used and no
building or structure located, erected, altered, or used, other than in the
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 1.02; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 7-25-2005)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
§ 152.003  STRUCTURE OF ZONING CODE.
   (A)   If a use, structure, or edifice is not specifically authorized within
a zoning district, either by right or as a special use, then it is excluded and
not permitted in that district.
   (B)   (1)   Sometimes the uses permitted in 1 district are also permitted in
another.
      (2)   For example, single-family detached houses are frequently permitted
in multi-dwelling district.
      (3)   This is called cumulative zoning.
      (4)   A system, known as pyramiding, whereby all of the districts were
cumulative in order listed in this chapter;  the single-family residential
district comes first, followed by the 2-family, the multiple, commercial, and
industrial zones in the order.
      (5)   This chapter utilizes the pyramiding or cumulative system for the
residential districts:  R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 1.03; Am. Ord. 2004-4, passed 2-23-2004)
§ 152.004  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A public hearing having been held hereon, the provisions of this chapter
shall become effective 30 days after adoption, pursuant to Public Act 207 of
1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 to 125.590, as amended.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 2.01)
§ 152.005  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING OR STRUCTURE.  A supplemental building or structure on
the same lot or premises as the main building, occupied or devoted exclusively
to an accessory use, but not for dwelling, lodging, or sleeping purposes.
   AUTOMOTIVE REPAIR FACILITY.  A building or part thereof, other than a
private garage, designed or used for equipping, servicing, and/or repairing of
motor vehicles.
   BED AND BREAKFAST.  An owner-occupied private home (dwelling unit) wherein
up to and including 3 bedrooms have been converted for guest use for
compensation.
   BUILDING.  Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof or
other covering and used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons,
animals, or property or materials of any kind, or carrying on business
activities.  A BUILDING shall include tents, awnings, and garages, greenhouses
and carports and other principal or accessory structures; and also semi-
trailers, vehicles, mobile homes, or pre-manufactured or pre-cut structures,
erected on-site, above or below ground, designed primarily for shelter rather
than as a means of conveyance.  A BUILDING shall not include such structures as
signs, fences or smokestacks, but shall include structures such as storage
tanks, grain elevators, oil bunkers, oil cracking towers, or similar
structures.
   BUILDING SITE.  The area within a lot upon which a principal building or
structure together with any attached or detached accessory structures may be
located.
   CARPORTS, CANOPIES, AND SHELTERS.  See ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   CHILD CARE.
      COMMERCIAL. A commercial building where minor children are received for
care and supervision is provided for less than 24 hours a day. Such facilities
are licensed by the State of Michigan as day care centers and provide for the
care of more than 12 minor children. Day care centers must provide for parking
and drop off area, outdoor play areas, security fencing, lighting, signage and
trash disposal as required by state licensing provisions.
      FAMILY DAY CARE. A private home where 1 but fewer than 7 minor children
are received for care and supervision for less than 24 hours.
      GROUP DAY CARE. A private home where more than 6 but not more than 12
minor children are received for care and supervision for less than 24 hours.
      RESIDENTIAL. A private home where minor children are received for care
and supervision is provided for periods of less than 24 hours a day.
   CHURCH.  A building wherein persons regularly assemble for religious worship
and which is maintained and controlled by a religious body organized to sustain
public worship.
   CLINIC.  An establishment where human patients who are not lodged overnight
are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians, dentist,
or similar professions.
   CONVENIENCE SALES AND PERSONAL SERVICE.  Refers to the retail sale of small
convenience items and services.
   CORE LIVING AREA.  The principal living space determined by measurements of
the exterior main building, excluding porches, areas devoted exclusively to
accessory uses and decks, sheds, or non-heated additions.
   CUMULATIVE ZONING.  Sometimes the uses permitted in 1 district are also
permitted in another district.  For example, single-family detached houses are
permitted in a multiple-dwelling district.
   DISTRICT.  A geographic area designated by boundary lines, where zoning
regulations are common to all land contained within.
   DOMESTIC ANIMAL.  An animal that a zoo director determines is not likely to
bite without provocation nor cause death, maim, or illness of a human. 
   DUPLEX.  A building containing not more than 2 separate dwelling units
designed for residential use.
   DWELLING.  A building or structure occupied as a home, residence, or
sleeping place for 1 or more persons, either permanently or transiently, and
complying with the following standards.
      (1)   It has a minimum width of the principal part of the building of 20
feet and complies in all respects to the Grand Traverse County Construction
Code, including minimum height for habitable rooms.
      (2)   It is firmly attached to a permanent foundation constructed on the
site in accordance with the Grand Traverse County Construction Code and CO-
extensive with the perimeter of the building.
      (3)   It does not have exposed wheels, towing mechanism under carriage,
or chassis.
      (4)   The building or structure contains no additions or rooms or other
areas which are not constructed with  materials and quality of workmanship
similar or better to that of the original structure, including the above-
described foundation and permanent attachment to the principal structure.
      (5)   The building or structure is connected to a public sewer and water
supply or to the private facilities approved by the local health department.
      (6)   The dwelling contains a storage capability area in a basement
located under the dwelling, in an attic area, in a closet area, or in a
separate structure of standard construction similar to or of better quality
than the principal dwelling, which storage area shall be equal to 10% of the
square footage of the dwelling or 100 square feet, whichever shall be less.
      (7)   The building or structure complies with the Village of Kingsley
building and fire codes, including, in the case of mobile homes, the standards
for mobile home construction as contained in the United States Department of
Housing and Urban Development (HUD) regulations entitled, Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Standards, being 24 C.F.R. pt. 3280, effective 6-15-
1976, as amended.
      (8)   The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home located in
a licensed mobile home park or mobile home plat zoned for the uses, except to
the extent required in this chapter pertaining to the park.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY.  A dwelling designed for or occupied as a
residence for 3 or more families living independently of each other and each
having their own cooking facilities and sanitary accommodations.
   DWELLING, 1-FAMILY.  A building containing not more than 1 dwelling unit
designed for residential use.
   ERECTED.
      (1)   Includes built, constructed, reconstructed, moved upon, or any
physical operation on the premises intended or required for a building or
structure.
      (2)   Fill drainage and general property improvement shall not be
considered as erection.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
      (1)   The erection, construction, alteration, or maintenance by utilities
regulated by the Michigan Public Service Commission, municipal departments or
commissions, or any governmental agencies of underground or overhead gas,
electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution systems, collection,
communication, supply or disposal systems, including poles, wires, mains,
drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire alarm boxes, police call boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants, towers, electric substations, telephone exchange
buildings, gas regulator stations, and other similar equipment and accessories
in connection therewith, reasonably necessary for the furnishing of utility
service by the Michigan Public Service Commission’s regulated utilities,
municipal departments, commissions, or any governmental agencies.
      (2)   Warehouses, storage yards, office buildings, vehicle maintenance
and repair facilities along with areas or facilities used for equipment repair
shall not be classified as essential services for the purpose of this chapter.
   FAMILY.  One or 2 or more persons occupying a dwelling and living together
as a single housekeeping unit.
   FLOOD PLAIN.  The area of land adjacent to a river or other body of water
which is inundated as a result of water exceeding the normal banks of the water
body.
   FLOOR AREA.  The square feet of floor space within the outside walls
exclusive of porches, garage, basement, cellar, or attic area.
   FLOOR PLAN. A plan that must identify the number of plants, chemical
storage, space and other critical aspects of the layout of the permitted
premises.
   FOOT-CANDLE.  The luminance produced on the surface 1 foot from a uniform
point source on 1 candela.
   FRONT YARD.  A yard across the full width of the lot extending from the
front line of the principal building to the front lot line.
   GARAGE, PRIVATE.  An accessory building or an accessory portion of a
principal building designed for the storage of motor vehicles, boats, and
similar vehicles owned and used by the occupants of the building to which it is
accessory. 
   GARAGE, PUBLIC.  A building or part thereof, other than private garages,
designed or used for equipping, servicing, repairing, hiring, storing, or
parking of motor vehicles.  The term does not include the rebuilding,
dismantling, or storage of wrecked or junked vehicles.
   GOVERNMENT BUILDING.  A building provided by or for the purpose of a
government or municipality to care for a specified need or function essential
to its existence, or which would serve or benefit the public at large.
   GREENBELTS.  A greenbelt shall be a planting strip or buffer strip, at least
10 feet in width but not over 100 feet in width with plantings and spacing as
deemed necessary by the Planning Commission.
   GROWER. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   HIGHWAY.  Any public thoroughfare including federal, state, and county
roads.
   HOME OCCUPATION.
      (1)   An occupation clearly incidental to residential use such as
dressmaking, real estate sales, bookkeeping, and accounting services.
      (2)   The occupation may be engaged in only by a resident entirely within
his or her dwelling, and not in an accessory building, or with the use of
nonresident employees.
      (3)   The use shall not occupy more than 25% of the floor area, exclusive
of attic or basement, and shall show no external evidence of the use or any
change in the appearance of the building or premises from residential use.
   HOME PROFESSIONAL OFFICE.
      (1)   The office of a professional person such as a doctor, lawyer,
osteopath, dentist, chiropractor, or engineer and similar professions, when
engaged in only by a resident within his or her dwelling and not in an
accessory building or structure, and with the assistance of not more than 1
outside or nonresident employee.
      (2)   The use shall occupy not more than 25% of the floor area exclusive
of attic or basement, and shall show no external evidence of the use or any
change in the appearance of the dwelling or of the premises from residential
use, provided, that 1 sign, not exceeding 3 square feet in area may be erected
flat on the front wall of the dwelling for identification.
   IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.  Any material that prevents absorption of storm water,
i.e. asphalt, concrete.  This excludes gravel surfaces.
(Ord. 2005-4, passed 3-7-2005)
   JUNK YARD.  The use of premises for storage or disposition of old and
dilapidated  automobiles, tractors, trucks, wagons, and other vehicles and
parts thereof, scrap building materials, scrap contractor's equipment, tanks,
cases, barrels, boxes, drums, piping bottles, old iron,  machinery, rags,
paper, and other scrap or waste materials.
   LICENSEE. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   LOT OF RECORD.  A lot that was “platted or otherwise of record” as of the
effective date of the chapter, or amendments thereto.
   LOT OR PREMISES.  The parcel of land occupied by or to be occupied by a
building and its accessory buildings or structures, together with the open
spaces, minimum area and width required by this chapter for the district
wherein located, and having its frontage on a public street.
   LUMEN.  A unit of luminous flux, the flux emitted within a solid angle by a
point source with a uniform, luminous intensity of 1 candela. One foot candle
is 1 lumen per square foot. One lux is 1 lumen per square meter.
   MANUFACTURED HOME.
      (1)   Is constructed almost entirely in a factory.
      (2)   The house is placed on a steel chassis and transported to the
building site.
      (3)   The wheels can be removed but the chassis stays in place.
      (4)   Local building codes do not apply to manufactured homes; instead
these houses are built according to specialized guidelines (federal HUD
regulations in the United States) for manufactured housing.
   MARIHUANA. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   MARIHUANA FACILITY. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   MARIHUANA PLANT. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   MINI-STORAGE BUILDING.  Rows of garage-like structures designed for dead
storage of personal goods, rented for periods of time to individuals and small
businesses.
   MOBILE HOME.  A 1-family manufactured living unit which is transported to a
site as 1 or more modules, any of which is so constructed as to permit
permanent occupancy as a home, residence, or sleeping place by 1 or more
persons.
   MOBILE HOME PARK.  Any site or tact of land upon which 3 or more mobile
homes are located, either free of charge or for revenue purposes; excluding
mobile home sales, at which none of the mobile homes are allowed to be
occupied.
   MODULAR HOME.
      (1)   Is constructed of pre-made parts and unit modules.
      (2)   A complete kitchen and bath may be pre-set in the house.
      (3)   Wall panels, trusses, and other pre-fabricated house parts are
transported on a flat bed truck from the factory to the building site.
      (4)   Unlike manufactured homes, MODULAR HOMES must conform to the
building codes for the locations where they are erected.
   MONITORED SECURITY GATE. Any gate used for ingress or egress on the
permitted property through the perimeter enclosure. Each such gate must be
monitored by a security guard or other secure access system, which verifies the
identity of the person(s) entering or exiting the perimeter enclosure.
   MOTEL.  A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in connection
units, used or designed as individual sleeping units for transient travelers,
and providing accessory off-street parking facilities. 
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located or the
provisions of this chapter. 
   NURSERY.  A place where trees, shrubs, and plants are grown, or raised for
transplanting, for use as stocks for budding and grafting, or for sale.
   OFFICES.  Refers to offices of private firms and organizations and certain
government agencies, which are primarily used for the execution of
professional, executive, management, or administrative services.
   OPEN AIR MARKET.  Commercial sale of new or used general merchandise,
including antiques, and produce on a temporary basis in open stalls or within
partially enclosed or totally enclosed space.
   PERIMETER ENCLOSURE. A continuous, opaque fence of commercial quality or
masonry wall, or any combination of both that fully encloses a permitted
premises. The perimeter enclosure must be no less than 10 feet in height and no
more than 12 feet in height. The perimeter enclosure must be at least 40 feet
or the distance necessary to accommodate the radius of the local fire
jurisdictions largest apparatus, whichever is greater, away from the permitted
premises. Any ingress or egress through the perimeter enclosure must be by a
monitored security gate. There is no property line setback requirement for a
perimeter enclosure. Any perimeter enclosure must provide for secured access
points for fire equipment and personnel, which must be approved by the local
fire department with jurisdiction over the permitted premises and/or permitted
property.
   PERMIT. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   PERMIT HOLDER. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   PERMITTED PREMISES. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   PERMITTED PROPERTY. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability limited
partnership, trust, or other legal entity.
   PRINCIPAL USE.  The primary and predominant use or intended use of the
premises according to the zone requirements, including permitted accessory
uses.
   PRIVATE ROAD.  A street or other thoroughfare used for passage to and from
land, which does not abut a publicly maintained road, street, or highway.
   PROCESSOR. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   PYRAMID ZONING.  Utilized cumulative zoning for the residential district: 
R-1, R-2, R-3, and R-4.  These districts are cumulative in the order listed in
“this chapter.”
   RECREATIONAL UNIT.
      (1)   A vehicular-type structure, typically containing less than 500
square feet of floor space primarily designed as temporary living quarters for
recreational camping or travel use, which either has its own motive power or is
mounted on or drawn by another vehicle which is self-powered.
      (2)   RECREATIONAL UNIT shall include travel trailers, camping trailers,
motor homes, truck campers, slide-in campers, and chassis-mounted campers.
   SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   SECURE TRANSPORTER. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   SECURITY PLAN. An interior and exterior security plan that sufficiently
demonstrates to the Village Planning Commission that appropriate measures will
be installed and in place to prevent unpermitted access to the marihuana and
the permitted premises by non-authorized personnel. In order to sufficiently
demonstrate, the security plan must include:
      (1)   A physical human security presence on the permitted property at all
times;
      (2)   A fully functional, alarm system and video monitoring/recording
system at all times. The video monitoring system must provide monitoring of
both the interior and exterior of the facility, to allow the operator to detect
all activity on the property. Video footage must be recorded in a format that
can be viewed by law enforcement personnel. Video footage must be preserved for
at least 120 days and turned over to law enforcement personnel upon written
request within 24 hours of such request.
      (3)   A perimeter enclosure; and
      (4)   Interior security provisions, which must include that marihuana
plant product must be located in an enclosed, locked facility. An ENCLOSED
LOCKED FACILITY means a fully enclosed area equipped with secured locks or
other functioning security devices that permit access only by a licensee and/or
their authorized employees. Valuables must be removed from the permitted
premises or locked in a safe on the premises at all times when the permitted
premises are not in operation.
   SIGNS.
      (1)   BUSINESS CENTER.  A single building containing 3 or more
businesses.
      (2)   CANOPY SIGN.  A sign that is part of a canopy over a door or
window.
      (3)   ENTRANCE SIGN.  A sign located at the entrance of a residential
development or commercial multi-tenant development.
      (4)   FREESTANDING SIGN.  A sign not attached to a building or wall,
supported on poles or supports.
      (5)   MINOR SIGN.  A permanent anchored or secured sign that is 6 square
feet in area or less.
      (6)   MONUMENT SIGN.  A sign whose base is at ground level and has
landscaping at the base.
      (7)   PORTABLE SIGN.  A free-standing sign not permanently anchored or
secured to either a building or the ground.
      (8)   PROJECTING SIGN.  A sign which projects from and is supported by a
wall of a building.
      (9)   ROOF SIGN.  A sign that is attached to the roof of a building, or
that projects above a buildings/ roofline, or that is attached to the roof of
an automotive vehicle.
      (10)   SIGN.  A structure displaying a message intended to be viewed by
the public.
      (11)   SIGN HEIGHT.  For ground signs, SIGN HEIGHT is defined as the
measurement from the established grade to the highest point on the sign.
      (12)   SIGN AREA.
         (a)   The entire rectangular area within a single continuous perimeter
enclosing the extreme limits of lettering, representation, emblems, or other
figures, together with any material or color forming an integral part of the
display or used to differentiate the sign from the background.
         (b)   SIGN AREA shall include the frame of a sign but shall not
include any post or other sign structure not containing an advertising message.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/623ba6bc56920454df431425f56611e763fcfe97/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1111.jpg]
 
         (c)   If a sign has only 1 exterior face, the SIGN AREAS of that face
shall not exceed the specified maximum.
         (d)   If a sign has 2 exterior faces, the SIGN AREA of each face shall
not exceed the specified maximum.
         (e)   If a sign has more than 2 exterior faces, the sum of the SIGN
AREA of all the faces shall not exceed twice the specified maximum.
         (f)   In the case of a canopy sign, the copy area of the canopy shall
be measured to determine total SIGN AREA. See graphic at right.
      (13)   OVERALL SIGN AREA.  For monument style and free-standing signs,
overall sign area includes the monument base and any supporting posts. See
graphic.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/623ba6bc56920454df431425f56611e763fcfe97/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1113.jpg]
      (14)   WALL SIGN.
         (a)   A sign which is attached directly to or painted upon a building
wall with the exposed face of the sign in a plane parallel to the building
wall.
         (b)   WALL SIGNS include, for purposes of this chapter, window signs
(see definition below), marquees, awning signs, and canopy signs.
      (15)   WINDOW SIGN.  Signs affixed to, etched into, painted on, in
contact with, or within 12 inches of a window; installed for purposes of
viewing from outside the premises.
   SPECIAL USE.  Those uses of land which are not essentially incompatible with
the permitted uses in a zoning district, but possess characteristics or
location qualities which require individual review and restriction in order to
avoid incompatibility with the character of the surrounding area, public
services, facilities, and adjacent uses of land.
   STATE OPERATING LICENSE. As defined in §
154.02, Definitions.
   STICK-BUILT HOME.
      (1)   Is constructed on the building site, piece by piece.
      (2)   Manufactured and modular homes are not classified as stick-built
because they are made mostly in the factory and then transported to the site. 
   STREET.  A public thoroughfare which affords the principle means of access
to abutting property.
   STRUCTURE.  Any construction, assembly, or erection, the use of which
requires permanent location on the ground or attached to something having
permanent location on the ground.     
   TEMPORARY BUILDING.  A building which is not permanently affixed to the
property.  An example of a TEMPORARY BUILDING is a trailer used on a
construction site or a tent.
   TEMPORARY SIGN.  A sign advertising real estate or for political campaigns
and other temporary purposes for a time not to exceed 90 days.
   TENTS. A portable shelter of canvas, coarse cloth, or similar material
supported by 1 or more poles, but not including those used solely for
children's recreational purposes or noncommercial purposes.
   VARIANCE.  A deviation from the terms of this chapter as authorized by the
enabling statute, upon findings of practical difficulties and unnecessary
hardship.
   VETERINARY CLINIC.  An establishment where animals are treated for diseases
and injuries, surgically or medically.
   VILLAGE OPERATING LICENSE. A license that is issued under
Chapter 154.
   YARD.  Space open to the sky between a building and the lot line of the
premises on which located, unoccupied and unobstructed by any encroachment of 
structure, except as otherwise provided by this chapter.
   ZONING PERMIT.  The permit that is issued after the Zoning Administrator has
all the necessary information and assurances that indicates the parcel of
property, and uses proposed, are in compliance with the zoning ordinance.
   ZONING PERMIT APPLICATION.
      (1)   The formal application that must be submitted by owner or his or
her agent as to the construction, use, and activities that will be occurring on
the parcel of property in question.
      (2)   This will include but not be limited to site plans, scale drawing,
and verification of property ownership.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 3.01; Am. Ord. 2002-8, passed 10-7-2002; Am. Ord.
2002-3, passed 9-9-2002; Am. Ord. 2004-4, passed 2-23-2004; Am. Ord. 2005-7,
passed 7-25-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-6, passed 9-11-2006; Am. Ord. passed 7-11-2016;
Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 9-11-2017; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 11-13-2017; Am.
Ord. 19-03, passed 10-14-2019)
ZONING DISTRICTS
§ 152.020  ESTABLISHMENT OF DISTRICTS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, all the area within the Village of Kingsley
is hereby divided into the following zoning districts:
   (A)   Residential District R-1;
   (B)   Residential District R-2;
   (C)   Residential District R-3;
   (D)   Residential District R-4;
   (E)   Village Residential District VR;
   (F)   Forests/Parks/Recreation District;
   (G)   Commercial District C-1;
   (H)   Commercial District C-2;
   (I)   Industrial District I;
   (J)   Planned Unit Development District; and
   (K)   Condominium Subdivisions.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 4.01; Am. Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.021  ZONING DISTRICTS MAP.
   (A)   (1)   The location of each zoning district is shown on a map
designated as the “Zoning Districts Map of Kingsley, Michigan,” which
information thereon are hereby made a part of this chapter.
      (2)   The official zoning map shall be identified by the signature of the
President of the village, attested by the Village Clerk, including the
following certification:  “This is to certify that this is the official zoning
districts map referred to in Article IV, Section 4.02 of the Village of
Kingsley Zoning Ordinance adopted on October 23, 1978.”
   (B)   Two copies of the zoning ordinance and official zoning map shall be
maintained and kept up-to-date for inspection by the public at all times in the
office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   (1)   When changes are duly made in the district boundaries or other
matters on the official zoning map, the changes shall not be considered final
and no permit required by this chapter shall be issued until changes have been
made on the official zoning map.
      (2)   Each change shall have a reference number on the map referring to
the amending action of the Council.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 4.02)
§ 152.022  DISTRICT BOUNDARIES.
   The following rules shall apply in interpreting boundaries.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following streets, alleys, or
highways shall be interpreted as the center lines of the streets, alleys, or
highways.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following lot lines or boundary
lines shall be interpreted as following the lines.
   (C)   (1)   Boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to the center
line of streets, alleys, or highways shall be interpreted as parallel thereto,
and as the distance therefrom as indicated on the official zoning map.
      (2)   If no distance is specified, the distance shall be determined by
the scale of the official zoning map.
   (D)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following railroad lines shall
be interpreted to be midway between the main tracks.
   (E)   Where application of any rules leaves reasonable doubt as to
boundaries between districts, the regulations of the more restrictive district
shall govern the entire parcel in question, unless otherwise determined by the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 4.03)
§ 152.023  LAND USE PERMITS.
   (A)   No person shall erect, place, or move any building having more than
100 square feet of floor area, nor shall any person make an addition of more
than 100 square feet of enclosed floor space to any existing building, or
change or establish a new use for any land within any zoning district without
first obtaining a land use permit therefore.
   (B)   Application shall be made by the Zoning Administrator for the permit
on the forms to be supplied by the Administrator.
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to require proof of
ability to comply with all the requirements of this chapter pertaining to the
use, and may also require proof of ability to meet all public health standards
and applicable state and county laws, regulations, and ordinances.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 4.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-1
§ 152.035  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of providing Residential District R-1 is to establish a district
in the village primarily dedicated to residential use in which each dwelling
hereafter erected is located on an individual lot adequate in size and shape to
limit overcrowding of land, minimize spread of fire, facilitate provision for a
system of transportation, sewage disposal, water, and other public
requirements.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 5.01)
§ 152.036  PERMITTED USES.
   Land, buildings, and structures in the R-1 District may be used for the
following purposes only:
   (A)   Single-family stick-built dwellings;
   (B)   Home occupation and professional offices;
   (C)   Park, playgrounds, and recreational areas publicly owned and operated;
and
   (D)   Publicly owned buildings, including libraries.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 5.02; Am. Ord. 2004-1, passed 2-23-2004; Am. Ord.
2004-7, passed 2-23-2004; Am. Ord. 03 7-2015, passed 7-13-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.037  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, subject to final approval by the Village Council, may
authorize special uses in this district which are found to be appropriate and
compatible with the character of the area, and which shall be subject to
special requirements as the Planning Commission and Village Council may
consider necessary to protect adjacent property and prevent conditions which
may become objectionable or offensive; provided however, any request for
special use permit shall be subject to the requirements for review and approval
as set forth in §§
152.228 and
152.229.
   (B)   (1)   Educational institutions, public and private elementary and
secondary schools, auditoriums and other places for public assembly, but
excluding schools or studios for music and dancing instructions;
      (2)   Religious institutions, churches, and similar places of worship,
with related buildings and structures;
      (3)   Institutions for human care, hospitals, family care homes, clinics,
homes for the aged, nursing and convalescent homes, and institutions of
charitable nature, but not including penal or correctional institutions;
      (4)   FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME or GROUP DAY-CARE HOME, as defined in § 1(f)
(IV) of MCL 722.111; and
      (5)   STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITIES as defined in Public Act 207
of 1927, § 3(b), being M.C.L.A. § 125.5836, providing supervision or care to 6
or fewer persons, but not including adult foster care facilities licensed by a
state agency for care and treatment of persons released from or assigned to
adult correctional facilities.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 5.03; Am. Ord. 2004-1, passed 2-23-2004)
§ 152.038  ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Accessory uses and minor buildings and structures incidental to any
primary or approved use, which does not alter the character of the
neighborhood, may be erected.
   (B)   Accessory uses shall not include the keeping of poultry or other
animals, except 4 dogs or 4 cats, or a combination of dogs or cats not
exceeding a total of 4 in number.
   (C)   No accessory structure shall be erected or moved upon a lot until
construction of main building has actually been commenced, and no accessory
building shall be utilized unless the main building is in use.
   (D)   See
§ 152.220 for additional information.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 5.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.039  DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot areas.  Every 1-family dwelling hereafter erected shall be
located on a lot containing not less than 10,000 square feet area.
   (B)   Minimum lot width.  Every lot upon which a 1-family dwelling is
hereafter erected shall not be less than 100 feet in frontage width.
   (C)   Yard limitations.
      (1)   Front yards.  Every building hereafter erected shall have a front
yard not less than 25 feet in depth.
      (2)   Side yards.  Every 1-family dwelling hereafter erected shall
provide side yards not less than 10 feet, with a minimum of 20 feet between
buildings and a combined side yard setback of 20 feet.
      (3)   Rear yards.  Every building hereafter shall provide a rear yard not
less than 10 feet in depth.
   (D)   Building height.  Maximum height shall be 35 feet.
   (E)   Minimum floor area.  Every dwelling hereafter erected shall provide
not less than 700 square feet of floor area per dwelling unit, not including
basement, cellar, attic, attached garage, or other attached structure.
   (F)   Maximum lot coverage.  Maximum lot coverage shall not exceed 70%.
   (G)   Width to depth ratio of lot.  The length may be no more than 4 times
the width of the property.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 5.05)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-2
§ 152.050  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of providing Residential District R-2 is to establish a
district in the village primarily dedicated to residential use in which each
dwelling hereafter erected is located on an individual lot adequate in size and
shape to limit overcrowding of land, minimize spread of fire, facilitate safe
exit and entrance to the premises, and facilitate provision for a system of
transportation, sewage disposal, water, and other public requirements.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions are primarily intended to protect and stabilize
the basic qualities of each district and provide suitable and safe conditions
for family living.
      (2)   To limit intrusion and mingling of undesirable and incompatible
property uses with residential use; and all other property uses and structures
shall be subject to special approval as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 6.01)
§ 152.051  PERMITTED USES.
   Land, buildings, and structures in the R-2 District may be used for the
following purposes only:
   (A)   Single-family stick-built dwellings;
   (B)   Home occupation and professional offices;
   (C)   Park, playgrounds, and recreational areas publicly owned and operated;
   (D)   Publicly owned buildings, including libraries;
   (E)   Multiple-family stick-built dwellings, including duplexes and
apartments.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 6.02; Am. Ord. 2004-7, passed 2-23-2004; Am. Ord. 03
7-2015, passed 7-13-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.052  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, subject to final approval by the Village Council, may
authorize special uses in this district which are found to be appropriate and
compatible with the character of the area, and which shall be subject to
special requirements as the Planning Commission and Village Council may
consider necessary to protect adjacent property and prevent conditions which
may become objectionable or offensive; provided however, any request for
special use permit shall be subject to the requirements for review and approval
as set forth in §§
152.228 and
152.229.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 6.03; Am. Ord. 2002-1, passed 9-9-2002)
§ 152.053  YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The same yard and lot area requirements shall apply as in the R-1 District,
except that a lot area shall be 10,000 square feet per unit and 150 feet
minimum lot frontage for duplex and multiple-family structures.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 6.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.054  BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The same building height requirement shall apply as in the R-1 District.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 6.05)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT R-3
§ 152.065  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of providing Residential District R-3 is to establish a
district in the village primarily dedicated to residential use, including the
construction and maintaining of modular homes and manufactured homes that meet
the definition of dwelling as contained in
§ 152.005, in which each dwelling hereafter erected is located on an individual
lot adequate in size and shape to limit overcrowding of land, minimize spread
of fire, facilitate safe exit and entrance to the premises and facilitate
provision for a system of transportation, sewage disposal, water, and other
public requirements.
   (B)   (1)   The provisions are primarily intended to protect and stabilize
the basic qualities of each such district and provide suitable and safe
conditions for family living.
      (2)   To limit intrusion and mingling of undesirable and incompatible
property uses with residential use, all other property uses and structures
shall be subject to special approval as hereinafter provided in
§§ 152.300et seq.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 7.01; Am. Ord. 2004-8, passed 2-23-2004)
§ 152.066  PERMITTED USES.
   Land, buildings, and structures in the R-3 District may be used for the
following purposes only:
   (A)   Single-family stick-built dwellings;
   (B)   Single-family modular or manufactured dwellings meeting the standards
of §
152.005;
   (C)   Home occupation and professional offices;
   (D)   Park, playgrounds, and recreational areas publicly owned and operated;
   (E)   Publicly owned buildings, including libraries; and
   (F)   Multiple-family stick-built dwellings, including duplexes and
apartments.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 7.02; Am. Ord. 2001-1, passed 5-7-2001; Am. Ord. 03
7-2015, passed 7-13-2015)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.067  YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The same yard and lot requirements shall apply as in the R-2 District.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 7.03)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.068  BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The same building height requirements shall apply as in the R-1 District.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 7.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT  R-4
§ 152.080  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of providing a Residential R-4 District is to establish a
district in the village primarily dedicated to residential use intended for
single-family and mobile home communities.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 8.01; Am. Ord. 2005-18, passed 2-6-2006)
§ 152.081  PERMITTED USES.
   One-family dwelling units with a width of not less than 14 feet and
complying with all other criteria found in the definition of a DWELLING,
including mobile homes and other pre-manufactured housing.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 8.02; Am. Ord. 2001-2, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
§ 152.082  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   Licensed mobile home parks (see § 152.085).
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 8.03)
§ 152.083  YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   The same yard and lot requirements shall apply as in the R-2 District.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 8.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.084  BUILDING HEIGHT.
   The same building height requirements shall apply as in the R-1 District.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 8.05)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.085  LICENSED MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Licensed mobile home parks may be constructed in Residential District
R-4; provided, however, that the mobile home parks comply with all applicable
state regulations.
   (B)   Further, the mobile home parks shall have at minimum the following:
      (1)   Lot areas of no less than 1,500 square feet;
      (2)   Pressurized water systems and sanitary sewage disposal systems
acceptable to the Tri-County Health Department, or the other state agency
having the enforcement responsibility;
      (3)   Paved roads throughout the mobile home park; and
      (4)   Off-street parking as required in
§ 152.224.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 8.06)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
VILLAGE RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT VR
§ 152.090  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This district is intended to facilitate single-family residential uses
and accessory buildings in the core areas of village that have the historic
smaller and/or narrow lots of record.  This district is intended to reduce the
number of nonconforming lots within the village and provide for future infill
housing opportunities.
   (B)   Buildings in this district are strongly encouraged to follow a
traditional neighborhood character and be designed to be compatible with the
architectural character of existing older buildings with respect to their:
garage location, building height, materials of construction, roofline slopes,
porches, windows and pedestrian and vehicular access location.
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.091  USES.
   Land, buildings, and structures in the VR District may be used for the
following purposes only:
   (A)   Single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Home occupation and professional offices.
   (C)   Park, playgrounds, and recreational areas publicly owned and operated.
   (D)   Publicly owned buildings, including libraries.
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.092  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following special land uses may be permitted after review and approval
of the Village Council; provided, however, that any request for a special land
use permit shall be subject to the requirements for review and approval set
forth in §§ 152.228 and 152.229:
   (A)   Educational institutions.
   (B)   Religious institutions.
   (C)   Institutions for human care.
   (D)   Family day-care home or group day-care home.
   (E)   State licensed residential facilities.
   (F)   Accessory dwelling unit.
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.093  DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
Dimensional Requirements
Dimensional Requirements
Lot size:            6,000 square feet
Lot width:           50 feet
Lot coverage:        60%
Setbacks              
   Front:         Min. 10 feet, Max. 20 feet
                     (or average of the existing structures on the block)
   Side:          5 feet
   Rear:          10 feet, Residence
3 feet, Garage (on active alley)
Building height:     35 feet
Minimum floor area:  700 square feet
Width to depth area: 4:1 (length may be no more than 4 times width)
Notes:
A.   Garages facing the street to be setback a minimum of 10 feet from the
front of the residence (not the porch)
B.   See §
152.038  Accessory Uses, Buildings, and Structures
 
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
FORESTS/PARKS/RECREATION DISTRICT
§ 152.100  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this district is to provide an area exclusive of residential,
commercial, or industrial growth to preserve the natural features of the
village and to provide for the recreational needs of the community.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 9.01)
§ 152.101  PERMITTED USES.
   No building or structure, or any part thereof, will be erected, altered, or
used, or land or premises used, in whole or in part, for other than 1 or more
of the following specified uses:
   (A)   Public parks and recreational facilities;
   (B)   Tree plantations, forests, and conservation projects; and/or
   (C)   Nature trails.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 9.02)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.102  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following special land uses may be permitted after review and approval
of the Village Council; provided, however, that any request for a special land
use permit shall be subject to the requirements for review and approval set
forth in §§
152.228 and
152.229:
   (A)   Nurseries and greenhouses; and
   (B)   Private parks and campgrounds.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 9.03)
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT C-1
§ 152.115  PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this district is to promote an active, vibrant commercial
downtown (beginning at the railroad tracks to 510 W. Main and from the Main/
Brownson intersection North to 200 N. Brownson and South to 313 S. Brownson
also including properties on Blair Street from the railroad tracks to 209 W.
Blair) by accommodating small businesses primarily serving adjacent
neighborhoods with day-to-day retail goods and services.  The desired
development pattern is one that mimics an historical downtown.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 10.01; Am. Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005)
§ 152.116  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The use of all lands and premises and the erection and use of all
buildings and structures shall hereafter be limited to the following.
   (B)   However, the uses shall be subject to the requirements of site plan
review set forth in
§ 152.228.
      (1)   Bank, real estate, insurance, and similar businesses;
      (2)   Carpenter, plumbing, electric, sign painting, interior decoration,
radio, television and similar shops and services when conducted within
completely enclosed buildings without outside storage, and operated chiefly as
a retail and service business computer sales, service and repair;
      (3)   Barber, beauty shops, shoe repair, tanning salons;
      (4)   Duplicating shops of no more than 4 presses no larger than 11 feet
by 17 feet, photography and related shops and services conducted in less than
10,000 square feet;
      (5)   Professional offices, such as doctors, lawyers, dentists,
chiropractors, osteopaths, and similar and allied professions;
      (6)   Publicly-owned and operated buildings;
      (7)   Public assembly buildings, such as auditoriums, and churches,
clubs, and lodges;
      (8)   Restaurants, including lunch counters, dairy bars, and similar
establishments providing food for consumption on premises, but not including
“drive-ins” or facilities providing dancing or entertainment;
      (9)   Retail food establishments supplying groceries, fruits, vegetables,
meats, dairy products, baked goods, confections, and similar goods for
consumption off the premises.  Food stuffs may be processed on the premises as
an accessory activity if the sale of the product is limited to the local retail
store;
      (10)   Pharmacies, retail clothing, and dry goods, music shop, hardware,
building supplies, and similar items;
      (11)   Publicly-owned and/or operated parks;
      (12)   Dwelling units, subject to the following restrictions:
         (a)   Is located above the ground floor of a building, which is being
put to a use permitted in divisions (C)(1) through (C)(12) above.
         (b)   Has 2 parking spaces provided for each dwelling unit, in
addition to the number of spaces required for the commercial use.  The Planning
Commission may grant a parking exception, which reduces parking space
requirements if it has been clearly demonstrated that the provisions of full
parking are unnecessary or that such requirements would create a practical
difficulty with the use of the lot, contrasted with merely granting an
advantage or convenience.
         (c)   As to each building, the dwelling unit or units occupy the floor
area approved by the village through the permitting process.
      (13)   Day care centers as defined in §
152.005.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 10.02; Am. Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005; Am. Ord.
2005-19, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 9-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.117  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE  PERMIT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, subject to final approval by the Village Council, may
authorize special uses in this district which are found to be appropriate and
compatible with the character of the area, and which shall be subject to
special requirements as the Planning Commission and Village Council may
consider necessary to protect adjacent property and prevent conditions which
may become objectionable or offensive; provided however, any request for
special use permit shall be subject to the requirements for review and approval
as set forth in §§
152.228 and
152.229.
   (B)   (1)   Car washes;
      (2)   Passenger bus stations;
      (3)   Drive-in businesses, except drive-in theaters, provided all
lighting is shielded from adjacent residential districts;
      (4)   Gasoline service stations when located on a lot not less than
15,000 square feet in area with a minimum width of 100 feet.  All exterior
lighting shall be so directed as to deflect away from adjacent properties;
      (5)   Open-air retail sale of plant materials not grown on the site,
sales of lawn furniture, playground equipment, and garden supplies;
      (6)   Outdoor advertising signs other than those which exclusively
advertise a retail business on the premises;
      (7)   Commercial parking lots and outdoor sale of trailers and boats,
provided the space used is paved and adequately maintained so as to provide a
durable, smooth, ductless surface, and is so graded and provided with adequate
drainage facilities to carry off all collected water from the site;
      (8)   Pet shops provided that animals and birds are kept entirely within
the building at all times;
      (9)   Retail second-hand stores when conducted entirely within enclosed
buildings;
      (10)   Service and repair of motor vehicles, trailers, and boats;
      (11)   Veterinary hospitals and clinics;
      (12)   Laundromats, laundries, and clothes cleaning establishments
without the use of explosive or inflammable fluids;
      (13)   Billiard halls, bowling alleys, indoor archery, indoor skating
rinks, and similar recreational uses, provided that all uses shall be conducted
within a completed enclosed building, with setback as approved by the Board of
Appeals;
      (14)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (15)   Public utility buildings;
      (16)   Taverns, bars, and motels;
      (17)   Privately-owned and/or operated parks; and
      (18)   Business schools, provided they are supplemental or ancillary to
the primary use-by-right.  The school use must not interfere with the primary
use as an active, vibrant storefront.  The school must remain secondary in
regard to building square footage and signage.  A maximum of 30% of the
building footprint may be utilized in a secondary capacity and must be
indicated on a site plan during the site plan review stage of approval.  The
school must not cause any nuisances such as smoke, dust, fumes, gas, heat,
glare, noise, and/or vibration.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 10.03; Am. Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005)
§ 152.118  ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   Accessory uses, buildings, and structures customarily incidental to any
primary or permitted use.  See
§ 152.220 for additional information.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 10.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.119  LOT AND YARD AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot width.  Buildings in the C-1 District shall have a minimum
height of 10 feet, a maximum of 2 stories, and a maximum building height of 35
feet.  Forty-five feet in height and 3 stories is allowed if at least 1 floor
of the building is designed and used for dwellings. 
   (B)   Building height.  Maximum height shall be 2 stories/35 feet.  Or with
a floor designed and used for residential purposes, maximum 3 stories/45 feet.
   (C)   Front setback. 
      (1)   Building:  Structure must be 2 feet from the sidewalk to maintain
or in some instances create a build-to line.
      (2)   Parking lot:  Must be 5 feet from the sidewalk.
   (D)   Side yard setback.
      (1)   Building:  None, except a minimum 10-foot side setback is required
on any side adjacent to an R-District.
      (2)   Parking:  5 feet, except a 10-foot side setback is required on any
side adjoining an R-District.
   (E)   Rear yard setback. 
      (1)   Building:  5 feet, except a 20-foot rear setback is required on
portion abutting or across an alley from an R-District.
      (2)   Parking:  5 feet, except a 20-foot rear setback is required on any
side adjoining an R-District.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 10.05; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 7-25-2005; Am. Ord.
2005-8, passed 7-25-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.120  SPECIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   To preserve and reinforce the context of historic buildings and to establish
development patterns of the C-1 District, all new buildings and additions to
existing buildings are to be designed, constructed and used in accordance with
the following standards:
   (A)   No building shall have a gross floor area of more than 4,500 square
feet on 1 level, and no more than 9,000 square feet gross floor area total,
except a third floor and an additional 4,500 square feet are allowed if such
floor is designed and used exclusively for residential purposes.
   (B)   The predominant building wall and entryway shall face the street.
   (C)   Unless determined to be impractical by the Planning Commission, the
building width shall not be less than 80% of the property width at the street.
   (D)   Vertical building modulation shall be used to add variety and interest
and to make a large building appear to be an aggregation of smaller units.
Relief from a continuous street facing wall may be achieved with wall offsets
in combination with pilasters, corbelling or other permanent architectural
elements, however, offsets in any wall shall not be less than 8 inches from the
subject plane.
   (E)   Window glazing shall be recessed from the outside of all building
walls.
   (F)   Clear or lightly tinted transparent glass shall be used for all
windows facing a public street.  Decorative stained glass may be used for
accents. Mirrored, smoked and darkly tinted glass is prohibited.
   (G)   Street-facing building facades shall incorporate permanent
architectural elements which create shadow patterns and surface textures which,
in turn, enhance visual interest.
   (H)   Except for buildings that are solely residential, windows or street
level activities are required on 50% of the first story street wall facing any
public street. Street level activities include public display space, public
atriums, pedestrian entrances and interior circulation and windows with views
into any designated street level use.
   (I)   Pedestrian entrances may open onto the sidewalk or mid-block passages
or walkways leading to the public right-of-way. Entries must be prominently
identified and must not interfere with safe pedestrian passage along walkways.
Primary entries must set back a minimum 4 feet from the facade.
   (J)   The spacing and shape of windows and openings on the building shall
closely reflect the fenestration of any adjacent historic buildings. Brick,
stone, wood or a combination thereof, compatible with adjacent historic
buildings, shall be used.
   (K)   Fenestration, cornices and other primarily horizontal architectural
elements incorporated in new buildings or additions to existing buildings shall
be in context with historic buildings in the area.
   (L)   Any rooftop equipment shall be enclosed or screened from street level
view using the same materials used for the building walls or a material, which
is approved by the Planning Commission as visually compatible with the
building.
(Ord. 2005-8, passed 7-25-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
COMMERCIAL DISTRICT C-2
§ 152.130  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of establishing a Commercial District C-2 is to provide
areas exclusive of residential use and primarily dedicated to a wide variety of
commercial business, professional and other services commonly associated with
commercial truck movements, of the nuisance of smoke, dust, fumes, gas, heat,
glare, noise, and/or vibration.
   (B)   Provision is also made for integration of various enterprises and
establishments by special approval as provided in
§§ 152.300et seq.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.01; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 152.131  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   The use of all lands and premises and the erection and use of all
buildings and structures shall hereafter be limited to the following.
   (B)   Provided, however, the uses shall be subject to the requirements of
site plan review set forth in
§ 152.228.
   (C)   (1)   Bank, real estate, insurance, and similar business;
      (2)   Barber, beauty shops, shoe repair, tanning salons;
      (3)   Billiard halls, bowling alleys, indoor archery, indoor skating
rinks, and similar recreational uses, provided that all uses shall be conducted
within a completely enclosed building;
      (4)   Carpenter, plumbing, electric, sign painting, interior decoration,
radio, television, and similar shops and services; when conducted within
completely enclosed buildings without outside storage, and operated chiefly as
a retail and service business computer sales, service, and repair;
      (5)   Car washes;
      (6)   Commercial parking lots and outdoor sale of motor vehicles, boats,
and trailers, provided the space used is paved and adequately maintained so as
to provide a durable, smooth, ductless surface and is so graded/provided with
adequate drainage facilities to carry off all collected water from the site;
      (7)   Drive-in business, except drive-in theaters, provided all lighting
is shielded from any adjacent residential district; and building design and
signage meet requirements of this chapter;
      (8)   Duplication shops of no more than 4 presses, photography shops, and
services conducted in less than 10,000 square feet;
      (9)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (10)   Laundromats, laundries, and clothes cleaning establishments
without the use of explosive or inflammable fluids;
      (11)   (a)   Motor vehicles, trailers, boat showrooms, and public garages
for new and used motor vehicles.
         (b)   Provided any outdoor display space is paved and meets
requirements of commercial parking lots and outdoor sales, see division (C)(6)
above.
      (12)   Open-air retail sale of plant materials not grown on the site,
sales of lawn  furniture, playground, equipment and garden supplies; provided
outside area aesthetically screened;
      (13)   Pet shops provided all animals, birds, snakes, and other pets are
kept entirely within the building at all times;
      (14)   Pharmacies, retail clothing, dry goods, music shops, hardware,
appliances, building and stationery supplies, and other similar businesses;
      (15)   Public utility buildings;
      (16)   Public assembly buildings, such as auditoriums and churches,
service clubs, and  lodges;
      (17)   Professional offices, such as doctors, lawyers, dentists,
chiropractors,  osteopaths, and similar and allied professions;
      (18)   Restaurants, including lunch counters, dairy bars, and similar
establishments  providing food for consumption on the premises, but not
including “drive-ins” or facilities providing dancing or entertainment;
      (19)   (a)   Retail food establishments supplying groceries, fruit,
vegetables, meat, dairy  products, baked goods, confections and similar goods
for consumption off the premises.
         (b)   Foodstuffs may be processed on the premises as an accessory
activity if the sale of the product is limited to the local retail store, the
on-site slaughter of animals is prohibited.
      (20)   Retail antique shops, second-hand stores when conducted entirely
within an enclosed building.
      (21)   Day care centers as defined in §
152.005.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.02; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001; Am. Ord.
2005-20, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2017-01, passed 9-11-2017)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.132  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, subject to final approval by the Village Council, may
authorize special uses in this District C-2, which are found to be appropriate
and compatible with the character of the area, and which shall be subject to
special requirements as the Planning Commission and Village Council may
consider necessary to protect adjacent property and prevent conditions which
may become objectionable or offensive; provided however, any request for
special use permit shall be subject to the requirements for review and approval
as set forth in §§
152.228 and
152.229.
   (B)   (1)   Commercial kennels;
      (2)   (a)   Gasoline service stations when located on a lot not less than
15,000 square feet in area with a minimum width of 100 feet.
         (b)   All exterior lighting shall be so directed as to deflect away
from adjacent properties.
      (3)   Gun clubs, paint-ball clubs, indoor shooting range; all activities
must be within enclosed building;
      (4)   Outdoor advertising signs other than those which exclusively
advertise the retail business on the premises;
      (5)   Privately-owned and/or operated parks; such as putt-putt, batting
cages, bumper boats, water slide, go-cart track on paved course, and similar
outdoor entertainment;
      (6)   Retail businesses with alcohol-related activities;
      (7)   Strip-mall businesses/construction, provided each business section
has its own front and rear entry, parking requirements, safety requirements,
and other ordinances are followed;
      (8)   Taverns, bars, and motels; and
      (9)   (a)   Mini-storage buildings, provided however, that no business
activities other than rental of storage units shall be conducted on the
premises;
         (b)   No outside storage, except as noted in this chapter; and
         (c)   No storage of explosive, radioactive, or hazardous storage
cubicles shall be equally distributed throughout the storage area.
      (10)   A marihuana safety compliance facility as authorized by Ordinance
17-02 of the Village of Kingsley; and
      (11)   A marihuana secure transporter as authorized by Ordinance 17-02 of
the Village of Kingsley.
   (C)   In addition to the applicable use requirements pursuant to §
152.132(A), a §
152.132(B)(10) safety compliance facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   Provide to the village a waste disposal plan that must be included
with all applications for a safety compliance facility's operations detailing
plans for chemical disposal and plans for all waste disposal;
      (2)   The permitted premises must obtain all applicable local and state
approval for discharge of the safety compliance facility's by-products into the
village's sewer system;
      (3)   Odors from the operations of a marihuana facility must be contained
through use of operable filtration to ventilation and exhaust equipment. Odors
must otherwise be effectively confined to the interior of the permitted
premises from which the odor is generated to prevent fugitive nuisance odors
from escaping the facility;
      (4)   The permitted premises must not be located within 100 feet of any
existing residential district, such distance limitations must be measured in a
straight line from the permitted premises to the respective existing
residential districts boundary line;
      (5)   In the event of any explosion, release, or hazard that results from
the operations of the safety compliance facility, the responsible party will be
responsible for reimbursement of any emergency response costs which were
deployed to remediate, contain or respond to the explosion, fire, release or
hazard, including transportation, overtime costs, special equipment or testing,
and must be responsible for the repair of property damages, remediation, or
medical expenses for injuries resulting from such explosion, release, harmful
emission, or hazard; and
      (6)   If compliance under §
152.132(C) conflicts with any other applicable provisions of this section, §
152.132(C) controls.
   (D)   In addition to the applicable use requirements pursuant to §
152.132(A), a §
152.132(B)(11) secure transporter facility must comply with the following:
      (1)   The permitted premises must not be located within 100 feet of any
existing residential district, such distance limitations must be measured in a
straight line from the permitted premises to the respective existing
residential districts boundary line;
      (2)   In the event of any explosion, release, or hazard that results from
the operations of the secured transporter, the responsible party will be
responsible for reimbursement of any emergency response costs which were
deployed to remediate, contain or respond to the explosion, fire, release or
hazard, including transportation, overtime costs, special equipment or testing,
and must be responsible for the repair of property damages, remediation, or
medical expenses for injuries resulting from such explosion, release, harmful
emission, or hazard; and
      (3)   If compliance under §
152.132(C) conflicts with any other applicable provisions of this section, §
152.132(C) controls.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.03; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001; Am. Ord.
2002-2, passed 9-9-2002; Am. Ord. 2005-21, passed 2-6-2006; Am. Ord. 2017-02,
passed 11-13-2017)
§ 152.133  ACCESSORY USES, BUILDINGS, AND STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to prevent the erection or
maintenance of accessory buildings, structures, and uses, provided, however,
the buildings, structures, and uses are not at variance with the requirements
of the zoning district, and the buildings, structures, and uses be constructed
of and conform to materials and features of the principal of building and
business.
   (B)   A land use permit must be obtained from the Zoning Administrator prior
to construction.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.04; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
§ 152.134  LOT AND YARD AREA REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   Minimum lot width.  Every lot upon which a business is erected
shall be not less than 100 feet in frontage width subject to site plan review.
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   Standard maximum height shall be 35 feet.
         (b)   Any deviation over 35 feet shall require a special use permit.
      (3)   Front yard setback.
         (a)   Building must be 25 feet off right-of-way, and conform to
established character of immediate area.
         (b)   Any deviation to conformation and character of the area or to
establish character of area shall require a special use permit.
      (4)   Side yard setback.
         (a)   Single-lot building must be 10 feet off right-of-way.
         (b)   Driveway must be a minimum of 4 feet off right-of-way.
      (5)   Rear yard setback.
         (a)   Single-lot building must be 10 feet off right-of-way.
         (b)   Rear yards butting up to M-113 must meet county and state right-
of-way requirements.
      (6)   Joint side yard setback.  Adjoining lots electing to utilize the
same driveway/parking lot shall be subject to site plan review and special use
permit.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   (a)   Setback distance from M-113 shall comply with the county,
state, and federal regulations, but shall not be less than 50 feet, from the
property line bordering the road right-of-way in cases not covered by the
county, state, or federal regulations.
         (b)   This area shall be kept clear of items displayed for sale,
lease, or rent.
      (2)   (a)   Setback distance from county roads for building shall comply
with county, state, and federal regulations, but shall not be less than 50
feet, from the property line bordering the road right-of-way in cases not
covered by county, state, or federal regulations.
         (b)   This area shall be kept clear of items displayed for sale,
lease, or rent.
         (c)   The 25 feet of setback adjacent to the building or structure may
be used for display of wares, providing that the use does not constitute a
traffic hazard in any way.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.05; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
§ 152.135  OUTDOOR STORAGE AND LAND USE.
   (A)   No land in the C-2 Zoning District shall be used in whole or in part
for the storage of unused or discarded equipment or material, or for the
storage of unused cars, salvage, waste, or junk, unless inside of properly
authorized buildings within the district.
   (B)   Outdoor storage of commercial goods, supplies, parts, and equipment,
where permitted in the C-2 Zoning District shall be allowed upon approval by
the Zoning Administrator, if the storage is in accordance with the requirements
of the district.
   (C)   Must meet requirements of
§ 152.221.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.06; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
§ 152.136  PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   As defined in
§ 152.224, businesses facing away from M-113 are encouraged to consider rear
parking.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.07; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 152.137  OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING  REQUIREMENTS.
   As defined in
§ 152.224.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.08; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
§ 152.138  SIGNS.
   (A)   As defined in
§ 152.227.
   (B)    Examples of suggested signage may be found in “The New Designs for
Growth Development Guidebook”.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.09; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 152.139  OUTDOOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   As defined in
§ 152.222.
   (B)   It is recommended that outdoor lighting fixtures carry the theme and
resemble the design of the new street lighting being installed, in the year
2001, by the Village of Kingsley on North Brownson Avenue.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.10; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)
§ 152.140  SCREENING.
   (A)   As defined in
§ 152.226.
   (B)   Lots abutting M-113, with businesses and/or structures facing north,
away from M-113, shall provide aesthetic buffers for the rear of their business
and/or structures.
   (C)   The buffer may be opaque fencing, landscaping, berm, or other
aesthetic buffering and plans.
   (D)   For buffer, must be submitted in the site plan for approval by the
Zoning Administrator.
   (E)   Examples of suggested screening may be found in the Grand Traverse Bay
Regional Development Guidebook.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 11.11; Am. Ord. 2001-4, passed 5-7-2001)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT I
§ 152.155  PURPOSE.
   (A)   This district is intended to accommodate wholesale, warehouse, and
industrial activities whose operational and physical characteristics do not
detrimentally affect any of the surrounding districts.
   (B)   This district is established to permit the manufacturing, compounding,
processing, packaging, assembly, and/or treatment and storage of finished or
semi-finished products from previously prepared materials.
   (C)   This district is also intended to permit limited retail enterprises if
they are directly related to the distribution of products manufactured or
warehoused, which are not suitable for wholesale distribution.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 12.01)
§ 152.156  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   No building, structure, or land shall be used, and no building or
structure shall be hereafter erected, structurally altered, or enlarged, except
for 1 or more of the following uses incidental to the industries:
      (1)   Any production, processing, cleaning, testing, repair, storage, and
distribution of materials, goods, foodstuffs, and other semi-finished or
finished products from previously prepared materials;
      (2)   Trade or industrial schools;
      (3)   Research, design, pilot, or experimental product development, when
conducted within a completely enclosed building;
      (4)   Veterinary hospitals, clinics, and kennels;
      (5)   Warehouses and freight terminals; and/or
      (6)   Accessory uses clearly appurtenant to the main use of the lot and
customary to and commonly associated with the main use, such as:
         (a)   Incidental offices for management and materials control,
dispatch, or receipt of materials;
         (b)   Restaurant or cafeteria facilities for employees;
         (c)   1.   Caretaker, security, or fire control residence, if situated
separately.
            2.   The same must comply with all of the requirements for
residential districts.
         (d)   1.   Identification signs referring to the principal activities
on the premises shall be a minimum of 15 feet from a public right-of-way, and
at least 100 feet from any residence.
            2.   Application shall be made to the Zoning Administrator for a
permit to erect any sign allowed in this district.
         (e)   Retail sale of products incidental to the primary use, provided
that the total amount of internal floor area devoted to sales and display does
not exceed 10% of the total floor area of the establishment;
         (f)   Fire, security, or other allied facilities; and
         (g)   Public utility installations and other public buildings.
   (B)   See
§ 152.220 for more information. 
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 12.02)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.157  USES PERMITTED WHEN AUTHORIZED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator, after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission, subject to final approval by the Village Council, may
authorize special uses in this district which are found to be appropriate and
compatible with the character of the area, and which shall be subject to
special requirements as the Planning Commission and Village Council may
consider necessary to protect adjacent property and prevent.
   (B)   However, any request for special use permit shall be subject to the
requirements for review and approval as set forth in §§
152.228 and
152.229.
   (C)   (1)   Farm equipment dealers;
      (2)   Contractors' motorized equipment;
      (3)   Auto body repair and auto paint shops;
      (4)   Oil-field related services; and
      (5)   (a)   Mini-storage buildings, provided, however, that no business
activities other than rental of storage units shall be conducted on the
premises;
         (b)   No outside storage, except as noted in this chapter; and
         (c)   No storage of explosive, radioactive, or hazardous storage
cubicles shall be equally distributed throughout the storage area.
      (6)   A marihuana grower as authorized by
Chapter 154 ;
      (7)   A marihuana processer as authorized by
Chapter 154 ;
      (8)   A marihuana safety compliance facility as authorized by
Chapter 154 ;
      (9)   A marihuana secure transporter as authorized by Ordinance 17-03 of
the Village of Kingsley (see
Chapter 154 ); and
      (10)   Taverns, bars, and motels.
   (D)   Any permit issued for the uses identified in §
152.157(C)(6)-(9) may not be assigned or transferred to any person unless the
assignee or transferee has submitted an application, all required fees under
this section are paid and has been granted a village operating license. No
permit issued under this section is transferable to any other location except
for the permitted property. A permit alone shall not allow operations at a
marihuana facility. In order to operate on a permitted property a licensee must
obtain a village operating license for the specific marihuana facility that has
been permitted for that use. A permit shall be issued only if the applicant has
a current, valid village operating license or is requesting a village operating
license for a permitted property with written permission of the permit holder.
The village operating license must be renewed annually.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 12.03; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 152.158  USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   Activities in this district shall be carried on in completely
enclosed buildings.
      (2)   Storage may be permitted out-of-doors in rear yards as provided
herein.
      (3)   All storage shall be effectively screened by a solid, uniformly
finished wall or fence with solid entrance and exit gates.
      (4)   The wall or fence shall be at least 6 feet in height and no lower
than the enclosed storage.
      (5)   If storage or walls exceed 10 feet in height, the storage must then
be moved into the normal setback lines of the building.
      (6)   The storage shall not be deemed to include the parking of licensed
motor vehicles under 1 1/2-ton rated capacity.
   (B)   (1)   Uses in this district shall conform to the safety standards of
appropriate federal and state agencies that are designed to regulate air,
water, and noise pollution and the use or manufacture of hazardous substances,
to include explosive substances, propane, flammable liquids, oxygen, and
acetylene.
      (2)   Buildings that contain hazardous substances shall be constructed so
as to contain any spillage that occurs within the building, or diked so as to
contain the rupture of a storage facility.
      (3)   All construction plans relating to the location of buildings,
storage facilities, fencing, and other above-ground structures, screening and
landscaping, shall be subject to review and approval by the County Fire
Department, particularly in regards to appropriate on-site clearance for the
accessibility of fire and other emergency vehicles.
      (4)   Each building shall also have an approved fire and security warning
system.
      (5)   All areas shall be plainly lighted and marked.
   (C)   All uses permitted within the Industrial District shall comply with
the sewer and other applicable ordinances of the Village of Kingsley.
   (D)   Yards in this district shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Front yards.   Buildings must be 35 feet off the right-of-way, and
conform to established character of immediate area.  The front yard shall
remain clear from landscape improvements and necessary drives and walks, except
that off-street parking shall be permitted for automobiles, provided that not
more than 25% of the required front yard may be used to within a distance of 15
feet of the street right-of-way line.
      (2)   Side yards.
         (a)   Except for a strip 10 feet in width along the lot boundary, side
yards may be used for parking and loading, but not for storage.
         (b)   The side yard may be eliminated where a railroad service to the
site is obtained at the edge of the lot.
         (c)   Side yards shall be 25 feet except on a corner lot where the
front yard setback shall hold on all sides facing the street.
      (3)   Rear yards.
         (a)   Except for a strip 10 feet in width, the rear yard may be used
for parking, loading, and storage, provided that when required screening is
located on the property line, the 10-foot strip may be used for parking,
loading, and storage.
         (b)   The rear yard may be eliminated where a railroad service to the
site is obtained at the edge of  the lot.
         (c)   Rear yards shall be 25 feet except on corner lots, where the
front yard setback shall hold on all sides facing streets.
      (4)   Side or rear yards.
         (a)   Side or rear yard areas shall be effectively screened by a solid
uniformly finished wall or fence, or a 25-foot wide solid evergreen planting,
which would effectively screen parking, loading, unloading, and servicing, if
first approved by the Village Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   The wall or fence shall be at least 6 feet in height, but in no
case shall the fence or wall be lower than the enclosed parking, loading, or
servicing activity being screened.
   (E)   Maximum building height in this district shall be 55 feet.
   (F)   Each development shall be required to provide adequate off-street
parking for all employees, customers, and visitors within the site.
   (G)   (1)   No loading or unloading shall be permitted on any public or
private street or road or any other place, except as provided in accordance
with the following.
      (2)   Loading and unloading areas shall comply with the requirements of
this chapter, except that all industrial uses must have a minimum of 1 loading
and unloading area.
   (H)   In addition to the use requirements in §
152.158(A)-(G), a marihuana grower, marihuana processor, marihuana secure
transporter, and marihuana safety compliance facility, in accordance with the
provisions of state law, may be permitted through the issuance of a special use
permit pursuant to §
152.157, provided that:
      (1)   Any uses or activities found by the State of Michigan or a court
with jurisdiction to be unconstitutional or otherwise not permitted by state
law may not be permitted by the village. In the event that a court with
jurisdiction declares some or all of this section invalid, then the village may
suspend the acceptance of applications for special use permits pending the
resolution of the legal issue in question.
      (2)   At the time of application for a special use permit the marihuana
facility must be licensed by the State of Michigan and then must be at all
times in compliance with the laws of the State of Michigan including but not
limited to the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et
seq.; the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.27101 et seq.; and the Marihuana Tracking Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27901
et seq.; and all other applicable rules promulgated by the State of Michigan.
      (3)   At the time of application for a special use permit the marihuana
facility must be licensed by village, (or have the village operating license
concurrently in process along with the special use permit and site plan
approval), and then must be at all times in compliance with
Chapter 154 .
      (4)   The use or facility must be at all times in compliance with all
other applicable laws and ordinances of the village.
      (5)   The village may suspend or revoke a special use permit based on a
finding that the provisions of the special use standards in this section, all
other applicable provisions of this zoning ordinance,
Chapter 154 , or the terms of the special use permit and approved site plan are
not met.
      (6)   A marihuana facility, or activities associated with the licensed
growing, processing, testing,
transporting, or sales of marihuana, may not be permitted as a home business or
accessory use nor may they include accessory uses except as otherwise provided
in this section.
      (7)   Signage requirements for marihuana facilities, unless otherwise
specified, are as provided in §
152.227, Sign Regulations.
   (I)   In addition to the use requirements in § 152.158(A)-(H), a marihuana
facility as identified in §
152.157(C)(6) (Grower) must comply with the following:
      (1)   The permitted premises must not be located within 500 feet of any
residential district, such distance limitations must be measured in a straight
line from the permitted premises to the respective existing residential
districts boundary line. Nor shall the permitted premises be located within 500
feet of M-l 13, such distance limitations must be measured in a straight line
from the permitted premises to the respective right-of-way boundary line;
      (2)   Prohibit smoking or consumption of marihuana on the permitted
property;
      (3)   Implement a drug and alcohol testing program for employees,
pursuant to Regulation Number 2.07 (SPDOC No. 10-05), as amended and with
definitions outlined in Article 53-385154-7, as amended;
      (4)   The marihuana facility must not sell or otherwise distribute
marihuana or marihuana-infused products directly to the public;
      (5)   The permitted property and permitted premises owner must maintain
general liability and property insurance as required by M.C.L.A. § 333.27206
(b);
      (6)   All necessary county and state building, electrical, plumbing and
mechanical permits must be obtained before operations commence at the permitted
property and/or permitted premises;
      (7)   The permitted property and/or permitted premises is subject to
scheduled inspections and approval by the local fire authority, law
enforcement, Village Zoning Administrator, the local building official or state
agency to insure compliance with all applicable state and local, ordinances,
laws, rules and regulations, as part of any necessary inspection;
      (8)   The permitted premises must receive OSHA/MIOSHA certifications
regarding safety of environment for the permitted premises;
      (9)   No minors must be allowed on the permitted property without a
parent or guardian;
      (10)   The permitted premises must obtain all applicable local and state
approval for discharge of growing by-products into the village's sewer system;
      (11)   Provide the village with a waste disposal plan which must be
included with all applications for a grow operation detailing plans for
chemical disposal and plans for plant waste disposal;
      (12)   Discharge of any toxic, flammable or hazardous materials in a
regulated quantity under state, federal or local law into the village sewer
system is prohibited;
      (13)   Any exterior lighting methods utilized between the hours of 9:00
p.m. to 7:00 a.m. must employ shielding methods to prevent ambient light
spillage onto adjacent property. In no event must the village's lighting or
night sky (§
152.222) ordinances be violated, nor at any time must any ambient light spill
onto residential zoned districts;
      (14)   Odors from the operations of a marihuana facility must be
contained through use of operable filtration to ventilation and exhaust
equipment. Odors must otherwise be effectively confined to the interior of the
permitted premises from which the odor is generated to prevent fugitive
nuisance odors from escaping the facility;
      (15)   The marihuana facility must not directly or indirectly advertise,
or promote its services as a marihuana facility on the permitted property,
other than a sign identifying the business name;
      (16)   In the event of any explosion, release, or hazard that results
from the growth, cultivation or processing of marihuana plants, the responsible
party will be responsible for reimbursement of any emergency response costs
which were deployed to remediate, contain or respond to the explosion, fire,
release or hazard, including transportation, overtime costs, special equipment
or testing, and must be responsible for the repair of property damages,
remediation, or medical expenses for injuries resulting from such explosion,
release, harmful emission, or hazard;
      (17)   Outdoor storage is strictly prohibited;
      (18)   A security plan and floor plan must be submitted with any
application for a permitted property and/or permitted premises. The security
plan and floor plan must be treated as a confidential document by the village
and its agents, exempt from disclosure to the extent permitted under the laws
of this state or the Freedom of Information Act.
   (J)   In addition to the use requirements in §
152.158(A)-(H), a marihuana facility as identified in §
152.157(C)(7) (Processor) must comply with all of the §
152.157(I) provisions.
   (K)   In addition to the use requirements in §
152.158(A)-(H), a marihuana facility as identified in §
152.157(C)(8) (Safety Compliance Facility) must comply with the following:
      (1)   All of the following §
152.157(I) provisions: (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (9), (13), (14),
(15), (16), and (18);
      (2)   All activities of a marihuana safety compliance facility, including
all transfers of marihuana, shall be conducted within the structure and out of
public view;
      (3)   The permitted premises must not be located within 100 feet of any
existing residential district, such distance limitations must be measured in a
straight line from the permitted premises to the existing respective
residential districts boundary line;
      (4)   In the event of any explosion, release, or hazard that results from
the operations of the safety compliance facility, the responsible party will be
responsible for reimbursement of any emergency response costs which were
deployed to remediate, contain or respond to the explosion, fire, release or
hazard, including transportation, overtime costs, special equipment or testing,
and must be responsible for the repair of property damages, remediation, or
medical expenses for injuries resulting from such explosion, release, harmful
emission, or hazard.
   (L)   In addition to the use requirements in §
152.158(A)-(H), a marihuana facility as identified in §
152.157(C)(9) (Secure Transporter) must comply with the following:
      (1)   All of the following §
152.157(I) provisions: (2), (3), (4), (5), (6), (7), (8), (10), (13), (14), and
(15);
      (2)   The permitted premises (used for the containment of stored
materials) must not be located within 100 feet of any existing residential
district, such distance limitations must be measured in a straight line from
the permitted premises to the respective existing residential districts
boundary line;
      (3)   In the event of any explosion, release, or hazard that results from
the operations of the secured transporter, the responsible party will be
responsible for reimbursement of any emergency response costs which were
deployed to remediate, contain or respond to the explosion, fire, release or
hazard, including transportation, overtime costs, special equipment or testing,
and must be responsible for the repair of property damages, remediation, or
medical expenses for injuries resulting from such explosion, release, harmful
emission, or hazard.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 12.04; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 11-13-2017) 
Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.159  SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   Before a land use permit for a use within this district shall be issued, the
owners or lessors shall submit the following materials to the Village Zoning
Administrator for review and approval, as in compliance with
§ 152.228 of the Village Planning Commission and Village Council:
   (A)   A site plan for the property showing the location of all present and
proposed buildings, drives, parking areas, snow removal and storage plans,
waste disposal systems, screening fences or walls, and other construction
features which may be proposed;
   (B)   A description of the operations proposed in sufficient detail to
indicate the effects of those operations in producing traffic congestion,
noise, glare, air pollution, water pollution, fire and safety hazards, or the
emission of any potentially harmful or obnoxious matter or radiation;
   (C)   Engineering and architectural plans for the treatment and disposal of
sewage and industrial waste or unusable by-products;
   (D)   Any other information the Village Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission, or Village Council may require which has to do with public health,
safety, or general welfare, including, but not limited to, architectural and
engineering drawings of all buildings;
   (E)   Any building permit granted under this section shall become null and
void unless the development proposed shall have passed its occupancy permit
inspection within 1 year from the date of the granting of permit; and
   (F)   (1)   In all instances in which the Village Zoning Administrator,
Planning Commission, or the Village Council considers the ability of a proposed
use to meet all requirements of this chapter to be reasonably doubtful, it will
be incumbent upon the proponent to furnish adequate evidence in support of the
application, including deposit of surety bond in an area bank in the amount of
estimated requirement costs.
      (2)   If the evidence is not presented, the building permit shall not be
issued.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 12.05)
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICT
§ 152.170  DESCRIPTION AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   (1)   The Planned Unit Development (PUD) Zoning District is intended
to permit and control the development of lands as planned unit developments for
compatible uses permitted by this chapter.
      (2)   The planned PUD is authorized under the terms of
§§ 152.170et seq., to permit a greater degree of flexibility in the use, area,
height, bulk, and placement of buildings, structures, and accessory uses than
would otherwise be the case in other zoning districts established by this
chapter.
      (3)   The PUD provisions of
§§ 152.170et seq. have been established in order to encourage the use of land
in accordance with its character and adaptability, to conserve natural
resources and energy, to encourage innovation in land use planning, to provide
enhanced housing, employment, commercial traffic circulation, and recreation
opportunities for compatibility of design and use between neighboring lands.
   (B)   (1)   It is intended that all land uses in a PUD District shall be
afforded reasonable protection from encroachment or interference by other
incompatible land uses, and that reasonable protection from PUD land uses also
be afforded to uses adjacent to or affected by each PUD District.
      (2)   It is not intended that the provisions of
§§ 152.170et seq. be utilized to circumvent other provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance or the comprehensive land use planning which has been undertaken by
the village.
      (3)   It is intended that land uses resulting from application of the
provisions of
§§ 152.170et seq. will be those uses which are not substantially inconsistent
with other zoning districts and areas are intended to be approved only in the
cases where the intents and purposes of
§§ 152.170et seq. and the Zoning Ordinances have been complied with.
   (C)   All zoning of lands pursuant to
§§ 152.170et seq. shall, where appropriate, include reasonable conditions
regarding the emission and transmission of injurious or obnoxious noise,
vibrations, gas, smoke, dust, dirt, litter, odor, light glare, traffic
congestion, ease of police and fire protections, drainage, lateral land
support, blighting influences, effect on surrounding property surface and
groundwater quality, water supply and sewage area, and other similar
considerations which have an effect on the achievement of the purposes of this
chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.01)
§ 152.171  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 152.170et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROSS DENSITY.  The density of dwelling units or other improvements situated
on a parcel of land, in comparison to the area of the parcel, calculated by
dividing the number of dwelling units or other improvements by the total amount
of land area, in acres, which will be occupied by the lands use, including all
of the area of drives, parking area, streets, recreation, greenbelt and other
areas, and ½ of the width of any adjacent streets or other rights-of-way.
   STREET FRONTAGE.  The length of the line of a lot or parcel of land which
separates the parcel of land from a street or other right-of-way.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.02)
§ 152.172  PERMITTED USES.
   Lands in the PUD Zoning District may be used for all or any of the uses
permitted by this chapter in other zoning districts and for any other special
uses not so permitted.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.03)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.173  USES SPECIFICALLY PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Mobile home parks; and
   (B)   Facilities that produce hazards to the public health.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.174  MINIMUM SIZE FOR ELIGIBILITY FOR PUD REZONING.
   (A)   Lands considered for PUD rezoning should contain a minimum of 3 acres,
including existing compatible uses.
   (B)   Any planned unit development which fronts M-113 or Brownson Avenue
shall have a minimum street frontage of 400 feet.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.05)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.175  PROCEDURES FOR PUD REZONING.
   (A)   Lands in the village, which are eligible for rezoning to the PUD
District, may be zoned in the district in accordance with the procedures and
requirements set forth in
§§ 152.170et seq.
   (B)   The rezoning of lands to the PUD District is a 2-step process,
commencing with the submission and approval of a preliminary development plan
and concluding with the submission of a final development plan, a petition for
PUD rezoning in accordance with the final development plan and the rezoning of
lands to the PUD land use, by action of the Planning Commission and Village
Council.
   (C)   In the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, a pre-application
conference between the Zoning Administrator and any PUD applicant may be
convened before submission of a Planned Unit Development application.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.06)
§ 152.176  PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Preliminary plan submission.
      (1)   Each applicant for PUD rezoning must submit to the Zoning
Administrator 8 copies of a preliminary development plan.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator, after review, shall forward the
preliminary plan to the Planning Commission or return it to the applicant for
additional information.
   (B)   Preliminary plan content.  Each PUD preliminary plan shall include the
following, unless waived by the Zoning Administrator as not applicable:
      (1)   A written legal description of all the lands proposed within the
PUD;
      (2)   A small-scale sketch of all properties, streets, and uses within ½
mile of the PUD boundaries;
      (3)   A plan containing the same information as required for a proposed
site plan by
§ 152.228 and the other information as is required by the Zoning Administrator;
and
      (4)   A narrative describing the following:
         (a)   The overall objectives of the PUD;
         (b)   Source and method of financing;
         (c)   Number of acres allocated to each use;
         (d)   Gross residential densities where applicable;
         (e)   Proposals for providing sewage disposal, potable water, and
other public and private utilities;
         (f)   Proposed method for providing storm drainage; and
         (g)   Preliminary architectural sketches and/or a statement as to the
type of construction and materials which will be used throughout the planned
unit development.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.07)
§ 152.177  REVIEW OF PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the preliminary development plan
to verify PUD eligibility and make recommendation to the PUD applicant based
upon the requirements of this chapter and the following specific considerations
where applicable.
   (B)   The preliminary development plan shall then be forwarded to the
planning commission for review.
   (C)   (1)   (a)   Pedestrian and vehicle movement areas, vehicle and
materials storage and pick-up areas, and other services areas with particular
reference to:  vehicle and pedestrian safety and convenience, traffic flow and
control, alternate and marginal access to and emergency access in case of fire
or catastrophe; and
         (b)   Streets:  All streets, at a minimum, must meet the Grand
Traverse County Standard and Specifications for subdivisions and other
Development Projects with Public and Private Roads.
      (2)   Utilities with reference to locations, availability, ownership, and
compatibility;
      (3)   Screening and buffering with reference to type, dimension, and
character;
      (4)   (a)   Signs, if any, and proposed exterior lighting with reference
to size, height, setback, glare, traffic safety, economic effect,
compatibility, and harmony with properties within and adjacent to the PUD area.
         (b)   All external light fixtures must be designed to focus light down
on the site, not on adjacent properties, roads, and the like;
      (5)   Yards and other open space with reference to the arrangement and
densities of  land uses within the PUD and those yards required in the existing
and  surrounding zoning districts;
      (6)   The height, area, and bulk of all structures with reference to the
requirements of this chapter, as well as compatibility with other ordinances
and statutes, which regulate land development;
      (7)   General compatibility with adjoining properties and properties
within the proposed PUD;
      (8)   The purpose and intent of this chapter, as well as compatibility
with other ordinances and statutes, which regulate land development; and
      (9)   (a)   In an effort to allow flexibility in a PUD, building
restrictions should be kept to a minimum.
         (b)   Several essential aspects must be adhered to as follows.
            1.   Building setbacks shall be determined by the Planning
Commission  according to the use of the buildings and character of the
neighborhood.
            2.   All portions of the land not developed must be landscaped with
trees, shrubs, and suitable ground cover.
            3.   Portions of a commercial structure or parking area must be
screened from any abutting residential area by a wall or berm measuring no less
than 4 feet in height.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.08)
§ 152.178  TRANSMITTAL OF RECOMMENDATION ON PRELIMINARY DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   The Planning Commission may approve or disapprove the Preliminary
Development Plan, either in whole or in part; and may adopt or recommend to the
applicant changes or additions in, or conditions upon, the Preliminary
Development Plan.  After taking any such action the Planning Commission shall
forward to the applicant their written recommendation, together with any
recommendations regarding changes, additions, or conditions.  A copy of the
Planning Commission's action shall be forwarded to the Village Council for
approval or denial.  In the course of its consideration of the Preliminary
Development Plan, the Planning Commission may convene an advisory public
hearing for the purpose of receiving comments relative to the Preliminary
Development Plan.  The public hearing shall be held and notice provided
pursuant to §
152.274.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 152.179  SUBMISSION OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN AND PETITION FOR REZONING.
   (A)   Within a period not to exceed 1 year after the date of receiving the
action taken by the Village Council and/or Planning Commission on the
Preliminary Development, the applicant for PUD rezoning shall submit to the
Village Clerk a petition for rezoning to the PUD uses shown in the final
development plan.
   (B)   The final development plan shall set forth all of the matters shown
and included in the preliminary development plan, except as changed or modified
by action of the provisions of
§§ 152.170et seq., the petition for PUD rezoning shall be reviewed and acted
upon in accordance with the provisions of this chapter regarding amendments to
the Zoning Ordinance and in compliance with Public Act 207 of 1921, M.C.L.A. §§
125.581 to 125.600.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.10)
§ 152.180  CONTENTS OF FINAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Generally.  Each final development plan shall include all of the
following information, except any information which is found by the Zoning
Administrator to be not reasonably necessary for consideration of the requested
PUD.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   A plot plan, or series of plans, based on an accurate certified
land survey drawn to a scale which renders enough detail to allow the Planning
Commission and Village Council to make accurate interpretations;
      (2)   (a)   Preliminary architectural sketches and/or a general statement
as to the type of construction and materials to be used in the proposed
buildings and/or structures.
         (b)   Heights and area of buildings and structures shall be described.
      (3)   The period of time within the project will be completed;
      (4)   Proposed staging of the project, if any;
      (5)   Gross areas of buildings and parking;
      (6)   Delineation of the 100-year flood plan, if applicable, and any
proposed uses therein;
      (7)   A description of all aspects of the plan which might have an
adverse effect on public health, safety, or welfare;
      (8)   Current proof of ownership of the land to be utilized or evidence
of a contractual ability to acquire the land, such as an option to purchase
contract;
      (9)   Method of financing and commitments or other proof of ability to
obtain financing;
      (10)   Utilities; all buildings shall hook up to the municipal sewer and
water systems and shall comply with county drainage requirements; and
      (11)   Additional information which the Zoning Administrator, Planning
Commission, or Village Council may request which is reasonably necessary to
evaluate the proposed PUD and its effect on the surrounding neighborhood and
the village in general.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.11)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.181  PUBLIC HEARING BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   The Planning Commission shall give notice and convene a public hearing on
the final development plan and the petition for PUD rezoning, pursuant to §
152.274, for the purpose of considering and receiving comments upon the final
development plan and petition for PUD rezoning.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 152.182  RECOMMENDATION OF PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   After the required public hearing, the Planning Commission shall make
recommendations to the Village Council regarding the approval or denial, in
whole or in part, of the final development plan and the approval or denial of
the requested PUD zoning change.
   (B)   The recommendations may include recommended changes in the final
development plan or conditions to be imposed thereon.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall transmit the recommendations to the
Village Council, along with a summary of comments received at the public
hearing, minutes of all proceedings, and all other documents related to the
Planned Unit Development request.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.13)
§ 152.183  ACTION BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   Upon receiving the recommendations of the Planning Commission of the
final development plan and the petition for PUD rezoning, or either of them,
are approved or disapproved only in part, or if the Village Council imposes
conditions or requirements not previously imposed by the Planning Commission,
the matter shall first be referred to the Planning Commission who shall than
forward its recommendations thereon to the Village Council, after which the
Village Council may proceed to take action to approve or disapprove the final
development plan and the petition  for PUD rezoning.  Such action by the
Village Council shall take place in the same manner as is provided in this
chapter and in Act 208 for the rezoning of lands to any zoning district.  A
public hearing shall be held and notice provided pursuant to §
152.274. If approved by the Village Council, a copy of any amendment of this
chapter rezoning lands to the PUD zoning district shall be forwarded to the
Village Clerk for publication and filing with the village zoning ordinance.
   (B)   In reviewing the final development plan and in considering the
petition for PUD rezoning, the Village Council shall determine whether the plan
complies with the terms and provisions of this chapter and whether the proposed
project promotes the intent and purposes of this chapter, including §§
152.170et seq., and whether it will be compatible with adjacent uses of land,
the natural environment, and the capacities of project; and whether the
proposed project will be consistent with the public health, safety, and general
welfare.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Council may impose reasonable conditions upon its
approval of any final development plan.
      (2)   The conditions may include those necessary to insure that public
services and facilities affected by a proposed PUD will be capable of
accommodating increased public service demands caused by the proposed land use
or activity, to protect the natural environment and to conserve natural
resources and energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of lands and
to promote the use of lands in a socially and economically desirable manner.
      (3)   Any conditions imposed shall satisfy all of the following
requirements:
         (a)   Be necessary to satisfy the intent and purposes of this chapter
and be related to the standards of this chapter and be related to the standards
established in this chapter for the proposed PUD;
         (b)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power; and
         (c)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety,
and general welfare of those who will use the proposed project and the
residents and owners of land immediately adjacent to the proposed project and
the village as a whole.
   (D)   Any conditions imposed in connection with approval shall remain
unchanged, except upon the mutual consent of the Village Council and the owner
of the lands involved.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.14; Am. Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 152.184  GENERAL PROVISIONS FOR PUD DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Generally.  The following provisions shall apply to all Planned Unit
Development Districts.
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Time limitations on developments.
         (a)   Each PUD development shall be under construction within 1 year
after the date of Village Council approval of the final development plan and
the petitions for rezoning.
         (b)   If this requirement is not met, the Village Council may, in its
discretion, grant an extension of time, not exceeding 1 year, for the
commencement of construction, provided that the applicant presents reasonable
and valid evidence to the effect that the development has encountered
unforeseen difficulties, but is then ready to proceed without further delay.
         (c)   If the development is not commenced within 1 year after issuance
of the building permit, or within the above stated 1-year extension, if
granted, any building permit issued for the development shall thereupon be void
and no further effect, and the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, and
Village Council may initiate and carry out proceeding for the rezoning of the
lands to some other district.
      (2)   Performance bonds.  In its review of any final development plan,
the Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or Village Council may require
reasonable agreement or other undertaking by the applicant to guarantee and
assure the completion of the proposed PUD, to the extent and in the manner
specified in the final development plan, including a performance bond in the
amount and upon the terms as the Zoning Administrator may determine to be
necessary to assure the timely and proper completion of the development in
accordance with the final development plan.
      (3)   Additional provisions.  All provisions of this chapter and other
applicable ordinances of the village shall apply to the PUD District except
where inconsistent therewith, in which case the provisions of
§§ 152.170et seq. shall control.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 13.15)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISIONS
§ 152.195  INTENT.
   (A)   Michigan statutes provide for developments consisting of 1-family,
detached residential dwelling units and sites through procedures other than
those authorized by the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 to 560.293.
   (B)   The intent of
§§ 152.195et seq. is to provide procedures and regulations for residential
subdivisions implemented under the provisions of the Condominium Act, Public
Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.272, as amended, and to ensure
that the developments are consistent and compatible with conventional 1-family
platted subdivisions and promote the orderly development of the adjacent areas.
   (C)   It is not intended that commercial or industrial condominium projects
will be reviewed or approved under this section of the Village of Kingsley
Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.01)
§ 152.196  GENERALLY.
   For the purpose of this section, a condominium subdivision shall include any
residential development in a residential or agricultural district proposed
under the provisions of the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.272, as amended, consisting of 2 or more single-
family, detached residential structures on a single parcel, with the exception
that provisions of this section limiting condominium subdivisions to single-
family, detached structures shall not apply to condominium developments which
are reviewed and approved through a special use permit.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.02)
§ 152.197  REQUIRED PLANS AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Condominium lots.
      (1)   The Condominium Subdivision Plan shall indicate specific parcel
dimensions with front, rear, and side condominium lot lines allocated to each
condominium dwelling.
      (2)   For the purpose of this section and to assure compliance with the
provisions, herein, these parcels shall be referred to as condominium lots.
      (3)   The description, size, location, and arrangement of the condominium
lots shall conform to the requirements of a conventional platted subdivision.
      (4)   All condominium subdivision lots shall be deeded as limited common
elements for the exclusive use of the owners of the condominium subdivision
units.
   (B)   Area and bulk requirements.  Each condominium dwelling unit shall be
located within a condominium lot.
      (1)   The maximum size condominium lot per dwelling unit, the maximum
dwelling unit height, the minimum yard setbacks, the minimum elevation, width
of principal structure, and the maximum percentage of condominium lot area
covered by all structures shall conform with the requirements of the zoning
district in which the condominium dwelling unit is located.
      (2)   The condominium lot size and the required setbacks shall be
measured from the designated front, rear, and side condominium lot lines.
      (3)   Side condominium lots lines shall be essentially at right angles to
straight roads and radial to curved roads.
      (4)   (a)   Narrow deep condominium lots shall be avoided.
         (b)   The depth of a condominium lot generally shall not exceed 2½
times the width as measured at the building line.
      (5)   Corner condominium lots shall have extra width to permit
appropriate building setbacks from both roads or orientation to both roads.
      (6)   Condominium lots shall contain a landscaped easement at least 20
feet wide along any public or private road to restrict access to the public or
private road, minimize noise, and protect outdoor living areas.
      (7)   Condominium lots extending through a block and having frontage on 2
local roads shall be prohibited.
      (8)   (a)   Unless the circumstances are such that the land area is not
of sufficient size to develop secondary roads, all condominium lots shall front
on secondary roads.
         (b)   Condominium lots along M-113 and County Road 611 (a.k.a.
Garfield or N. Brownson) and other Grand Traverse County primary roads shall
not front but shall back up to the roads.
      (9)   (a)   All condominium lots shall front upon a public road, private
road, or frontage road.
         (b)   Variations to this requirement may be made in the case of an
approved clustered development.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.03)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.198  STREETS.
   If a condominium subdivision is proposed to have private streets, they shall
be designed to at least the minimum design, construction, inspection, approval,
and maintenance requirements of the Village of Kingsley and/or Grand Traverse
County Road Commission for private roads.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.04)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.199  WATER SUPPLY AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEMS.
   Water supply and sewage disposal systems shall comply with all the
requirements of the Village of Kingsley.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.05)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.200  TREES.
   (A)   One street tree shall be planted adjacent to the road right-of-way for
each 24 lineal feet of frontage, with a minimum of 2 trees per condominium lot.
   (B)   At least 3 trees shall be provided for a corner condominium lot.
   (C)   The tree species shall comply with Soil Conservation District
recommendations for urban forest use.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.06)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.201  WETLAND AND FLOOD PLAIN RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   There shall be no development or modification of any kind within a
wetland or flood plain area without their first having been issued a wetlands
permit by the Department of Natural Resources and/or an earth change permit as
appropriate.
   (B)   Lands subject to high organic content soils, high water table,
flooding, or otherwise deemed by the Village of Kingsley Planning Commission to
be uninhabitable shall not be used for residential purposes, or for uses that
may in the judgment of the Village of Kingsley Planning Commission increase the
danger to health, life, or property or increase the flood hazard.
   (C)   The land within a condominium subdivision shall be set aside for other
uses, such as parks or other open space.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.07)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.202  PLANS REQUIRED FOR THE CONTROL OF EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION.
   (A)   (1)   In the event that any developer shall intend to make changes in
the contour of any land proposed to be developed, or changes in use by grading,
excavating, or the removal or destruction of the natural topsoil, trees, or
other vegetative covering thereon, the same shall only be accomplished after
the owner of the land or his or her agent has submitted to the Village of
Kingsley Planning Commission for approval a plan for erosion and sedimentation
controls, unless there has been a prior determination by the Kingsley Village
Planning Commission that the plans are not necessary.
      (2)   The plans shall contain adequate measures for control of erosion
and siltation, where necessary, using the guidelines and policies contained
herein and the standards and specifications of the Grand Traverse County Soil
Conservation District, if any.
      (3)   The Kingsley Village Planning Commission shall review these plans
as submitted and shall take necessary steps to ensure compliance by the
developer with these plans as finally approved.
      (4)   In circumstances where soil erosion control comes under the
jurisdiction of Public Act 347 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 282.101 to 282.117 (1
acre or more), the developer shall submit a set of plans approved by the Soil
Erosion Control Officer.
      (5)   The village requires applicants to submit approval letters from all
applicable agencies at the time of application.
   (B)   The following control measures should be used for an effective erosion
and a sediment control plan.
      (1)   The smallest partial area of land should be exposed at any 1 time
during development.
      (2)   When land is exposed during development, the exposure should be
kept to the shortest period of time.
      (3)   Where necessary, temporary vegetation and/or mulching should be
installed and maintained to remove sediment from run-off waters from land
undergoing development.
      (4)   Sediment basins (debris basins, silting basins, or silt traps)
should be installed and maintained to remove sediment from run-off waters from
land undergoing development.
      (5)   Provisions should be made to effectively retain on the property any
increased run-off caused by changed soil and surface conditions during and
after development.
      (6)   The permanent final vegetation and structures should be installed
as soon as practical in the development.
      (7)   The development plan should be fitted to the topography and soils
so as to create the least erosion potential.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.08)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.203  PLAN APPLICATION; DATE AND INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Application.  The condominium subdivision developer shall submit a
written application to the Kingsley Village Zoning Administrator for approval
of the condominium subdivision plan and also the fee established by the
Kingsley Village Council for review of the plans.
   (B)   Size and scale.  The condominium subdivision plan may be on paper and
shall be not less than 24 inches by 36 inches, at a scale of at least 1 inch to
100 feet showing the date and north arrow.
   (C)   Information required.  The following shall be shown on the condominium
subdivision plan or submitted with it:
      (1)   The name of the proposed condominium subdivision;
      (2)   Names, addresses, and telephone numbers of the proprietor and the
surveyor preparing the plan;
      (3)   Location of the condominium subdivision, giving the name of the
village, township, and county;
      (4)   Legal description of the property;
      (5)   The names of property owners, zoning, and use of abutting lands;
      (6)   Statement of intended use of the proposed condominium, such as
residential single-family, 2-family, and multiple housing;
      (7)   A map of the entire area scheduled for development and all
contiguous land owned by the proprietor, if the proposed plan is a portion of a
larger holding intended for subsequent development;
      (8)   A location may show the relationship of the proposed plan to the
surrounding area;
      (9)   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed condominium
subdivision;
      (10)   Location, type, dimensions, and proposed use of all existing
structures;
      (11)   Condominium lot lines and the total number of condominium lots by
block;
      (12)   Contours shall be shown on the condominium subdivision plan at 5-
foot intervals where slope is greater than 10%, and 2-foot intervals where
slope is 10% or less;
      (13)   (a)   A site report as described in the rules of the State
Department of Public Health.
         (b)   The site report is required if the proposed condominium
subdivision is not to be served by public sewer and water.
      (14)   Proposed and existing storm and sanitary sewers, water mains, and
their respective profiles, or indicate alternative methods;
      (15)   Right-of-way easements, showing location, width, and purpose;
      (16)   The location and types of all significant existing vegetation,
water courses and bodies, flood plains, and water retention areas, and soil
types;
      (17)   In the event soils or vegetation types indicate wetlands may be
present, a wetlands determination by the Michigan Department of Natural
Resources as to the existence of any wetlands on the property; and
      (18)   A statement of deed restrictions and bylaws as applicable.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.09)
§ 152.204  PRELIMINARY ENGINEERING  PLANS.
   (A)   The proprietor shall submit to the Village of Kingsley 10 sets of
preliminary engineering plans for streets, water, sewers, and other required
public improvements.
   (B)   The engineering plans shall contain enough information and detail to
enable the Kingsley Village Planning Commission to make a determination as to
the conformance of the proposed improvements to the applicable regulations and
standards of the Village of Kingsley.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.10)
§ 152.205  LIGHTING STANDARDS.
   (A)   Generally.  Where street lighting is to be provided within the
development, the lighting shall be designed, constructed, and located so as to
minimize light pollution and shall conform to the following standards.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   (a)   All lighting shall be shielded and directed downwards.
         (b)   Light sources shall be located and designed so as to prevent
light from being directed outside the boundaries of the development.
      (2)   (a)   Light poles and fixtures shall be installed at a height no
taller than 16 feet.
         (b)   A greater number of low area lights are favored over higher
lights.
         (c)   All exterior lighting shall be from high-pressure sodium light
sources with shielded down lighting and nonprojecting lens.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.11)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.206  REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Distribution to authorities.
      (1)   The Village of Kingsley Zoning Administrator shall deliver the
proposed condominium subdivision plan to the Village of Kingsley Planning
Commission and the Kingsley Village Council for review.
      (2)   The Village Zoning Administrator shall retain 1 copy and send 1
copy to the Grand Traverse County Fire Marshal.
   (B)   Planning Commission Review.
      (1)   The Village of Kingsley Planning Commission shall review the
condominium subdivision plan and the reports of the Grand Traverse County Road
Commission, Grand Traverse County Drain Commissioner/Soil Erosion Officer, the
Grand Traverse County Health Department, Michigan Department of Public Health,
and the Village Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   The Village of Kingsley Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing on the proposed condominium plan after at least 1 publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the village at least 15 days prior to the
date of the hearing.  The public hearing shall be held and notice provided
pursuant to §
152.274.
      (3)   If following the review and the public hearing prescribed above,
the Village Planning Commission determines that the proposed plan meets all
requirements of this chapter, the Planning Commission shall send notice of
action taken with comments to the Kingsley Village Council.
      (4)   If the condominium subdivision plan does not meet all requirements,
the Village Planning Commission shall recommend disapproval of the plan by the
Village Council.  The Planning Commission shall state its reason in its
official minutes and forward same to the Kingsley Village Council, and
recommend that the Kingsley Village Council disapprove the condominium
subdivision plan until the objections causing disapproval have been changed to
meet with the approval of the Village Planning Commission.
   (C)   Kingsley Village Council Review.
      (1)   The Village Council shall not review, approve, or reject a
condominium subdivision plan until it has received from the Planning Commission
its report and recommendations.
      (2)   The Kingsley Village Council may consider the condominium
subdivision plan at its next meeting after receipt of the recommendations from
the Village Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Village Council shall either approve the condominium
subdivision plan, reject the plan and give its reasons, or table the
proceedings pending changes to the plan to make it acceptable to the Kingsley
Village Council.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.12; Am. Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 152.207  CONDITIONS AND DURATION OF APPROVAL.
   (A)   Conditions.  The approval of the Kingsley Village Council will
indicate that the proposed condominium subdivision plan meets the provision of
§ 141 of the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1978, M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101-
559.276 relating to the ordinances and regulations of Kingsley Village, but
does not cover additional permits that may be required after the master deed
has been recorded.
   (B)   Duration.
      (1)   Approval of the condominium subdivision by the Kingsley Village
Council shall be for a period of 1 year from the date of its approval by the
Village Council.
      (2)   If no master deed is recorded with the Grand Traverse County
Register of Deeds Office within 1 year of approval, the approval shall be
considered null and void.
      (3)   The Village Council may extend the 1-year period if applied for and
granted in writing.
   (C)   Condominium subdivision plan approval contract.
      (1)   (a)   If the Kingsley Village Council approves the condominium
subdivision plan, it shall instruct the Village of Kingsley's attorney to
prepare a contract setting forth the conditions upon which the approval is
based.
         (b)   The contract, after approval by the Village Council, shall be
entered into between the Village of Kingsley and the petitioner prior to the
issuance of a land use permit for any construction in accordance with the
approved condominium subdivision plan.
         (c)   All reasonable costs, as established by the Kingsley Village
Council, related to the preparation of the contract shall be paid by the
petitioner to the Village of Kingsley Treasurer prior to issuance of any land
use permits.
      (2)   As a condition of the approval of the condominium subdivision plan
by the Kingsley Village Council, the Village Council may require the petitioner
to furnish a cash bond or irrevocable bank letter of credit from a bank
chartered in the State of Michigan in the amount of the cost plus an additional
10% of the cost of the proposed improvements to common land, as approved by the
Village Zoning Administrator, guaranteeing the completion of the improvement
within a time to be set by the Kingsley Village Council.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 14.13)
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS
§ 152.210  PURPOSE.
   The intent of permitting accessory dwelling units in certain situations is
to:
   (A)   Create new housing units while respecting the look and scale of
single-family dwellings.
   (B)   Increase the housing stock of existing neighborhoods in a manner that
is less intense than alternatives.
   (C)   Allow for more efficient use of existing housing stock and village
infrastructure.
   (D)   Provide a mix of housing that responds to changing family needs and
smaller households.
   (E)   Provide a means for residents to remain in their homes and
neighborhoods, and obtain extra income, security, companionship and services.
   (F)   Provide a broader range of accessible and more affordable housing
within the village.
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.211  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.   A habitable living unit added to, created within,
or detached from a single-family residential dwelling that provides basic
requirements for living, sleeping, eating, cooking and sanitation.  All
ACCESSORY DWELLING UNITS are to be a secondary housing unit to the main
residence on the same lot.
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.212  CONDITIONS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   An accessory dwelling unit (ADU) is allowed on lots in the Village
Residential District (VR) or the Single Family Residential District (R-1) as a
special use subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Only one ADU may be created per lot and it may be attached or detached
from the main residence if it is part of a garage structure.
   (B)   The owner of the lot in which the ADU is created must continue to
occupy at least one of the dwelling units as their primary residence.
   (C)   The architectural character of a combination garage and ADU shall have
the same architectural character as the primary residential structure.
   (D)   Any new separate outside entrance serving an ADU shall be located on
the side or in the rear of the building and it shall be a separate entrance
from the primary residential unit.
   (E)   The ADU, excluding any garage area and other non-living areas such as
workshops or greenhouses, shall not exceed 33% of the total square footage of
the main building and the ADU combined after modification.  The ADU shall not
contain less than 300 square feet or more than 600 square feet.
   (F)   An ADU may not be occupied by more than three people nor have more
than two bedrooms.
   (G)   Off-street parking shall be provided for the owner-occupant(s) and
tenants on the lot, with a minimum of three or a maximum of four parking
spaces.
   (H)   All ADU’s must be connected to the village sewer and water utilities.
   (I)   All proposed ADU will require a detailed site plan review (§ 152.228)
and a special use permit (§ 152.229) with a recommendation from the Planning
Commission and an approval from the Village Council.
   (J)   The ADU can not be sold separately from the primary residence.
   (K)   The ADU will require a separate sewer and water connection from the
primary residence.
   (L)   The total number of pets allowed on the lot shall not exceed four as
per § 152.038(B).
   (M)   The Village Zoning Administrator may do yearly inspections to
determine if the ADU is in compliance with the zoning ordinance special use
conditions.
   (N)   The construction of any ADU must be in conformity with all state
building codes, Grand Traverse County codes and other local ordinances.
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.213  YARD AND HEIGHT REQUIREMENTS.
   The same yard and building height requirements shall apply as in the zoning
district that the ADU lot is located and allowed.
   (A)   VR District (Village Residential District § 152.090).
   (B)   R-1 District (Single-Family Residential District § 152.035).
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
§ 152.214  NOTICE OF USE REQUIREMENTS FOR AN ACCESSORY DWELLING UNIT.
   (A)   Prior to issuance of a permit, the owner(s) must send a notarized
letter stating that the owner of  the property will occupy one of the dwelling
units on the premises, as the owner’s primary residence.
   (B)   The notarized letters are required to be recorded with the Grand
Traverse County Register of Deeds in the chain of title to the property. 
Documentation of the recording must be provided to the Village Zoning
Administrator, prior to occupancy of the ADU.
   (C)   When the property with an ADU is sold, the new owner(s), if they wish
to continue to exercise the permit, must, within 30 days of the sale, submit a
notarized letter to the Village Zoning Administrator stating that they will
occupy one of the dwelling units on the property as their primary residence.
(Ord. 1 12-13, passed 12-9-2013)
SUPPLEMENTARY PROVISIONS
§ 152.220  ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Generally.  Accessory buildings, except for uses otherwise regulated
by this chapter, shall be subject to the following regulations.
   (B)   Regulations.
      (1)   Where an accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be deemed part of the building and shall be subject to, and
must conform to, all regulation of this chapter applicable to a main building. 
      (2)   Accessory buildings shall not be erected in any required front yard
setback.
      (3)   (a)   An accessory building shall not occupy more than 25% of a
required rear yard.
         (b)   In no instance shall an accessory building exceed the ground
floor area of the main building. 
      (4)   (a)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than
10 feet to any main building, nor shall it be located closer than 10 feet to
any side or rear lot line.
         (b)   In no instances shall an accessory building be located within a
dedicated easement or right-of-way. 
      (5)   (a)   A detached accessory building in a residential district shall
not exceed the maximum permitted height for the district.
         (b)   However, the vertical exterior surface of the building, not
forming a part of the roof, shall not exceed a height of 14 feet, measured from
grade to the top plate of the wall.
      (6)   Accessory buildings in any commercial or industrial district may be
constructed to equal the maximum permitted height or structures in the
district. 
      (7)   In the case of a corner lot that adjoins a public road/street
right-of-way, a front yard setback shall be maintained along each side of the
lot adjacent to the right-of-way and no accessory building shall project beyond
the required front yard line on either road/street.
      (8)   No accessory building shall be constructed prior to the
construction of its principal dwelling.
      (9)   A land use permit shall first be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator prior to construction of any accessory building. 
      (10)   (a)   The structure of an accessory building shall be of durable
standard construction material and have a finished exterior, and be permanently
affixed to the property.
         (b)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. 
            STANDARD CONSTRUCTION MATERIALS.  Concrete block, wood or metal
framing material consistent with a conventional built home or garage, including
finished exterior materials.  It shall not include structures of  aluminum or
plastic pole construction.
      (11)   Temporary buildings shall not be used as an accessory building.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.01; Am. Ord. 2002-4, passed 9-9-2002; Am. Ord.
2004-6, passed 2-23-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-5, passed 9-11-2006)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.221  FENCES.
   (A)   Fence regulations are intended:
      (1)   To protect the character of the neighborhood;
      (2)   Enable the use of fencing to define property lines;
      (3)   To define developments;
      (4)   To act in a decorative manner;
      (5)   To enclose parks and play areas; and/or
      (6)   To ensure public safety.
   (B)   Fences permitted in residential districts are subject to the
following.
      (1)   Fences on all lots within a recorded plat or site condominium,
which enclose property and/or are within a required side or rear yard setback,
shall not exceed 6 feet in height, measured from the surface of the ground, and
shall not extend toward the front of the lot nearer than the front of the house
or the minimum front yard, whichever is a greater distance from front lot line.
      (2)   Decorative fencing that does not exceed 4 feet in height shall be
permitted in the front yard, with a minimum of 2-foot setback from the sidewalk
or front lot line/road right-of-way.
      (3)   On any corner lot or parcel, fencing shall be made of a type so as
not to interfere with traffic visibility across a corner.
      (4)   (a)   Fences shall be constructed of suitable, stable, and
permanent materials, and set in the ground to establish stability.
         (b)   The only exceptions are snow fences that may be used November 1
to March 1 and/or temporary fencing that might be used during the course of
construction of a residence or commercial/industrial building.
      (5)   Fences shall be installed/placed so that the finished side is
facing outward.
      (6)   Fences shall not contain single strand wire, barbed wire, electric
current, or a charge of electricity.
      (7)   Fences which enclose parks or playgrounds within or adjacent to a
recorded plat shall not obstruct vision to an extent greater than 25% of their
total area.
      (8)   (a)   Fences must be maintained by the property owner who installed
it.
         (b)   The public side as well as the private side must be maintained
in a neat and safe condition.
      (9)   No person shall erect, alter, or replace a fence without first
obtaining a fence permit.
   (C)   Fences permitted in any zoning district other than residential are
subject to the following.
      (1)   (a)   Fences on all lots within a recorded plat or site
condominium, which enclose property and/or are within a required side or rear
yard setback, shall not exceed 6 feet in height in Commercial, or 8 feet in
height in Industrial, as measured from the surface of the ground.
         (b)   The height of fences proposed in the Planned Unit Development
District shall be regulated by the height of fencing allowed in the underlying
zoning district.
      (2)   Fences must meet the same requirements as set forth above in
divisions (B)(2), (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8), and (B)(9) of
the residential district regulations.
   (D)   Fences permitted for defining development projects are subject to the
following.
      (1)   Fences on all lots within a recorded plat or site condominium,
which enclose property and/or are within a required side or rear yard setback,
shall not exceed 6 feet in height in Commercial, or 8 feet in height in
Industrial, as measured from the surface of the ground.
      (2)   Fences must meet the same requirements as set forth above in
divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), (B)(5), (B)(6), (B)(7), (B)(8), and (B)(9) of the
residential district regulations.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.02; Am. Ord. 2002-5, passed 9-9-2002; Am. Ord.
2005-6, passed 3-7-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.222  NIGHT SKY.
   (A)   Introduction.
      (1)   Night sky regulations are intended to protect the character of the
night sky from light pollution originating from light fixtures.
      (2)   Night sky regulations have recently evolved in response to the loss
of “starry night,” brought about by urbanization and reliance on nighttime
lighting.
      (3)   Unpolluted night skies are important for those pursuing astrology,
for energy conservation, safe air travel, and to preserve community character.
   (B)   Intent and purposes.
      (1)   Minimize light trespass and light straying from artificial light
sources;
      (2)   Minimize harshly lighted surfaces and direct glare in order to
enhance nighttime vision;
      (3)   Encourage lighting practices and lighting systems that are designed
to conserve energy; and
      (4)   Provide for adequate night-time safety, utility, security and
productivity.
   (C)   Requirements.
      (1)   Areas and types of lighting not covered by this chapter:
         (a)   Residential decorative lighting (i.e. porch lights, low level
lawn lights, and special seasonal lights such as Christmas decorations);
         (b)   Emergency lighting;
         (c)   Any lighting required by the FCC or FAA;
         (d)   Underwater lighting of swimming pools and other water features;
         (e)   Temporary lighting for television, theatrical, performance
areas;
         (f)   Construction sites;
         (g)   Community festivals;
         (h)   Seasonal and holiday lighting provided that the lighting does
not create direct glare onto other properties or upon the public rights-of-way;
         (i)   Fossil fuel light produced directly or indirectly by the
combustion of natural gas or other utility-type fuels; and
         (j)   Luminaries used to illuminate the flag of the United States of
America provided the lighting of the flag or pole shall not create a direct
glare beyond the property boundary.
      (2)   Items specifically included in this chapter but not limited to:
         (a)   Residential yard lights whether building-mounted or pole-
mounted;
         (b)   Commercial and industrial parking lot lighting and site
lighting;
         (c)   Privately-owned roadway lighting; and
         (d)   Building facade lighting.
      (3)   All outdoor lighting shall be constructed and designed to meet or
exceed the following minimum requirements. Light measurements shall be taken at
the ground level.
         (a)   The average lighting values for areas intended to be lit on
commercial, industrial and institutional parcels shall not exceed 1 foot-candle
on average.
         (b)   Gas station services areas for filling fuel shall not exceed
12.5 foot- candles on average.
         (c)   Outdoor display areas including, but not limited to, automobile
or equipment dealer display or storage lots shall not exceed 12 foot-candles on
average during the hours the business is open to the public or until 11:00 p.m.
         (d)   Direct or reflected outdoor lighting shall be designed and
located to be confined to the site for which it is accessory. The maximum
lighting levels at the property lines of any other property shall not exceed 0
foot-candles.
         (e)   Site lighting for non-residential uses shall not exceed 1.5
foot-candles on average when a use is not open for business.
      (4)   Lighting shall be designed and constructed in such a manner as to:
         (a)   Ensure that direct or directly reflected light, unless part of a
street lighting or access road lighting, is confined to the development site;
and
         (b)   1.   Lamps and luminaries shall be hooded and/or louvered to
provide a glare free area beyond the property line and beyond any public right-
of-way.
            2.   The glare free area shall extend to a height of 8 feet above
the highest ground and the tallest object on the neighboring property and a
public road right-of-way.
      (5)   (a)   Lighting fixtures shall have 100% cut off above the
horizontal plane at the lowest part of the point light source.
         (b)   That is, the light rays may not be emitted by the luminaire at
angles above the described horizontal plane, as may be certified by photometric
test.
         (c)   The intensity of light at any angle above a cut off of 75
degrees shall be less than 10% of the peak candela for the luminaire.
      (6)   With the exception of automobile and similar outdoor sales areas
where a high level of color rendition is essential to the activity being
conducted.
      (7)   Outdoor recreation areas and amusement area lighting will be
allowed to use standard color metal sources and standard sports lighting
fixtures if they are mounted at a sufficient height and properly equipped with
baffling or glare guards to meet the requirements of this section.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.03; Am. Ord. 2005-3, passed 3-7-2005; Am. Ord.
passed 7-9-2018; Am. Ord. 19-03, passed 10-14-2019)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.223  NONCONFORMING LOTS, NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND, NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES AND NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   Non-conformities are lots, uses, structures, buildings, or site
plans for developed sites which do not conform to 1 or more provisions or
requirements of this section, but which were lawfully established prior to the
date of adoption or amendment of this section. The non-conformities are
considered to be incompatible with the current or intended use of land,
buildings or structures, in the district in which they are located. This
section is intended to meet the objectives stated below by establishing
regulations that govern the completion, restoration, reconstruction, extension,
and/or substitution of non-conformities, and specify the circumstances and
conditions under which nonconformities shall be permitted to continue.
      (2)   The objectives of this section are to eliminate, or bring into
compliance, lots, buildings, structures and uses which legally existed at the
date of adoption of this chapter, but do not meet the current standards of this
section. This section also has special provisions to permit certain
nonconforming situations considered to be less harmful to continue under
certain conditions, but to discourage their expansion, enlargement, or
extension. The standards of this section are intended to accomplish the
following:
         (a)   Terminate and remove any use, building, accessory structure or
any combination thereof that was established after the effective date of this
section and in violation of this section. The  uses, buildings or accessory
structures are classified as illegal nonconformities and shall not receive any
of the rights, privileges or protection conferred by this section for legal
nonconforming situations.
         (b)   Eliminate nonconforming uses which are more intense than the
uses permitted within the zoning district and are considered to be incompatible
with permitted uses, or encourage their redevelopment into a more conforming
use.
         (c)   Permit legal nonconforming buildings, structures or uses to
remain until they are discontinued or removed, but to discourage their
survival.
         (d)   Encourage a gradual upgrading to a more conforming status of
site plans which were developed in compliance with the standards at the time of
their construction, but which do not meet the site standards of this chapter
and its amendments.
      (5)   Encourage the combination of contiguous nonconforming lots of
record to create lots which conform to current standards, to avoid the public
health, safety and welfare problems associated with the over-crowding of land.
   (B)   Applicability.  To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this section shall
be deemed to require a change in plans, construction, or designated use of any
building on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this section, upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on and there is a valid building
permit. Actual construction is hereby defined to include the placing of
construction materials in permanent position and fastened in a permanent
manner. Where demolition or removal of an existing building has been
substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding, such work shall be deemed to be
actual construction, provided that such work shall be diligently carried on
until completion of the building involved.
   (C)   Definitions.  For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
   ABANDONMENT.  The relinquishment of land or cessation of the use of the land
by the owner or leasee without any intention of transferring rights to the land
to another owner or of resuming use of the land or building (such as, a
discontinuance and an indication of an intent to abandon).
   DISCONTINUANCE.  A vacation of a lot, building or structure; or a ceasing of
the activities related to the nonconforming situation.
   EFFECTIVE DATE.  Whenever this section refers to “effective date” of this
section, it shall be deemed to include the effective date of any amendments if
the amendments created or increased the nonconforming situation.
   LEGAL NONCONFORMITIES.  Certain existing lots, buildings, structures, site
plans and uses of land were lawful prior to the effective date of this section,
but have become nonconforming under the terms of this section and its
amendments.
   ILLEGAL NONCONFORMITIES.  Any lot, use, building, structure or any
combination thereof that was established in violation of this section at the
effective date of this section.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING.  A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the effective date of this section, which does not meet the minimum size,
setbacks, height or other building provisions of the ordinance in the district
in which it is located. (Example: a house which does not meet the required
front yard setback).
   NONCONFORMING LOT.  A lot of record lawfully existing at the effective date
of this section that does not meet the minimum area or lot dimensional
requirements for the district in which it is located. (Example: a 8,000 square
foot lot of record in a district which requires a minimum 10,000 square foot
lot).
   NONCONFORMING SIGN.  A sign lawfully existing on the effective date of this
section, or amendments thereto, which does not meet all the standards or
regulations of this section. (Example: a business with a 20-foot tall pole sign
when the current Zoning Ordinance allows only a 10-foot tall ground sign).
   NONCONFORMING SITE PLAN.  A development on a site which met ordinance
requirements for site design elements at the time the site was developed, such
as the amount of parking, parking lot pavement or landscaping; but which does
not meet the current site design standards of the village.  (Example: a retail
store with 10 parking spaces when the current Zoning Ordinance requires 15
parking spaces).
   NONCONFORMING ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  An accessory structure or portion
thereof lawfully existing at the effective date of this chapter, or amendments
thereto, that does not conform to the provisions of the ordinance in the
district in which it is located. (Example: an accessory deck which does not
meet current setback standards).
   NONCONFORMING USE.  A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this section, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
   (D)   Nonconforming uses of land, buildings and accessory structures. 
Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this section, a lawful
use on open land, a lot(s), building(s) or accessory structure(s) exists that
is made nonconforming by this section or its amendments, such use may be
continued, as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   Expansions. Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any
parts of a building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use,
and which existed at the effective date of this section, but no such use shall
be enlarged, expanded or extended to occupy a greater area of land or greater
floor area than was occupied at the effective date of this section.
      (2)   Accessory uses and structures.  No new accessory use, building or
structure shall be established.
      (3)   Relocation. The nonconforming use shall not be moved in whole or in
part to any other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the
effective date of this section.
      (4)   Abandonment or discontinuance. If such nonconforming use on open
land is abandoned or discontinued for any reason for a period of 6 months, or a
nonconforming use within a building or structure is abandoned or discontinued
for more than 1 year, except as noted below, such use shall not be re-
established. Subsequent use of such land shall conform to the regulations
specified by this section for the district in which such land is located.
      (5)   Special standards for single-family homes in a nonresidential
district.
         (a)   A single-family residential dwelling in a zoning district (other
than the DDA district) which does not permit such a use may be expanded to
occupy the floor area necessary for living purposes subject to approval by the
Zoning Board of Appeals.
         (b)   A single-family dwelling and its accessory structures, in a
zoning district which does not permit such use may be continued, replaced,
repaired or remodeled if damaged by flood, fire, or vandalism, if approved by
the Zoning Board of Appeals. The approval requires a finding that the resulting
building footprint and floor area will be the same size or smaller than that of
the building before such change. Replacement of such nonconforming single-
family building shall commence no sooner than receiving a valid building permit
and no later than 6 months of the date of damage. Work shall be diligently
pursued toward completion. The applicant may be required to provide the village
with evidence, visual or otherwise demonstrate to the satisfaction of the
Zoning Administrator that work is being diligently pursued. Failure to complete
replacement or diligently work toward completion shall result in the loss of
legal, nonconforming status unless good cause for the delay is accepted at a
hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (6)   Change in use.  Except for single-family dwellings as permitted
above, a nonconforming use shall not be enlarged, extended, constructed,
reconstructed or structurally altered except in changing the use of the
structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is located. If no
structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use of a building, or
building and land in combination, may be changed to another nonconforming use
if the Zoning Board of Appeals, either by general rule or by making findings in
the specific case, finds the proposed use is more appropriate to the district
than the existing nonconforming use. In permitting the change, the Zoning Board
of Appeals may require conditions and safeguards in accord with the purpose and
intent of this section. Where a nonconforming use of a structure, land, or
structure and land in combination is hereafter changed to a more conforming
use, it shall not thereafter be changed to a less conforming use.
      (7)   Nonconforming use in combination with nonconforming building. 
Where non-conforming use status applies to a structure and land in combination,
removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the non-conforming use
status of the land.
      (8)   Removal. Where nonconformity use status applies to a structure and
land in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate
the nonconforming use status of the land.
      (9)   Exceptions. Any use for which a special exception, variance or
special land use permit has been granted as provided in this section shall not
be deemed a non-conformity.
   (E)   Nonconforming lots of record.  The following regulations shall apply
to any non-conforming lot of record or non-conforming lot described in a deed
or land contract executed and delivered prior to the effective date of this
section or amendment thereto:
      (1)   Use of nonconforming lots. Any non-conforming lot shall be used
only for a use permitted in the district in which it is located. In any
district in which single-family dwellings are permitted, notwithstanding
limitations imposed by other provisions of this section, a single-family
dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any single lot of
record at the effective date of this section. This provision shall apply even
though such lot fails to meet the requirements for area or width, or both, that
are generally applicable in the district, provided that the lot is in
conformance with applicable yard setback, minimum floor area, maximum lot
coverage, maximum height requirements and all other requirements for the
district in which it is located (see subsection (2)). Yard requirement
variances may be obtained through approval of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   Variance to area and bulk requirements. If the use of a non-
conforming lot requires a variation of the minimum floor area and bulk (minimum
setback and maximum height) requirements, then such use shall be permitted only
if a variance is granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals (see subsection (3).
      (3)   Evidence.  To develop a nonconforming lot(s) under the provisions
of subsections (1) and (2), the applicant is required to submit evidence that
ownership of the lot was not under contiguous single ownership with other lots
which could have been combined into a conforming or more conforming lot.
      (4)   Nonconforming contiguous lots under the same ownership. The
following regulations shall apply to nonconforming contiguous lots under the
same ownership.
         (a)   1.   If 2 or more lots or combination of lots with contiguous
frontage are or have been under single ownership of record at the time of the
adoption or amendment of this section, and if all or part of the individual
lots or combination of lots do not meet the requirements established for lot
width and area, the lands involved shall be considered to be an individual,
undivided parcel for the purposes of this section. No portion of division of
such a parcel which does not meet the lot width or area requirements
established by this section shall be used or occupied.  Any altering of lot
lines or combination of lots shall result in lots which conform to the
requirements of this section.
            2.   Notwithstanding  subsection (E)(4)(a), nonconforming
contiguous lots or portions of the lots under the same ownership in the
assessor's map of the village, the plat of the village, the plat of the Village
of Paradise, Brownson's First Addition to the Village of Paradise, Brownson's
Second and Third Additions to the village, and Wynkoop's First Addition to the
Village of Paradise, may be used or occupied if they meet 60% of the lot width
or area requirements established by this section
         (b)   No portion of the parcel shall be used, occupied, or sold in a
manner which diminishes compliance with lot width and area requirements
established by this section, nor shall any division of a parcel be made which
creates a lot with width or area less than the requirements stated in this
section.
         (c)   Any combination, in whole or in part, of non-conforming lots of
record shall result in lots which conform to the requirements of this section
to the maximum extent feasible.
         (d)   Once any combination which creates a conforming lot occurs, the
resulting lot shall not retain nonconforming lot of record status and will
hereafter be required to comply with the lot requirements of this section.
   (F)   Nonconforming buildings and structures.  Where a lawful building or
structure exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this section
that could not be built under the terms of this section by reason of
restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, landscape buffer, off-street
parking, loading space, minimum setback, or other characteristics of the
structure or its location on the lot, such building or structure may be
continued provided it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   Permitted expansions.
         (a)   An expansion (footprint or floor area) of a nonconforming
building or structure shall be permitted on a conforming side when all of the
following conditions exist:
            1.   Only 1 side of the building or structure does not conform to
width setback requirements.
            2.   The side which is nonconforming provides at least 90% of the
required setback.
            3.   The expansion will conform to all setback and height
requirements.
         (b)   Except as noted above, no building or structure may be enlarged
unless a variance is granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   Replacement of a nonconforming single-family dwelling.  A
nonconforming building used as a single-family residence, and its accessory
structures, may be continued, replaced, repaired or remodeled if damaged by
flood, fire, vandalism, accident or other natural disaster if approved by the
Zoning Board of Appeals. The approval requires a finding that the resulting
building footprint will be the same size or smaller than that of the building
before such change or that the building will become more conforming.
Replacement of such a nonconforming single-family building shall commence
within 1 year of the date of damage and work shall be diligently pursued toward
completion. Failure to complete replacement or diligently work toward
completion shall result in the loss of legal, nonconforming status unless good
cause for the delay is accepted at a hearing before the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
      (3)   Damaged nonconforming buildings and structures.  Except as noted in
subsection (2), a nonconforming building or structure, which is damaged by
flood, fire or vandalism to an extent of more than 50% of its market value
prior to damage (as described in subsection (8)), exclusive of the foundation,
shall be reconstructed only in conformity with the provisions of this section,
unless the lot is a nonconforming lot of record, in which case the provisions
of division (E) also apply. The nonconforming building may be replaced provided
replacement is commenced within 1 year of the date of damage and is being
diligently pursued toward completion. Failure to complete replacement shall
result in the loss of legal, nonconforming status unless good cause for the
delay is accepted at a hearing before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (4)   Relocation of a nonconforming building or structure.  Should any
nonconforming building or structure be relocated or moved for any reason for
any distance, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district
in which it is located after it is relocated or moved.
      (5)   Safety related repairs, improvements and modernization. Repairs,
improvements, or modernization of non-conforming buildings or structures deemed
necessary by the County Building Department to keep a non-conforming building
structurally safe and sound shall be permitted provided such repairs or
improvements do not exceed 50% of the market value (as described in subsection
(8)) of the building or structure during any period of 12 consecutive months.
This cost/value calculation shall not include any costs associated with
modernization of electrical, plumbing, heating or cooling systems to meet
Building Code requirements. Any repairs, improvements, and modernization shall
not result in an enlargement of the non-conforming structure. However, if a
non-conforming structure or a structure containing a non-conforming use becomes
physically unsafe or unlawful due to lack of maintenance and repairs and is
declared as such by the County Building Department, it shall not thereafter be
restored, repaired, or rebuilt except in full conformity with the regulations
in the district in which it is located.
      (6)   Non-safety improvements and modernization. Improvements or
modernization of non-conforming structures which are not deemed necessary by
the County Building Department to keep a non-conforming building structurally
safe and sound shall be permitted provided such repairs or improvements do not
exceed 25% of the market value of the structure (as described in subsection
(8)) during any period of 12 consecutive months. Any such improvements or
modernization shall not result in an enlargement of the non-conforming
structure.
      (7)   Elimination of nonconformity. In the event a non-conforming
situation is removed, the corresponding section of the building or structure
shall thereafter conform.
      (8)   Market value. For the purpose of this section, market value shall
be determined by an acceptable independent appraisal provided by the applicant.
The Village Assessor shall review the appraisal. The value of the repairs or
improvements shall be based on a written estimate from a licensed contractor
provided by the applicant. This estimate shall be reviewed by the village or
the County Building Department.
   (G)   Nonconforming sites.
      (1)   The intent of this section is to permit improvements and minor
modifications to a conforming use and building which does not meet all of the
various site improvement related regulations of this Zoning Code. The purpose
is to allow gradual compliance with the site related requirements, for the
entire site, for sites which predate the various Zoning Code standards for
landscaping, paving and other non-safety site related items.
      (2)   Such improvements or expansions may be permitted by the Planning
Commission during special land use or site plan review without a complete
upgrade of all site elements under the following conditions:
         (a)   The applicant is proposing reasonable site improvements on the
overall site in relation to the scale and construction cost of the building
improvements or expansion.
         (b)   The applicant has addressed safety related site issues on the
overall site.
         (c)   The improvements or minor expansion will not increase
noncompliance with site requirements.
         (d)   A site plan shall be submitted in accordance with
§ 152.228.
   (H)   Change of tenancy or ownership.  In the event there is a change in
tenancy, ownership, or management, an existing non-conforming use or structure
shall be allowed to continue provided there is no change in the nature or
character of such non-conformity.
   (I)   Unlawful non-conformities.  No non-conformity shall be permitted to
continue in existence if it was unlawful at the time it was established.
   (J)   Recording of non-conforming uses.  The Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for maintaining records of nonconforming uses and structures as
accurate as is feasible, and for determining legal nonconforming uses and
structures in existence on the effective date of this section. Failure on the
part of a property owner to provide the Zoning Administrator with necessary
information to determine legal nonconforming status may result in denial of
requested or required permits.
   (K)   Purchase or condemnation.  In order to accomplish the elimination of
nonconforming uses and structures which constitute a nuisance or are
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare, the village, pursuant to
Section 3a, Public Act 207 of 1947 (M.C.L.A. § 125.583a), as amended, may
acquire by purchase, condemnation or otherwise, private property for the
purpose of removal of nonconforming uses.
   (L)   Summary of nonconforming regulations.
Type of Nonconforming Situation Regulatory Response
Type of Nonconforming Situation         Regulatory Response
Illegal nonconforming use, building or  Must cease
accessory structure
A nonconforming use in a building is
discontinued, or a nonconforming        Must cease and all nonconforming rights
building or accessory structure is      are terminated (D(4)
abandoned for over 1 year
A nonconforming use on open land is     Must cease and all nonconforming rights
discontinued for over 6 months          are terminated (D)(4)
Change in ownership of a nonconforming  No affect on nonconformity or rights
lot, use or building                    (H))
                                        Not permitted, except an existing
Establishment of a new nonconforming    nonconforming use may be changed to a
use                                     more conforming use, as determined by
                                        the ZBA (D)(6)
Expansion of a nonconforming use within Permitted (D)(1)
a conforming building
Expansion of a nonconforming use
outside a building or an expansion of   Not permitted unless approved by the
the building which contains a           ZBA (D)(1)
nonconforming use
Request to construct or expand a
principal building on a nonconforming   Lots must be combined unless variance
lot when an adjacent nonconforming lot  granted by ZBA (E)(4)
is under the same ownership
Request to construct or expand a        Requires a variance by the ZBA. This
principal building on a nonconforming   hardship cannot be self created by
lot when no adjacent lot is under the   selling a lot (E)(4)
same ownership
Request to expand or increase height of Expansion which conforms permitted in
a nonconforming building                some cases, a variance from the ZBA may
                                        be required (F)(1)
Safety-related maintenance and
structural repairs to a nonconforming
building or structure (modernization of Permitted up to 50% of the value of the
electrical, plumbing, heating and       building (F)(5)
cooling systems to meet Building Code
requirements is permitted regardless of
cost)
Non-safety related renovation or
modernization to a building containing  Permitted up to 25% of the value of the
a nonconforming use, or to a            building (F)(6)
nonconforming building or accessory
structure
Request to renovate or expand a
conforming use or building when the     Reviewed by Planning Commission (G)
site plan does not meet all of the
current site design standards
Rebuilding of a single-family home in a Permitted to rebuild to same or smaller
non-residential zoning district damaged footprint on previous foundation (D)(5)
by catastrophe
Rebuilding of a nonconforming single-
family home in a single family          Requires approval by the ZBA (F)(2)
residential district
Reestablishment of a nonconforming use  Permitted only if damage is less than
or rebuilding of a nonconforming        50% of the pre-catastrophe fair market
building if damaged by catastrophe      value (F)(3)
 
   (M)   (1)   No marihuana facility operating or purporting to operate prior
to December 15, 2017, shall be deemed to have been a legally existing use nor
shall the operation of such marihuana facility be deemed a legal nonconforming
use under this section.
      (2)   A property owner shall not have vested rights or nonconforming use
rights that would serve as a basis for failing to comply with this section or
any amendment thereto.
      (3)   Discontinuation of a state medical marihuana facility license shall
constitute prima facie evidence that a nonconformity has been discontinued.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.04; Am. Ord. 2005-7, passed 7-25-2005; Am. Ord.
2017-02, passed 11-13-2017)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.224  PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Off-street parking requirements.  The following parking spaces are
required to be furnished off-street:
      (1)   Single-family - 2 spaces;
      (2)   Two-family - 2 spaces per unit;
      (3)   Multiple-family - 2 spaces per unit;
      (4)   Mobile home park - 1 1/2 spaces per site, plus 1 guest space per 4
sites;
      (5)   Commercial, general - 1 space per 400 square feet;
      (6)   Office, general - 1 space per 200 square feet; and
      (7)   Industrial - 1 space per 400 square feet.
   (B)   Off-street parking site development requirements.  Off-street parking
areas shall be designed, constructed, and maintained in accordance with the
following standards and requirements.
      (1)   No parking lot shall be constructed until a permit is issued by the
Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Before the permit is issued, plans and specifications shall be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator showing the location, capacity, size,
site design, surfacing, marking, lighting, drainage, curb cuts, entrances,
exits, and any other detailed features essential to design and construction of
the proposed parking facility.
         (a)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be
in accord with the following minimum requirements:
 
Parking Pattern Lane Width Maneuvering Width Parking Space Length Parking Space
0 degrees                  12 feet           8 feet               23 feet
Parallel Parking
30-53 degrees              12 feet           8 ½ feet            20 feet
54-74 degrees              15 feet           8 ½ feet            20 feet
75 -90 degrees             20 feet           9 feet               20 feet
 
         (b)   All parking spaces shall be provided access by means of
maneuvering lanes.  Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
         (c)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of
clearly defined drives shall be provided for all vehicles; ingress and egress
to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for other than single-family
residential use; and shall not be across land zoned for single-family
residential use.
         (d)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot
located in an area zoned for other than single-family residential use shall be
at least 25 feet distant from adjacent property located in a single-family
residential district.
         (e)   1.   All off-street parking areas abutting single-family
residential districts shall be provided with an obscuring constructed or living
fence of no less than 4 feet 6 inches in height.
            2.   The fences shall be constructed of materials approved by the
Zoning Administrator and shall be durable, weather-resistant, and easily
maintained.
         (f)   Except for single-family and 2-family residential lots, all
parking areas, including parking spaces and maneuvering lanes, shall be
surfaced with a material that shall provide a durable, smooth, and dust-free
surface; and shall be graded and drained to dispose of all properly collected
surface water so that it does not pollute adjoining waters or property.
         (g)   Any lighting shall be so installed as to be confined within and
directed into the parking area only.
   (C)   Off-street loading and unloading requirements.  On the same premises
with every building structure or part thereof involving the receipt or
distribution of vehicles, materials, or merchandise, there shall be provided
and maintained on the lot adequate space for standing, loading, and unloading
in order to avoid undue interference with public use of dedicated public
streets.
   (D)   If an applicant can demonstrate to the Planning Commission, through a
recommendation by the Zoning Administrator, with a parking study and/or case
studies or by other means, that sufficient parking for non-residential use can
be provided within the downtown core area as per the Master Plan, dated May 21,
2007, that is less than the listed minimum parking requirement, then the amount
of parking may be reduced or eliminated.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, §15.05; Am. Ord. 02 02-08, passed 2-4-2008)   Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
§ 152.225  PUBLIC AND MUNICIPAL UTILITIES.
   All public utilities are exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.06)
§ 152.226  SCREENING OF UNSIGHTLY AREAS.
   (A)   Screening.  In all the commercially zoned areas within the Village of
Kingsley, and the other residentially zoned areas using exterior trash
disposal, all outside trash receptacles, outside storage areas, and open areas
where machinery or vehicles are stored or repaired, shall be screened from view
from public sidewalks, streets, and other areas from which the property is
visible.
   (B)   Materials.
      (1)   Any screening shall be constructed with durable materials, such as
quality wood fencing (not plywood), masonry block walls, or galvanized fencing,
provided the galvanized fencing shall be “interwoven” with other material of
green or earth tone colors, so that the galvanized fencing is relatively
opaque. 
      (2)   The screening shall be a minimum of 6 feet in height and shall not
exceed 8 feet in height.
   (C)   Trash receptacles.
      (1)   (a)   All trash receptacles, whether dumpsters or otherwise, shall
be located on a concrete pad, enclosed by an opaque screen, with the height
sufficient to obstruct from view, from a public road, sidewalk, or other open
area, any trash or refuse placed in the trash receptacle.
         (b)   In no instance shall the property owner allow, trash, refuse,
garbage, or other similar materials to accumulate so that the same would be
visible above the required screening.
      (2)   Access to all screened trash receptacles shall be in a manner and
fashion that shall not interfere with or block the public right-of-way, and any
enclosure (screening) shall be sited so that service vehicles have convenient
access to the same without interfering with public use of the right-of-way.
   (D)   Information on site plan.  Any applicant proposing to construct a
commercial building, use a commercial building, or change a use in commercial
building shall submit to the Planning Commission a site plan which includes,
along with those items required under other sections of this chapter, a
designation of the placement of any trash receptacles, as well as the type and
nature of any screening proposed to be used.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.07)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.227  SIGN REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The sign regulations in this section are intended:
         (a)   To maintain and improve the appearance of the village;
         (b)   To conserve community character;
         (c)   To protect property values;
         (d)   To support and compliment land use objectives as set forth in
the master plan and this chapter;
         (e)   To prevent traffic hazards;
         (f)   To provide safer conditions for pedestrians;
         (g)   To promote economic development, by regulating the construction,
alteration, repair, maintenance, size, location, and number of signs; and
         (h)   To ensure that the constitutionally guaranteed right of free
speech is protected.
      (2)   It is further determined that to allow signs of excessive number
and size in the village would:
         (a)   Unduly distract pedestrians and motorists;
         (b)   Create traffic hazards; and
         (c)   Reduce the effectiveness of signs needed to direct traffic.
         (d)   The regulations of this section are intended to provide
reasonable identification for businesses and other uses within the community,
but not intended to serve for the sole purpose of advertising.
   (B)   Applicability.
      (1)   The regulations set forth in this section shall apply to and govern
signs in all zoning districts in the Village of Kingsley.
      (2)   No sign shall be erected, repaired, altered, relocated, or
maintained except in conformance with the regulations for the district in which
it is located, unless the sign is otherwise specifically regulated by special
use provision or provisions relating to variances.
   (C)   Sign permits.
      (1)   No person shall erect, alter, or replace any sign without first
obtaining a sign permit, unless the sign is specifically exempt as provided in
this chapter.
      (2)   Application for a permit to erect, alter, or replace a sign shall
be made to the Zoning Administrator by submission of the required forms, fees
(as may be established by resolution by the Kingsley Village Council) exhibits,
and information by the owner of the property on which the sign is to be
located, or by the owner’s agent or lessee.
      (3)   Sign permits may be issued on the basis of a plan and application
submitted to the Zoning Administrator providing the construction design is in
compliance with this section.
      (4)   Departures from the approved plan shall result in the applicant
being cited for violation and may be punished by fine.
      (5)   The Zoning Administrator shall not approve plans or issue sign
permits for any sign that does not conform to the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   (a)   Businesses in the C-2 and Industrial Districts shall be
permitted 1 permanent sign, not to exceed 50 square feet to be affixed to, or
painted on the building, or 1 permanent monument sign will permitted where lot
size and location provide the required setbacks. Signs fronting on M-113 may be
60 square feet. Signs fronting on the M-113 shall be permitted within the
building setback line.
         (b)   Monument signs shall not exceed 50 square feet and shall not
exceed 8 feet in height.
   (D)   Sign overlay map. The following map depicts the sign overlay district
referenced in this subchapter. Any signs located within the sign overlay
district are subject to alternate standards as identified within this
subchapter. All other sign regulations in this chapter relate to the underlying
zoning designation for the lot unless otherwise indicated. Where not district
specific, the general sign regulations within this subchapter shall apply to
all signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/623ba6bc56920454df431425f56611e763fcfe97/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1115.jpg]
 
   (E)   Table of sign regulations - permanent signs requiring a permit. The
following table and related notes regulate all permanent signs requiring a
permit issued by the Zoning Administrator.
                      Zoning District
Sign Type Regulations C-1 Overlay C-2 R-1/R- 2/ R-3 Village      MH Industrial
                                                    Residenti al
                        Zoning District
Sign Type  Regulations  C-                    R-1/R-  Village
                        1  Overlay   C-2      2/ R-3  Residenti MH      Industrial
                                                      al
           Sign area
           (square      40           40                                 40
           feet)
Free-      Height       6'           6'       Not               Not     6'
Standing   Maximum #    1  Not       1        permitt Not       permitt 1
Sign       Additional   b, permitted          ed      permitted ed
           requirements c,           c, f, i,
           see notes    e,           j                                  c, f, i, j
           below        h,
                        j
                           1 sf/     1.5 sf /                           1.5 sf /
                           linear    linear                             linear
                           foot      foot                               foot
           Sign area    40 building  building 8       8                 building
                           width     width                      Not     width max.
Wall Sign                  max. 36   max.60                     permitt 60 sf
                           sf        sf                         ed
           Maximum #    1  1         1        1       1                 1
           Additional   a,
           requirements d, a         a, d, i  h       h                 a, i
           see notes    e,
           below        h
           Sign area    40           60       20                40      60
           Height       6'           10'      5'                10'     10'
Entrance   Maximum #    1  Not       1        1       Not       1       1
Sign       Additional   b, permitted                  permitted
           requirements c,           c, f, g, g                 f       c, f, g, j
           see notes    j            j
           below
           Sign area
           (square      12 8         12       Not               Not
Projecting feet)                              permitt Not       permitt Not
Signs                                         ed      permitted ed      permitted
           Maximum #    1  1         1
 
Notes to Table of Sign Regulations:
   a.   On a corner lot, a second wall sign is permitted. The second sign shall
not exceed 60% of the sign area permit for the first sign.
   b.   Free-standing or entrance signs in this district shall be monument
style, not pole-mounted.
   c.   For multi-tenant buildings or business centers, a monument style
entrance sign shall be permitted in place of a free-standing sign.
   d.   In addition to a monument style entrance sign, for multi-tenant
buildings or business centers, each tenant space shall be allowed a separate
wall sign not to exceed the greater of 12 square feet in area, or 0.5 square
feet for each linear foot of building width.
   e.   In this district, either one free-standing sign or one wall sign shall
be permitted on a premises unless otherwise permitted in this section.
   f.   Free-standing signs in this district directly fronting on M-113 may be
pole-style. All other free-standing signs in this district shall be monument
style. Along M-113, maximum ground sign size (either free-standing or monument
style) may be up to 60 square feet in sign area and 8 feet in height. (Note
that entrance signs in this district may be up to 60 square feet in sign area
and up to 10 feet in height.)
   g.   A secondary entrance sign of the same maximum height and sign area
shall be permitted at any development entrance from a village road.
   h.   All permitted institutional uses including schools, places of worship,
parks, government buildings, libraries, post offices and similar uses shall
comply with the sign regulations for the C-1 zoning district, regardless of the
underlying zoning district.
   i.   In this district, one free-standing sign in addition to one wall sign
shall be permitted on a premises. Where permitted under this section,
additional signs for corner lots and multi-tenant buildings may be permitted in
this district.
   j.   Overall sign area. For monument and free-standing style signs, sign
area as defined in §
152.005 shall not be less than 50% of the overall sign area also as defined in
§
152.005.
   (F)   Signs not requiring a permit.
                Portable Signs            Minor Signs
Zoning District Sign Area (square # Notes Sign Area (square # Height Notes
                feet)                     feet)
                    Portable Signs            Minor Signs
Zoning District     Sign Area (square # Notes Sign Area (square # Height Notes
                    feet)                     feet)
C-1                 6                 2       6                 2 6       
Overlay             6                 2       Not permitted
C-2                 6                 2       6                 2 6       
R-1/R-2/ R-3        6                 6       Not permitted
Village Residential 6                 4       Not permitted
MH                  4                 4       6                 2 6       
Industrial          6                 2       6                 2 6
 
   (G)   Prohibited signs. The following types of signs are expressly
prohibited:
      (1)   Any sign which has flashing, moving, or oscillating lights; and
      (2)   Roof signs.
   (H)   General requirements. The following applies to all signs in the
village.
      (1)   No sign shall be placed in, upon, or over a public right-of-way,
alley or other public place, except for permitted highway and government signs
and projected signs permitted under this chapter. Permitted projected signs
shall provide a minimum of 8 feet of clearance from sidewalk grade.
      (2)   No light pole, utility pole, or other supporting member shall be
used for placement of any sign approved for such.
      (3)   No sign shall be erected in any place where it may, by reason of
its position, shape, color, or other characteristic, interfere with, obstruct
the view of, or be confused with any authorized traffic sign, signal, or
device, or constitute a nuisance.
      (4)   No sign shall contain any moving or animated parts, nor have the
appearance of having any moving or animated parts.
      (5)   No wall sign shall extend above the roofline of a building.
      (6)   Free-standing signs shall permit an unobstructed view for motorists
and pedestrians.
      (7)   Permitted wall signs may be replaced with a canopy sign. Canopy
signs shall provide a minimum of 8 feet of clearance from sidewalk grade.
      (8)   No commercial vehicle, which at the discretion of the Zoning
Administrator has the intended function of acting as a sign, shall be parked in
any area abutting the street, unless no other parking area is available.
      (9)   Maintenance. Signs, supports, braces, guys, and anchors shall be
maintained in such a manner as not to cause a hazard.
      (10)   Illumination.
         (a)   Unless otherwise provided, signs may be illuminated. The source
of light shall be enclosed or shaded and directed to prevent light from shining
directly onto traffic or neighboring property.
         (b)   Illumination shall meet requirements as set forth in §
152.222.
         (c)   Internally illuminated sign panels shall be of an opaque and
saturated color. Alternatively, only the portions of such internally lit sign
panel making up the lettering or logos shall be clear or white in order to
limit glare to the extent possible.
   (I)   Nonconforming signs.
      (1)   Every permanent signs which was erected legally and which lawfully
exists at the time of the enactment of this section which does not conform to
the height, size, area, or location requirements of this section as of the date
of the adoption of these regulations, is herby deemed to be nonconforming.
      (2)   Nonconforming signs may not be altered, expanded, enlarged, or
extended. However, nonconforming signs may be maintained and repaired so as to
continue the useful life of the sign.
      (3)   For the purposes of this section, a nonconforming sign may be
diminished in size or dimension without jeopardizing the privilege of
nonconforming use, so long as the costs of change does not exceed 50% of the
cost of the sign and the change moves the sign toward or into compliance with
this section.
      (4)   Any nonconforming sign destroyed by fire or other casualty loss
shall not be restored or rebuilt if reconstruction will constitute more than
50% of the value of the sign on the date of loss.
      (5)   A sign that for a period of one or more years no longer advertises
a bona fide business conducted, or product sold, shall be removed by the owner
of the building, structure, or property upon which the sign is located, within
30 days of receipt of written notice by the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.08; Am. Ord. 2002-7, passed - -; Am. Ord. 2005-
01, passed 3-7-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-2, passed 3-7-2005; Am. Ord. 2005-5, passed
3-7-2005; Am. Ord. 2006-3, passed 7-10-2006; Am. Ord. passed 7-11-2016; Am.
Ord. passed 7-9-2018)   Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.228  SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.  The Village of Kingsley finds that all
development of land uses requires a site plan and site plan review.  Site plans
may be divided into two classifications: (1) Basic site plans and (2) Detailed
site plans.  A land use permit shall not be issued or authorized until a site
plan is approved in accordance with the procedures and standards set forth
herein and all necessary review, inspection, and permit fees have been paid in
full.
      (1)   Basic site plans.
         (a)   Basic site plans are required for uses found in permitted use
sections of the residential districts. Other uses, such as multiple family and
apartment developments, will require a detailed site plan.
         (b)   For non-residential uses, a basic site plan will be required if
there is no physical change in the existing structure or site conditions,
merely a change in use. For new non- residential structures, a detailed site
plan will be required.
         (c)   Basic site plans are generally considered to require less detail
and need not to be drawn to scale, but must include the information required on
the land use permit application, along with a legible drawing of the proposed
site showing lot dimensions, setbacks, driveway location and other details
deemed necessary by the village.
         (d)   Basic site plans may be reviewed and approved/denied by the
Village Zoning Administrator without Planning Commission approval; however, if
the Zoning Administrator believes additional review may be warranted, the
Zoning Administrator may send a basic site plan to the Planning Commission for
review and approval.
      (2)   Detailed site plans. Detailed site plans are required for new
structures with non- residential uses as well as multiple family uses, planned
unit developments (PUD), open space preservation and special land uses.
   (B)   Procedures and submittal requirements for site plans.
      (1)   Optional sketch plan review.
         (a)   Procedure for sketch plan review.
            1.   Preliminary sketches of proposed site and development plans
may be submitted for review to the Village Zoning Administrator prior to final
submittal of a basic site plan or detailed site plan.
            2.   This meeting will be informal and advisory only, and it is
intended to better inform the developer of the acceptability and process of
his/her proposed plans prior to incurring extensive engineering and other costs
which might be necessary for final site plan review.
            3.   The Village Planning Commission shall not be bound by any
tentative approval given at this time.
         (b)   Requirements for preliminary sketch plans.  Preliminary sketch
plans must include:
            1.   The name and address of the owner and applicant (if different
than owner);
            2.   Property parcel number, street address, and legal description
of the subject parcel of land;
            3.   Sketch plans showing tentative site and development plans; and
            4.   Disclosure of all intended uses on the site.
      (2)   Basic site plan review.
         (a)   Procedure for basic site plan application.
            1.   Request for basic site plan review shall be made by filing
with the Village Zoning Administrator the following:
               a.   A application fee as determined by resolution of the
Village Council, and if requested by the Zoning Administrator, an additional
amount to be placed in escrow to cover review costs pursuant to the Village
Resolution Establishing Fees for Reimbursable Expenses and §
152.228 (E).
               b.   Three copies of the completed application form, filled out
in full by the applicant, including, at a minimum, all information required
under §
152.228 (B)(2)(b).
            2.   All basic site plan applications shall be reviewed for
completeness by the Zoning Administrator and/or village’s Planning Consultant.
               a.   If the basic site plan is determined to be incomplete, the
Zoning Administrator shall return the site plan to the applicant with a written
list of items needed to make the site plan complete.
               b.   If the basic site plan is determined to be complete, the
Zoning Administrator shall review and act upon the application within 45 days
of receipt of application.
               c.   If the Zoning Administrator believes additional review of a
Basic Site Plan application is warranted, the Zoning Administrator shall:
                  i.   Notify the applicant in writing of the Zoning
Administrator's decision to send the complete application to the Planning
Commission, as well as the date, time, and location of the review of his/her
basic site plan application;
                  ii.   Forward a copy of the basic site plan(s) to each member
of the Planning Commission at least 1 week prior to the Planning Commission's
meeting when the basic site plan is on the agenda;
                  iii.   The applicant or a designate representative must be
present at all scheduled review meetings or consideration of the site plan
shall be tabled due to lack of representation. Absence at 2 consecutive
meetings without prior notice to the Zoning Administrator may result in denial
of the application.  The Zoning Administrator may recommend to the Planning
Commission Chairperson that the applicant’s architect, engineer, or landscape
architect be required to be present at the meeting in order to address
technical matters related to the application.
         (b)   Application requirements for a basic site plan.  A basic site
plan shall contain at a minimum the following information:
            1.   Applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and signature;
            2.   Property owner’s name, address, telephone number, and
signature;
            3.   Parcel identification number of subject parcel;
            4.   Street address of the subject parcel of land;
            5.   Present zoning classification of subject parcel;
            6.   Present and proposed land use(s) for subject parcel;
            7.   Properly lines, setbacks, and parcel size;
            8.   Location of public and private rights-of-way and easements
within and contiguous to the proposed development, which will be continued,
created, relocated, abandoned, including grades and type of construction of
those upon the site;
            9.   Itemization of existing manmade and natural features including
buildings, trees, water bodies, wetlands and the like.
            10.   The location, height, distance between, and square footage of
existing and proposed main and accessory buildings, and other existing
structures;
            11.   Proposed and existing roads (pubic and private), access
easements, sidewalks, bicycle paths, and other vehicular and pedestrian
circulation features within and adjacent to the site;
            12.   Location and dimensions of driveways;
            13.   Any additional material and/or information necessary to
evaluate the impact of the project upon adjacent properties and the general
public, as may be requested by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission;
            14.   All necessary approvals from agencies such as soil erosion,
health department, fire department, department of public works (DPW), Michigan
Department of Transportation (MDOT) and the like;
            15.   North arrow and date of original submittal and last revision;
and
            16.   Name, address, and phone number of the prepare of the plans.
      (3)   Detailed site plan review.
         (a)   Procedure for detailed site plan application.
            1.   Request for detailed site plan review shall be made by filing
with the Village Zoning Administrator the following:
               a.   A application fee as determined by resolution of the
Village Council, and, if requested by the Zoning Administrator, an additional
amount to be placed in escrow to cover review costs pursuant to the Village
Resolution Establishing Fees for Reimbursable Expenses and §
152.228(E).
               b.   Eleven copies of the completed application form, filled out
in full by the applicant, including, at a minimum, all information required
under §
152.228(B)(3)(b).
            2.   All detailed site plan applications shall be reviewed for
completeness by the Zoning Administrator and/or Village’s Planning Consultant.
               a.   If the detailed site plan is determined to be incomplete,
the Zoning Administrator shall return the site plan to the applicant with a
written list of items needed to make the site plan complete.
               b.   If the detailed site plan is determined to be complete, the
Zoning Administrator shall:
                  i.   Determine whether any outside reviewer including Village
Engineer, Planning Consultant, Attorney, or others will be asked to review the
plan and provide written comments for the approving body’s consideration;
                  ii.   Determine if the detailed site plan is to be reviewed
and acted upon by the Planning Commission, and, if so, forward a copy of the
detailed site plan(s) to each member of the Planning Commission at least 1 week
prior to the Planning Commission’s meeting when the detailed site plan is on
its agenda;
                  iii.   Determine if the detailed site plan is to be reviewed
and acted upon by the Zoning Board of Appeals, and, if so, forward a copy of
the detailed site plan(s) to each member of the Zoning Board of Appeals at
least 1 week prior to the Planning Commission’s meeting when the detailed site
plan is on its agenda;
                  iv.   Record the date of the next scheduled meeting of the
approving body (Planning Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals);
                  v.   Schedule the review of the detailed site plan within 45
days of the date of receipt of the plans and application by the Village Zoning
Administrator;
                  vi.   Notify the applicant in writing of the completeness of
application, as well as the date, time, and place of the review of his/her
detailed site plan application;
            3.   Applications shall be submitted by the owner of an interest in
the land for which the detailed site plan approval is sought or the designated
agent of said owner.  The applicant or a designate representative must be
present at all scheduled review meetings or consideration of the site plan
shall be tabled due to lack of representation. Absence at 2 consecutive
meetings without prior notice to the Zoning Administrator may result in denial
of the application. The Zoning Administrator may recommend to the Planning
Commission Chairperson that the applicant’s architect, engineer, or landscape
architect be required to be present at the meeting in order to address
technical matters related to the application.
         (b)   Application requirements for a detailed site plan.  A detailed
site plan shall contain at a minimum the following information:
            1.   Applicant’s name, address, telephone number, and signature;
            2.   Property owner’s name, address, telephone number, and
signature;
            3.   Parcel identification number of subject parcel;
            4.   Street address of the subject parcel of land;
            5.   Legal description of the subject parcel of land;
            6.   Present zoning classification of subject parcel and adjacent
parcels and, when applicable, parcels across rights-of-way;
            7.   Present and proposed land use(s) for subject parcel;
            8.   A vicinity map showing the subject parcel in relation to the
surrounding area with sufficient detail;
            9.   Applicant’s statement demonstrating compatibility with
surrounding uses;
            10.   Statements regarding the project impacts on existing
infrastructure (including traffic circulation patterns and local traffic
volumes, schools, and existing utilities), emergency service requirements, and
on the natural environment on and adjacent to the site;
            11.   A scaled drawing of the site (minimum 1" - 50'), including
property lines, setbacks, and area of the subject parcel of land stated in
acres or, if less than 1 acre, in square feet;
            12.   Location of public and private rights-of-way and easements
within and contiguous to the proposed development, which will be continued,
created, relocated, abandoned, including grades and type of construction of
those upon the site;
            13.   Topography of the existing site and its relationship to
adjoining properties shown at a 1-foot contour interval;
            14.   Itemization of existing manmade and natural features
including buildings, trees, water bodies, wetlands and the like.
            15.   The location, height, distance between, and square footage of
existing and proposed main and accessory buildings, and other existing
structures;
            16.   Building elevations and detailed floor plans;
            17.   Percentage of land covered by buildings and impervious
surfaces and that which is reserved for open space;
            18.   Dwelling unit density (where applicable), including number of
units and composition;
            19.   Proposed and existing roads (pubic and private), access
easements, sidewalks, bicycle paths, and other vehicular and pedestrian
circulation features within and adjacent to the site;
            20.   Location and dimensions of curb cuts, acceleration/
deceleration and passing lanes (when required);
            21.   Parking plan (when required), including the number of
required spaces, actual spaces to be provided, number and location of ADA
accessible parking spaces, loading/unloading service areas;
            22.   Location of water supply lines, and the location and design
of storm sewers, retention or detention ponds, waste water/sanitary sewer
lines, clean out locations, connection points and treatment systems;
            23.   Proposed earth changes shown at a 1-foot contour interval;
            24.   Sidewalks; fence location, materials, and elevations;
dumpster location and materials and elevations of dumpster screening and
landscaping;
            25.   Location, size, and specifications of all signs and
advertising features, including cross sections;
            26.   Locations of exterior lighting with the area of illumination
illustrated as well as the type of fixture and shielding to be use;
            27.   Snow storage or snow management plan;
            28.   Location of fire hydrants and emergency vehicle access plan;
            29.   Any additional material and/or information necessary to
evaluate the impact of the project upon adjacent properties and the general
public, as may be requested by the Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission;
            30.   All necessary approvals from agencies such as soil erosion,
health department, fire department, department of public works (DPW), Michigan
Department of Transportation (MDOT) and the like.
            31.   North arrow and date of original submittal and last revision;
            32.   Name, address, and phone number of the prepare of the plans;
            33.   Seal or certification of the registered engineer, architect,
landscape architect, surveyor, or planner who prepared the plan;
   (C)   Criteria for review of site plans.  All applications for basic site
plan and detailed site plan approval shall be reviewed for compliance with the
standards and requirements of this section.  Only when satisfied that the
application meets all such standards and requirements shall the Zoning
Administrator or Planning Commission, as applicable, approve said application. 
The Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission, as applicable, will review
site plans for the following:
      (1)   Adequacy of information.  The site plan shall include all required
information in sufficiently complete and understandable form to provide an
accurate description of the proposed use(s) and structure(s).
      (2)   Vehicular and pedestrian circulation layout.  The arrangement of
public or common ways for vehicular and pedestrian circulation shall respect
the pattern of existing or planned streets and pedestrian or bicycle pathways
in the area.  The width of streets and drives shall be appropriate for the
volume of traffic they will carry.  There is also a proper relationship between
the existing streets and highways within the vicinity and proposed deceleration
lanes, service, drive, entrance and exit driveways, and parking areas to assure
the safety and convenience of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, and proposed
streets and access plan conforms to any street or access plan adopted by the
village or the County Road Commission.
      (3)   Buildings.  Buildings and structures will meet or exceed setback
standards, height, and other dimensional standards, and be located to preserve
environmentally sensitive areas.  Redevelopment of existing structures shall
meet or exceed all standards for which a variance has not been obtained.  Also,
the buildings, structures, and entryways thereto proposed to be located upon
the premises are so situated and designed as to minimize adverse effects there
from upon owners and occupants of adjacent properties and the discharge of
storm waters.
      (4)   Preservation of natural areas.  The landscape shall be preserved in
its natural state, insofar as practicable, by minimizing tree and soil removal,
alteration to the natural drainage courses, and the amount of cutting, filling
and grading.  Insofar as practical, natural features and the site topography
shall be incorporated into the proposed site design.  As many natural features
of the landscape shall be retained as possible, particularly, where they
furnish a barrier or buffer between the project and adjoining properties used
for dissimilar purposes and where they assist in preserving the general
appearance of the neighborhood or help control erosion or the discharge of
storm waters.  Impervious surfaces have been limited on the site to the
greatest extent practical.
      (5)   Privacy.  The site design shall provide reasonable visual and sound
privacy for dwelling units located therein and adjacent thereto.  Fences,
walks, barriers, and landscaping shall be used, as appropriate, for the
protection and enhancement of property and the privacy of its occupants.  Any
adverse effects of the proposed development and activities emanating there from
upon adjoining residents or owners shall be minimized by appropriate screening,
fencing, and/or landscaping.
      (6)   Other approvals.  All provisions of this section are complied with
unless an appropriate variance there from has been granted by the Village
Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (7)   Site design characteristics.  All elements of the site design shall
be harmoniously and efficiently organized in relation to topography, the size
and type of lot, the character of adjoining property, and the type and size of
buildings.  The site shall be developed so as not to impede the normal and
orderly development or improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted
by this section.  The site shall be designed to conform to all provisions of
this section.  Redevelopment of existing sites shall be brought into
conformance with all site improvement provisions of this section which are
relative to and proportionate to the extent of redevelopment, as determine by
the Planning Commission.
      (8)   Emergency vehicle access.  All buildings and structures shall be
arranged so as to permit emergency vehicle access by some practicable means to
all vehicles.
      (9)   Drainage and soil erosion.  Stormwater management system and
facilities shall preserve the natural drainage characteristics and enhance the
aesthetics of the site to the maximum extent possible and shall not
substantially reduce or increase the natural retention or storage capacity of
any wetland, water body, or water course, or cause alterations which could
increase flooding or water pollution on or off the site. The proposed
development shall include measures to prevent soil erosion and sedimentation.
      (10)   Exterior lighting.  Exterior lighting shall be designed so that it
is deflected away from adjacent properties and so that it does not impede the
vision of drivers on public streets. Any exterior lighting must be consistent
with §
152.222 (Night Sky).
      (11)   Public services.  The scale and design of the proposed development
shall facilitate the adequate provision of services currently furnished by or
that may be required of the village or other public agency including, but not
limited to, fire and police protection, stormwater management, sanitary sewage
removal and treatment, traffic control and administrative services.
      (13)   Hazardous materials.  Sites which include storage of hazardous
materials or waste, fuels, salt, or chemicals shall be designed to prevent
spills and discharges of polluting materials to the surface of the ground,
groundwater, and nearby surface water bodies.  Such sites shall be designed to
meet all applicable state and federal regulations.
      (14)   Traffic impact.  The expected volume of traffic to be generated by
the proposed use shall not adversely impact existing roads and the circulation
thereon.
   (D)   Action on application and site plans.
      (1)   Basic site plans.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for basic
site plan review, and the Zoning Administrator shall then make a determination
based solely on the requirements and standards of this section.  The Zoning
Administrator is authorized to grant approval, approval subject to revisions,
or denial as follows:
            1.   Approval.  Upon determination that a basic site plan is in
compliance with the standards and requirements of this section and other
applicable ordinances and laws, approval shall be granted subject to the
applicant providing copies of all required outside agency approvals.
            2.   Approval subject to revisions.  Upon determination that basic
site plan is in compliance except for minor revisions, said revisions shall be
identified and the applicant shall be given the opportunity to correct the site
plan prior to applying for a building permit. The applicant shall resubmit the
basis site plan, accompanied by a complete list of all changes, certified by
the applicant’s design professional (if applicable), to the Zoning
Administrator for final approval after said revisions have been completed.  The
Zoning Administrator shall approve the resubmitted plan if all required
revisions have been addressed and copies of any permits required by outside
agencies have been provided.  The applicant shall have no more than 90 days to
re-submit Basic Site Plans containing all required revisions to the Zoning
Administrator.  If all required revisions are not submitted within 90 days, the
Zoning Administrators approval subject to revisions shall become null-and-void.
            3.   Denial of approval.  Upon determination that a basic site plan
does not comply with standards and regulations set forth in this section or
requires extensive revision in order to comply with said standards and
regulations, the Zoning Administrator shall deny site plan approval. The
applicant must revise the basic site plan and resubmit if the applicant is
still interested in pursuing the project.  A re-submittal shall be considered a
new site plan and be required to re-initiate the entire basic site plan review
process.
         (b)   A land use permit shall not be issued or authorized until a
basic site plan is approved in accordance with the procedures and standards set
forth herein and all necessary review, inspection, and permit fees have been
paid in full.
         (c)   An approved site plan shall be valid for a period of 1 year from
the date of approval. If construction or the permitted use has not commenced
and proceeded meaningfully toward completion by the end of this 1 year, the
site plan approval shall expire.  The Village Zoning Administrator may, at its
discretion, extend an approved basic site plan for 1 additional year if
requested to do so in writing by the applicant and if there is good reason to
believe that the applicant will in fact commence construction of the permitted
use and proceed meaningfully toward completion by the end of the second year.
      (2)   Detailed site plans.
         (a)   The Planning Commission shall review the application for
detailed site plan review, together with the reports and recommendations from
the Zoning Administrator, Village Planner, Village Attorney, Village Engineer,
Department of Public Works, Fire Chief, Police Chief, and other reviewing
agencies, as appropriate.  The Planning Commission shall then make a
determination based solely on the requirements and standards of this section.
The Planning Commission is authorized to table, grant approval, approval
subject to revisions, or denial as follows:
            1.   Table. The application may be tabled if it is determined to be
incomplete, the applicant has not fully responded to deficiencies identified
during the preliminary review, an ordinance interpretation or variance is
needed from the Zoning Board of Appeals, or revisions are necessary to bring
the detailed site plan into compliance with applicable standards and
regulations. The Planning Commission shall direct the applicant to prepare
additional information, revise the detailed site plan, or direct the village
staff to conduct additional analysis. The applicant shall be required to
prepare revised detailed site plans accompanied by a complete list of all
changes, certified by the applicant’s design professional.  Amended plans or
other material which show a diligent effort to address all reasons for tabling,
as determined by the Chairman of the Planning Commission or designee, shall be
placed on the agenda of the Planning Commission for further review and action.
            2.   Approval.  Upon determination that a detailed site plan is in
compliance with the standards and requirements of this section and other
applicable ordinances and laws, approval shall be granted subject to the
applicant providing copies of all required outside agency approvals.
            3.   Approval subject to revisions.  Upon determination that a
detailed site plan is in compliance except for minor revisions, said revisions
shall be identified and the applicant shall be given the opportunity to correct
the detailed site plan prior to applying for a building permit. The applicant
shall re-submit the detailed site plan, accompanied by a complete list of all
changes, certified by the applicant's design professional, to the Planning
Commission for final approval after said revisions have been completed.  At its
discretion, the Planning Commission may waive its right to review the revised
detailed site plan and instead authorize the Zoning Administrator to review and
approve the re-submitted detailed site plan if all required revisions have been
addressed and copies of any permits required by outside agencies have been
provided. The Planning Commission may set a maximum time frame, not to exceed
90 days, for detailed site plans containing all required revisions to be
resubmitted to the Zoning Administrator.  If all required revisions are not
submitted within the maximum time frame set, Planning Commission approval shall
become null-and-void.
            4.   Denial of approval.  Upon determination that a detailed site
plan does not comply with standards and regulations set forth in this section,
requires extensive revision in order to comply with said standards and
regulations, or the applicant has not satisfactorily addressed all reasons for
site plan tabling, site plan approval shall be denied.  The applicant must
revise the detailed site plans and resubmit if the applicant is still
interested in pursuing the project. A re-submittal shall be considered a new
detailed site plan and be required to re-initiate the full detailed site plan
review process.
         (b)   A land use permit shall not be issued or authorized until a
detailed site plan is approved in accordance with the procedures and standards
set forth herein and all necessary review, inspection, and permit fees have
been paid in full.
         (c)   An approved site plan shall be valid for a period of 1 year from
the date of approval. If construction or the permitted use has not commenced
and proceeded meaningfully toward completion by the end of this 1 year, the
site plan approval shall expire. The Planning Commission may, at its
discretion, extend an approved detailed site plan for 1 additional year if
requested to do so in writing by the applicant and if there is good reason to
believe that the applicant will in fact commence construction of the permitted
use and proceed meaningfully toward completion by the end of the second year.
      (3)   Amendment of site plan.
         (a)   A proposed amendment, modification, or alteration to a
previously approved basic site plan or detailed site plan shall be submitted to
the Village Zoning Administrator for review in the same manner as the original
application was submitted and reviewed except:
            1.   Non-material deviation from the site plans issued by the
Village Council or the Planning Commission are permissible and the Zoning
Administrator may authorize such non-material deviations.  A deviation is non-
material if it will result in no discernable changes or impact on or to the
neighboring properties, the general public, or those intended to occupy or use
the proposed improvements to the property.
            2.   Minor design modification to changes in permits (including
approved plans) are permissible with the approval of the permit-issuing
authority.  Such permission may be obtained without formal application, public
hearing, or payment of any additional fee.  For purposes of this section, minor
design modifications or changes are those that have no substantial impact on
neighboring properties, the general public, or those intended to occupy or use
the proposed development.
         (b)   All other requests for changes in approved plans will be
processed as new applications. If such requests are required to be acted upon
by the Village Council or Board of Appeals, new conditions may be imposed in
accordance with §
152.228(B) but the applicant retains the right to reject such additional
conditions by withdrawing his/her request for an amendment and may then proceed
in accordance with the previously issued permit.
         (c)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Village Planner shall determine
whether amendments to and modifications of permits fall within categories set
forth in divisions (B)(3)(a) and (B)(3)(b).
         (d)   A developer requesting approval of changes shall submit a
written request for such approval to the Zoning Administrator and that request
shall identify all the changes. Approval of all changes must be given in
writing.
   (E)   Security requirement.  The village may defray costs of certain site
plan reviews, if such review requires the expertise of professional services. 
If the Planning Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals determines that the
review of an application requires the examination of a qualified professional
such as a professional planner, engineer, attorney, or other such professional,
then the applicant shall deposit with the Village Treasurer such additional
zoning fees in an amount determined by the Planning Commission or Zoning Board
of Appeals equal to the estimated additional costs.  The additional zoning fees
shall be held in escrow in the applicant’s name and shall be used solely to pay
the additional costs of review.  If the amount in escrow becomes less than 10%
of the initial escrow deposit or less than 10% of the latest additional escrow
deposit and review of the application or decision on the appeal is not
completed, then the Planning Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals may require
the applicant to deposit additional fees into escrow in an amount determined by
the Planning Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals to be equal to the estimated
costs to complete the review or decide the appeal. Failure of the applicant to
make any escrow deposit required under this section shall be deemed to make the
application incomplete or the appeal procedurally defective thereby justifying
the denial of the application or the dismissal of the appeal.  Any unexpected
funds held in escrow shall be returned to the applicant following final action
on the application or the final decision on the appeal. Any actual costs
incurred by the village in excess of the amount held in escrow shall be billed
to the applicant and shall be paid by the applicant prior to the issuance of
any permit or the release of a final decision on an appeal.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.09; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 9-9-2002; Am. Ord.
2004-3, passed 2-23-2004; Am. Ord. 2006-1, passed 7-10-2006; Am. Ord. passed 7-
9-2018)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.229  SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose.  It is the intent and purpose of this chapter to
provide a set of procedures and standards for special uses of land or
structures that will maintain sound provisions for the protection of the
health, safety, convenience, and general welfare of the inhabitants of the
Village of Kingsley.
   (B)   Review and approval.
      (1)   The special land uses and activities eligible in a respective
zoning district in the Village of Kingsley may be permitted only after review
and recommendation of the Village Planning Commission, followed by approval of
the Village Council.
      (2)   The special uses shall also be subject to site plan review and
approval as provided for in
§ 152.228.
   (C)   Permit procedure.  Request for special use permit shall be made by
filing with the Village Zoning Administrator the following:
      (1)   A permit fee as determined by resolution of the Village Council
based upon the cost of processing the permit and as shall be on file with the
Village Clerk; and
      (2)   A copy of the completed application form for special use permit
which shall contain at a minimum the following information:
         (a)   Name and address of applicant;
         (b)   Legal description, property parcel number, and street address of
the subject parcel of land;
         (c)   Area of the subject parcel of land stated in acres or, if less
than 1 acre, in square feet;
         (d)   Present zoning classification of parcel;
         (e)   Present and proposed land use;
         (f)   Applicant's statement of expected effect on emergency service
requirements, schools, storm water systems, and automobile and truck
circulation patterns and local traffic volume; and
         (g)   Any additional material or information necessary to consider the
impact of the project upon adjacent properties and the general public as may be
requested by the Village Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or Village
Council.
         (h)   All information from site plan review, if requested by the
Village Zoning Administrator, Planning Commission, or Village Council.
   (D)   Standards for decision.  In evaluating a proposed special use permit,
the Village Planning Commission shall consider the following factors upon which
to base their decision and/or approval:
      (1)   The similarity and compatibility of the proposed special use with
permitted uses in the respective zoning district;
      (2)   Whether or not the proposed use would create a traffic hazard to a
greater degree than the permitted uses in that district;
      (3)   Whether or not the proposed use would create obnoxious or harmful
noise or odors;
      (4)   Location in relation to roads and adjacent residential areas;
      (5)   Preservation of elements of the natural environment such as trees,
natural land forms, shore areas, and drainage patterns;
      (6)   Safety factors, such as access for fire and police; and
      (7)   Relationship to shore and stream preservation principles where
appropriate.
   (E)   Decision of Village Council.
      (1)   (a)   Prior to action by the Village Council, the Village Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing pursuant to §
152.274. After adequate review and study of any application for a special use
permit, the Village Planning Commission shall transmit the comments received
from the public, its findings, and its recommendations to the Village Council. 
         (b)   After a public hearing pursuant to §
152.274, the Village Council may deny, approve, or approve with conditions a
request for special land use approval. The decision on a special land use shall
be incorporated in a statement of findings and conclusions relative to the
special land use which specifies the basis for the decision and any conditions
imposed.  If approved, the Village Council shall direct the Zoning
Administrator to issue a special use permit therefore.
      (2)   Conditions.
         (a)    Reasonable conditions may be required in conjunction with the
approval of a special land use, planned unit development, or other land uses or
activities permitted by discretionary decision. The conditions may include,
conditions necessary to insure that public services and facilities affected by
a proposed land use or activity will be capable of accommodating increased
service and facility loads caused by the land use or activity, to protect the
natural environment and conserve natural resources and energy, to insure
compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and to promote the use of land in a
socially and economically desirable manner. Conditions imposed shall do all the
following:
            1.   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety,
and welfare, as well as the social and economic well-being of those who will
use the land use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners
immediately adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as
a whole.
            2.   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power and
purposes which are affected by the proposed use or activity.
            3.   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the zoning
regulations; be related to the standards established in the ordinance for the
land use or activity under consideration; and be necessary to insure compliance
with those standards.
         (b)    The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a land
use or activity shall be recorded in the record of the approval action and
shall remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the approving
authority and the landowner. The approving authority shall maintain a record of
changes granted in conditions.
   (F)   Permit expiration.
      (1)   A special use permit issued pursuant to the requirements of this
chapter shall be valid for a period of 1 year from the date of the issuance of
the permit.
      (2)   If construction or use has not commenced and proceeded meaningfully
toward  completion by the end of this period, the special use permit shall be
null and void.
   (G)   Amendments to and modifications of special use permits.
      (1)   Non-material deviation from the special use permits issued by the
Village Council or the Planning Commission are permissible and the Zoning
Administrator may, after consultation with the
Village Planner and Planning Commission, authorize such non-material
deviations.  A deviation is non-material if it will result in no discernable
changes or impact on or to the neighboring properties, the general public, or
those intended to occupy or use the proposed development and will not
noticeably change or relocate the proposed improvements to the property.
      (2)   Minor design modification to changes in permits (including approved
plans) are permissible with the approval of the permit-issuing authority.  Such
permission may be obtained without formal application, public hearing, or
payment of any additional fee.  For purposes of this section, minor design
modifications or changes are those that have no substantial impact on
neighboring properties, the general public, or those intended to occupy or use
the proposed development.
      (3)   All other requests for changes in approved permits will be
processed as new applications. If such requests are required to be acted upon
by the Village Council or Board of Appeals, new conditions may be imposed in
accordance with §
152.229(C)(2)(g)  but the applicant retains the right to reject such additional
conditions by withdrawing his request for an amendment and may then proceed in
accordance with the previously issued permit.
      (4)   The Zoning Administrator and Village Planner shall determine
whether amendments to and modifications of permits fall within categories set
forth in divisions (G)(1), (2) and (3).
      (5)   A developer requesting approval of changes shall submit a written
request for such approval to the Administrator and that request shall identify
the changes.  Approval of all changes must be given in writing.
      (6)   Although a special use permit may be amended or modified under this
section, any conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a land use or
activity shall remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the approving
authority and the landowner.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.10; Am. Ord. 2002-6, passed 9-9-2002; Am. Ord.
2006-2, passed 7-10-2006; Am. Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)  Penalty, see §
152.999
§ 152.230  SUPPLEMENTAL LOT AND YARD PROVISIONS.
   (A)   Lot frontage.  Every lot upon which a dwelling is hereafter erected
shall have frontage on a public street.
   (B)   Limitation on use of yards or open space.
      (1)   The erection of cabins for rent or tents (except children's play
tents) shall not be permitted or considered a legal accessory on a dwelling
lot.
      (2)   (a)   No yard or open space encompassing a dwelling shall hereafter
be used for open-air parking, disposition, storage, wrecking, dismantling,
accumulation, or abandonment, either temporary or otherwise, discarded, worn-
out, wrecked, or dismantled vehicles, machinery, implements, apparatuses,
furniture, appliances, junk, or other personal property.
         (b)   Without limiting the meaning of junk, the term shall include
used for salvaged metals and their combination, or used or salvaged lumber,
ropes, bags, paper, rags, glass, rubber, and similar articles and materials.
      (3)   No premises shall be so filled or graded as to discharge surface
run-off on abutting premises in the manner as to cause pounding or surface
accumulation of the run-off thereon.
   (C)   Corner lots.
      (1)   A corner lot is a lot which occupies the interior angle at the
intersection of 2 street lines, which makes an angle of less than 145 degrees.
      (2)   Setbacks required on the corner lots will be the front setback 25
feet on both streets.  Exception:  on previously plotted lots that measure 60
feet or less on 1 street side, the setbacks will be as follows:  front setback
of 25 feet from the street on the short side and 20 feet from the street on the
long side.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.11; Am. Ord. 2004-5, passed 2-23-2004; Am. Ord.
2005-7, passed 7-25-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.231  UNLISTED PROPERTY USES.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission, subject to the approval of the
Village Council, shall have the power, on written request of any property
owner, to classify a use not listed with a comparable permitted primary or
approved use, and issue a special use permit for the use, giving due
consideration to the purpose of this chapter as expressed in
§§ 152.001et seq.
   (B)   If found incompatible, the use may then only be provided for by
amendment to this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.12)
§ 152.232  WATERFRONT LOTS.
   (A)   Generally.  The use of land or structures on any lot fronting on or
abutting a lake, reservoir, pond, swamp, stream, river, or other natural
watercourse shall comply with the regulations stated below, as well as all
other regulations in this chapter, pertaining to the district in which the
property is located. 
   (B)   Specifically.
      (1)   Setback from water.
         (a)   No building or structure, temporary or permanent, shall be
placed or erected 50 feet from the water line or 25 feet from the high water
mark of any water body.
         (b)   Along rivers and streams, no docks may be constructed.
      (2)   Natural vegetative strip.
         (a)   A vegetative strip composed of native vegetation shall be
maintained along the shore of all water bodies.
         (b)   The vegetative strip shall be a minimum of 25 feet in depth.
         (c)   No ponds shall be constructed, nor earth moved, surface soils
removed, or filling shall occur within the natural vegetative strip.
      (3)   Easement to water front.  In the event any land having water
frontage is used to group easement or public access (i.e. boardwalk), the
access shall follow the waterline (ordinary high water mark).
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 15.13; Am. Ord. 2004-2, passed 2-23-2004)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
WIRELESS TELECOMMUNICATIONS TOWERS AND ANTENNAS
§ 152.245  PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of §§ 152.245 et seq. is to establish general guidelines
for the siting of wireless communications towers and antennas.
   (B)   The goals of §§ 152.245 et seq. are to:
      (1)   Protect residential areas and land uses from potential adverse
impacts of towers and antennas;
      (2)   Encourage the location of towers in nonresidential areas;
      (3)   Minimize the total number of towers throughout the community;
      (4)   Strongly encourage the joint use of new and existing tower sites as
a primary option rather than construction of additional single-use towers;
      (5)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to locate them, to the
extent possible, in areas where the adverse impact on the community is minimal;
      (6)   Encourage users of towers and antennas to configure them in a way
that minimizes the adverse visual impact of the towers and antennas through
careful design, siting, landscape screening, and innovative camouflaging
techniques;
      (7)   Enhance the ability of the providers of telecommunications services
to provide the services to the community quickly, effectively, and efficiently;
      (8)   Consider the public health and safety of communication towers; and
      (9)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent properties from tower failure
through engineering and careful siting of tower structures.
   (C)   In furtherance of these goals, Village of Kingsley shall give due
consideration to the Village of Kingsley's master plan, zoning map, existing
land uses, and environmentally sensitive areas in approving sites for the
location of towers and antennas.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)
§ 152.246  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 152.245et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERNATIVE TOWER STRUCTURE.  Manmade trees, clock towers, bell steeples,
light poles, and similar alternative-design mounting structures that camouflage
or conceal the presence of antennas or towers.
   ANTENNA.  Any exterior transmitting or receiving device mounted on a tower,
building, or structure and used in communications that radiate or capture
electromagnetic waves, digital signals, analog signals, radio frequencies
(excluding radar signals), wireless telecommunications signals, or other
communication signals.
   BACKHAUL NETWORK.  The lines that connect a provider's towers/cell sites to
1 or more cellular telephone switching offices, and/or long distance providers,
or the public switched telephone network.
   FAA.  The Federal Aviation Administration.
   FCC.  The Federal Communications Commission.
   HEIGHT.  When referring to a tower or other structure, the distance measured
from the finished grade of the parcel to the highest point on the tower or
other structure, including the base pad and any antenna.
   PREEXISTING TOWERS AND PREEXISTING ANTENNAS.  Any tower or antenna for which
a building permit or special use permit has been properly issued prior to the
effective date of
§§ 152.245et seq., including permitted towers or antennas that have not yet
been constructed so long as the approval is current and not expired.
   TOWER.
      (1)   Any structure that is designed and constructed primarily for the 
purpose of supporting 1 or more antennas for telephone, radio, and similar
communication purposes, including self-supporting lattice towers, guyed towers,
or monopole towers.
      (2)   The term includes radio and television transmission towers,
microwave towers, common-carrier towers, cellular telephone towers, alternative
tower structures, and the like.
      (3)   The term includes the structure and any support thereto.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)
§ 152.247  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   New towers and antennas.  All new towers or antennas in the Village of
Kingsley shall be subject to these regulations, except as provided in divisions
(B) through (D) below.
   (B)   Amateur radio station operators/receive only antennas.  Sections
152.245 et seq. shall not govern any tower, or the installation of any antenna,
that is under 70 feet in height and is owned and operated by a federally-
licensed amateur radio station operator or is used exclusively for receive-only
antennas.
   (C)   Preexisting towers or antennas.  Preexisting towers and preexisting
antennas shall not be required to meet the requirements of
§§ 152.245et seq., other than the requirements of
§ 152.248(F) and (G).
   (D)   AM array.
      (1)   For purposes of implementing
§§ 152.245et seq., an AM array, consisting of 1 or more tower units and
supporting ground system which functions as 1 AM broadcasting antenna, shall be
considered 1 tower.
      (2)   Measurements for setbacks and separation distances shall be
measured from the outer perimeter of the towers included in the AM array.
      (3)   Additional tower units may be added within the perimeter of the AM
array by right.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.248  GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Principal or accessory use.
      (1)   Antennas and towers may be considered either principal or accessory
uses.
      (2)   A different existing use of an existing structure on the same lot
shall not preclude the installation of an antenna or tower on the lot.
   (B)   Lot size.  For purposes of determining whether the installation of a
tower or antenna complies with district development regulations, including but
not limited to setback requirements, lot-coverage requirements, and other such
requirements, the dimensions of the entire lot shall control, even though the
antennas or towers may be located on leased parcels within the lot.
   (C)   Inventory of existing sites.
      (1)   Each applicant for an antenna and/or tower shall provide to the
Zoning Administrator an inventory of its existing towers, antennas, or sites
approved for towers or antennas, that are either within the jurisdiction of
Village of Kingsley or within 1 mile of the border thereof, including specific
information about the location, height, and design of each tower.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may share the information with other
applicants applying for administrative approvals or special use permits under
§§ 152.245et seq. or other organizations seeking to locate antennas within the
jurisdiction of Village of Kingsley, provided, however, that the Zoning
Administrator is not, by sharing the information, in any way representing or
warranting that the sites are available or suitable.
   (D)   Aesthetics.  Towers and antennas shall meet the following
requirements.
      (1)   Towers shall either maintain a galvanized steel finish or, subject
to any applicable standards of the FAA, be painted a neutral color so as to
reduce visual obtrusiveness.
      (2)   At a tower site, the design of the buildings and related structures
shall, to the  extent possible, use materials, colors, textures, screening, and
landscaping  that will blend them into the natural setting and surrounding
buildings.
      (3)   If an antenna is installed on a structure other than a tower, the
antenna and supporting electrical and mechanical equipment must be of a neutral
color that is identical to, or closely compatible with, the color of the
supporting structure so as to make the antenna and related equipment as
visually unobtrusive as possible.
   (E)   Lighting.
      (1)   Towers shall not be artificially lighted, unless required by the
FAA or other applicable authority.
      (2)   If lighting is required, the lighting alternatives and design
chosen must cause the least disturbance to the surrounding views.
   (F)   State or federal requirements.
      (1)   All towers must meet or exceed current standards and regulations of
the FAA, the FCC, and any other agency of the state or federal government with
the authority to regulate towers and antennas.
      (2)   If the standards and regulations are changed, then the owners of
the towers and antennas governed by
§§ 152.245et seq. shall bring the towers and antennas into compliance with the
revised standards and regulations within 6 months of the effective date of the
standards and regulations, unless a different compliance schedule is mandated
by the controlling state or federal agency.
      (3)   Failure to bring towers and antennas into compliance with the
revised standards and regulations shall constitute grounds for the removal of
the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
   (G)   Building codes; safety standards.
      (1)   To ensure the structural integrity of towers, the owner of a tower
shall ensure that it is maintained in compliance with standards contained in
applicable state or local building codes and the applicable standards for
towers that are published by the Electronic Industries Association, as amended
from time to time.
      (2)   If, upon inspection, the Village of Kingsley concludes that a tower
fails to comply with the codes and standards and constitutes a danger to
persons or property, then upon notice being provided to the owner of the tower,
the owner shall have 30 days to bring the tower into compliance with the
standards.
      (3)   Failure to bring the tower into compliance within the 30 days shall
constitute grounds for the removal of the tower or antenna at the owner's
expense.
   (H)   Measurement.  For purposes of measurement, tower setbacks and
separation distances shall be calculated and applied to facilities located in
Village of Kingsley irrespective of municipal and county jurisdictional
boundaries.
   (I)   Not essential services.  Towers and antennas shall be regulated and
permitted pursuant to
§§ 152.245et seq. and shall not be regulated or permitted as essential
services, public utilities, or private utilities.
   (J)   Franchises.  Owners and/or operators of towers or antennas shall
certify that all franchises required by law for the construction and/or
operation of a wireless communication system in the Village of Kingsley have
been obtained and shall file a copy of all required franchises with the Zoning
Administrator.
   (K)   Public notice.  For purposes of
§§ 152.245et seq., any special use request, variance request, or appeal of an
administratively approved use or special use shall require public notice to all
abutting property owners and all property owners of properties that are located
within the corresponding separation distance listed in
§ 152.251, in addition to any notice otherwise required by this chapter.
   (L)   Signs.  No signs shall be allowed on an antenna or tower.
   (M)   Buildings and support equipment.  Buildings and support equipment
associated with antennas or towers shall comply with the requirements of
§ 152.252.
   (N)   Multiple antenna/tower plan.
      (1)   The Village of Kingsley encourages the users of towers and antennas
to submit a single application for approval of multiple towers and/or antenna
sites.
      (2)   Applications for approval of multiple sites shall be given priority
in the review process.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.249  PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Generally.  The uses listed in this section are deemed to be permitted
uses and shall not require administrative approval or a special use permit.
   (B)   Specifically.  The following uses are specifically permitted: 
antennas or towers located on property owned, leased, or otherwise controlled
by the Village of Kingsley, provided a license or lease authorizing the antenna
or tower has been approved by the Village of Kingsley.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.250  ADMINISTRATIVELY APPROVED USES.
   (A)   Generally.  The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
administrative approvals for towers and antennas.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator may administratively approve the uses
listed in this section.
      (2)   Each applicant for administrative approval shall apply to the
Zoning Administrator providing the information set forth in
§ 152.251 and a nonrefundable fee as established by resolution of the governing
body of the Village of Kingsley to reimburse Village of Kingsley for the costs
of reviewing the application.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the application for
administrative approval and determine if the proposed use complies with §§
152.248 and
152.251.
      (4)   (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall respond to each such
application within 60 days after receiving it by either approving or denying
the application.
         (b)   If the Zoning Administrator fails to respond to the applicant
within 60 days, then the application shall be deemed to be approved.
      (5)   In connection with any such administrative approval, the Zoning
Administrator may, in order to encourage shared use, administratively waive any
zoning district setback requirements in
§ 152.251 or separation distances between towers in
§ 152.251 by up to 50%.
      (6)   In connection with any such administrative approval, the Zoning
Administrator may, in order to encourage the use of monopoles, administratively
allow the reconstruction of an existing tower to monopole construction.
      (7)   If an administrative approval is denied, the applicant shall file
an application for a special use permit pursuant to
§ 152.251 prior to filing any appeal that may be available under this chapter.
   (B)   List of administratively approved uses.  The following uses may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator after conducting an administrative review:
      (1)   Locating a tower or antenna, including the placement of additional
buildings or other supporting equipment used in connection with the tower or
antenna, in any industrial or heavy commercial zoning district;
      (2)   Locating antennas on existing structures or towers consistent with
the terms of divisions (a) and (b) below:
         (a)   Antennas on existing structures.  Any antenna which is not
attached to a tower may be approved by the Zoning Administrator as an accessory
use to any commercial, industrial, professional, institutional, or multi-family
structure of 8 or more dwelling units, provided:
            1.   The antenna does not extend more than 30 feet above the
highest point of the structure;
            2.   The antenna complies with all applicable FCC and FAA
regulations; and
            3.   The antenna complies with all applicable building codes.
         (b)   Antennas on existing towers.  An antenna which is attached to an
existing tower may be approved by the Zoning Administrator and, to minimize
adverse visual impacts associated with the proliferation and clustering of
towers, collocation of antennas by more than 1 carrier on existing towers shall
take precedence over the construction of new towers, provided the collocation
is accomplished in a manner consistent with the following.
            1.   Additional antenna.  A tower which is modified or
reconstructed to accommodate the collocation of an additional antenna shall be
of the same tower type as the existing tower, unless the Zoning Administrator
allows reconstruction as a monopole.
            2.   Height.
               a.   An existing tower may be modified or rebuilt to a taller
height, not to exceed 30 feet over the tower's existing height, to accommodate
the collocation of an additional antenna.
               b.   The height change referred to in division (B)(2)(b)2.a.
above may only occur 1 time per communication tower.
               c.   The additional height referred to in division (B)(2)(b)2.a.
above shall not require an additional distance separation as set forth in
§ 152.251.  The tower's premodification height shall be used to calculate the
distance separations.
            3.   On-site location.
               a.   A tower which is being rebuilt to accommodate the
collocation of an additional antenna may be moved onsite within 50 feet of its
existing location.
               b.   After the tower is rebuilt to accommodate collocation, only
1 tower may remain on the site.
               c.   A relocated onsite tower shall continue to be measured from
the original tower location for purposes of calculating separation distances
between towers pursuant to
§ 152.251.  The relocation of a tower hereunder shall in no way be deemed to
cause a violation of
§ 152.251.
               d.   The on-site relocation of a tower which comes within the
separation distances to residential units or residentially zoned lands as
established in
§ 152.251 shall only be permitted when approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   New towers in nonresidential zoning districts.  Locating any new
tower in a nonresidential zoning district other than industrial or heavy
commercial, provided a licensed professional engineer certifies the tower can
structurally accommodate the number of shared users proposed by the applicant;
the Zoning Administrator concludes the tower is in conformity with the goals
set forth in
§ 152.245 and the requirements of
§ 152.248; the tower meets the setback requirements in
§ 152.251 and separation distances in
§ 152.251; and the tower meets the following height and usage criteria:
         (a)   For a single user, up to 90 feet in height;
         (b)   For 2 users, up to 120 feet in height; and
         (c)   For 3 or more users, up to 150 feet in height.
      (4)   Locating any alternative tower structure in a zoning district other
than industrial or heavy commercial that in the judgment of the Zoning
Administrator is in conformity with the goals set forth in
§ 152.245; and
      (5)   Installing a cable microcell network through the use of multiple
low-powered transmitters/receivers attached to existing wireline systems, such
as conventional cable or telephone wires, or similar technology that does not
require the use of towers.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.251  SPECIAL USE PERMITS.
   (A)   Generally.  The following provisions shall govern the issuance of
special use permits for towers or antennas by the Planning Commission.
      (1)   If the tower or antenna is not a permitted use under
§ 152.249 or permitted to be approved administratively pursuant to
§ 152.250, then a special use permit shall be required for the construction of
a tower or the placement of an antenna in all zoning districts.
      (2)   Applications for special use permits under this section shall be
subject to the procedures and requirements of
§ 152.229, except as modified in this section.
      (3)   In granting a special use permit, the Planning Commission may
impose conditions to the extent the Planning Commission concludes the
conditions are necessary to  minimize any adverse effect of the proposed tower
on adjoining properties.
      (4)   Any information of an engineering nature that the applicant
submits, whether civil, mechanical, or electrical, shall be certified by a
licensed professional engineer.
      (5)   An applicant for a special use permit shall submit the information
described in this section and a nonrefundable fee as established by resolution
of the Village Council of the Village of Kingsley to reimburse the Village of
Kingsley for the costs of reviewing the application.
   (B)   Towers.
      (1)   Information required.  In addition to any information required for
applications for special use permits pursuant to
§ 152.229, applicants for a special use permit for a tower shall submit the
following information:
         (a)   A scaled site plan clearly indicating the location, type, and
height of the proposed tower, on-site land uses and zoning, adjacent land uses
and zoning (including when adjacent to other municipalities), master plan
classification  of the site and all properties within the applicable separation
distances set forth in
§ 152.251, adjacent roadways, proposed means of access, setbacks from property
lines, elevation drawings of the proposed tower and any other structures,
topography, parking, and other information deemed by the Zoning Administrator
to be necessary to assess compliance with
§§ 152.245et seq.;
         (b)   Legal description of the parent tract and leased parcel (if
applicable);
         (c)   The setback distance between the proposed tower and the nearest
residential unit, platted residentially zoned properties, and unplatted
residentially zoned  properties;
         (d)   1.   The separation distance from other towers described in the
inventory of existing sites submitted pursuant to
§ 152.248 shall be shown on an updated site plan or map.
            2.   The applicant shall also identify the type of construction of
the existing tower(s) and the owner/operator of the existing tower(s), if
known.
         (e)   A landscape plan showing specific landscape materials;
         (f)   Method of fencing and finished color and, if applicable, the
method of camouflage and illumination;
         (g)   A description of compliance with §§
152.248 and
152.251 and all applicable federal, state, or local laws;
         (h)   A notarized statement by the applicant as to whether
construction of the tower will accommodate collocation of additional antennas
for future users;
         (i)   Identification of the entities providing the backhaul network
for the tower(s)described in the application and other cellular sites owned or
operated by the  applicant in the Village of Kingsley;
         (j)   A description of the suitability of the use of existing towers,
other structures, or alternative technology not requiring the use of towers or
structures to provide the services to be provided through the use of the
proposed new tower; and
         (k)   A description of the feasible location(s) of future towers or
antennas within the Village of Kingsley based upon existing physical,
engineering, technological, or geographical limitations in the event the
proposed tower is erected.
      (2)   Factors considered in granting special use permits for towers.  In
addition to any standards for consideration of special use permit applications
pursuant to
§ 152.229, the Planning Commission shall consider the following factors in
determining whether to issue a special use permit, although the Planning
Commission may waive or reduce the burden on the applicant of 1 or more of
these criteria if the Planning Commission concludes that the goals of
§§ 152.245et seq. are better served thereby:
         (a)   Height of the proposed tower;
         (b)   Proximity of the tower to residential structures and residential
district boundaries;
         (c)   Nature of uses on adjacent and nearby properties;
         (d)   Surrounding topography;
         (e)   Surrounding tree coverage and foliage;
         (f)   Design of the tower, with particular reference to design
characteristics that have the effect of reducing or eliminating visual
obtrusiveness;
         (g)   Proposed ingress and egress; and
         (h)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technologies not requiring the use of towers or structures, as
discussed in
§ 152.251.
      (3)   Availability of suitable existing towers, other structures, or
alternative technology.  No new tower shall be permitted unless the applicant
demonstrates to the reasonable satisfaction of the Planning Commission that no
existing tower, structure, or alternative technology that does not require the
use of towers or structures can accommodate the applicant's proposed antenna. 
An applicant shall submit information requested by the Planning Commission
related to the availability of suitable existing towers other structures or
alternative technology.  Evidence submitted to demonstrate that no existing
tower, structure, or alternative technology can accommodate the applicant's
proposed antenna may consist of any of the following.
         (a)   No existing towers or structures are located within the
geographic area which meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         (b)   Existing towers or structures are not of sufficient height to
meet applicant's engineering requirements.
         (c)   Existing towers or structures do not have sufficient structural
strength to support applicant's proposed antenna and related equipment.
         (d)   The applicant's proposed antenna would cause electromagnetic
interference with the antenna on the existing towers or structures, or the
antenna on the existing towers or structures would cause interference with the
applicants proposed antenna.
         (e)   1.   The fees, costs, or contractual provisions required by the
owner in order to share an existing tower or structure or to adapt an existing
tower or structure for sharing are unreasonable.
            2.   Costs exceeding new tower development are presumed to be
unreasonable.
         (f)   The applicant demonstrates that there are other limiting factors
that render existing towers and structures unsuitable.
         (g)   1.   The applicant demonstrates that an alternative technology
that does not require the use of towers or structures, such as a cable
microcell network using multiple low-powered transmitters/receivers attached to
a wireline system, is unsuitable.
            2.   Costs of alternative technology that exceed new tower or
antenna development shall not be presumed to render the technology unsuitable.
      (4)   Setbacks.  The following setback requirements shall apply to all
towers for which a special use permit is required; provided, however, that the
Planning Commission may reduce the standard setback requirements if the goals
of
§§ 152.245et seq. would be better served thereby.
         (a)   Towers must be set back a distance equal to at least 75% of the
height of the tower from any adjoining lot line.
         (b)   Guys and accessory buildings must satisfy the minimum zoning
district setback requirements.
      (5)   Separation.  The following separation requirements shall apply to
all towers and antennas for which a special use permit is required; provided,
however, that the Planning Commission may reduce the standard separation
requirements if the goals of
§§ 152.245et seq. would be better served thereby.
         (a)   Separation from off-site uses/designated areas.
            1.   Tower separation shall be measured from the base of the tower
to the lot line of the off-site uses and/or designated areas as specified in
Table 1, except as otherwise provided in Table 1.
            2.   Separation requirements for towers shall comply with the
minimum standards established in Table 1.
            3.   Table 1:
Table 1
Off-site Use/Designated Area Separation Distance
Table 1
Off-site Use/Designated Area             Separation Distance
Single-family or duplex residential      200 feet or 300% height of tower,
units*                                   whichever is greater
Vacant single-family or duplex
residentially zoned land which is either 200 feet or 300% height of tower,**
platted or has preliminary subdivision   whichever is greater
plan approval which is not expired
Vacant unplatted residentially zoned     100 feet or 100% height of tower,
lands***                                 whichever is greater
Existing multi-family residential units  100 feet or 100% height of tower,
greater than duplex units                whichever is greater
Nonresidentially zoned lands or          None; only setbacks apply
nonresidential uses
NOTES TO TABLE:
*    Includes modular homes and mobile homes used for living purposes.
**    Separation measured from base of tower to closest building setback line.
***   Includes any unplatted residential use properties without a valid
preliminary subdivision plan or valid development plan approval and any multi-
family residentially zoned land greater than duplex.
 
         (b)   Separation distances between towers.
            1.   a.   Separation distances between towers shall be applicable
for and measured between the proposed tower and preexisting towers.
               b.   The separation distances shall be measured by drawing or
following a straight line between the base of the existing tower and the
proposed base, pursuant to a site plan, of the proposed tower.
               c.   The separation distances (listed in linear feet) shall be
as shown in Table 2.
            2.   Table 2:
 
Table 2:  Existing Towers; Types
                      Lattice Guyed Monopole 75 Feet in Monopole Less Than 75
                                    Height or Greater   Feet in Height
Lattice               5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Guyed                 5,000   5,000 1,500               750
Monopole 75 Feet in   1,500   1,500 1,500               750
Height or Greater
Monopole Less Than 75 750     750   750                 750
Feet in Height
 
      (6)   Security fencing.  Towers shall be enclosed by security fencing not
less than 6 feet in height and shall also be equipped with an appropriate anti-
climbing device; provided, however, that the Planning Commission may waive the
requirements, as it deems appropriate.
      (7)   Landscaping.  The following requirements shall govern the
landscaping surrounding towers for which a special use permit is required;
provided, however, that the Planning Commission may waive the requirements if
the goals of
§§ 152.245et seq. would be better served thereby.
         (a)   1.   Tower facilities shall be landscaped with a buffer of plant
materials effectively screening the view of the tower compound from property
used for residences.
            2.   The standard buffer shall consist of a landscaped strip at
least 4 feet wide outside the perimeter of the compound.
         (b)   In locations where the visual impact of the tower would be
minimal, the landscaping requirement may be reduced or waived.
         (c)   1.   Existing mature tree growth and natural landforms on the
site shall be preserved to the maximum extent possible.
            2.   In some cases, such as towers sited on large, wooded lots,
natural growth around the property perimeter may be sufficient buffer.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.252  BUILDINGS OR OTHER EQUIPMENT STORAGE.
   (A)   Antennas mounted on structures or rooftops.  The equipment cabinet or
structure used in association with antennas shall comply with the following.
      (1)   (a)   The cabinet or structure shall not contain more than 400
square feet of gross floor area or be more than 55 feet in height.
         (b)   In addition, for buildings and structures which are less than 55
feet in height, the related unmanned equipment structure, if over 100 square
feet of gross floor area or 25 feet in height, shall be located on the ground
and shall not be located on the roof of the structure.
      (2)   If the equipment structure is located on the roof of a building,
the area of the equipment structure and other equipment and structures shall
not occupy more than 50% of the roof area.
      (3)   Equipment storage buildings or cabinets shall comply with all
applicable building codes.
   (B)   Antennas mounted on utility poles or light poles.  The equipment
cabinet or structure used in association with antennas shall be located in
accordance with the following.
      (1)   In residential districts, the equipment cabinet or structure may be
located:
         (a)   1.   In a front or side yard, provided the cabinet or structure
is no greater than 20 feet in height or 400 square feet of gross floor area and
the cabinet/structure is located a minimum of 15 feet from all lot lines.
            2.   The cabinet/structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge
with an ultimate height of at least 42 to 48 inches and a planted height of at
least 36 inches; and
         (b)   1.   In a rear yard, provided the cabinet or structure is no
greater than 30 feet in height or 400 square feet in gross floor area.
            2.   The cabinet/structure shall be screened by an evergreen hedge
with an ultimate height of 8 feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches.
      (2)   (a)   In commercial or industrial districts, the equipment cabinet
or structure shall be no greater than 55 feet in height or 400 square feet in
gross floor area.
         (b)   The structure or cabinet shall be screened by an evergreen hedge
with an ultimate height of 8 feet and a planted height of at least 36 inches.
         (c)   In all other instances, structures or cabinets shall be screened
from view of all residential properties which abut or are directly across the
street from the structure or cabinet by a solid fence 8 feet in height or an
evergreen hedge with an ultimate height of 8 feet and a planted height of at
least 36 inches.
   (C)   Antennas located on towers.  The related unmanned equipment structure:
      (1)   Shall not contain more than 400 square feet of gross floor area or
be more than 55 feet in height; and
      (2)   Shall be located in accordance with the minimum yard requirements
of the zoning district in which located.
   (D)   Modification of building size requirements.  The requirements of
§ 152.252 may be modified:
      (1)   By the Zoning Administrator in the case of administratively
approved uses; or
      (2)   By the Planning Commission in the case of uses permitted by special
use to encourage collocation.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.253  REMOVAL OF ABANDONED ANTENNAS AND TOWERS.
   (A)   (1)   Any antenna or tower that is not operated for a continuous
period of 12 months shall be considered abandoned; and
      (2)   The owner of the antenna or tower shall remove the same within 90
days of receipt of notice from the Village of Kingsley notifying the owner of
the abandonment.
   (B)   Failure to remove an abandoned antenna or tower within the 90 days
shall be grounds to remove the tower or antenna at the owner's expense.
   (C)   If there are 2 or more users of a single tower, then this provision
shall not become effective until all users cease using the tower.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.254  NONCONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Not expansion of nonconforming use.  Towers that are constructed, and
antennas that are installed, in accordance with the provisions of
§§ 152.245et seq. shall not be deemed to constitute the expansion of a
nonconforming use or structure.
   (B)   Pre-existing towers.
      (1)   Pre-existing towers shall be allowed to continue their usage as
they presently exist.
      (2)   Routine maintenance (including replacement with a new tower of like
construction and height) shall be permitted on the preexisting towers.
      (3)   New construction other than routine maintenance on a preexisting
tower shall comply with the requirements of
§§ 152.245et seq.
   (C)   Rebuilding damaged or destroyed nonconforming towers or antennas.
      (1)   Notwithstanding
§ 152.253, bona fide nonconforming towers or antennas that are damaged or
destroyed may be rebuilt without having to first obtain administrative approval
or a special use permit and without having to meet the separation requirements
specified in
§ 152.251.
      (2)   The type, height, and location of the tower on-site shall be of the
same type and intensity as the original facility approval.
      (3)   Building permits to rebuild the facility shall comply with the then
applicable building codes and shall be obtained within 180 days from the date
the facility is damaged or destroyed.
      (4)   If no permit is obtained or if the permit expires, the tower or
antenna shall be deemed abandoned as specified in
§ 152.253.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.255  EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections
152.245et seq. shall take effect 11-10-1998.
(Ord. 98-3, passed 10-10-1998)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 152.270  ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforced by the Village
Council.
   (B)   The Council shall employ a Zoning Administrator to act as its officer
to effect proper administration of this chapter for the time and subject to the
conditions as the Council deems desirable.
   (C)   The Administrator shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council and
receive the compensation as shall be determined by the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 16.01)
§ 152.271  DUTIES AND POWERS OF ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The duty of administering and enforcing the terms of this chapter is hereby
conferred upon the Village Zoning Administrator and, in furtherance thereof, he
or she is empowered to:
   (A)   Issue all permits and certificates, and maintain records thereof;
   (B)   Conduct inspection of all buildings and structures and the use of all
lands subject to the provisions of this chapter to determine compliance;
   (C)   Maintain correct and permanent records of this chapter, including but
not limited to maps, amendments, special use permits, variations, and appeals;
   (D)   Maintain a public information office relative to all matters arising
out of the administration of this chapter;
   (E)   Investigate all applications for variances and special permits, and
report all findings to the Village Council; and
   (F)   Initiate appropriate action to notify the individual and the Village
Council of any illegal act or violation of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 16.02)
§ 152.272  FEE SCHEDULE.
   (A)   To assist in defraying costs of investigating, reviewing, and
administering zoning applications, appeals, rezoning requests from individual
property owners, and other types of  decisions which result in extra costs to
the village, the Village Council may from time to time adopt by resolution a
fee schedule establishing basic zoning fees related to the following:
      (1)   Zoning permits;
      (2)   Special use permits;
      (3)   Requests for classification of property;
      (4)   Appeals to or requests for interpretations by the Zoning Board of
Appeals;
      (5)   Requests for rezoning of property by individual property owners or
amendments to the zoning code text; 
      (6)   Requests for a special meeting of the Planning Commission; and
      (7)   Change of use permits.
      (8)   Appeals to and request for interpretations initiated by the Village
Council, the Planning Commission, or the Zoning Administrator shall not be
subject to zoning fee.
      (9)   Rezoning of property or text amendments initiated by the Village
Council, the Planning Commission, or the Zoning Administrator shall not be
subject to a zoning fee.
   (B)   The amount of these zoning fees shall cover the costs associated with
the review of the application or appeal, including but not limited to the costs
associated with conducting public hearings, publishing notices in the
newspaper, sending required notices to property owners, postage, photocopying,
mileage, time spent by zoning staff, time spent by the members of the Planning
Commission and/or Zoning Board of Appeals, cost of professional services, and
costs to establish a legal fund.  The basic zoning fees shall be paid before
any application required under this section is processed.  The basic zoning
fees are non-refundable, even when the applicant withdraws an application or
appeal.
   (C)   If the Planning Commission Board or its Chairperson or Zoning Board of
Appeals or its Chairperson determines that the basic zoning fees will not cover
the actual costs of the application review or appeal, or if the Planning
Commission Board or its Chairperson or Zoning Board of Appeals  or its
Chairperson determines that the review of the application and/or participation
in the review process or appeal by qualified professional planners, engineers,
attorneys, or other professionals is necessary, then the applicant shall
deposit with the Village Treasurer such additional zoning fees in an amount
determined by the Planning Commission Board or its Chairperson or Zoning Board
of Appeals or its Chairperson equal to the estimated additional costs.  The
additional zoning fees shall be held in escrow in the applicant’s name and
shall be used solely to pay these additional costs.  If the amount held in
escrow becomes less than 10% of the initial escrow deposit or less than 10% of
the latest additional escrow deposit and review of the application or decision
on the appeal is not completed, then the Planning Commission Board or its
Chairperson or Zoning Board of Appeals or its Chairperson may require the
applicant to deposit additional fees into escrow in an amount determined by the
Planning Commission Board or its Chairperson or Zoning Board of Appeals or its
Chairperson to be equal to the  estimated costs to complete the review or
decide the appeal.  Failure of the applicant to make any escrow  deposit
required under this section shall be deemed to make the application incomplete
or the appeal procedurally defective thereby justifying the denial of the
application  or the dismissal of the appeal.  Any unexpected funds held in
escrow shall be returned to the applicant following final action on the
application or the final decision on the appeal.  Any actual costs incurred by
the village in excess of the amount held in escrow shall be billed to the
applicant prior to the issuance of any permit or the release of a final
decision on an appeal.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, §16.03; Res. 09-07, passed 6-4-2007)
§ 152.273  SPECIAL ADMINISTRATIVE REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   (1)   Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this
chapter, and to secure compliance with Public Act 638 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §
125.584a, with respect to procedures contained in this chapter pertinent to
special land uses and/or planned unit developments, or concepts of this chapter
under different terminology designed to accomplish similar objectives of a
reviewing process, hereafter the reviewing required pertinent to the foregoing
is also hereby similarly delegated, notwithstanding any other ordinance
provision to the contrary.
      (2)   An appeal from the decision of the Village Zoning Administrator by
any person aggrieved may be taken to the Village Board of Appeals.
   (B)   In addition to specific standards which may be applicable, the
foregoing set of standards shall serve as the basis for decisions involving
special land uses and other discretionary decisions contained in this chapter.
   (C)   The proposed shall:
      (1)   Be compatible with adjacent uses of land;
      (2)   Be consistent with, and promote the intent and purpose of, this
chapter;
      (3)   Be compatible with the natural environment;
      (4)   Be consistent with the capacities of public services and facilities
affected by the proposed use; and
      (5)   Protect the public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 16.04; Am. Ord. 80-1, passed 1-7-1980)
§ 152.274  PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
    All applications for development approval requiring a public hearing shall
comply with the “The  Act”, PA 110 of 2008 and the other provisions of this
section with regard to public notification.
   (A)   Responsibility.  When the provisions of this chapter or the “The Act”
require that notice be published, the Zoning Administrator shall be responsible
for preparing the content of the notice, having it published in a newspaper of
general circulation in the Village of Kingsley and mailed or delivered as
provided in this section.
   (B)   Content.  All mail, personal and newspaper notices for public hearings
shall:
      (1)   Describe nature of the request.  Identify whether the request is
for a rezoning, text amendment, special land use, planned unit development,
variance, appeal, ordinance interpretation or other purpose.
      (2)   Location.  Indicate the property that is the subject of the
request.  The notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses
within the subject property. Street addresses do not need to be created and
listed if no such addresses currently exist within the property. If there are
no street addresses, other means of identification may be used such as a tax
parcel identification number, identifying the nearest cross street, or
including a map showing the location of the property. No street addresses must
be listed when 11 or more adjacent properties are proposed for rezoning, or
when the request is for an ordinance interpretation not involving a specific
property.
      (3)   When and where the request will be considered.  Indicate the date, 
time and place of the public hearing(s).
      (4)   Written comments. Include a statement describing when and where
written comments will be received concerning the request. Include a statement
that the public may appear at the public hearing in person or by counsel.
      (5)   Handicap access. Information concerning how handicap access will be
accommodated if the meeting facility is not handicap accessible.
   (C)   Personal and mailed notice.
      (1)   General.  When the provisions of this chapter or state law require
that personal or mailed notice be provided, notice shall be provided to:
         (a)   The owners of property for which approval is being considered,
and the applicant, if different than the owner(s) of the property.
         (b)   Except for rezoning requests involving 11 or more adjacent
properties or an ordinance interpretation request that does not involve a
specific property; to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300
feet of the boundary of the property subject to the request, regardless of
whether the property or occupant is located within the boundaries of the
village. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term "occupant" may be
used in making notification. Notification need  not be given to more than one 
occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than 1
dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses, or organizations, one occupant of each unit or
spatial area shall receive notice. In the case of a single structure containing
more than 4 dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by
different individuals, partnerships, businesses or organizations, notice may be
given to the manager or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post
the notice at the primary entrance to the structure.
         (c)   For requests for interpretation or appeals of administrative
decisions, to the person requesting an interpretation of the zoning ordinance
or to a person appealing an administrative decision.
         (d)   In the case of a zoning ordinance amendment, rezoning or PUD
review, each electric, gas, and pipeline public utility company, each
telecommunication service provider, each railroad operating within the district
or zone affected, and the airport manager of each airport, that registers its
name and mailing address with the clerk of the legislative body for the purpose
of receiving the notice of public hearing.
         (e)   Other governmental units or infrastructure agencies within one
mile of the property involved in the application.
      (2)   Notice by mail/affidavit.  Notice shall be deemed mailed by its
deposit in the United States mail, first class, properly addressed, postage
paid. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a list of property owners and
registrants to whom notice was mailed, as well as of anyone to whom personal
notice was delivered.
   (D)   Timing of notice.  Unless otherwise provided in the “The Act”, PA 110
of 2006, or this chapter where applicable, notice of a public hearing shall be
provided as follows:
      (1)   For a public hearing on an application for a rezoning, text
amendment, special land use, planned unit development, variance, appeal, or
chapter interpretation: not less than 15 days before the date the application
will be considered for approval.
      (2)   For any other public hearing required by this chapter: not less
than 15 days before the date the application will be  considered for approval.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
VIOLATIONS
§ 152.285  NUISANCE PER SE.
   Buildings erected, altered, razed, or converted or uses carried on in
violation of any provision of this chapter are declared to be a nuisance per se
and shall be subject to abatement or other action by a court of appropriate
jurisdiction.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 17.01; Am. Ord. 2005-10, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.286  VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm, corporation, or agent, or any employee, contractor,
or subcontractor of the same, who or which fails to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter or any of the regulations adopted in pursuance
thereof, or who or which impedes or interferes with the enforcement of this
chapter by the Zoning Administrator or other enforcement official, shall be
deemed in violation of this chapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall inspect each alleged violation and
shall order correction, in writing, of all conditions found to be in violation
of this chapter. The order to correct a violation shall be issued by serving
personally or by sending, by registered mail, return receipt requested, such
order to the last known address of the owner of the property upon which the
violation occurs or, when applicable, the violator. A party who has failed to
accept such registered mail shall be deemed to have been served.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 17.02; Am. Ord. 2005-10, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty,
see
§ 152.999
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 152.300  MEMBERS.
   A 5 member Zoning Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Village
Council.  Up to 2 alternate members may also be appointed.  A concurring vote
of the majority of members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be required to
reverse any order, requirement, decision or determination of the administrative
official or body, to decide in favor of the applicant, any matter upon which it
is required to pass under this chapter, or to effect any variation in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 152.301  APPEALS TO THE APPEALS BOARD.
   (A)   All appeals shall be made within 30 days from the date of any decision
constituting the basis for appeal. A demand for a zoning appeal is received by
the Zoning Administrator. Appeals can be filed by:
      (1)    A person aggrieved, or
      (2)   An officer, department, board, or bureau of the state or local unit
of government.
   (B)   The Appeals Board shall have the authority to hear appeals concerning:
      (1)   All questions that arise in the administration of the zoning
ordinance, including interpretation of the zoning map.
      (2)   All administrative orders, requirements, decision or determination
made by an administrative official or body charged with enforcement of the
zoning ordinance.
      (3)   All decisions of the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   All decisions concerning site plan review.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a written demand for appeal, the administrator will
review the demand for appeal to insure it is complete and the required fee is
paid.
      (1)   If the application is not complete, the administrator will return
the application to the applicant with a letter that specifies the additional
material required.
      (2)   If the application is complete, the administrator and chairman of
the Appeals Board shall establish a date to hold a hearing on the appeal.
   (D)   The appeal stays all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed, unless the body or officer from whom the appeal is taken certifies to
the Zoning Board of Appeals that by reason of facts stated in the certificate,
a stay would in the opinion of the body or officer cause imminent peril of life
or property, in which case proceedings may be stayed by a restraining order
issued by the Zoning Board of Appeals or a Circuit Court.
   (E)   A public hearing shall be  held and notice provided pursuant to §
152.274.
   (F)   The Appeals Board shall hold a hearing on the demand for appeal.
      (1)   Representation at hearing.  Upon the hearing, any party or parties
may appear in person or by agent or by attorney.
      (2)   Standards for variance decisions by the Appeals Board.  The Appeals
Board shall base its decisions on variances from the strict requirements of
this chapter so that the spirit of the chapter is observed, public safety
secured, and substantial justice done based on the following standards:
         (a)   For dimensional variances.  A dimensional variance may be
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals only in cases where the applicant
demonstrates in the official record of the public hearing that practical
difficulty exists by showing all of the following:
            1.   That the need for the requested variance is due to unique
circumstances or physical conditions of the property involved, such as
narrowness, shallowness, shape, water, or topography and is not due to the
applicants’ personal or economic difficulty.
            2.   That the need for the requested variance is not the result of
actions of the property owner or previous property owners (i.e. self created).
            3.   That strict compliance with regulations governing area,
setback, frontage, height, bulk, density or other dimensional requirements will
unreasonably prevent the property owner from using the property for a permitted
purpose, or will render conformity with those regulations unnecessarily
burdensome.
            4.   That the requested variance is the minimum variance necessary
to do substantial justice to the applicant as well as to other property owners
in the district.
            5.   That the requested variance will not cause an adverse impact
on surrounding property, property values, or the use and enjoyment of property
in the neighborhood or zoning district.
         (b)   Use variances.  Under no circumstances shall the Appeals Board
grant a variance to allow a use not permissible under the terms of this chapter
in the district involved, or any use expressly or by implication prohibited by
the terms of this chapter in said district.
   (G)   If the demand for appeal is for a variance the Appeals Board shall
either grant, grant with conditions, or deny the application. The Appeals Board
may reverse or affirm, wholly or partly, or modify the order, requirement,
decision or determination and may issue or direct the issuance of a permit. A
majority vote of the membership of the Appeals Board is necessary to grant a
dimensional variance and rule on an interpretation of the chapter. The decision
shall be in writing and reflect the reasons for the decision.  At a minimum the
record of the decision shall include:
      (1)   Formal determination of the facts;
      (2)   The conclusions derived from the facts (reasons for the decision);
and
      (3)   The decision.
   (H)   Any person having an interest affected by such decision shall have a
right to appeal to Circuit Court within 30 days of the certified decision of
the Appeals Board, as provided by law.
   (I)   Re-submission.  No application for a variance or special exception
which had been denied shall be resubmitted within 90 days from the last date of
denial, except on grounds of newly discovered evidence or proof of changed
conditions.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES
§ 152.315  PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to regulate sexually oriented
businesses and related activities to promote the health, safety, morals, and
general welfare of the citizens of the village, and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to prevent the deleterious location and concentration of
sexually- oriented businesses within the village.  The provisions of this
subchapter have neither the purpose nor effect of imposing a limitation or
restriction on the content of any communicative materials, including sexually-
oriented materials.  Similarly, it is not the intent nor effect of this
subchapter to restrict or deny access by adults to sexually-oriented materials
protected by the first amendment, or to deny access by the distributors and
exhibitors of sexually-oriented entertainment to their intended market. 
Neither is it the intent nor effect of this subchapter to condone or legitimize
the distribution of obscene materials.
   (B)   The adoption of this subchapter is based on evidence concerning the
adverse secondary effects of adult uses on the community presented in hearings,
studies and in reports made available to the Village Council, and on hearings,
studies and in reports findings incorporated in various court cases as well as
studies conducted in other cities including, but not limited to, Tucson,
Arizona; Garden Grove, California; Ellicottville, New York; New York, New York;
Times Square, New York; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Cleburne, Texas; Dallas,
Texas; Houston, Texas;  Newport News, Virginia; St. Croix, Wisconsin, and
findings reported in the Final Report of the Attorney General's Commission on
Pornography (1986), the Report of the Attorney General's Working Group On the
Regulation Of Sexually-Oriented Businesses (June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota). 
Based on this information, the Village Council finds that: 
      (1)   Sexually-oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are presently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments.  Further, there is presently no mechanism to make owners of
these establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their
premises.
      (2)   Crime statistics show that all types of crimes, especially sex-
related crimes, occur with more frequency in neighborhoods where sexually-
oriented businesses are located.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, and oral and anal sex, occur
at sexually-oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows. 
      (4)   Offering and providing such booths and/or cubicles encourages such
activities, which creates unhealthy conditions.
      (5)   Persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and other
sexually-oriented businesses, for the purpose of engaging in sex within the
premises of such sexually-oriented businesses. 
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually- oriented businesses including, but not limited to,
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, Non A, Non B amebiasis, salmonella infections, and
shigella infections.
      (7)   According to the best scientific evidence available, AIDS and HIV
infection, as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by
sexual acts.
      (8)   Sanitary conditions in some sexually-oriented businesses are
unhealthy, in part, because the activities conducted there are unhealthy, and,
in part, because of the unregulated nature of the activities and the failure of
the owners and operators of the facilities to self-regulate those activities
and maintain those facilities. 
      (9)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that bodily fluids,
including semen and urine, are found in the areas of sexually-oriented
businesses where persons view adult oriented films.
      (10)   Nude dancing in adult establishments encourages prostitution,
increases sexual assaults, and attracts other criminal activity. 
      (11)   Nude dancing in adult establishments increases the likelihood of
drug-dealing and drug use.
      (12)   Alcohol consumption in adult establishments increases the
likelihood of crime, illegal drug use, and illegal sexual activity, and
encourages undesirable behavior that is not in the interest of the public
health, safety, and welfare.
      (13)   The findings noted in above raise substantial governmental
concerns.
      (14)   Sexually-oriented businesses have operational characteristics
which should be reasonably regulated in order to protect those substantial
governmental concerns.
      (15)   A reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to
place the burden of that reasonable regulation on the owners and operators of
sexually-oriented businesses.  Further, such licensing procedure will place a
heretofore non-existent incentive on operators to see that the sexually-
oriented business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety, and
welfare of its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the village. 
It is appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the
actual operator of the sexually-oriented business, fully in possession and
control of the premises and activities occurring therein.
      (16)   Removal of doors on adult booths and requiring sufficient lighting
on the premises with adult booths advances a substantial governmental interest
in curbing the illegal and unsanitary sexual activity occurring in adult
establishments.
      (17)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually-
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and criminal activity.
      (18)   The fact that an applicant for a sexually-oriented business
license has been convicted of a sex-related crime leads to the rational
assumption that the applicant may engage in that conduct in contravention to
this subchapter.
      (19)   The general welfare, health, morals, and safety of the citizens of
this village will be promoted by enactment of this subchapter.
      (20)   When more than 1 sexually-oriented business use occupies the same
location or business address, the secondary effects caused by such businesses
are increased.  Secondary effects are eliminated or controlled to a greater
degree when only a single sexually-oriented business use is allowed to occupy
the same location.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.316  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT ARCADE.  Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically, electrically, or mechanically
controlled still or motion picture machines, projectors, videos, or other
image-producing devices are maintained to show images to 5 or fewer persons per
machine at any 1 time, and where the images so displayed are distinguished or
characterized by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. 
      (1)   A commercial establishment, which, as 1 of its principal business
purposes, offers for sale or rental for any form of consideration any 1 or more
of the following:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, films, motion pictures, video cassettes or video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations that are distinguished or characterized
by the depicting or describing of “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas”; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia which are designed for
use in connection with “specified sexual activities.”
      (2)   A principal business purpose exists if materials offered for sale
or rental depicting or describing “specified sexual activities” or “specified
anatomical areas” generate 20% or more of the business' income, or account for
20% or more of inventory, or occupy 20% or more of total floor space.  A
commercial establishment may have other principal business purposes that do not
involve the offering for sale or rental of material depicting or describing
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas” and still be
categorized as ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.  Such other business
purposes will not serve to exempt such commercial establishments from being
categorized as an ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE so long as 1 of its
principal business purposes is the offering for sale or rental for
consideration the specified materials that depict or describe “specified sexual
activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT CABARET.  A nightclub, bar, restaurant, café, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually, or consistently features:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity or semi-nudity;
      (2)   Live performances that are distinguished or characterized by the
exposure of “specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities”;
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, photographic
reproductions, or other image producing devices that are distinguished or
characterized by the depiction or description of “specified sexual activities”
or “specified anatomical areas”; or
      (4)   Persons who engage in “exotic” or erotic dancing or performances
that are intended for the sexual interests or titillation of an audience or
customers.   
   ADULT MOTEL.  A hotel, motel or similar commercial establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodation to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television transmissions, films,
motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or other photographic reproductions
that are distinguished or characterized by the depiction or description of
“specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas;” and has a sign
visible from the public right-of-way that advertises the availability of this
adult type of photographic reproductions;
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent for a period of time that is less
than 24 hours; or
      (3)   Allows a tenant or occupant of a sleeping room to subrent the room
for a period of time that is less than 24 hours.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER.  A commercial establishment where, for any
form of consideration, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, slides, or
similar photographic reproductions are regularly, commonly, habitually, or
consistently shown that are distinguished or characterized by the depiction or
description of “specified sexual activities” or “specified anatomical areas.”
   ADULT THEATER.  A theater, concert hall, auditorium, or similar commercial
establishment that regularly, commonly, habitually, or consistently features
persons who appear, in person, in a state of nudity and/or semi-nudity, and/or
live performances that are distinguished or characterized by the exposure of
“specified anatomical areas” or by “specified sexual activities.”
   EMPLOYEE.  A person who performs any service on the premises of a sexually-
oriented business on a full-time, part-time, contract basis, or independent
basis, whether or not the person is denominated an employee, independent
contractor, agent, or otherwise, and whether or not the person is paid a
salary, wage, or other compensation by the operator of the business.  EMPLOYEE
does not include a person exclusively on the premises for repair or maintenance
of the premises or equipment on the premises, or for the delivery of goods to
the premises, nor does EMPLOYEE include a person exclusively on the premises as
a patron or customer.
   ESCORT.  A person who, for consideration, agrees or offers to act as a
companion, guide, or date for another person, or who agrees or offers to
privately model lingerie or to privately perform a striptease for another
person.
   ESCORT AGENCY.  A person or business association who furnishes, offers to
furnish, or advertises to furnish escorts as 1 of its primary business purposes
for a fee, tip, or other consideration.
   ESTABLISHMENT. 
      (1)   The opening or commencement of any sexually-oriented business as a
new business;
      (2)   The conversion of an existing business, whether or not a sexually-
oriented business, to any sexually-oriented business;
      (3)   The additions of any sexually-oriented business to any other
existing sexually-oriented business;
      (4)   The relocation of any sexually-oriented business; or
      (5)   A sexually-oriented business or premises on which the sexually-
oriented business is located.
   LICENSE.  A license for the operation of a sexually-oriented business and
issued pursuant to this subchapter.
   LICENSED DAY-CARE CENTER.  A facility licensed by the state, whether
situated within the village or not, other than a private residence, receiving 1
or more preschool or school-age children for care for periods of less than 24
hours a day, and where the parents or guardians are not immediately available
to the child.  Childcare center or day care center includes a facility that
provides care for not less than 2 consecutive weeks, regardless of the number
of hours of care per day.  The facility is generally described as a childcare
center, day care center, day nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative
preschool, play-group, or drop-in center.
   LICENSEE.  A person in whose name a license to operate a sexually-oriented
business has been issued, as well as the individual listed as an applicant on
the application for a license.
   LIVE THEATRICAL PERFORMANCE.  A play, skit, opera, ballet, concert, comedy,
or musical drama.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  Any place where a person who appears in a state of
nudity or displays “specified anatomical areas” is provided to be observed,
sketched, drawn, painted, sculptured, photographed, or similarly depicted by
other persons for consideration.
   NUDITY or a STATE OF NUDITY.  The appearance of a human bare buttock, anus,
anal cleft or cleavage, pubic area, male genitals, female genitals, or vulva,
with less than a fully opaque covering; or a female breast with less than a
fully opaque covering of any part of the areola; or human male genitals in a
discernibly turgid state even if completely and opaquely covered.
   PREMISES.  The real property upon which the sexually-oriented business is
located, and all appurtenances thereto and buildings thereon, including, but
not limited to, the sexually-oriented business, the grounds, private walkways,
and parking lots and/or parking garages adjacent thereto, under the ownership,
control, or supervision of the licensee, as described in the application for a
business license pursuant to
§ 152.318;
   SEMI-NUDE or SEMI-NUDITY.  The appearance of the female breast below a
horizontal line across the top of the areola at its highest point.  This
definition shall include the entire lower portion of the human female breast,
but shall not include any portion of the cleavage of the human female breast
exhibited by a dress, blouse, skirt, leotard, bathing suit, or other wearing
apparel provided the areola is not exposed in whole or in part.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. 
      (1)   A business or commercial enterprise that, as 1 of its principal
business purposes, offers for any form of consideration:
         (a)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
persons of the opposite sex; or
         (b)   Activities between persons of the opposite sex and/or persons of
the same sex when 1 or more of the persons is in a state of nudity or semi-
nudity.
      (2)   A principal business purpose exists if the services offered are
intended to generate business income.
   SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS.  An adult arcade, adult bookstore or adult video
store, adult cabaret, adult motel, adult motion picture theater, adult theater,
escort agency, nude model studio, or sexual encounter center.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks or a female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola;
      (2)   The human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.  Any of the following offenses:
      (1)   Prostitution or promotion of prostitution; dissemination of
obscenity; sale, distribution, or display of harmful material to a minor;
sexual performance by a child; possession or distribution of child pornography;
public lewdness; indecent exposure; indecency with a child;  sexual assault;
molestation of a child; or any similar sex-related offenses to those described
above under the criminal or penal code of this state, other states, or other
countries.
      (2)   For which:
         (a)   Less than 2 years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a misdemeanor offense;
         (b)   Less than 5 years have elapsed since the date of conviction or
the date of release from confinement imposed for the conviction, whichever is
the later date, if the conviction is of a felony offense;
         (c)   Less than 5 years have elapsed since the date of the last
conviction or the date of release from confinement imposed for the last
conviction, whichever is the later date, if the convictions are for 2 or more
misdemeanor offenses or combination of misdemeanor offenses occurring within
any 24-month period;
      (3)   The fact that a conviction is being appealed shall have no effect
on the disqualification of the applicant.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Acts of human masturbation, actual or simulated;
      (2)   Sex acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated, including
intercourse, oral copulation, or sodomy;
      (3)   The fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic
region, buttocks, anus, or female breasts, whether covered or uncovered;
      (4)   Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation or arousal.
      (4)   Excretory functions as part of or in connection with any of the
activities set forth in above.
   TRANSFER OF OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL  OF A SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESS. 
      (1)   The sale, lease, or sublease of the business;
      (2)   The transfer of securities which constitute a controlling interest
in the business, whether by sale, exchange, or similar means;
      (3)   The establishment of a trust, gift, or other similar legal device
which transfers the ownership or control of the business, except for transfer
by bequest or other operation of law upon the death of the person possessing
the ownership or control.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.317  ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall be designated to administer and enforce
the provisions of this subchapter.  The Zoning Administrator may designate
authorized agents to assist in the administration and enforcement of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall:
      (1)   Receive and review all application for sexually-oriented business
license, and approve or disapprove such applications based on compliance or
non-compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   Maintain maps showing current locations within the village where
sexually-oriented business are located and where additional sexually-oriented
business may be located taking into consideration the location restrictions set
forth in this subchapter and all applicable zoning requirements.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005) 
§ 152.318  LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to operate a sexually-oriented
business without a valid license issued by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   An application for a license must be made on a form provided by the
village.  The application must be accompanied by a sketch or a diagram showing
the configuration of the premises, including a statement of total floor space
occupied by the business and the percentage of the total floor space that will
be occupied by the sexually-oriented business activity.  The sketch or diagram
need not be professionally prepared but must be drawn to a designated scale or
drawn with marked dimensions of the interior of the premises to an accuracy of
plus or minus 6 inches.
   (C)   Applications for a license shall be made and delivered to the Zoning
Administrator by the intended operator of the establishment.  The intended
operator shall be required to give the following information on the application
form:
      (1)   The name and street address (and mailing address, if different) and
driver's license number of the intended operator if he/she has such a driver's
license.
      (2)   The name and street address (and mailing address, if different) of
the owner(s), if different.
      (3)   The name under which the establishment is to be operated and a
general description of the services to be provided and the products to be
carried in inventory for sale, rent or display to customers.
      (4)   The telephone number of the establishment or, if unavailable, the
operator's.
      (5)   The address, and legal description, of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be located.
   (D)   All applicants for a license must be qualified according to the
provisions of this subchapter.  The application may request, and the applicant
shall provide, such information reasonably necessary (including fingerprints)
to enable the village to determine whether the applicant meets the
qualifications established under this subchapter. The applicant has an
affirmative duty to supplement an application with new information received
subsequent to the date the application was deemed completed. 
   (E)   If a person who wishes to own or operate a sexually-oriented business
is an individual, he or she must sign the application for an operator's license
as applicant.  If a person who wishes to operate a sexually-oriented business
is other than an individual, each individual who has a 10% or greater interest
in the business must sign the application for an operator's license as
applicant.  If a corporation is listed as owner of a sexually-oriented business
or as the entity that wishes to operate such a business, all corporate officers
and directors must sign the application for an operator's license as applicant.
   (F)   The fact that a person possesses other types of state or county
permits and/or licenses does not exempt him or her from the requirement of
obtaining a sexually-oriented business license from the village.
   (G)   The application shall be accompanied by the following:
      (1)   Payment of the application fee in full;
      (2)   If the establishment is a Michigan corporation, a certified copy of
the articles of incorporation, together with all amendments thereto;
      (3)   If the establishment is a Michigan limited liability company, a
certified copy of the articles of organization, together with all amendments
thereto;
      (4)   If the establishment is a foreign corporation or limited liability
company, a certified copy of the certificate of authority to transact business
in this state, together with all amendments thereto;
      (5)   If the establishment is a limited partnership formed under the laws
of the state, a certified copy of the certificate of limited partnership,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (6)   If the establishment is a foreign limited partnership, a certified
copy of the certificate of limited partnership and the qualification documents,
together with all amendments thereto;
      (7)   Proof of the current fee ownership of the tract of land on which
the establishment is to be situated in the form of a copy of the recorded deed;
      (8)   If the persons identified as the fee owner(s) of the tract of land
in subsection (7) is not also the owner of the sexually-oriented business, then
the lease, purchase contract, purchase option contract, lease option contract
or other document(s) evidencing the legally enforceable right of the owner(s)
or proposed owner(s) of the sexually-oriented business to have or obtain the
use and possession of the tract or portion thereof that is to be used for the
sexually-oriented business; and
      (9)   A current certificate and straight-line drawing prepared within 30
days prior to application by a registered land surveyor depicting the property
lines and the structures containing any existing sexually-oriented businesses
within 1,500 feet of the property to be certified; and the property lines of
any established religious institution, church, place of worship, synagogue,
school, public park or recreation area within 750 feet of the property to be
certified.  For purposes of this section, a use shall be considered existing or
established if it is in existence at the time an application is submitted.
   (H)   The application shall contain a statement under oath that:
      (1)   The applicant has personal knowledge of the information contained
in the application and that the information contained therein and furnished
therewith is true and correct; and
      (2)   The applicant has read the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.319  ISSUANCE OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall approve or deny the issuance of a
license to an applicant within 30 days after receipt of a completed
application, unless the applicant requests that this period be extended for up
to 10 days under division (C), in which case the approval or denial shall be
made with the extended period. The Zoning Administrator shall issue a license
unless it is determined by a preponderance of the evidence that 1 or more of
the following findings is true:
      (1)   An applicant is under 18 years of age.  (Individual applicants
only).
      (2)   An applicant is overdue in his or her payment of taxes, fines, or
penalties assessed against him or her or imposed upon him or her in relation to
a sexually-oriented business.
      (3)   An applicant has failed to provide information reasonably necessary
for issuance of the license or has falsely answered a question or request for
information on the application form.
      (4)   An application for the proposed establishment is in violation of or
is not in compliance with any of the provisions of this subchapter.
      (5)   An applicant has been convicted of any of the following criminal
offenses in any jurisdiction in the past 5 years:
         (a)   Prostitution, procuring a prostitute, or solicitation of a
prostitute;
         (b)   Sale, distribution or display of obscene material;
         (c)   Soliciting, procuring or aiding and abetting an unlawful sexual
performance by a minor;
         (d)   Possession, sale or distribution of child pornography;
         (e)   Public lewdness;
         (f)   Indecent exposure;
         (g)   Indecent conduct with a child;
         (h)   Sexual assault, criminal sexual conduct, or rape;
         (i)   Incest;
         (j)   Sexual solicitation of a child.
   The applicant shall certify, as a part of the application, that he/she/it
has not been convicted of any 1 or more of the foregoing criminal offenses.
   (B)   The license, if granted, shall state on its face the name of the
person or persons to whom it is granted, and the address of the sexually-
oriented business.  The license shall be posted in a conspicuous place at or
near the entrance to the sexually-oriented business so that it may be easily
read at any time.
   (C)   In the event that the Zoning Administrator determines that an
applicant is not eligible for a license, the applicant shall be given notice in
writing of the reasons for the denial within 30 days of the receipt of its
application by the Zoning Administrator, provided that the applicant may
request, in writing, that such period be extended for an additional period of
not more than 10 days at any time before the notice is issued in order to make
modifications necessary to comply with this subchapter. In the event the Zoning
Administrator fails to render a decision on the application within the time
specified herein, the applicant shall be permitted to commence operation of the
business. 
   (D)   An applicant may appeal the decision of the Zoning Administrator
regarding a denial to the Village Council by filing a written notice of appeal
with the Village Clerk within 10 days after service of notice upon the
applicant of the Zoning Administrator's decision.  The notice of appeal shall
be accompanied by a memorandum or other writing setting out fully and
specifically the grounds for such appeal and all arguments in support thereof. 
The Zoning Administrator may, within 15 days of service upon him or her of the
applicant's memorandum, submit a responsive memorandum to the Village Council. 
After reviewing such memoranda, as well as the Zoning Administrator's written
decision, if any, and exhibits submitted to the Zoning Administrator, the
Village Council shall vote either to uphold or overrule the Zoning
Administrator's decision.  The vote shall be taken within 30 calendar days
after the date on which the Village Clerk receives the notice of appeal.  The
Village Council shall, in its determination, make findings of fact supporting
its decision.  Judicial review of a denial by the Zoning Administrator and
Village Council may be made pursuant to
§ 152.322. 
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.320  SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall suspend a license for a period not to
exceed 30 days if he or she determines that licensee or an employee of licensee
has:
      (1)   Violated or is not in compliance with any section of this
subchapter;
      (2)   Operated or performed services in a sexually-oriented business
while intoxicated by the use of alcoholic beverages or controlled substances;
      (3)   Refused to allow prompt inspection of the sexually-oriented
business premises as authorized by this subchapter; or
      (4)   With knowledge, permitted gambling by any person on the sexually-
oriented business premises.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator, before suspending any license, shall give
the licensee at least 10 days' written notice of the charges against him or
her, and shall cause written notice to be delivered pursuant to
§ 152.336 informing the person of the right to appeal the suspension upon
request. Suspension shall take effect 10 days from date of notice, unless
within that time, an appeal is filed with the Village Council.  When a
suspension is appealed to the Village Council, the suspension will become
effective, if and when the Village Council decides that the suspension is
proper.
   (C)   A licensee may appeal the suspension of a license to the Village
Council in accordance with the procedure set forth in
§ 152.318(D), or may seek direct judicial review pursuant to
§ 152.322. 
   (D)   Any license issued by the village may be immediately suspended by the
Zoning Administrator without a hearing if it is determined that the licensee
has violated or someone at or upon the licensed location has violated the
village ordinance or state law and that continued operation under the license
is an immediate threat to public health, safety, and welfare.  Suspension under
this division shall take effect immediately, but may be appealed under the
procedure described in division (B).
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.321  REVOCATION.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator shall revoke a license if a cause of
suspension in
§ 152.320 occurs and the license has been suspended within the preceding 12
months.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator shall revoke a license if he or she
determines that:
      (1)   A licensee gave materially false or misleading information in the
material submitted during the application process;
      (2)   A licensee was convicted of a specified criminal activity on a
charge that was pending prior to the issuance of the license;
      (3)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the possession, use, or
sale of controlled substances on the premises;
      (4)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted the sale, use, or
consumption of alcoholic beverages on the premises;
      (5)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted prostitution on the
premises;
      (6)   A licensee has, with knowledge, operated the sexually-oriented
business during a period of time when the licensee's license was suspended;
      (7)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted any act of sexual
intercourse, sodomy, oral copulation, masturbation, or other sexual conduct to
occur in or on the licensed premises;
      (8)   A licensee is delinquent in payment to the village or state for any
taxes, fees, fines, or penalties relating to the sexually-oriented business or
the premises thereof;
      (9)   A licensee has, with knowledge, permitted a person under 18 years
of age to enter or remain in the establishment; or
      (10)   A licensee has attempted to sell his or her license, or has sold,
assigned, or transferred ownership or control of the sexually-oriented business
to a non-licensee of the establishment;
   (C)   The Zoning Administrator, before revoking any license, shall give the
licensee at least 10 days' written notice of the charges against him or her,
and shall cause written notice to be delivered pursuant to
§ 152.336 informing such person of the right to appeal the revocation upon
request. Revocation shall take effect 10 days from date of notice, unless
within that time, an appeal is filed with the Village Council.  When a
suspension is appealed to the Village Council, the suspension will become
effective, if and when the Village Council decides that the revocation is
proper.
   (D)   A licensee may appeal the revocation of a license to the Village
Council in accordance with the procedure set forth in
§ 152.319(D), or may seek direct judicial review pursuant to
§ 152.322. 
   (E)   When a license is revoked, the licensee shall not be issued a new
license for 1 year from the date revocation became effective.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.322  JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   Within 21 days of a denial of an initial application by the Zoning
Administrator and Village Council, or suspension or revocation of a license by
the Zoning Administrator and Village Council, the applicant or licensee may
seek judicial review of such administrative action in any court of competent
jurisdiction, state or federal. The administrative action shall then be
reviewed by the court for a prompt judicial determination. 
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.323  OTHER APPEALS.
   All decisions and determinations made by the Zoning Administrator in the
enforcement of
§§ 152.316,
152.326 and
152.337 may be appealed to the Zoning Board of Appeals, which shall have the
power to hear and decide appeals from decisions and determinations of the
Zoning Administrator and to hear appeals for the interpretation of those
provisions of this subchapter. 
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.324  INSPECTION.
   The village shall regularly inspect the premises of the sexually-oriented
business in order to ensure compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
An applicant or licensee shall permit the Zoning Administrator or
representatives of the Code Enforcement Office, Grand Traverse County Sheriff
and his or her deputies, and/or Health Department to inspect the premises at
any time the establishment is open for business in order to determine
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter and other applicable
village, county, and state ordinances and statutes. The inspection shall
include visual assessment of the activities conducted in areas to which patrons
have access or are allowed access and requests for identification of those
individuals who reasonably appear to be under the age of 18. A person who
operates a sexually-oriented business or his or her agent or employee commits a
misdemeanor if he or she refuses to promptly permit such lawful inspection of
the premises.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.325  TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   A licensee shall not transfer his or her license to another, nor shall a
licensee operate a sexually- oriented business under the authority of a license
at any place other than the address designated in the application. 
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.326  LOCATION RESTRICTIONS.
    Sexually-oriented businesses shall be permitted in the C-2 Commercial and
Industrial Districts provided that:
   (A)   The sexually-oriented business may not be operated within:
      (1)    Seven-hundred fifty feet of a church, synagogue, mosque, temple,
regular place of worship, and for the purpose of this section a CHURCH,
SYNAGOGUE, MOSQUE, or TEMPLE means an entire house or structure set apart
primarily for use for purposes of public worship and related religious
activities, and which is tax exempt under the laws of this state, and in which
religious services are held and with which a clergyman is associated, and the
entire structure of which is kept for that use and not put to any other use
inconsistent with that use;
      (2)   Seven-hundred fifty feet of a public or private educational
facility including but not limited to child day care facilities, nursery
schools, preschools, kindergartens, elementary schools, private schools,
intermediate schools, junior high schools, middle schools, high schools,
vocational schools, secondary schools, continuation schools, special education
school, junior colleges, and universities; school includes the school ground,
but does not include the facilities used primarily for another purpose and only
incidentally as a school;
      (3)   Seven-hundred fifty feet of a public park or recreational area
which has been designated for park or recreational activities including but not
limited to a park, playground, nature trails, swimming pool, reservoir,
athletic field, basketball or tennis courts, skating rink, pedestrian/bicycle
paths, wilderness areas, or other similar public land within the village which
is under the control, operation, or management of the village;
      (4)   Seven-hundred fifty feet of the property line of a lot zoned for
residential use and devoted to a residential use as defined in this chapter; or
      (5)   One thousand, five hundred feet of another sexually-oriented
business.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business may not be operated in the same building,
structure, or portion thereof, containing another sexually-oriented business.
   (C)   For the purpose of this subchapter, measurement shall be made in a
straight line, without regard to intervening structures or objects, from the
nearest portion of the building or structure used as a part of the premises
where a sexually-oriented business is conducted, to the nearest property line
of the premises of a church, synagogue, regular place of worship, or public or
private elementary or secondary school, or to the nearest boundary of an
affected public park, residential district, or residential lot, or licensed day
care center.
   (D)   For purposes of division (C), the distance between any 2 sexually-
oriented business uses shall be measured in a straight line, without regard to
intervening structures or objects, from the closest exterior wall of the
structure in which each business is located.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.327  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO ADULT CABARETS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated an adult cabaret, shall
comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of 1 or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures (indicating the type of illumination
intensity of each such fixture) and designating any portion of the premises in
which patrons will not be permitted.  A manager's station may not exceed 30
square feet of floor area.  The diagram shall also designate the place at which
the license will be conspicuously posted, if granted.  A professionally
prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's blueprint shall
not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to the north or to
some designated street or object and should be drawn to a designated scale or
with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various internal dimensions of
all areas of the interior of the premises.
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning Administrator.
   (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least 1 employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of every area of the
premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose excluding
restrooms.  Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.  If the
premises has 2 or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of each area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access for
any purpose from at least 1 of the manager's stations. The view required in
this division must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator, and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that the
view area specified in division (E) remains unobstructed by any doors, walls,
merchandise, display racks or other materials at all times and to ensure that
no patron is permitted access to any area of the premises which has been
designated as an area in which patrons will not be permitted in the application
filed pursuant to division (A) of this section.
   (G)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5 foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the owners and operator and it shall also be
the duty of any agents and employees present in the premises to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (I)   The premises shall contain a dressing room for performers with direct
access between the dressing area and the performance area or stage so that the
performer may enter the performance area or stage without entering the area
from which patrons will view the performance.  The dressing area for performers
must be separate and not freely accessible from areas of the business
accessible to patrons, and the dressing area must contain hot and cold running
water and toilet facilities.
   (J)   There shall be no physical contact between any performer and any other
performer or between any performer and any owner, independent contractor,
employee, patron or other person during or for at least 15 minutes following
such performance. Physical contact includes, but is not limited to, any contact
in which any part of the body or clothing of 1 person touches any part of the
body or clothing of the other person or if a person causes anything under that
persons direct control to touch any part of the body or clothing of another
person.
   (K)   The premises shall meet all barrier free requirements and building
code requirements imposed by the village or County Building and Inspections
Department.
   (L)   Licensee shall provide sufficient fences or barriers or shall so
patrol the boundaries of his or her business premises as to efficiently prevent
his or her patrons from directly trespassing on neighboring premises.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.328  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ADULT MOTELS.
   (A)   Evidence that a sleeping room in a hotel, motel, or a similar
commercial enterprise has been rented and vacated 2 or more times in a period
of time that is less than 10 hours creates a rebuttable presumption that the
enterprise is an adult motel as that term is defined in this chapter.
   (B)   It is unlawful if a person, as the person in control of a sleeping
room in a hotel, motel, or similar commercial enterprise that does not have a
sexually-oriented business license, rents or subrents a sleeping room to a
person and, within 10 hours from the time the room is rented, he rents or
subrents the same sleeping room again.
   (C)   For purposes of division (B) of this section, the terms RENT or
SUBRENT mean the act of permitting a room to be occupied for any form of
consideration.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.329  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR ESCORT AGENCIES.
   (A)   An escort agency shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person commits an offense if the person acts as an escort or agrees
to act as an escort for any person under the age of 18 years.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.330  ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS FOR NUDE MODEL STUDIOS.
   (A)   A nude model studio shall not employ any person under the age of 18
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 18 years shall not appear semi-nude or in a
state of nudity in or on the premises of a nude model studio.  It is a defense
to prosecution under this division if the person under 18 years was in a
restroom not open to the public view or visible by any other person.
   (C)   A person shall not appear in a state of nudity, or with knowledge,
allows another to appear in a state of nudity in an area of a nude model studio
premises which can be viewed from the public right-of-way.
   (D)   A nude model studio shall not place or permit a bed, sofa, or mattress
in any room on the premises, except that a sofa may be placed in a reception
room open to the public.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.331  REGULATIONS PERTAINING TO EXHIBITION OF SEXUALLY EXPLICIT FILMS AND
VIDEOS.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business,
other than an adult motel, which exhibits on the premises in a viewing room of
less than 150 square feet of floor space, a film, video cassette, or other
video reproduction, that depicts specified sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas, shall comply with the following requirements:
   (A)   Upon application for a sexually-oriented business license, the
application shall be accompanied by a diagram of the premises showing a plan
thereof specifying the location of 1 or more manager's stations and the
location of all overhead lighting fixtures and designating any portion of the
premises in which patrons will not be permitted.  A manager's station may not
exceed 32 square feet of floor area.  The diagram shall also designate the
place at which the business license will be conspicuously posted, if granted. 
A professionally prepared diagram in the nature of an engineer's or architect's
blueprint shall not be required; however, each diagram should be oriented to
the north or to some designated street or object and should be drawn to a
designated scale or with marked dimensions sufficient to show the various
internal dimensions of all areas of the interior of the premises to an accuracy
of plus or minus 6 inches. 
   (B)   The application shall be sworn to be true and correct by the
applicant.
   (C)   No alteration in the configuration or location of a manager's station
may be made without the prior approval of the Zoning Administrator or his or
her designee.
   (D)   It is the duty of the owners and operator of the premises to ensure
that at least 1 employee is on duty and situated in each manager's station at
all times that any patron is present inside the premises.
   (E)   The interior of the premises shall be configured in such a manner that
there is an unobstructed view from a manager's station of the entire area of
the premises to which any patron is permitted access for any purpose, excluding
restrooms.  Restrooms may not contain video reproduction equipment.  If the
premises has 2 or more manager's stations designated, then the interior of the
premises shall be configured in such a manner that there is an unobstructed
view of the entire area of the premises to which any patron is permitted access
for any purpose from at least 1 of the manager's stations.  The view required
in this division must be by direct line of sight from the manager's station.
   (F)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the view area
specified in division (E) of this section remains unobstructed at all times. 
No doors, walls, partitions, curtains, merchandise, display racks, or other
object(s) shall obstruct from view of the manager's station any portion of the
premises to which patrons have access.  It shall be the duty of the operator,
and it shall also be the duty of any agents and employees present in the
premises, to ensure that no patron is permitted access to any area of the
premises that has been designated as an area in which patrons will not be
permitted, as designated in the application filed pursuant to division (A) of
this section.
   (G)   The premises shall be equipped with overhead lighting fixtures of
sufficient intensity to illuminate every place to which patrons are permitted
access at an illumination of not less than 5 foot-candles as measured at the
floor level.
   (H)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that the
illumination described above is maintained at all times that any patron is
present in the premises.
   (I)   No viewing room or booth may be occupied by more than 1 person at any
time.
   (J)   No opening of any kind shall exist between viewing rooms or booths.
   (K)   It shall be the duty of the operator, and it shall also be the duty of
any agents and employees present in the premises, to ensure that no more than 1
person at a time occupies a viewing booth or room, and to ensure that no person
attempts to make an opening of any kind between the viewing booths or rooms.
   (L)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall, each business
day, inspect the walls between the viewing booths to determine if any openings
or holes exist.
   (M)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all floor
coverings in viewing booths to be nonporous, easily cleanable surfaces, with no
rugs or carpeting.
   (N)   The operator of the sexually-oriented business shall cause all wall
surfaces  and ceiling surfaces in viewing booths to be constructed of, or
permanently covered by, nonporous, easily cleanable material.  No wood,
plywood, composition board or other porous material shall be used within 48
inches of the floor.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.332  EXTERIOR PORTIONS OF SEXUALLY-ORIENTED BUSINESSES; HOURS OF
OPERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow any sexually explicit merchandise or activities of the
establishment to be visible from a point outside the establishment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for the owner or operator of a sexually-oriented
business to allow the exterior portion of the sexually-oriented business to
have any words, lettering, photographs, silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial
representations of a sexual by explicit manner except to the extent otherwise
permitted by the provisions of this subchapter.
   (C)   Signs shall contain no lettering, photographs, silhouettes, drawings
or pictorial representations of a sexually explicit manner, and may contain
only the name of the enterprise. 
   (D)   No sexually-oriented business shall remain open at any time between
the hours of 2:00 a.m. and 7:00 a.m. on weekdays and Saturdays, and 2:30 a.m.
and noon (12:00 p.m.) on Sundays, nor shall any entertainment, service, or
product be provided to a customer on the premises of a sexually-oriented
business during those hours.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.333  PERSONS YOUNGER THAN 18 PROHIBITED FROM ENTRY; ATTENDANT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to allow a person who is younger than 18 years of
age to enter or be on the premises of a sexually-oriented business at any time
that the sexually-oriented business is open for business.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the operator of each sexually-oriented
business to ensure that an attendant is stationed at each public entrance to
the sexually-oriented business at all times during such sexually- oriented
business' regular business hours.  It shall be the duty of the attendant to not
allow any person under the age of 18 years to enter the sexually-oriented
business.  It shall be presumed that an attendant knew a person was under the
age of 18 unless such attendant asked for and was furnished:
      (1)   A valid operator's, commercial operator's, or chauffeur's license;
or
      (2)   A valid personal identification certificate issued by the state
reflecting that such person is 18 years of age or older.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.334  MASSAGES OR BATHS ADMINISTERED BY PERSON OF OPPOSITE SEX.
   It shall be unlawful for any sexually-oriented business, regardless of
whether in a public or private facility, to operate as a massage salon, massage
parlor or any similar type business where any physical contact with the
recipient of such services is provided by a person of the opposite sex. 
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)  Penalty, see
§ 152.999
§ 152.335  EXEMPTION.
   (A)   It is a defense to prosecution under this subchapter that a person
appearing in a state of nudity did so in a modeling class operated:
      (1)   By a proprietary school, licensed by the state, a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation;
      (2)   By a private college or university that maintains and operates
educational programs in which credits are transferable to a college, junior
college, or university supported entirely or partly by taxation.
   (B)   Notwithstanding any other provision in this subchapter, movies rated
G, PG, PG-13, or R, by the Motion Picture Association of America (MPAA), or
live theatrical performances with serious artistic, social, or political value,
that depict or describe specified anatomical areas or specified sexual
activities, are expressly exempted from regulation under this subchapter.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.336  NOTICES.
   (A)   Any notice required or permitted to be given by the village or other
agency under this subchapter to any applicant, operator or owner of an
establishment may be given either by personal delivery or by certified United
States mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to the most
recent address as specified in the application for the license, or transfer
application that has been received by the village, or any notice of address
change that has been received by the village.  Notices mailed as above shall be
deemed given upon their deposit in the United States mail.  In the event that
any notice given by mail is returned by the postal service, the village shall
cause it to be posted at the principal entrance to the establishment.
   (B)   Any notice required or permitted to be given to the village by any
person under this subchapter shall not be deemed given until and unless it is
received in the principal office of the village.
   (C)   It shall be the duty of each owner who is designated on the license
application and each operator to furnish notice to the village in writing of
any change of residence or mailing address.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.337  NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   Any business lawfully operating on the effective date of this
subchapter that is in violation of the location or structural configuration
requirements of this subchapter shall be deemed a non-conforming use. Such non-
conforming uses shall not be increased, enlarged, extended or altered except
that the use may be changed to a conforming use.  If 2 or more sexually-
oriented businesses are within 1,500 feet of one another and otherwise in a
permissible location, the sexually-oriented business which was first
established and continually operating at a particular location is the
conforming use and the later-established business(es) is non-conforming.
   (B)   A sexually-oriented business lawfully operating as a conforming use is
not rendered a non-conforming use by the location, subsequent to the grant of
the sexually-oriented business license, of a church, synagogue, or regular
place of religious worship, public or private elementary or secondary school,
licensed day-care center, public park, residential district, within 750 feet of
the sexually-oriented business.  This provision does not apply when an
application for a license is submitted after a license has been revoked.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.338  FEES.
   The application fee shall be set by resolution of the Village Council.  The
fee schedule for appeals under this subchapter shall be the same as for appeals
to the Zoning Board of Appeals under the Zoning Code.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.339  INJUNCTION.
   A person who operates or causes to be operated a sexually-oriented business
without a valid license or otherwise violates this subchapter shall be subject
to a suit for injunctive relief and/or revocation of the sexually-oriented
business license as well as prosecution for criminal violations.  Each day a
sexually-oriented business so operates is a separate offense or violation. 
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
§ 152.340  NUISANCE PER SE.
   Any violation of any provision of this subchapter is hereby declared to be a
public nuisance per se, and may be abated by order of any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 6 08-05, passed 8-1-2005)
AMENDMENTS
§ 152.355  AMENDMENTS.
   Amendments to this chapter shall be adopted in conformance with PA 110 of
2006.
(Ord. 2006-4, passed 7-10-2006)
§ 152.999  PENALTY.
   (A)   Generally.  Penalties for violation of this chapter shall be
punishable as provided in Title I, General Provisions,
§ 10.99. The provisions of Chapter 11, Municipal Civil Infractions, also apply
to violations of this chapter. Each act of violation and each day during which
such violation continues shall constitute a separate offense. The imposition of
any sentence shall not exempt the offense from compliance with the requirements
of this chapter.
   (B)   Authority to pursue court action. The Village Council or its duly
authorized representative is hereby empowered to commence and pursue any and
all necessary and appropriate actions or proceedings in the Circuit Court, or
any other court having jurisdiction, to restrain or prevent any noncompliance
with or violation of any of the provisions of this chapter and to correct,
remedy, or abate such noncompliance or violation. Any person aggrieved or
adversely affected by such noncompliance or violation may institute suit or
join the Village Council in such a suit to abate the violation.
   (C)   Other remedies. The rights and remedies set forth above shall not
preclude the use of other remedies provided by law, including any additional
rights of the village to initiate proceedings in an appropriate court of law to
restrain or prevent any noncompliance with any provisions of this chapter or to
correct, remedy, or abate such noncompliance.
   (D)   Rights and remedies preserved. Any failure or omission to enforce the
provisions of this chapter, and failure or omission to prosecute any violations
of this chapter, shall not constitute a waiver of any rights and remedies
provided by this chapter or by law and shall not constitute a waiver nor
prevent any further prosecution of violations of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-1978, § 17.03; Am. Ord. 2005-10, passed 8-1-2005)
CHAPTER 153:  SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEMS
Section
   
153.01   Purpose and intent
   
153.02   Definitions
   
153.03   Applicability
   
153.04   Permitting
   
153.05   Safety
   
153.06   Appeals
   
153.07   Solar Panel Fast Track Program
   
153.08   Tree maintenance and removal
 
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01  PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Solar energy is a renewable and non-polluting energy resource that can
prevent fossil fuel emissions and reduce a municipality’s energy load. Energy
generated from solar energy systems can be used to offset energy demand on the
grid where excess solar power is generated.
   (B)   The use of solar energy equipment for the purpose of providing
electricity and energy for heating and/or cooling is a priority and  is a
necessary component of the village’s long-term prosperity.
   (C)   The chapter aims to promote the accommodation of solar energy systems
and equipment and the provision for adequate sunlight and convenience of access
necessary therefor.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 153.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCESSORY STRUCTURE.  A structure, the use of which is customarily
incidental and subordinate to that of the principal building and is attached
thereto, and is located on the same lot ro premises as the principal building.
   ALTERNATIVE ENERGY SYSTEMS.  Except for wood burning furnaces, all
structures, equipment, devices or construction techniques used for the
production of heat, light, cooling, electricity or other forms of energy on
site and may be attached to or separate from the principal structure.
   BUILDING-INTEGRATED PHOTOVOLTAIC (BIPV) SYSTEMS.  A solar energy system that
consists of integrating photovoltaic modules into the building structure, such
as the roof or the facade and which does not alter the relief of the roof.
   COLLECTIVE SOLAR.  Solar installations owned collectively through
subdivision homeowner associations, college student groups, “adopt-a-solar-
panel” programs, or other similar arrangements. Also referred to as “community
solar” and “solar gardens”.
   EXPEDITED REVIEW.  The grant of a priority status to an application that
results in the review of the application ahead of applications filed prior
thereto, including applications which may be currently under review by the
applicable agency.
   FLUSH-MOUNTED SOLAR PANEL.  Photovoltaic panels and tiles that are installed
flush to the surface of a roof and which cannot be angled or raised.
   FREESTANDING RO GROUND-MOUNTED SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM.  A solar energy system
that is directly installed in the ground and is not attached or affixed to an
existing structure.
   NET-METERING.  A billing arrangement that allows solar customers to get
credit for excess electricity that they generate and deliver back to the grid
so that they only pay for their net electricity usage at the end of the month.
   PERMIT GRANTING AUTHORITY.  The Village of Kingsley is charged with granting
permits for the operation of solar systems.
   PHOTOVOLTAIC (PV) SYSTEMS.  A solar energy system that produces electricity
by the use of semiconductor devices, called photovoltaic cells that generate
electricity whenever light strikes them.
   QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLER.  A person who has skills and knowledge related to
the construction and operation of solar electrical equipment and installations
and has received safety training on the hazards involved. Persons who are
certified as a solar installer by the North American Board of Certified Energy
Practitioners (NABCEP), shall be deemed to be QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLERS for
the purposes of this definition. Persons who are not on NABCEP’s list of
certified installers may be deemed to be QUALIFIED SOLAR INSTALLERS if the
village determines such persons have had adequate training to determine the
degree and extent of the hazard and the personal protective equipment and job
planning necessary to perform the installation safely. Such training shall
include the proper use of special precautionary techniques and personal
protective equipment, as well as the skills and techniques necessary to
distinguish exposed energized parts from other parts of electrical equipment
and to determine the nominal voltage of exposed live parts.
   ROOFTOP OR BUILDING MOUNTED SOLAR SYSTEM.  A solar power system in which
solar panels are mounted on top of the structure of a roof either as a flush-
mounted system or as modules fixed to frames which can be tilted toward the
south at an optimal angle.
   SMALL-SCALE SOLAR.  Solar photovoltaic systems that produce up to 20
kilowatts (kW) per hour of energy or solar-thermal systems which serve the
building to which they are attached, and do not provide energy for any other
buildings.
   SOLAR ACCESS.  Space open to the sun and clear of overhangs or shade
including the orientation of streets and lots to the sun so as to permit the
use of active and/or passive solar energy systems on individual properties.
   SOLAR COLLECTOR.  A solar photovoltaic cell, panel, or array, or solar hot
air or water collector device, which relies upon solar radiation as an energy
source for the generation of electricity ro transfer of stores heat.
   SOLAR ENERGY EQUIPMENT/SYSTEM.  Solar collectors, controls, energy storage
devices, heat pumps, heat exchangers, and other materials, hardware or
equipment necessary to the process by which solar radiation is collected,
converted into another form of energy, stored, protected from unnecessary
dissipation and distributed. Solar systems include solar thermal, photovoltaic
and concentrated solar.
   SOLAR PANEL.  A device for the direct conversion of solar energy into
electricity.
   SOLAR POWER FAST-TRACK PROGRAM.  A program to expedite all applications for
commercial and residential solar panel installation to encourage the use of
reliable and clean renewable energy.
   SOLAR STORAGE BATTERY.  A device that stores energy from the sun and makes
it available in an electrical form.
   SOLAR-THERMAL SYSTEMS.  Solar thermal systems directly heat water or other
liquid using sunlight. The heated liquid is used for such purposes as space
heating and cooling, domestic hot water, and heating pool water.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 153.03  APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The requirements of this chapter shall apply to all small scale solar
energy systems (residential, commercial, multi-family and condominium) modified
or installed after the effective date of this chapter.
   (B)   All solar energy systems shall be designed, erected and installed in
accordance with all applicable codes, regulations and standards.
   (C)   Solar energy collectors shall be permitted only to provide power for
use by owners, lessees, tenants, residents, or other occupants of the premises
on which they are erected, but nothing contained in this provision shall be
construed to prohibit “collective solar” installations or the sale of excess
power through a “net billing” or “net-metering” arrangement.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 153.04  PERMITTING.
   (A)   No small scale solar energy system or device shall be installed or
operated in the village except in compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   To the extent practicable, and in accordance with village ordinances,
the accommodation of solar energy systems and equipment and the protection of
access to sunlight for such equipment shall be encouraged in the application of
the various review and approval provisions of the village code.
   (C)   Rooftop and building-mounted solar collectors. Rooftop and building-
mounted solar collectors are permitted in all zoning districts in the village
subject.
   (D)   Building-integrated photovoltaic (BIPV) systems. BIPV systems are
permitted outright in all zoning districts.
   (E)   Ground-mounted and free standing solar collectors. Ground-mounted and
free standing solar collectors are permitted as accessory structures in all
zoning districts of the village, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Land use permits are required for the installation of all ground-
mounted solar collectors;
      (2)   The location of the solar collector meets all applicable setback
requirements for accessory structures in the zoning district in which it is
located;
      (3)   The height of the solar collector and any mounts shall not exceed
15 feet when oriented at maximum tilt;
      (4)   Solar energy equipment shall be located in a manner to reasonably
minimize view blockage for surrounding properties and shading of property to
the north, while still providing adequate solar access for collectors; and
      (5)   Freestanding solar energy collectors shall be screened when
possible and practicable through the use of architectural features, earth
berms, landscaping, or other screening which will harmonize with the character
of the property and surrounding area.
   (F)   Solar-thermal systems. Solar-thermal systems are permitted in all
zoning districts.
   (G)   Solar energy systems and equipment shall be permitted only if they are
determined by the village not to present any unreasonable safety risks,
including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Weight load;
      (2)   Wind resistance; and
      (3)   Ingress or egress in the event of fire or other emergency.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)  Penalty, see §
153.99
§ 153.05  SAFETY.
   (A)   All solar collector installations must be performed by a qualified
solar installer.
   (B)   Prior to operation, electrical connections must be inspected by the
Grand Traverse County Construction Code Inspector.
   (C)   Any connection to the public utility grid must be inspected by the
appropriate public utility.
   (D)   Solar energy systems shall be maintained in good working order.
   (E)   Rooftop and building-mounted solar collectors shall meet Michigan’s
Uniform Fire Prevention and Building Code standards.
   (F)   If solar storage batteries are included as part of the solar collector
system, they must be placed in a secure container or enclosure meeting the
requirements of the State of Michigan Building Code when in use and when no
longer used shall be disposed of in accordance with the laws and regulations of
the state of Michigan and all other applicable laws and regulations.
   (G)   If a solar collector ceases to perform it originally intended function
for more than six consecutive months, the property owner shall remove the
collector, mount and associated equipment by no later than 90 days after the
end of the six-month period.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 153.06  APPEALS.
   If a land use permit for a solar energy device is denied because of a
conflict with other goals of the village, the applicant may seek relief from
the Village Zoning Board of Appeals, which shall regard solar energy as a
factor to be considered, weighed and balanced along with other factors.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 153.07  SOLAR PANEL FAST TRACK PROGRAM.
   (A)   This section applies to the installation of solar panels for
commercial buildings and residences.
   (B)   All land use permit application fees for the construction and
installation of solar panels on new residential and non-residential buildings
shall be waived.
   (C)   All land use permit applications for the installation of solar panels
on residential and non-residential buildings shall receive expedited review by
the Village Zoning Administrator in order to expedite such applications and the
issuance of building permits for solar panel installation.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 153.08  TREE MAINTENANCE AND REMOVAL.
   To the extent that the village has discretion regarding the removal or
relocation of trees, solar access shall be a factor taken into consideration
when the village determines whether trees can be removed.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
§ 153.99  PENALTY.
   Whoever violates any provision of this chapter is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction pursuant to
Chapter 11 of the Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 04-09-14, passed 11-10-2014)
CHAPTER 154:  MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
154.01   Purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Marihuana facilities authorized in the village; fee
   
154.04   Requirements and procedure for issuing license
   
154.05   Licenses generally; minimum operating standards for marihuana
facilities
   
154.06   License renewal
   
154.07   Applicability
   
154.08   Penalties and enforcement
§ 154.01  PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to authorize the establishment of
certain types of medical marihuana facilities in the Village of Kingsley and
provide for the adoption of reasonable restrictions to protect the public
health, safety, and general welfare of the community at large; retain the
character of neighborhoods; and mitigate potential impacts on surrounding
properties and persons. It is also the intent of this chapter to help defray
administrative and enforcement costs associated with the operation of a
marihuana facility in the Village of Kingsley through imposition of an annual,
nonrefundable fee of not more than $5,000.00 on each medical marihuana facility
licensee. Authority for the enactment of these provisions is set forth in the
Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to grant immunity from criminal or
civil prosecution, penalty, or sanction for the cultivation, manufacture,
possession, use, sale, or distribution of marihuana, in any form, that is not
in compliance with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.; the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq.; the Marihuana Tracking Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27901 et seq.; and all other applicable rules promulgated by
the state of Michigan.
   (C)   As of the effective date of this chapter, marihuana remains classified
as a Schedule 1 controlled substance under the Federal Controlled Substances
Act, 21 U.S.C. Sec. 801 et seq., which makes it unlawful to manufacture,
distribute, or dispense marihuana, or possess marihuana with intent to
manufacture, distribute, or dispense marihuana. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to grant immunity from any criminal prosecution under federal laws.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 154.02  DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter:
   (A)   Any term defined by the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 333.26421 et seq., shall have the definition given in the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act.
   (B)   Any term defined by the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq., shall have the definition given in the
Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act.
   (C)   Any term defined by the Marihuana Tracking Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
333.27901 et seq., shall have the definition given in the Marihuana Tracking
Act.
   (D)   GROWER. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in this state
that cultivates, dries, trims, or cures and packages marihuana for sale to a
processor or provisioning center, consistent with PA 281 of 2016.
   (E)   LICENSEE. A person holding a state operating license, consistent with
Public Act  281 of 2016.
   (F)   MARIJUANA or MARIHUANA. That term as defined in the Public Health
Code, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.; the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.; the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq.; and the Marihuana Tracking Act, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27901 et seq.
   (G)   MARIJUANA FACILITY. A commercial enterprise at a specific location at
which a licensee is licensed to operate under the Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq., including a marihuana
grower, marihuana processor, marihuana provisioning center, marihuana secure
transporter, or marihuana safety compliance facility. The term does not include
or apply to a "primary caregiver" or "caregiver" as that term is defined in the
Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.
   (H)   MARIHUANA PLANT. Any plant of the species Cannabis sativa L,
consistent with Public Act  281 of 2016.
   (I)   MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. A topical formulation, tincture, beverage,
edible substance, or similar product containing any usable marihuana that is
intended for human consumption in a manner other than smoke inhalation.
Marihuana-infused product shall not be considered a food for purposes of the
food law, 2000 PA 92, being M.C.L.A. §§ 289.1101 to 289.8111, consistent with
Public Act 281 of 2016.
   (J)   PERMIT. A special use permit issued for a marihuana facility.
   (K)   PERMIT HOLDER. The person that has been issued a permit under this
Code of Ordinances.
   (L)   PERMITTED PREMISES. The particular building or buildings within which
the permit holder is authorized to conduct marihuana facilities activities.
   (M)   PERMITTED PROPERTY. The real property comprised of a lot, parcel(s),
or other designated unit of real property upon which the permitted premises is
situated.
   (N)   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership, limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited
liability limited partnership, trust, or other legal entity.
   (O)   PROCESSOR. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in this
state that purchases marihuana from a grower and that extracts resin from the
marihuana or creates a marihuana-infused product for sale and transfer in
packaged form to a provisioning center, consistent with Public Act 281 of 2016.
   (P)   PROVISIONING CENTER. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in
Michigan that purchases marihuana from a grower or processor and sells,
supplies, or provides marihuana to registered qualifying patients, directly or
through the patients' registered primary caregivers. Provisioning center
includes any commercial property where marihuana is sold at retail to
registered qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers. A
noncommercial location used by a primary caregiver to assist a qualifying
patient connected to the caregiver in accordance with the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq., is not a provisioning
center for purposes of this chapter.
   (Q)   SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A licensee that is a commercial entity
that receives marihuana from a marihuana facility or registered primary
caregiver, tests it for contaminants and for tetrahydrocannabinol and other
cannabinoids, returns the test results, and may return the marihuana to the
marihuana facility, consistent with Public Act 281 of 2016.
   (R)   SECURE TRANSPORTER. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in
this state that stores marihuana and transports marihuana between marihuana
facilities for a fee, consistent with Public Act 281 of 2016.
   (S)   STATE OPERATING LICENSE or, unless the context requires a different
meaning, LICENSE means a license that is issued under Public Act 281 of 2016
that allows the licensee to operate as 1 of the following, specified in the
license:
      (1)   A grower.
      (2)   A processor.
      (3)   A secure transporter.
      (4)   A provisioning center.
      (5)   A safety compliance facility.
   (T)   VILLAGE OPERATING LICENSE. A license that is issued under this
chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 154.03  MARIHUANA FACILITIES AUTHORIZED IN THE VILLAGE; FEE.
   (A)   The maximum number of each type of commercial marihuana facility
allowed in the Village of Kingsley shall be as follows.
      (1)   Marihuana growing facility: unlimited.
      (2)   Marihuana processor facility: unlimited.
      (3)   Marihuana safety compliance facility: unlimited.
      (4)   Marihuana secure transporter facility: unlimited.
   (B)   The Village Council may review this section allowing more than one
type and number of marihuana facilities by resolution as it determines to be
advisable. A village operating license for a marihuana facility is a revocable
privilege granted by the village and is not a property right. Granting a
village operating license does not create or vest any right, title, franchise,
or other property interest. The village expressly reserves the right to amend
or repeal this chapter in any way including but not limited to complete
elimination of or reduction in the type and/or number of authorized medical
marihuana facilities authorized to operate within the village.
   (C)   A nonrefundable fee shall be paid by each marihuana facility licensed
under this chapter in an annual amount of not more than $5,000.00 per licensee
as set by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 154.04  REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall operate a marihuana facility in the village without a
valid village operating license issued by the village pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every applicant for a license to operate a marihuana facility shall
file an application in the Village Manager's office upon a form provided by the
village. The application shall contain the following information.
      (1)   The appropriate non-refundable permit application fee in the amount
determined by the village;
      (2)   If the applicant is an individual, the applicant's name, date of
birth, SSN, physical address including residential and any business address(s)
attached to the individual, copy of government issued photo identification,
email address, and 1 or more phone numbers, including emergency contact
information, and if applicable Federal EIN;
      (3)   If the applicant is not an individual, the names, date of birth,
SSN's, physical addresses, including residential and any business address(s),
copy of government issued photo identification, email addresses, and one or
more phone numbers of each stakeholder and/or general partners of the
applicant, including designation of the highest ranking stakeholder and/or
general partner as an emergency contact person and contain information for the
emergency contact person, articles of incorporation, assumed name registration
documents, Internal Revenue Service SS-4, EIN confirmation letter(s), and a
copy of the operating agreement of the applicant, if a limited liability
company, copy of the partnership agreement, if a partnership, or a copy of the
by-laws or shareholder agreement, if a corporation;
      (4)   The name and address of the proposed medical marihuana facility and
any additional contact information deemed necessary and requested by the
village;
      (5)   One of the following: (a) proof of ownership of the entire premises
wherein the medical marihuana facility is to be operated; or (b) written
consent from the property owner for use of the premises in a manner requiring a
permit under this chapter along with a copy of the lease for the premises;
      (6)   A copy of applicant's application for a state operating license
under M.C.L.A. § 333.27401;
   (C)   Every applicant for a village operating license shall submit with the
application a photocopy of the applicant's valid and current license issued by
the State of Michigan in accordance with the Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq.
   (D)   Upon an applicant's completion of the above-provided form and
furnishing of all required information and documentation, the Village Manager
or zoning administrator shall accept the application and assign it a sequential
application number by facility type based on the date and time of acceptance.
False information on an application is cause for the board to deny a license.
The Village Manager or zoning administrator shall not consider an incomplete
application but shall, within a reasonable time, return the application to the
applicant with notification of the deficiency and instructions for submitting a
corrected application. The Village Manager or zoning administrator shall act to
approve or deny an application not later than 30 days from the date the
application was accepted. If approved, the Village Manager or zoning
administrator shall issue the applicant a provisional license.
   (E)   A provisional license means only that the applicant has submitted a
valid application for a village operating license, and the applicant shall not
locate or operate a marihuana facility without obtaining all other permits and
approvals required by all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the
village. A provisional license will lapse and be void if such permits and
approvals are not diligently pursued to completion.
   (F)   Within 30 days from the applicant submitting proof of obtaining all
other required permits and approvals and payment of the license fee, the
Village Manager or zoning administrator shall approve or deny the village
operating license. The Village Manager or zoning administrator shall issue
village operating licenses in order of the sequential application number
previously assigned.
   (G)   Maintaining a valid state operating license issued by the state is a
condition for the issuance and maintenance of a village operating license under
this chapter and continued operation of any marihuana facility. A marihuana
facility and/or holder of a state operating license must also comply with all
other applicable laws, rules or regulations. In addition to this chapter, a
marihuana facility and/or holder of a state operating license must comply with
all other lawful requirements under the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Kingsley.
   (H)   A village operating license issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
   (I)   The recipient of a village operating license must apply for a special
use permit no later than 2 months after receiving the village operating license
and proceed diligently to obtain the special use permit and site plan approval
or the village operating license will expire. This time limitation may upon
written request be extended by the Village Council if it is demonstrated to the
Village Council's reasonable satisfaction the recipient of a village operating
license is proceeding in good faith and that there is a strong likelihood that
the recipient will obtain the special use permit and site plan approval in due
course.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 154.05  LICENSES GENERALLY; MINIMUM OPERATING STANDARDS FOR MARIHUANA
FACILITIES.
   (A)   To the extent permissible, all information submitted in conjunction
with an application for a license or license renewal required by this chapter
is confidential and exempt from disclosure under the Michigan Freedom of
Information Act, 1976 PA 442, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et. seq.
   (B)   A licensee shall report any other change in the information required
by this chapter to the Village Manager or zoning administrator within 10
business days of the change. Failure to do so may result in suspension or
revocation of the license.
   (C)   Consumption and/or use of marihuana shall be prohibited on the
premises of a marihuana facility, and a sign shall be posted on the premises
indicating that consumption is prohibited on the premises.
   (D)   The dispensing of marihuana at any facility, other than a provisioning
center, shall be prohibited.
   (E)   All growing and activity related to the marihuana facility shall be
done indoors.
   (F)   A marihuana facility shall not allow the sale, consumption, or use of
alcohol or tobacco products on the premises.
   (G)   No marihuana facility shall be located within 1,000 feet of real
property comprising a public or private elementary, vocational, or secondary
school.
   (H)   It shall be prohibited to use the symbol or image of a marihuana leaf
in any exterior signage.
   (I)   An authorized medical marihuana facility shall consent to inspection
of the facility by village officials and/or by the County Sheriffs Department,
upon reasonable notice, to verify compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 154.06  LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   A village operating license shall be valid for 1 year from the date of
issuance, unless revoked as provided by law. A village operating license is a
revocable privilege granted by the village and is not a property right.
Granting a license does not create or vest any right, title, franchise, or
other property interest.
   (B)   A valid village operating license may be renewed on an annual basis by
submitting a renewal application upon a form provided by the village and
payment of the annual license fee. Application to renew a village operating
license shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the date of its expiration.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 154.07  APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
facilities described herein, whether the operations or activities associated
with a marihuana facility were established without authorization before the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
§ 154.08  PENALTIES AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction pursuant to
Chapter 11 of the Code of Ordinances and subject to the payment of a civil fine
of not more than $500, plus costs. Each day a violation of this chapter
continues to exist constitutes a separate violation. A violator of this chapter
shall also be subject to such additional sanctions, remedies and judicial
orders as are authorized under Michigan law.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se. The
foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the village to
proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper remedies (including
to bring an action for an injunction) to restrain, prevent, or abate any
violation of this chapter. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may
include all expenses, direct and indirect, which the village incurs in
connection with the municipal civil infraction.
   (C)   This chapter shall be enforced and administered by the Village
Manager, Village Zoning Administrator, Village Code Enforcement officer, the
Grand Traverse County Sheriff and his deputies, or such other village official
as may be designated from time to time by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 2017-03, passed 11-13-2017)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   BONDS
      
III.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I:  FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
-        - -         Gas franchise granted to Michigan Consolidated Gas Company
-        1-6-1969    Electric franchise granted to Consumers Power Company
93-11-01 11-1-1993   Gas franchise granted to Michigan Consolidated Gas Company
99-1     2-1-1999    Electric franchise granted to Consumers Energy Company;
                     Ordinance passed 1-6-1969 repealed
-        5- -2005    Cable franchise granted to CC Michigan, LLC, d/b/a Charter
                     Communications
                    
 
TABLE II:  BONDS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.   Date Passed Description
98-1       4-20-1998   Issuance of sewer revenue refunding bonds
01-05-04   5-3-2004    Issuance of junior lien sewer revenue bonds to fund the
                       cost of improvements to the village sewer system
02-07-05   7-18-2005   Issuance of junior lien water revenue bonds to fund the
                       cost of improvements to the village water system
03-06-07   6-25-2007   Issuance of junior lien water revenue bonds to fund the
                       cost of improvements to the village water system
4 12-10    12-6-2010   Amendment to Ord. 02 11-10 regarding the issuance of
                       sewer revenue and revenue refunding bonds
02 03-2015 3-9-2015    Issuance of water revenue bonds to fund the cost of
                       improvements to the Kingsley water system
                      
 
TABLE III:  ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No.  Date Passed Description
82-2      6-7-1982    Zoning map change from Residential R-1 to Commercial C
82-3      6-7-1982    Zoning map change from Residential R-1 to Commercial C
83-1      5-2-1983    Rezoning Kingsley Industrial Park to Industrial District
                      I zoning
84-1      2-6-1984    Zoning map change from Residential R-1 to Residential R-2
84-2      - -         Zoning map change from Industrial I to Commercial C
84-3      10-5-1984   Zoning map change
88-1      12-5-1988   Zoning map change
96-11.01  7-7-1997    Zoning map change
97-08.02  9-4-1997    Zoning map amendment
2000-7    - -         Zoning map amendment
2000-8    - -         Zoning map amendment
2001-3    5-7-2001    Residential R-4 for Cherrywood Mobile Home Park
2002-9    12-2-2002   Zoning map change from Residential R-1 to Commercial C-1
2002-10   3-3-2003    Zoning map change from Residential R-1 to Commercial C-1
2002-11   9-9-2002    Zoning map change from Residential R-3 to Residential R-4
2002-12   9-9-2002    Zoning map change from Commercial C-1 to Commercial C-2
                      Rezoning land located in Township 25N, Range 10W, Section
03 7-2015 7-13-2015   5, in the Village of Kingsley from Residential R-3 to
                      Residential R-2
                     
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to 1992 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section    Code Section
15.231 et seq.      154.05
15.231 - 15.246     31.18
15.261 - 15.275     31.18
24.201 - 24.328     70.01
                    30.017,
                    30.021,
61.1 - 75.12.       30.022,
                    30.037,
                    30.041,
                    30.042
                    30.002,
62.1                30.015,
                    30.035
62.7                30.017,
                    30.037
64.1 - 64.21        30.021,
                    30.041
64.5 - 64.8         30.035
64.9 - 64.11        30.015
65.8                30.055
66.3a               Adopting Ordinance
117.5b              10.01
124.501 et seq.     110.09
                    94.01,
125.1401 et seq.    94.03,
                    94.04
125.1415a(5)        94.08
125.1651 - 125.1680 32.01
125.1651 - 125.1681 31.15 -
                    31.17
125.1678            31.20
125.31 - 125.45     31.01
125.401 - 125.543   150.15,
                    150.16
125.539             150.16
                    31.01,
125.581 - 125.590   152.004,
                    152.179
125.583a            152.223
125.584a            152.273
125.5836            152.037
141.101 - 141.138   52.04,
                    52.06
168.1 - 168.992     30.001
257.1 - 257.923     70.01
280.1 et seq.       53.04,
                    53.08
282.101 - 282.117   152.202
286.471 et seq.     93.11
289.1101 - 289.8111 154.02
324.9101(9)         53.01
325.1001 - 325.1023 50.10
333.1101 et seq.    154.02
                    152.158,
333.26421 et seq.   154.01,
                    154.02
                    152.158,
333.27101 et seq.   154.01,
                    154.02,
                    154.04
333.27206(b)        152.158
                    152.158,
333.27901 et seq.   154.01,
                    154.02
                    53.01,
559.101 - 559.272   152.195,
                    152.196
559.101 - 559.276   152.207
560.101 - 560.293   151.03,
                    152.195
560.102(f)          151.01
560.263             150.01
600.101 et seq.     11.01
600.4801            10.02
600.8379            53.10
600.8701 et seq.    11.01,
                    11.02
764.9c              10.10
                    
 
REFERENCES TO 1992 CODE
1992 Code Section 2006 Code Section
1992 Code Section 2006 Code Section
1.7               10.12
1.8               10.13
1.10              10.14
1.11              10.15
1.12              10.16
1.15              10.17
1.16              32.02
1.17              30.003
1.18              30.004
3.4               71.01
3.5               71.02
4.2               93.02
4.4               93.03
4.5               93.04
4.6               93.05
4.7               93.06
4.8               93.07
4.9               93.08
4.10              93.09
5.1               150.15
5.2               150.16
7.1               130.01
7.2               130.02
8.1               50.01
8.2               50.02
8.3               50.03,
                  50.13
8.4               50.04
8.5               50.05
8.6               50.06
8.7               50.07
8.8               50.08
8.9               50.09
8.10              50.10
8.12              50.12
8.13              50.11
8.14              50.14
8.15              50.15
8.17              50.16
9.1               51.01
9.2               51.02
9.3               51.03
9.4               51.04
9.5               51.05
9.6               51.06
9.7               51.07
9.8               51.08
9.9               51.09
9.10              51.10
10.1              51.25
10.2              51.26
10.3              51.27
10.4              51.28
10.5              51.29
10.7              51.30
10.8              51.31
11.1              52.01
11.2              52.02
11.3              52.03
11.4              52.04
11.5              52.05
11.6              52.06
11.8              52.07
11.9              52.08
11.10             52.09
11.11             52.10
11.12             52.11
11.13             52.12
11.14             52.13
11.15             52.14
11.16             52.15
11.17             52.16
11.18             52.17
Ch. XI, Table A   Ch. 52, App. A
                  
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.   Date Passed         Code Section
–        - -                 150.02
–        9-6-1967            151.01 -
                               151.08
–        1-6-1969            TSO Table I
–        10-23-1978, § 1.02 152.002
–        10-23-1978, § 1.03 152.003
–        10-23-1978, § 2.01 152.004
–        10-23-1978, § 3.01 152.005
–        10-23-1978, § 4.01 152.020
–        10-23-1978, § 4.02 152.021
–        10-23-1978, § 4.03 152.022
–        10-23-1978, § 4.04 152.023
–        10-23-1978, § 5.01 152.035
–        10-23-1978, § 5.02 152.036
–        10-23-1978, § 5.03 152.037
–        10-23-1978, § 5.04 152.038
–        10-23-1978, § 5.05 152.039
–        10-23-1978, § 6.01 152.050
–        10-23-1978, § 6.02 152.051
–        10-23-1978, § 6.03 152.052
–        10-23-1978, § 6.04 152.053
–        10-23-1978, § 6.05 152.054
–        10-23-1978, § 7.01 152.065
–        10-23-1978, § 7.02 152.066
–        10-23-1978, § 7.03 152.067
–        10-23-1978, § 7.04 152.068
–        10-23-1978, § 8.01 152.080
–        10-23-1978, § 8.02 152.081
–        10-23-1978, § 8.03 152.082
–        10-23-1978, § 8.04 152.083
–        10-23-1978, § 8.05 152.084
–        10-23-1978, § 8.06 152.085
–        10-23-1978, § 9.01 152.100
–        10-23-1978, § 9.02 152.101
–        10-23-1978, § 9.03 152.102
–        10-23-1978, § 10.01152.115
–        10-23-1978, § 10.02152.116
–        10-23-1978, § 10.03152.117
–        10-23-1978, § 10.04152.118
–        10-23-1978, § 10.05152.119
–        10-23-1978, § 11.01152.130
–        10-23-1978, § 11.02152.131
–        10-23-1978, § 11.03152.132
–        10-23-1978, § 11.04152.133
–        10-23-1978, § 11.05152.134
–        10-23-1978, § 11.06152.135
–        10-23-1978, § 11.07152.136
–        10-23-1978, § 11.08152.137
–        10-23-1978, § 11.09152.138
–        10-23-1978, § 11.10152.139
–        10-23-1978, § 11.11152.140
–        10-23-1978, § 12.01152.155
–        10-23-1978, § 12.02152.156
–        10-23-1978, § 12.03152.157
–        10-23-1978, § 12.04152.158
–        10-23-1978, § 12.05152.159
–        10-23-1978, § 13.01152.170
–        10-23-1978, § 13.02152.171
–        10-23-1978, § 13.03152.172
–        10-23-1978, § 13.04152.173
–        10-23-1978, § 13.05152.174
–        10-23-1978, § 13.06152.175
–        10-23-1978, § 13.07152.176
–        10-23-1978, § 13.08152.177
–        10-23-1978, § 13.10152.179
–        10-23-1978, § 13.11152.180
–        10-23-1978, § 13.13152.182
–        10-23-1978, § 13.14152.183
–        10-23-1978, § 13.15152.184
–        10-23-1978, § 14.01152.195
–        10-23-1978, § 14.02152.196
–        10-23-1978, § 14.03152.197
–        10-23-1978, § 14.04152.198
–        10-23-1978, § 14.05152.199
–        10-23-1978, § 14.06152.200
–        10-23-1978, § 14.07152.201
–        10-23-1978, § 14.08152.202
–        10-23-1978, § 14.09152.203
–        10-23-1978, § 14.10152.204
–        10-23-1978, § 14.11152.205
–        10-23-1978, § 14.12152.206
–        10-23-1978, § 14.13152.207
–        10-23-1978, § 15.01152.220
–        10-23-1978, § 15.02152.221
–        10-23-1978, § 15.03152.222
–        10-23-1978, § 15.04152.223
–        10-23-1978, § 15.05152.224
–        10-23-1978, § 15.06152.225
–        10-23-1978, § 15.07152.226
–        10-23-1978, § 15.08152.227
–        10-23-1978, § 15.09152.228
–        10-23-1978, § 15.10152.229
–        10-23-1978, § 15.11152.230
–        10-23-1978, § 15.12152.231
–        10-23-1978, § 15.13152.232
–        10-23-1978, § 16.01152.270
–        10-23-1978, § 16.02152.271
–        10-23-1978, § 16.03152.272
–        10-23-1978, § 16.04152.273
–        10-23-1978, § 17.01152.285
–        10-23-1978, § 17.02152.286
–        10-23-1978, § 17.03152.999
80-1       1-7-1980            152.273
82-2       6-7-1982            TSO Table III
82-3       6-7-1982            TSO Table III
83-1       5-2-1983            TSO Table III
84-1       2-6-1984            TSO Table III
84-2       - -                 TSO Table III
84-3       10-5-1984           TSO Table III
88-1       12-5-1988           TSO Table III
93-11-01   11-1-1993           TSO Table I
96-11.01   7-7-1997            TSO Table III
97-08.02   9-4-1997            TSO Table III
98-1       4-20-1998           TSO Table II
98-3       10-10-1998          152.245 -
                               152.255
99-1       2-1-1999            TSO Table I
99-2       8-2-1999            30.055 -
                               30.062
2000-LD-1  9-11-2000           150.01
                               50.02,
                               51.01 -
                               52.03,
4-01       2-5-2001            52.06,
                               52.08,
                               52.10,
                               Ch. 52, App. A
06-01      4-2-2001            90.01 -
                               90.09
2000-7     - -                 TSO Table III
2000-8     - -                 TSO Table III
2001-1     5-7-2001            152.066
2001-2     5-7-2001            152.081
2001-3     5-7-2001            TSO Table III
2001-4     5-7-2001            152.130 -
                               152.140
17-2001-R  11-5-2001           30.035 -
                               30.042
18-2001-R  11-5-2001           30.015 -
                               30.022
2002-1     9-9-2002            152.052
2002-2     9-9-2002            152.132
2002-3     9-9-2002            152.005
2002-4     9-9-2002            152.220
2002-5     9-9-2002            152.221
2002-6     9-9-2002            152.228,
                               152.229
2002-7     - -                 152.227
2002-8     10-7-2002           152.005
2002-9     12-2-2002           TSO Table III
2002-10    3-3-2003            TSO Table III
2002-11    9-9-2002            TSO Table III
2002-12    9-9-2002            TSO Table III
02-10-03   2-10-2003           31.15 -
                               31.22
02-03      5-5-2003            30.002
03-03      5-28-2003           30.001
04-03      12-15-2003          32.01
2004-1     2-23-2004           152.036,
                               152.037
2004-2     2-23-2004           152.232
2004-3     2-23-2004           152.228
2004-4     2-23-2004           152.003,
                               152.005
2004-5     2-23-2004           152.230
2004-6     2-23-2004           152.220
2004-7     2-23-2004           152.036,
                               152.051
2004-8     2-23-2004           152.065
01-05-04   5-3-2004            TSO Table II
02-04-04   10-4-2004           31.01
2005-01    3-7-2005            152.227
2005-2     3-7-2005            152.227
2005-3     3-7-2005            152.222
2005-4     3-7-2005            152.005
2005-5     3-7-2005            152.227
2005-6     3-7-2005            152.221
1 4-05     4-4-2005            110.01 -
                               110.25
-          5- -2005            TSO Table I
02-07-05   7-18-2005           TSO Table II
                               152.002,
                               152.005,
2005-7     7-25-2005           152.119,
                               152.223,
                               152.230
                               152.115 -
2005-8     7-25-2005           152.117,
                               152.119,
                               152.120
4 08-05    8-1-2005            93.10,
                               93.99
5 08-05    8-1-2005            93.11,
                               93.99
6 08-05    8-1-2005            152.315 -
                               152.340
                               152.285,
2005-10    8-1-2005            152.286,
                               152.999
7 09-05    9-12-2005           11.01 -
                               11.05
2005-18    2-6-2006            152.080
2005-19    2-6-2006            152.116
2005-20    2-6-2006            152.131
2005-21    2-6-2006            152.132
01 06-06   6-5-2006            Adopting Ordinance
2006-1     7-10-2006           152.228
2006-2     7-10-2006           152.229
2006-3     7-10-2006           152.227
                               152.178,
                               152.181,
                               152.183,
                               152.206,
2006-4     7-10-2006           152.229,
                               152.274,
                               152.300,
                               152.301,
                               152.355
2006-5     9-11-2006           152.220
2006-6     9-11-2006           152.005
02 09-06   9-11-2006           93.12,
                               93.99
01-02-06   2-6-2006            91.01 -
                               91.05
01 05-07   5-7-07              93.12
02 05-07   5-7-2007            52.06
02 06-07   6-4-2007            53.01 -
                               53.13
Res. 09-07 6-4-2007            152.272
03-06-07   6-25-2007           TSO Table II
04 09-07   9-10-2007           93.13
05 10-07   10-1-2007           94.01 -
                               94.11
                               70.01 -
01 01-08   1-7-2008            70.09,
                               70.99
02 02-08   2-4-2008            152.224
–        3-3-2008            50.02
                               95.01 -
01 01-09   3-9-2009            95.16,
                               95.99
                               95.01 -
01 03-09   3-9-2009            95.16,
                               95.99
02 10-09   10-12-2009          92.01 -
                               92.16
03 10-10   10-18-2009          10.16
4 12-10    12-6-2010           TSO Table II
1-8-11     8-15-2011           93.14
                               152.020 ,
                               152.090  -
1 12-13    12-9-2013           152.093 ,
                               152.210  -
                               152.214
                               91.20 -
2 08-24    8-11-2014           91.24,
                               91.99
                               153.01 -
04 09-14   11-10-2014          153.08,
                               153.99
01 02-15   2-26-2015           52.11
02 03-15   3-9-2015            TSO Table II
                               152.036,
03 7-2015  7-13-2015           152.051,
                               152.066,
                               TSO Table III
04 08-2015 8-10-2015           50.11,
                               50.13
- -        7-11-2016           152.005,
                               152.227
                               152.005,
2017-01    9-11-2017           152.116,
                               152.131
                               152.005,
                               152.132,
2017-02    11-13-2017          152.157,
                               152.158,
                               152.223
2017-03    11-13-2017          154.01 -
                               154.08
- -        7-9-2018            152.222
- -        7-9-2018            152.227
- -        7-9-2018            152.228
                               111.01 -
18-01      12-10-2018          111.03,
                               111.99
19-03      10-14-2019          152.005,
                               152.222
                              
 
