KOCHVILLE TOWNSHIP, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-5 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 11-009
KOCHVILLE TOWNSHIP
SAGINAW COUNTY, MICHIGAN
ORDINANCE NO. 11-009
   AN ORDINANCE TO ADOPT A CODE OF ORDINANCES TO KOCHVILLE TOWNSHIP REVISING,
AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, RE-CODIFYING AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF KOCHVILLE TOWNSHIP DEALING WITH SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID
CODE
   WHEREAS, the present general and permanent ordinances of Kochville Township
are inadequately arranged and classified and are insufficient in form and
substance for the complete preservation of the public peace, health, safety and
general welfare of the municipality and for the proper conduct of its affairs;
and
   WHEREAS, the Legislature of the State of Michigan, pursuant to Section 6 of
Act 246 of 1945, as amended, MCL § 41.186, empowered and authorize Kochville
Township to revise, amend, restate, codify and compile any existing ordinances
and all new ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate
such ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
   WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date; and
   WHEREAS, the Township Board of Kochville Township has authorized a general
compilation, revision, codification and re-codification of the ordinances of
Kochville Township of a general and permanent nature and publication of such
ordinances in book form.
   NOW, THEREFORE, KOCHVILLE TOWNSHIP ORDAINS:
SECTION 1: The general ordinances of Kochville Township as revised, amended,
restated, codified and compiled in book form are hereby adopted as and shall
constitute the “Kochville Township, Michigan, Code of Ordinances.”
SECTION 2: Such Code of Ordinances as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the
Titles as shown on the Table of Contents attached hereto.
SECTION 3: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in such code
of Ordinances shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of
this ordinance except as they are included and re-ordained in whole or in part
in such code; provided, such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or
penalty incurred or any right established prior to the effective date of this
ordinance, nor shall such repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying
taxes, appropriating money, annexing or detaching territory, establishing
franchises, or granting special rights to certain persons, authorizing public
improvements, authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money,
authorizing the purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or
accepting easements, plat or dedication of land to public use, vacating or
setting the boundaries of streets or other public places, nor shall such repeal
affect any other ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to
subjects not contained in or covered by the Code.
SECTION 4: Said code shall be deemed published as of the date of this ordinance
adopting and approving the Code of Ordinances as published in a newspaper of
general circulation and the Clerk of Kochville Township is hereby authorized
and directed to file a copy of said code in the Office of the Township Clerk.
SECTION 5: Such Code shall be in full force and effect as provided in Section
8, and such Code shall be presumptive evidence in all courts and places of the
ordinance and all provisions, sections, penalties and regulations therein
contained and of the date of passage, and that the same is properly signed,
attested, recorded and approved and that any public hearings and notices
thereof as required by law have been given.
SECTION 6: The various parts, sections and clauses of this Ordinance are hereby
declared to be severable. If any part, sentence, paragraph, section or clause
is adjudged unconstitutional or invalid by a court of competent jurisdiction,
the remainder of this Ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
SECTION 7: All ordinances or part of Ordinances of Kochville Township
inconsistent or in conflict with this Ordinance are repealed.
SECTION 8: This Ordinance will become effective thirty (30) days after
publication in a paper of general circulation in Kochville Township.
SECTION 9: A copy of this Ordinance can be obtained from the Clerk of Kochville
Township at the offices of the Kochville Township located at 5851 Mackinaw
Road, Saginaw, Michigan.
SECTION 10: This Ordinance upon adoption is ordered to be given publication as
required by law.
   Motion by Clerk Hill, seconded by Supervisor Loiacano to adopt Ordinance No.
11-009.
   Roll Call Vote:
      Yes    Trustee Ferrell
      Yes    Trustee Thon
      Yes    Treasurer Yanca
      Yes    Clerk Hill
      Yes    Supervisor Loiacano
   The foregoing Ordinance was duly adopted at a regular meeting of the
Kochville Township Board held on the 17th day of January, 2012.
                                                                           
                           Supervisor of Kochville Township
                                                                    
                           Clerk of Kochville Township
STATE OF MICHIGAN {'}'}
            {'}'} ss
COUNTY OF SAGINAW {'}'}
   I, Sheila Hill, Clerk of Kochville Township, do hereby certify the foregoing
is a true and complete copy of an ordinance adopted by the Kochville Township
Board, acting in Saginaw County, at a regular meeting held on January 17, 2012,
and that public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to Act 267 of the
Michigan Public Acts of 1976, as amended, including in the case of a special or
rescheduled meeting, notice by publication or posting at least eighteen (18)
hours prior to the time set for the meeting.
                                                                
                           Printed Name: Sheila Hill
                                 Its: Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
      Chapter
         
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Separability of provisions
 
   
10.99   Penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the Kochville Township Code
of Ordinances.
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The Board of Trustees of Kochville Township, Michigan.
      CODE. The Township of Kochville Code, as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last; except that, if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall
be excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. County of Saginaw, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the township, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the township, and for which civil sanctions,
including without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.8801 through 600.8835. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser
included offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words "of Kochville
Township, Michigan". Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the township is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to that officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the Township of Kochville and all
amendments thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The terms THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville, Michigan.
      TOWNSHIP BOARD or BOARD. The Board of Trustees of Kochville Township,
Michigan.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code. All
ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in full force and effect to the
same extent as if set out at length in this code. The ordinances are on file in
the Township Clerk's office.
   (B)   (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the township,
or authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the township or any evidence of the
township's indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the
township;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Township Board;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the
township;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the township;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the township;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the township;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any
township officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones;
specific speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield
intersections or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending those provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: "That section _____ of the Township of
Kochville Code is hereby amended to read as follows: . . ." The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: "That the Township of Kochville Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said section
reads as follows: . . ." The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by township personnel, supplements to this code shall
be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Township Board.
A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words "this ordinance" or words of the same meaning to
"this chapter", "this subchapter", "this division" and the like, as the case
may be, or to "sections _____ to _____" (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any ordinance of the township that provides for the violation thereof
as a municipal civil infraction, but does not specifically provide therein for
the amount of the penalty, shall carry the civil fine as set forth in this
section.
   (B)   Any person or entity that is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction of the township shall be subject to a civil fine of not less than
$250 and no more than $500. In addition, the court may require the payment of
costs as it may determine. Each day that the violation continues constitutes a
separate violation.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 2-17-2004)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
      Chapter
         
30.   EMERGENCY SERVICES COST REIMBURSEMENT
         
31.   COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
         
32.   TOWNSHIP MANAGER
         
33.   MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
CHAPTER 30: EMERGENCY SERVICES COST REIMBURSEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Title
   
30.02   Authority
   
30.03   Findings
   
30.04   Purpose
   
30.05   Definitions
   
30.06   Effective date
Recovery of Costs
   
30.20   Entitlement
   
30.21   Method of billing
   
30.22   Determination of costs
   
30.23   Service charge
   
30.24   Payment of recovered funds
   
30.25   Collection costs
   
30.26   Lien
Cross-reference:
   Building regulations; construction, see
Ch. 150
   International Fire Code, see §
150.06
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Kochville Township Emergency Services
Cost Reimbursement Ordinance".
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.02 AUTHORITY.
   Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 41.806a, the township has the authority to establish,
by ordinance, for the assessment and collection of fees for emergency services,
as defined in M.C.L.A. § 41.806a. The township is further authorized to recover
costs of environmental response activities pursuant to the State Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, and specifically part 201 thereof,
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.20101 et seq.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.03 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The duties of fire departments require specialized fire, safety,
emergency, rescue, environmental and hazardous material equipment, materials,
supplies and specialized training in order to provide for the safety of the
public.
   (B)   The response to emergency situations which involve and/or are caused
by non-resident persons places a financial burden on the township and its Fire
Department.
   (C)   Ad valorem real property taxes and special assessments are
insufficient to provide for the ever increasing cost for emergency services.
The township has previously authorized the collection of charges for emergency
service responses hereunder.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.04 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to authorize the township to seek
reimbursement for the reasonable costs of emergency response services, either
directly or through a third-party provider, and to recover the costs of the
services.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING. Any structure used or intended for supporting or sheltering any
use or occupancy.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
      (1)   The providing, sending and/or utilizing of police, firefighting,
emergency medical and rescue services by the township, or by a private
individual or corporation operating at the request or direction of the township
or state to an incident resulting in a hazardous material release or threatened
release.
      (2)   The responses by the township's Fire Department to the following
incidents:
         (a)   A non-resident of the township who receives, requires or
otherwise necessitates or causes the use of Fire Department personnel and/or
equipment of the Department for any provided service; and
         (b)   Any person who receives, requires or necessitates or causes the
use of Fire Department personnel and/or equipment for responding to power lines
damage or disruption.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE SERVICES. All services and equipment which are used by
the township in responding to an emergency response.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIAL. Explosives, pyrotechnics, flammable gas, flammable
compressed gas, non-flammable compressed gas, flammable liquid, combustible
liquid, oxidizing material, poisonous gas, poisonous liquid, poisonous solid,
irritating material, etiological material, radioactive material, corrosive
material or liquefied petroleum gas.
   PREMISES. Any lot or parcel of land, exclusive of buildings, and includes a
parking lot, tourist camp, trailer camp, airport, stockyard, junkyard, wharf,
pier, public roadway and any other place or enclosure, however owned, used or
occupied.
   RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual, firm, corporation, association,
partnership, commercial entity, group, consortium, joint venture, government
entity or any other legal entity which is:
      (1)   Responsible for a release of a hazardous material, either actual or
threatened;
      (2)   Is an owner, tenant, occupant or party in control of property onto
which or from which hazardous materials release; or
      (3)   Receives, requires or otherwise necessitates or causes the use of
emergency response services.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.06 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days following publication as required by
law following adoption by the Township Board.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
RECOVERY OF COSTS
§ 30.20 ENTITLEMENT.
   (A)   (1)   The township, through its Fire Department, shall be entitled to
recover the costs of emergency response services from a responsible party as
provided herein. These costs shall include, but are not limited to, the
following: use of emergency fire and/or rescue (including, but not limited to,
vehicle accidents) personnel hours, tools, equipment, materials and vehicles;
hazardous material and/or environmental response personnel hours, tools,
equipment, materials and vehicles; the above described services which are
contracted by the township through a third party; and reasonable interest on
any amount due from the date of the response until fully paid.
      (2)   Additionally, the township, through its Fire Department, is hereby
authorized to assess a reasonable flat-rate fee for any false alarm responses
or fire drill responses for which the Fire Department did not receive at least
48-hours' prior notice.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter shall be interpreted as limiting any amount
which the township is authorized to recover under any applicable law of the
state or ordinance of the township.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.21 METHOD OF BILLING.
   The costs authorized to be billed under this chapter to a responsible party
shall be recovered directly by the township, through its Fire Department, or
through a third-party billing service as an authorized agent of the township
for the collection of the costs.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.22 DETERMINATION OF COSTS.
   The reimbursement rates for the recoverable costs, as provided in this
chapter, shall be established by the township. If a third-party service is used
for the recovery of costs, the third party shall recommend the rates of
reimbursement to the township which shall, in all respects, comply with the
establishment of fees for non-residents under state law.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.23 SERVICE CHARGE.
   If the township utilizes the services of a third-party billing service, the
third-party billing service shall be authorized to charge a reasonable service
charge to the responsible party in addition to the costs which are recovered on
behalf of the township. The service charge shall be established by the third-
party billing service subject to approval of the township.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.24 PAYMENT OF RECOVERED FUNDS.
   The funds recovered under this chapter shall be remitted directly to the
township and accounted for exclusively for the support of the township's Fire
Department service.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.25 COLLECTION COSTS.
   In the event that collection costs and/or attorneys' fees are incurred by
the township or third-party billing service as a result of the efforts required
to obtain full reimbursement for the costs billed for under this chapter to a
responsible party, the collection costs and/or attorneys' fees may be recovered
by the township or third-party billing service from the responsible party and/
or any applicable insurance company/carrier of the responsible party for the
costs billed for under this chapter.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
§ 30.26 LIEN.
   The township shall have a lien against the premises at which emergency
response services were provided within the township. Whenever any charge
against a parcel of property shall be delinquent for six months, the township
official in charge of the collection thereof shall certify to the Tax Assessing
Officer of the township the facts of the delinquency. The charge shall be
entered upon the next tax roll as a lien against his or her premises and shall
be collected and enforced in the same manner as general township taxes are
collected and the lien is enforced.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-15-2009)
CHAPTER 31: COMMISSIONS, BOARDS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Established, duties
Departments
   
31.10   Departments and offices
   
31.11   Heads of departments and offices; generally
   
31.12   Department of Administrative Services
   
31.13   Community Development Department
   
31.14   Code Enforcement Department
   
31.15   Fire Department
   
31.16   Department of Public Works
   
31.17    Department of Buildings and Grounds
   
31.18   Department directors
Construction Board of Appeals
   
31.25   Creation and composition
   
31.26   Appeal procedure
   
31.27   Time for appeal
   
31.28   Procedure
   
31.29   Notice to interested parties
   
31.30   Variances from the Code
   
31.31   Decisions
   
31.32   Appeal to Commission
   
31.33   Interpretation of subchapter
Cross reference:
   Town Manager, see §§
32.01 -
32.05
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 ESTABLISHED, DUTIES.
   (A)   Scope, purpose and intent.
      (1)   Adopted. This section is adopted pursuant to the authority granted
the Township Board under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of
2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
Public Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to establish a
planning commission with the powers, duties and limitations provided by those
Acts and subject to the terms and conditions of this section and any future
amendments to this section.
      (2)   Purpose and intent. The purpose of this section is to provide that
the Township Board shall hereby confirm the establishment under the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et
seq., of the Township Planning Commission formerly established under the
Township Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 et
seq.; to establish the appointments, terms, and membership of the Township
Planning Commission; to identify the officers and the minimum number of
meetings per year of the Township Planning Commission; to prescribe the
authority, powers and duties of the Township Planning Commission.
   (B)   Establishment. The Township Board hereby confirms the establishment
under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.3801 et seq., of the Township Planning Commission formerly established
under the Township Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.321 et seq., consisting of, seven members. The Township Planning Commission
as of the effective date of the ordinance codified herein shall, except for an
ex officio member whose remaining term on the Planning Commission shall be
limited to his or her term on the Township Board, continue to serve for the
remainder of their existing terms so long as they continue to meet all of the
eligibility requirements for Planning Commission membership set forth with in
the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.3801 et seq.
   (C)   Appointments and terms.
      (1)   The Township Supervisor, with the approval of the Township Board by
a majority vote of the members elected and serving, shall appoint all Township
Planning Commission members, including the ex officio member.
      (2)   The Township Planning Commission members, other than an ex officio
member, shall serve for terms of three years each.
      (3)   A Township Planning Commission member shall hold office until his
or her successor is appointed. Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term
in the same manner as the original appointment.
      (4)   Township Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of
the township except that one Township Planning Commission member may be an
individual who is not a qualified elector of the township. The membership of
the Township Planning Commission shall be representative of important segments
of the community, such as the economic, governmental, educational, and social
development of the township, in accordance with the major interests as they
exist in the township, such as agriculture, natural resources, recreation,
education, public health, government, transportation, industry, and commerce.
The membership shall also be representative of the entire geography of the
township to the extent practicable.
      (5)   One member of the Township Board shall be appointed to the Township
Planning Commission as an ex officio member. An ex officio member has full
voting rights. The ex officio member's term on the Township Planning Commission
shall expire with his or her term on the Township Board.
      (6)   No other elected officer or employee of the township is eligible to
be a member of the Township Planning Commission.
   (D)   Removal. The Township Board may remove a member of the Township
Planning Commission for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon
written charges and after a public hearing.
   (E)   Conflict of interest. Before casting a vote on a matter on which a
Township Planning Commission member may reasonably be considered to have a
conflict of interest, the member shall disclose the potential conflict of
interest to the Township Planning Commission. Failure of a member to disclose a
potential conflict of interest as required by this section constitutes
malfeasance in office.
   (F)   Compensation. The Township Planning Commission members may be
compensated for their services as provided by the Township Board resolution.
The Township Planning Commission may adopt bylaws relative to compensation and
expenses of its members for travel when engaged in the performance of
activities authorized by the Township Board, including, but not limited to,
attendance at conferences, workshops, educational and training programs and
meetings.
   (G)   Officers and committees.
      (1)   The Township Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson, vice-
chairperson and a secretary from its members, and may create and fill other
offices as it considers advisable. An ex officio member of the Township
Planning Commission is not eligible to serve as chairperson. The term of each
office shall be one year, with opportunity for reelection as specified in the
Township Planning Commission bylaws.
      (2)   The Township Planning Commission may also appoint advisory
committees whose members may or may not be members of the Township Planning
Commission.
   (H)   Bylaws, meetings and records.
      (1)   The Township Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the
transaction of business.
      (2)   The Township Planning Commission shall hold at least four regular
meetings each year, and shall by resolution determine the time and place of the
meetings.
      (3)   Unless otherwise provided in the Township Planning Commission's
bylaws, a special meeting of the Township Planning Commission may be called by
the chairperson or by two other members, upon written request to the secretary.
Unless the bylaws otherwise provide, the secretary shall send written notice of
a special meeting to Township Planning Commission members at least 48 hours
before the meeting.
      (4)   The business that the Township Planning Commission may perform
shall be conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open
Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.
      (5)   The Township Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings, and determinations. A writing prepared,
owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by a Township Planning
Commission in the performance of an official function shall be made available
to the public in compliance with the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442
of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
   (I)   Annual report. The Township Planning Commission shall make an annual
written report to the Township Board concerning its operations and the status
of the planning activities, including recommendations regarding actions by the
Township Board related to planning and development.
   (J)   Authority to make master plan.
      (1)   Under the authority of the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public
Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and other applicable
planning statutes, the Township Planning Commission shall make a master plan as
a guide for development within the township's planning jurisdiction.
      (2)   Final authority to approve a master plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest with the Township Planning Commission unless the township board
passes a resolution asserting the right to approve or reject the master plan.
      (3)   Unless rescinded by the township, any plan adopted or amended under
the Township Planning Act, Public Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 et
seq., need not be readopted under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public
Act 33 of 2008, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
   (K)   Zoning powers.
      (1)   The Township Board hereby confirms the transfer of all powers,
duties, and responsibilities provided for zoning boards or zoning commissions
by the former Township Zoning Act, Public Act 184 of 1943, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.271 et seq.; or other applicable zoning statutes are transferred to the
Township Planning Commission.
      (2)   Any existing zoning ordinance shall remain in full force and effect
except as otherwise amended or repealed by the Township Board.
   (L)   Capital Improvements Program.
      (1)   Unless the Township Board exempts the Township Planning Commission
from the requirement, the Township Planning Commission will prepare and adopt
the Capital Improvement Program. The Township Planning Commission may
recommend, to the Township Board, programs for public structures and
improvements and for financing those projects, regardless of whether the
Township Planning Commission prepares the Capital Improvements Program.
      (2)   The Township Planning Commission will adopt Capital Improvements
Plans: To further the desirable future development of the township under the
master plan, the Township Planning Commission, after the master plan is
adopted, shall annually prepare a capital improvements program of public
structures and improvements, showing those structures and improvements in
general order of their priority, for the following six-year period.
   (M)   Subdivision and land division recommendations.
      (1)   The Township Planning Commission may recommend to the Township
Board provisions of an ordinance or rules governing the subdivision of land.
Before recommending an ordinance or rule, the Township Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing on the proposed ordinance or rule. The Township
Planning Commission shall give notice of the time and place of the public
hearing not less than 15 days before the hearing by publication in a newspaper
of general circulation within the township.
      (2)   The Township Planning Commission shall review and make
recommendation on a proposed plat before action thereon by the Township Board
under the Land Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
et seq. Before making its recommendation, the Township Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the
Township Planning Commission shall contain the name and address of the
proprietor or other person to whom notice of a hearing shall be sent. Not less
than 15 days before the date of the hearing, notice of the date, time and place
of the hearing shall be sent to that person at that address by mail and shall
be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the township. Similar
notice shall be mailed to the owners of land immediately adjoining the proposed
platted land.
   (N)   Repeal. All ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict with th
ordinance codified herein are hereby repealed. The resolution establishing the
Kochville Township Planning Commission under the Township Planning Act, Public
Act 168 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.321 et seq. is hereby repealed.
   (O)   Effective date. The ordinance codified herein shall take effect on the
day following the date of its publication.
(Ord. 11-003, passed 5-24-2011)
DEPARTMENTS
§ 31.10 DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICES.
   (A)   The Township shall have the following departments which the Township
Manager shall supervise and direct:
      (1)   Department of Administrative Services.
      (2)   Community Development Department.
      (3)   Code Enforcement Department.
      (4)   Fire Department.
      (5)   Department of Public Works.
   (B)   The Township shall have the following offices:
      (1)   Office of the Township Manager.
   (C)   The Township Manager shall not oversee the following deputies:
      (1)   Deputy Supervisor. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 41.61, the Deputy
Supervisor shall be supervised by the Township Supervisor.
      (2)   Deputy Clerk. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 41.69, the Deputy Clerk is
shall be supervised by the Township Clerk.
      (3)   Deputy Treasurer. Pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 41.77, the Deputy
Treasurer shall be supervised by the Township Treasurer.
Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 31.11 HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS AND OFFICES; GENERALLY.
   Under the direction and supervision of the Township Manager, a department
director who heads a department or office created by this subchapter will have
all the duties, authority, powers, and prerogatives necessary to carry out the
functions and responsibilities of the department or office and to achieve the
results established by the Township Manager, including:
   (A)   Directing employees assigned to the department or office;
   (B)   Evaluating employee performance by established methods;
   (C)   Recommending the discipline, including suspension or termination, of
an employee, subject to appeals to the Township Manager and Township Board
pursuant to the township's Personnel Manual;
   (D)   Recommending the internal organization of the department;
   (E)   Recommending the adoption, amendment and revocation of department work
rules;
   (F)   Keeping informed about the latest practices in their area of
responsibilities and duties;
   (G)   Preparing and submitting reports quarterly, or more often if requested
by the Township Manager, and within seven days after the end of the fiscal year
to the Township Manager in the manner and form required by the Township
Manager;
   (H)   Establishing a system of records and reports in sufficient detail to
furnish all information necessary for proper control of department activities;
   (I)   Being custodian of public records received by the department or
office, preserving and when permitted by law, disposing of public records of
that department or office and providing a system of filing and indexing;
   (J)   Staffing or designating an employee to staff any committee, authority,
commission, or board when so assigned by an ordinance or resolution, or when so
directed by the Township Manager;
   (K)   Being responsible for manpower planning within the department;
   (L)   Being custodian of township-owned property assigned to the department
or office and being responsible for its care and maintenance;
   (M)   Planning and, subject to the approval of the Township Manager,
executing appropriate training for departmental personnel; and
   (N)   Recommending to the Township Manager policies and procedures designed
to improve the quality of township services and operations.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 31.12 DEPARTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES.
   There is hereby created a Department of Administrative Services to be
staffed by individuals needed to perform the administrative functions of the
township offices. The Department of Administrative Services includes the office
of the Township Manager and the front office staff. The Township Manager shall
head the Department of Administrative Services.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 31.13 COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT DEPARTMENT.
   There is hereby created a Community Development Department. The Community
Development Department includes those employees typically assigned to building
inspections, individuals that assist the Planning Commission and Zoning Board
of Appeals, and other employees as recommended by the Township Manager and
approved by the Township Board. The Township Manager shall be the immediate
supervisor of the Community Development Department. This subchapter shall not
limit the authority of the Township Board to contract for the services provided
by the Community Development Department or the Township Board's authority to
have another governmental entity provide those services as authorized by
statute or the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 31.14 CODE ENFORCEMENT DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Code Enforcement Department to be staffed by
a Code Enforcement Officer, if needed. The Township Manager shall be the
immediate supervisor of the Code Enforcement Officer. This subchapter shall not
limit the authority of the Township Board to contract for the services provided
by the Code Enforcement Department or the Township Board's authority to have
another governmental entity provide those services as authorized by statute or
the Michigan Constitution of 1963.
   (B)   The Township Manager shall appoint a person to serve as Acting Code
Enforcement Officer during the period of a vacancy in the position of the Code
Enforcement Officer or during the absence of the Code Enforcement Officer when
such vacancy or absence is for a period longer than two weeks. The Code
Enforcement Officer, with approval of the Township Manager, may designate an
individual to act in the Code Enforcement Officer's absence during an absence
from the duties of the Code Enforcement Officer when the absence is for a
period of two weeks or less. The Acting Code Enforcement Officer shall take any
required oath of office prior to performing the responsibilities of the Code
Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 31.15 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   There is hereby created a township paid-on call Fire Department to be
staffed by paid-on call personnel who shall be given training in fire
protection and related activities.
   (B)   The Township Manager shall appoint a Fire Chief and shall be the
immediate supervisor of the Fire Chief. The Fire Chief shall be responsible for
the hiring of all assistants, firefighters, and other personnel of the Fire
Department, subject to approval of the Township Manager. The Fire Chief shall
be the immediate supervisor of all assistants, firefighters, and other
personnel of the Fire Department.
   (C)   The Fire Department shall enforce the laws of the State of Michigan
and the ordinances of the township as they apply to fire prevention and
regulations.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not limit the authority of the Township Board to
contract for the services provided by the Fire Department, the Township Board's
authority to have another governmental entity provide those services as
authorized by statute or the Michigan Constitution of 1963, or establishing an
authority or other entity recognized by the laws of the State of Michigan.
   (E)   The Township Manager shall appoint a person to serve as Acting Fire
Chief during the period of a vacancy in the position of the Fire Chief or
during the absence of the Fire Chief when such vacancy or absence is for a
period longer than two weeks. The Fire Chief may designate an individual to act
in the Fire Chief's absence during an absence from the duties of the Fire Chief
when the absence is for a period of two weeks or less. The Acting Fire Chief
shall take any required oath of office prior to performing the responsibilities
of the Fire Chief.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014)
§ 31.16 DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Public Works to be staffed by
a Director of Public Works and other employees deemed necessary.
   (B)   The Department of Public Works shall include the following functions
and responsibilities:
      (1)   Maintain or supervise the repairing of infrastructure and
appurtenances owned or controlled by the township, including, but not limited
to, sidewalks, the water supply and distribution system, including hydrants,
sewage collection system, and storm water collection system;
      (2)   Coordinate with the Building and Grounds Manager to ensure that
township-owned parks, playgrounds, and recreational facilities are adequately
maintained;
      (3)   Maintaining and when necessary, planting trees and other vegetation
on rights-of-way; and
      (4)   Any other functions and responsibilities that may be assigned to
the Department by the ordinances and resolutions adopted by the Township Board
or by any directives provided by the Township Manager.
   (C)   The Township Manager shall appoint a Director of Public Works, who
shall be affirmed by the Township Board of Trustees, and the Township Manager
shall be the immediate supervisor of the Director of Public Works. The Director
of Public Works shall be responsible for the hiring of all personnel of the
Department of Public Works, subject to approval of the Township Manager. The
Director of Public Works shall be the immediate supervisor of all personnel of
the Department of Public Works.
   (D)   This subchapter shall not limit the authority of the Township Board to
contract for the services provided by the Department of Public Works, the
Township Board’s authority to have another governmental entity provide those
services as authorized by statute or the Michigan Constitution of 1963, or
establishing an authority or other entity recognized by the laws of the State
of Michigan.
   (E)   The Township Manager shall appoint a person to serve as Acting
Director of Public Works during the period of a vacancy in the position of the
Director of Public Works or during the absence of the Director of Public Works
when such vacancy or absence is for a period longer than two weeks. The
Director of Public Works, with approval of the Township Manager, may designate
an individual to act in the absence of the Director of Public Works during an
absence from the duties of the Director of Public Works when the absence is for
a period of two weeks or less.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014; Ord. 22-01, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 31.17 DEPARTMENT OF BUILDINGS AND GROUNDS.
   (A)   There is hereby created a Department of Buildings and Grounds to be
staffed by a Buildings and
Grounds Manager and other employees deemed necessary. The Township Manager
shall appoint the Buildings and Grounds Manager, who shall be affirmed by the
Township Board of Trustees, and the Township Manager shall be the immediate
supervisor of that employee. The Buildings and Grounds Manager shall be
responsible for the hiring of any employees authorized by the Township Board,
subject to approval of the Township Manager. The Buildings and Grounds Manager
shall be the immediate supervisor of any employees working within the Buildings
and Grounds or Parks and Recreation departments.
   (B)   The Department of Buildings and Grounds shall include the following
functions and responsibilities:
      (1)   Coordinate with the Director of Public Works to township-owned
parks, playgrounds and recreational facilities are adequately maintained;
      (2)   Maintain township-owned buildings, grounds and professional
facilities; and
      (3)   Any other functions and responsibilities that may be assigned to
the department by ordinances and resolutions adopted by the Township Board or
by any directives provided by the Township Manager.
   (C)   This subchapter shall not limit the authority of the Township Board to
contract for the services provided by the Department of Buildings and Grounds,
the Township Board’s authority to have another governmental entity provide
those services as authorized by statute or the Michigan Constitution of 1963,
or establish an authority or other entity recognized by the laws of the State
of Michigan.
   (D)   The Township Manager may appoint a person to serve as Acting Buildings
and Grounds Manager during the period of a vacancy lasting two weeks or more in
the position of a vacancy in the position of Buildings and Grounds Manager. In
the event of an absence of less than two weeks by the Buildings and Grounds
Manager, the Buildings and Grounds Manager may designate an individual to act
in their absence.
(Ord. 22-01, passed 4-18-2022)
§ 31.18 DEPARTMENT DIRECTORS.
   The Township Board, upon recommendation of the Township Manager, shall have
the sole responsibility and authority for the hiring of department director(s)
of the township. The Township Board shall have the sole discretion as to which
department director(s) of the township shall be terminated after the effective
date of this subchapter, with or without the recommendation of the Township
Manager.
(Ord. 14-02, passed 3-25-2014; Ord. 22-01, passed 4-18-2022)
CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 31.25 CREATION AND COMPOSITION.
   That there be and hereby is established a Construction Board of Appeals for
the Township of Kochville which shall consist of three members to be appointed
for two-year terms by resolution of the Township Board of Trustees. The
Township Board of Trustees may also appoint an alternate member to serve on the
board in the case of an absence. Construction Board of Appeals members shall be
qualified by experience or training to perform the duties of members of the
Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.26 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   If a township enforcing agency refuses to grant an application for a permit,
or if the enforcing agency makes any other decision related to enforcement of
construction codes and/or the Construction Code Act (generally, the "Code")
adverse to an interested person, that person, or the person's agent, may appeal
in writing to the Construction Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.27 TIME FOR APPEAL.
   Failure of a township enforcing agency to grant, in whole or in part, or
deny an application for permit within a maximum of 15 days, is deemed a denial
of the application for purposes of authorizing the institution of an appeal.
Appeals from adverse determinations by a township enforcing agency, or from the
failure or refusal to grant, in whole or in part, an application for permit,
may be taken at any time not otherwise prohibited by law.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.28 PROCEDURE.
   The Construction Board of Appeals shall conduct all hearings and other
business in compliance with Act No. 267 of the Public Acts of 1976. Notice of
meetings shall be posted at the township offices, and shall be posted within 18
hours of any special meeting held for that purpose. Minutes of each meeting
shall be kept, indicating the date, time and place of the meeting, as well as a
description of all business conducted therein, including all votes taken and
the manner in which each member voted.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.29 NOTICE TO INTERESTED PARTIES.
   (A)   The Construction Board of Appeals shall hear appeals and requests for
variances without undue delay. The Board of Appeals shall hear the appeal and
render and file its decision with a statement of reasons for the decision with
the township enforcing agency from whom the appeal was taken not more than 30
days after submission of the appeal. Failure by the Board of Appeals to hear an
appeal and file a decision within the time limit provided is a denial for
purposes of authorizing an appeal to the State Construction Code Commission.
   (B)   Interested parties in an appeal or variance proceeding must be
properly notified of the hearing and be given reasonable notice of hearing. The
notice should include:
      (1)   A statement of the date, hour, place, and nature of the hearing.
      (2)   A statement of the legal authority and jurisdiction under which the
hearing is to be held.
      (3)   A reference to the particular sections of the statutes, rules, or
code involved.
      (4)   A short statement of the matters asserted.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.30 VARIANCES FROM THE CODE.
   The Construction Board of Appeals may grant a specific variance from
substantive requirements of the Code if the literal application of the
substantive requirements would result in an exceptional, practical difficulty
to the applicant, and if both of the following requirements are satisfied:
   (A)   The performance of the particular item or part of the building or
structure with respect to which the variance is granted shall be adequate for
its intended use and shall not substantially deviate from performance required
by the Code of that particular item or part for the health, safety, and general
welfare of the people of this state.
   (B)   The specific condition justifying the variance shall be neither so
general nor recurrent in nature as to make an amendment of the Code with
respect to the condition reasonably practical or desirable.
   (C)   The Construction Board of Appeals may attach in writing any condition
in connection with the granting of a variance that in its judgment is necessary
to protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of this state. The
breach of a condition shall automatically invalidate the variance and any
permits, license, and certificate granted on the basis of it.
   (D)   In no case shall more than minimum variance from the Code be granted
than is necessary to alleviate the exceptional, practical difficulty.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.31 DECISIONS.
   Decisions of the Construction Board of Appeals shall be made in writing with
a statement of reasons for the decision. A record of decisions made by the
Construction Board of Appeals, properly indexed, shall be maintained at the
township offices.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.32 APPEAL TO COMMISSION.
   An interested person may appeal a decision of the Construction Board of
Appeals to the State Construction Code Commission within ten business days
after filing of the decision with the enforcing agency. In the case of an
appeal because of failure of the Construction Board of Appeals to act within
the prescribed time, an interested party may appeal to the Commission at any
time before filing of the decision.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 31.33 INTERPRETATION OF SUBCHAPTER.
   In the case of conflict between this subchapter and any resolution or other
ordinance, the provisions of this subchapter shall control. In the case of
conflict between this subchapter and any resolution or other ordinance, the
provisions of this subchapter shall control. The catch line headings which
precede each paragraph of this subchapter are for convenience in reference only
and shall not be taken into consideration in the construction or interpretation
of any of the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-06, passed 10-28-2015)
CHAPTER 32: TOWNSHIP MANAGER
Section
   
32.01   Position created
   
32.02   Selection of and direction received
   
32.03   Responsibilities and duties
   
32.04   Acting Township Manager
   
32.05   Relationship of the Township Board to the administrative service
Cross reference:
   Departments, §§
31.10 -
31.17
§ 32.01 POSITION CREATED.
   The Township Board creates the position of Township Manager, who, as the
sole link between the Township Board and the operations and activities of the
township government, will be accountable and responsible to the Township Board
for the total organizational performance of the township. The Township Board
determines the compensation for the Township Manager and is responsible for the
performance review of the Township Manager.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 1-14-2014)
§ 32.02 SELECTION OF AND DIRECTION RECEIVED.
   (A)   The Township Manager will be selected on the basis of executive and
administrative qualifications with special reference to training and experience
in local government management and appointed for an indefinite period.
   (B)   Only decisions of the Township Board acting as a body corporate shall
bind the Township Manager. Decisions or instructions of the Township
Supervisor, Township Clerk, Township Treasurer, or any of the Township Trustees
do not bind the Township Manager except when the Township Board gives the
Township Supervisor, Township Clerk, Township Treasurer, or any of the Township
Trustees specific authorization.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 1-14-2014)
§ 32.03 RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The Township Manager will not cause or allow any organizational
practice that is illegal, imprudent or unethical. Michigan Statutes and the
Township Board are the sole determinants of such behaviors.
   (B)   The Township Board delegates or assigns the responsibilities and
duties noted below to the Township Manager. This delegation or assignment of
responsibilities and duties is not intended to diminish the responsibilities
given to the Township Board or the Township Supervisor, or both, acting in
concert for the administration of the affairs of the township. The Township
Board reserves the right to remove responsibilities and duties delegated or
assigned to the Township Manager or eliminate the position in the same manner
in which it delegated or assigned responsibilities and duties or created the
position. The delegated responsibilities are as follows:
      (1)   Direct and supervise all department directors of the township, and
administer the overall affairs and activities of the township according to the
ordinances, resolutions, administrative policies and procedures that are
adopted by the Township Board;
      (2)   Supervise the enforcement of all federal and state laws and the
ordinances and resolutions adopted by the Township Board;
      (3)   Recommend appointment of department directors and oversee the
hiring of employees, and when necessary, recommend the removal of department
directors and employees from employment to the Township Board;
      (4)   When necessary, discipline department directors and employees,
including, but not limited to, oral discipline, written discipline, and
suspension with pay pending a hearing before the Township Board;
      (5)   Administer and supervise all public improvements, works or
undertakings of the township including the construction, repair, maintenance,
and cleaning of township assets, buildings, or other property belonging to the
township;
      (6)   Recommend to the Township Board the adoption of such measures that
are necessary or expedient for the administration of the township affairs that
cannot be carried out by existing administrative policies or procedures;
      (7)   Assure that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the
township or its residents in any public utility franchise or in any contract
are faithfully kept and performed;
      (8)   Perform the duties of the budget officer as prescribed in the
Uniform Accounting and Budgeting Act (M.C.L.A. § 141.421 et seq.);
      (9)   Perform the duties of purchasing agent;
      (10)   Establish and maintain a system for the control of the expenditure
of monies belonging to or in the trusteeship of the township;
      (11)   Exercise and perform all administrative functions of the township
that are not imposed upon another township official by ordinances or
resolutions adopted by the Township Board;
      (12)   Submit a summary of departmental reports monthly to the Township
Board at the next regularly scheduled Township Board meeting after such reports
are filed with the Township Manager, and submit an annual report of the affairs
of the township at the February Township Board Meeting;
      (13)   Except for the compensation of the Township Manager, committees,
and other contract employees, set the compensation and benefits of employees
within budget appropriations and recommend to the Township Board the
compensation and benefits of the administrative officers according to budget
appropriations;
      (14)   Not used (deleted)
      (15)   Attend all meetings of the Township Board unless excused by the
Township Supervisor. Attend committee meetings as directed by the Township
Supervisor;
      (16)   Act as the township’s human resources manager, evaluate all types
of health insurances and recommend to the Township Board annually on
procurement;
      (17)   Perform annual career development reviews for all department heads
and review and sign off on all department heads subordinates annual career
development reviews; and
      (18)   Perform such other duties as required by ordinance or by direction
of the Township Board.
   (C)   The Township Manager may delegate or assign to other departments,
department directors, or employees any administrative function, duty, or
responsibility of the township that is not imposed already upon another
township official by ordinance or resolution adopted by the Township Board.
Except as provided in §
32.04, the Township Manager shall not delegate or assign to other departments,
department directors, contract employees, or employees the authority to direct
and supervise administrative services and administer the overall affairs and
activities of the township. The Township Manager shall not delegate or assign
to other departments, department directors, or employees the ability to
appoint, remove from employment and discipline employees; and discipline
administrative officers.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 1-14-2014; Ord. 21-03, passed 5-17-2021)
§ 32.04 ACTING TOWNSHIP MANAGER.
   The Township Board shall appoint a person to serve as Acting Township
Manager during the period of a vacancy in the office or during the absence of
the Township Manager from the office when such vacancy or absence is for a
period longer than two weeks. The Township Manager may designate any township
officer, department director, or any qualified city employee to serve as Acting
Township Manager during an absence from the duties of the office for any period
of two weeks or less. Subject to the limitations set forth in §
32.03, the Acting Township Manager shall have all the responsibilities, duties,
and authority of the Township Manager while serving in that capacity.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 1-14-2014)
§ 32.05 RELATIONSHIP OF THE TOWNSHIP BOARD TO THE ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICE.
   For the purpose of inquiry, the Township Board and its members shall deal
with the Department of Administrative Services, the Department of Public Works,
Code Enforcement, Fire Department, Community Development, any other department
created by the township and the township operations solely through the Township
Manager. The Township Board may give department directors and the Fire Chief
directives by majority vote of the Township Board.
(Ord. 14-01, passed 1-14-2014)
CHAPTER 33: MUNICIPAL ORDINANCE VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
33.01   Title
   
33.02   Establishment, location and personnel
   
33.03   Bureau authority
   
33.04   Ordinance violation notice requirements; admission/denial of
responsibility
   
33.05   Schedule of civil fines/costs
   
33.06   Records and accounting
   
33.07   Availability of other enforcement options
§ 33.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Kochville Township Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau Ordinance".
(Ord. 13-04, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 33.02 ESTABLISHMENT, LOCATION AND PERSONNEL.
   (A)   Establishment. The Kochville Township Municipal Ordinance Violations
Bureau (hereafter "Bureau") is hereby established pursuant to M.C.L.A. §
600.8396, as it may be amended from time to time, for the purpose of accepting
admissions of responsibility for ordinance violations designated as municipal
civil infractions, and to collect and retain civil fines/costs for such
violations as prescribed herein.
   (B)   Location. The Bureau shall be located at the Kochville Township
Governmental Building, 5851 Mackinaw Rd., Saginaw, Michigan, or such other
location in the township as may be designated by resolution of the Township
Board.
   (C)   Personnel. All personnel of the Bureau shall be township employees.
The Township Board may by resolution designate a Bureau Clerk with the duties
prescribed in this chapter and as otherwise may be delegated by the Township
Board.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 33.03 BUREAU AUTHORITY.
   The Bureau shall only have authority to accept admissions of responsibility
(without explanation) for municipal civil infractions for which a municipal
ordinance violations notice (as compared to a citation) has been issued and
served, and to collect and retain the scheduled civil fines/costs for such
violations specified pursuant to this chapter or other applicable ordinance.
The Bureau shall not accept payment of fines/costs from any person who denies
having committed the alleged violation or who admits responsibility only with
explanation. The Bureau shall not determine or attempt to determine the truth
or falsity of any fact or matter relating to an alleged ordinance violation.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 33.04 ORDINANCE VIOLATION NOTICE REQUIREMENTS; ADMISSION/DENIAL OF
RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Ordinance violation notice requirements. Municipal civil infraction
violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized township officials
as provided by law. A municipal ordinance violation notice shall include, at a
minimum, all of the following:
      (1)   The violation;
      (2)   The time within which the person must contact the Bureau for
purposes of admitting or denying responsibility for the violation;
      (3)   The amount of the scheduled fines/costs for the violation;
      (4)   The methods by which the violation may be admitted or denied;
      (5)   The consequences of failing to pay the required fines/costs or
contact the Bureau within the required time;
      (6)   The address and telephone number of the Bureau;
      (7)   The days and hours that the Bureau is open.
   (B)   Denial of responsibility. Where a person fails to admit responsibility
(without explanation) for a violation within the jurisdiction of the Bureau
and/or fails to pay the required civil fines/costs within the designated time
period, the Bureau Clerk or other designated township employee(s) shall advise
the complainant to issue and file a municipal civil infraction citation for
such violation with the court having jurisdiction of the matter. The citation
filed with the court shall consist of a sworn complaint containing, at a
minimum, the allegations stated in the municipal ordinance violation notice and
shall fairly inform the alleged violator how to respond to the citation. A copy
of the citation may be served by first class mail upon the alleged violator at
the alleged violator's last known address. The citation shall thereafter be
processed in the manner required by law.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 33.05 SCHEDULE OF CIVIL FINES/COSTS.
   (A)   Any person or other entity that violates any of the provisions of any
ordinance of the Kochville Township Code of Ordinances is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, unless provided otherwise, as defined by Michigan
law and subject to a civil fine determined in accordance with the Schedule set
forth in division (B) below including the following:
      (1)   Each day a violation of the ordinance continues to exist after the
date of the citation shall subject the violation to an additional fine amount
of $5 per day.
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall be ordered to pay restitution to
the township, which may include all direct and indirect expenses which the
township has incurred in connection with the violation
enforcement action for each such citation. In no case, however, shall
restitution of less than $9 or more than $500 be ordered each such citation.
      (3)   A violator of the ordinance shall also be subject to such
additional sanctions, remedies, and judicial orders as are authorized under
Michigan law.
   (B)   Schedule.
 
Violation #               Civil Infraction Citations Kochville Violations
                                                     Bureau
1st violation within a 3- $250                       $95
year period
2nd violation within a 3- $250                       $145
year period
3rd or subsequent
violation within a 3-year $500                       $250
period
4th or subsequent                                    Request formal hearing
violation within a 3-year * See below                (civil infraction issued)
period
* The Court shall exercise its discretion in setting the appropriate fine, and
shall take into consideration, among other relevant factors, the ongoing,
flagrant and/or abusive nature of the violation and the potential for harm to
the township's efforts to obtain compliance and eliminate blight, in light of
the repeated nature of the offense.
 
§ 33.06 RECORDS AND ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   The Bureau Clerk or other designated township official/employee shall
retain a copy of all municipal ordinance violation notices, and shall account
to the Township Board each month or at such other intervals as the Township
Board may require concerning the number of admissions and denials of
responsibility for ordinance violations within the jurisdiction of the Bureau
and the amount of fines/costs collected with respect to such violations.
   (B)   The civil fines/costs collected shall be delivered to the Township
Treasurer at such intervals as the Treasurer shall require, and shall be
deposited in the general fund of the township.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 33.07 AVAILABILITY OF OTHER ENFORCEMENT OPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to require the township to initiate
its municipal civil infraction ordinance enforcement activity through the
issuance of an ordinance violation notice. As to each ordinance violation
designated as a municipal civil infraction the township may, at its sole
discretion, proceed directly with the issuance of a municipal civil infraction
citation or take such other enforcement action as is authorized by law,
(Ord. 13-04, passed 8-27-2013)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
      Chapter
         
50.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
         
51.   WATER USE AND RATES
         
52.   WATER DISTRICTS
         
53.   RUBBISH
         
54.   SEWER REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 50: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
50.01   Northwest Utility Authority
   
50.02   Activities on, in or near public utilities
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 NORTHWEST UTILITY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Findings and purpose.
      (1)   The township is a member of the Northwest Utility Authority, an
Authority organized pursuant to Pub. Act 233 of 1955, as amended.
      (2)   The Northwest Utility Authority is authorized to adopt rules and
regulations which are enforceable within the boundaries of each of its member
municipalities, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 124.284d, as amended.
      (3)   This township, as a member municipality of the Northwest Utility
Authority, is empowered to enforce the rules and regulations of the Northwest
Utility Authority within its jurisdictional boundaries, pursuant to M.C.L.A. §
124.284d(3), as amended.
      (4)   The township desires to establish concurrent authority to enforce
the rules and regulations as adopted by Northwest Utility Authority and
approved by the township.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORITY. The Northwest Utility Authority, an authority created under
Pub. Act 233 of 1955, being M.C.L.A. §§ 124.281 to 124.294, as amended.
      AUTHORIZED LOCAL OFFICIAL. The Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant
is alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by
an authorized township official, directing a person to appear in District Court
and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed for violation of the
authority sewage disposal regulations.
      SEWAGE DISPOSAL REGULATIONS. The Northwest Utility Authority Sewage
Disposal Regulations, as approved by the Township Board on 7-1-2002 and adopted
by the Authority on 7-18-2003, as amended.
   (C)   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement. A municipal civil
infraction may be commenced for violation of the sewage disposal regulations
upon the issuance by an authorized official of the township of a municipal
civil infraction citation directing the alleged violator to appear in District
Court.
   (D)   Municipal civil infraction citations: issuance and service. Municipal
civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by authorized township
officials as follows.
      (1)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within a
reasonable time after the citation is issued.
      (2)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the
District Court of the county.
      (3)   An authorized township official may issue a citation to a person
if:
         (a)   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
         (b)   Based upon the investigation of a complaint by someone who
allegedly witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the
official has reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an
infraction.
   (E)   Penalties and sanctions; injunctive relief.
      (1)   Violations and penalties. A person who violates any provision of
the sewage disposal regulations, a wastewater discharge permit or order issued
thereunder, or any other pretreatment standard or requirement of the sewage
disposal regulations is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject
to payment of a civil fine of $1,000 per day, plus costs and other sanctions,
for each infraction. In the case of monthly or other long term average
discharge limits, fines shall be assessed for each day during the period of
violation.
      (2)   Fines/schedule of fines.
         (a)   Increased fines may be imposed for repeat offenses. As used in
this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second or any subsequent municipal civil
infraction violation of the same requirement or provision of these regulations:
            1.   Committed by a person within any 90-day period; and
            2.   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined to
be responsible.
         (b)   The increased fine for repeat offenses under these regulation
shall be in accordance with the following schedule:
            1.   For a first repeat offense, the fine shall be $2,500, plus
costs; and
            2.   For a second or subsequent repeat offense, the fine shall be
$5,000, plus costs.
      (3)   Authorized official. The Township Ordinance Enforcement Officer and
the Director of Environmental Protection and Water System Management, as
provided in the Authority's disposal sewage regulations, are hereby designated
as the authorized officials, to issue municipal civil infraction citations or
municipal civil infraction violation notices as provided in this section and
the sewage disposal regulations.
      (4)   Other enforcement action. Issuance of a civil infraction and
imposition of a civil fine shall not be a bar against, or a pre-requisite for,
taking any other action against the user, as authorized under the sewage
disposal regulations.
   (F)   Effective date. This section shall be published within 30 days
following adoption by the Township Board, in a newspaper of general circulation
within the township. It shall take effect 30 days after the date of
publication.
(Ord. 03-07A, passed 1-20-2004) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.02 ACTIVITIES ON, IN OR NEAR PUBLIC UTILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose. To protect the public utilities of the township and to
regulate the use thereof and all activities to be carried on in or near the
public utilities.
   (B)   Adoption. No person, firm or employee thereof, except an authorized
employee of the township, shall turn on or off any water hydrant or water line
valve, whether the same be located in the public right-of-way or any other
place in the township.
   (C)   Civil responsibility. Any person, firm or corporation who violates the
provisions of this section and shall cause any damage to the water line, fire
hydrant or water meter, or any part of the township water system, shall be
legally responsible in civil damages for any damage arising as a result of the
violation of this section.
   (D)   Effective date. This section shall be effective 30 days from and after
publication thereof.
(Ord. 74-6, passed 9-3-1974) Penalty, see §
50.99
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this title for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §
50.02 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by
imprisonment of not more than 90 days or both. Each day's failure of compliance
with any provision of §
50.02 shall constitute a separate offense. Legal proceedings to enjoin the
violation of any of the provisions of §
50.02 may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the
township. The action for injunctive relief shall be brought when authorized by
the Township Board. The enforcement and administration of the provisions of §
50.02 shall otherwise be under the appropriate employee of the township.
(Ord. 74-6, passed 9-3-1974)
CHAPTER 51: WATER USE AND RATES
Section
General Provisions
   
51.001   Definitions
   
51.002   Provisions deemed incorporated in all contracts
   
51.003   Township liability exemption
   
51.004   Access
   
51.005   System prohibitions
   
51.006   Establishment of rates
   
51.007   Payment for use of the system
   
51.008   Hydrants and use
   
51.009   Coordination with other municipality
   
51.010   Effective date
Administration/Management
   
51.025   Supervision and control
   
51.026   Rights
   
51.027   Operating year
   
51.028   Compliance with state and federal standards and regulations
   
51.029   Additional regulations
   
51.030   Restricting water use
Use Regulations
   
51.045   Consumer's use of the water system
   
51.046   Connection permits required; applications; deposits; contents
   
51.047   Uses on one connection; limitation
   
51.048   Existing private wells
Meters
   
51.060   Required; use
   
51.061   Type; size determination
   
51.062   Installation and location regulations
   
51.063   Failure to register; water usage; amount
   
51.064   Tests; inspections
   
51.065   Repairs
   
51.066   Seals; tampering and the like; prohibition
Connections
   
51.080   Water connections
   
51.081   Tapping mains; application; requisites
   
51.082   Service control valves and curb boxes
   
51.083   Water service pipe; installation; requirements
   
51.084   Completion of work inspection required
   
51.085   Repair
Cross-Connections
   
51.100   Prohibition
   
51.101   Inspections
   
51.102   Entry rights
   
51.103   Shut-off
   
51.104   Correction required
   
51.105   Protection and notification
   
51.106   Supplemental regulations
   
51.107   Precautionary measures
 
   
51.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   CAPITAL FEE (formally known as connection fee or facility unit charge).
Capital Fee shall be based on the present worth of the system as determined by
the township and shall be reviewed from time to time. CAPITAL FEES shall be a
set forth in the township rate resolution.
   COMMERCIAL USER. Any user of the system other than a residential user or
buildings used primarily as a domicile.
   COMMODITY CHARGE. A variable unit charge payable by a user based on the
actual water consumption as determined in this chapter.
   CONSUMER. The person, or legal entity, served by or using water supplied by
the township.
   CONSUMER'S INSTALLATION. Pipes, valves, stops, plumbing and contrivances of
every kind and nature used in connection with, or forming a part of, the
installation for using water for any purpose, connected directly or indirectly
with the corporation stop at the main.
   CORPORATION STOP. A valve that is inserted into the water main for the
connection of the water service pipes in sizes up to and including two inches
in diameter.
   CROSS-CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances
through which water of questionable quality, wastes or other contaminants could
possibly flow back into the water distribution system because of a reversal of
flow.
   CURB BOX. A box or metal housing which encloses, protects and provides
access to the curb stop.
   CURB STOP. A valve for insertion in the service pipes, in size of one inch
to two inches in diameter, inclusive, at or near the property or ROW line.
   DEPARTMENT. The division of water distribution of the township.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works or his or her authorized
representative. The DIRECTOR is the person designated by the township to
supervise the operation of the township water system.
   LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a main
building. A LOT may or may not be specifically designated as such on public
records.
   PERMITEE. A consumer or his or her agent receiving a permit from the
township allowing a connection to be made to the water system.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, partnership, association, public or private
corporation or public agency or instrumentality or any other entity receiving
water service.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land or building having any connection to
the water system.
   REVENUES. Whenever the words REVENUES and NET REVENUES are used in this
chapter, they shall be understood to have the meanings as defined in § 3, Pub.
Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. § 141.03, as amended.
   SERVICE CONTROL VALVE BOX. A box or metal housing, which encloses, protects
and provides access to the service control valve.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Township DPW Superintendent and or his or her designee,
such as, but not limited to, Township Assistant DPW Superintendent or state-
certified plumbing inspector.
   SYSTEM. The water distribution system.
   TAP. The drilling and threading of an opening in a main for insertion of a
corporation stop.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville, Michigan; a general law township and
any agent thereof.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The governing body of the Township of Kochville.
   WATER CONNECTION. The part of the water distribution system connecting the
water main to a point terminating at the curb stop.
   WATER DISTRIBUTION SYSTEM. The complete facilities of the township's water
distribution system including any future wells, water intake and filtration
equipment, well houses, pumps, water storage facilities and transmission lines,
including all appurtenances thereto and including all extensions and
improvements thereto, which may hereafter be acquired. It shall also consist of
all plants, work, instrumentalities, lines and properties now or hereafter
existing, used or useful in obtaining of a water supply, its treatment,
distribution and all other necessary functions, whether the installation is
owned outright or used under lease or otherwise, by the consumer. The SYSTEM
may be comprised of separate facilities located in separate water supply
districts.
   WATER MAIN. The part of the water distribution system located within
easement lines or streets and designed to supply more than one water
connection.
   WATER SERVICE PIPES. The pipe connecting the water main with the premises
served. This includes the connection to the water main or the corporation stop,
the curb stop and the valve on the inlet side of the meter.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.002 PROVISIONS DEEMED INCORPORATED IN ALL CONTRACTS.
   (A)   Contracts for service. All provisions and sections of this chapter
about the township water system(s) and sale and use of water and/or amendments
or additions which may be subsequently adopted, shall be considered a part of
the contract with every person that is supplied with water through the water
distribution system of the township, and every person by taking water shall be
considered to express their consent to be bound thereby, and whenever any
provision or section of this chapter about the water system is violated, the
water may be cut off from the building or place of violation at the discretion
of the Township Board and shall not be turned on again, except on correction of
the violation and payment of the expenses of shutting off and turning on.
   (B)   Save harmless clause. The consumer shall indemnity, save harmless and
defend the township against all claims, demands, cost or expense for loss,
damage or injury to persons or property in any manner, directly or indirectly,
growing out of the transmission and use of water by the consumer from water
service pipe installed by the consumer on the consumer's premises.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.003 TOWNSHIP LIABILITY EXEMPTION.
   (A)   The township shall not be responsible for interruptions of service
because of natural calamities, equipment failures, or actions of the system
users. It shall be the responsibility of the consumer that all connected
equipment remains in good working order. No claim or cause of action may be
asserted against the township by reason of the breaking away of any pipe,
service cock or for any other interruption of the water supply.
   (B)   The township shall not be liable for any expenses incurred by a
permittee in locating mains, services, curb stops and water records.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.004 ACCESS.
   (A)   Inspection. The Superintendent and other duly authorized
representatives of the township bearing proper credentials and identification
shall be permitted to enter upon all premises served by the water system at
reasonable times for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling and testing to determine compliance with the provisions of this
chapter. Any person who requests water supply and/or receives water from the
water system under this chapter shall be deemed to have consented to
inspections pursuant to this section, including entrance upon the person's
premises at reasonable times to make inspections.
   (B)   Meter reader access. Any duly authorized agent or employee of the
township shall have access to the consumer's premises at all reasonable hours
for the purpose of reading meters, inspections, doing repairs or installing or
removing any or all township owned apparatus used for providing service to the
consumer.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.005 SYSTEM PROHIBITIONS.
   No person in the township shall:
   (A)   Willfully, negligently or maliciously break, damage, destroy, uncover,
deface or tamper with or alter, any structure, property, appurtenance,
equipment or any other item, which is part of the water system;
   (B)   Remove any water meter, water pipe, other water equipment or tools;
   (C)   Prevent or circumvent a water meter from measuring water supplied by
the water distribution system; and/or
   (D)   Fraudulently obtain water from the water distribution system, or to
waste water from the water system.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.006 ESTABLISHMENT OF RATES.
   (A)   Purpose for charges.
      (1)   Generally. Charges for the installation and use of the water system
are hereby established to recover the costs of administration, construction,
reconstruction, maintenance and to establish a cash balance of the system as
are necessary to preserve the same in good working order, operation and
replacement of the system and to provide for the payment of any debt service
obligations of the township as the same becomes due. The charges shall be made
in accordance with the provisions hereinafter set forth and shall be made
against all premises which use the system.
      (2)   Establishment of rates, charges and fees. The rates for water
service charges, connection fees and other charges are to be established by
resolution of the Township Board, and may be established separately from time
to time as necessary to ensure sufficiency of revenues in meeting the expenses
of the water system. Rates and charges need not be uniform for any separate
water supply districts.
   (B)   Types of water supply charges.
      (1)   Commodity charge. The meter shall measure all the water use of
residential, commercial, industrial and other consumers connected to the system
and the consumers shall be charged a commodity charge for water usage.
      (2)   Capital Fee (formally known as connection fee or facility unit
charge). A Capital Fee shall be charged for every new connection to the public
water and shall vary based on the number of REUs s determined by the Manager.
The Kochville Table of Unit Factors shall be the basis for this determination.
The Capital Fee shall be established based on the following factors:
         (a)   Saginaw City Water System (SCWS) charges. Any charges set forth
by SCWS for new connections to the public water.
         (b)   Capital Fee. An equitable buy-in to the water system. There will
be three separate groups in relation to the Capital Fee.
            1.   Group 1. Group 1 includes parcels or premises that are part of
a Township Public Water Special Assessment (SAD). Group 1 shall have the
Capital Fee reduced in the amount of any assessment against the premises for
public water improvements which has been paid for or is an outstanding lien in
an amount not to exceed the township Capital Fee.
            2.   Group 2. Group 2 includes all parcels or premises that have
installed or extended public water at the sole expense of the developer. Group
2 shall have the Capital Fee reduced by an amount as set forth in the Township
Rate Resolution.
            3.   Group 3. Group 3 includes all others and shall pay the Capital
Fee as set forth in the Township Rate Resolution.
      (3)   Construction charges. The property owner shall be responsible for
the actual cost of materials and construction of the water service pipes from
the curb box for up to one-inch lines and for lines larger than one inch from
the main to the premises to be served. The township shall maintain ownership
and maintenance responsibility from the water main up to and including the curb
stop.
      (4)   Special service charges. The township may charge its customers and
the customers shall pay for the special services for which a rate shall be
established.
      (5)   The cost of turn on/off charges. The township may establish a
charge to the consumer, and the consumer shall pay the charge whenever the
township is requested to turn water services on or off; provided, however,
that, whenever the township is requested to provide turn on or off service it
shall receive one business day notice of the request. For turn-on service at
times other than the regular business hours of the township, the charge will be
made on time and material basis. The established fee to turn water on shall be
charged to a consumer whose service has been disconnected because of non-
payment of charge or fee due the township.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.007 PAYMENT FOR USE OF THE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Responsibility for payment.
      (1)   The owner of the premises served by the water system shall be
liable to the township for any charges and fees authorized to be charged by
this chapter.
      (2)   When a single water service pipe serves two or more consumer units,
the owner of the premises shall be responsible for payment of water used on the
premises.
      (3)   If damage to the municipal system and equipment arises out of the
owner's failure to obtain proper miss-dig utility locating, the owner of the
premises as well as any contractor or individual performing the work at the
premises shall be responsible to reimburse the township for any and all costs
and fees incurred by the township arising out of failure to obtain proper miss-
dig utility locations.
   (B)   Billing, collections and customers payments.
      (1)   Meter reading. Meters shall be read quarterly and as deemed
necessary.
      (2)   Bills. The township shall tender bills for water service and all
other charges in connection therewith. Bills for water service shall be sent to
consumers by first class mail.
      (3)   Quarterly bills. Quarterly water bills for users of the system
shall be based upon water consumption as set forth in the rate resolution.
      (4)   Due date of charges. All bills shall be payable by the due date
specified on the bills and shall be paid at the office of the township by mail
or as designated by the Township Board.
      (5)   Collections. The Township Treasurer shall collect all moneys due
for water service and all other charges in connection with the water system.
      (6)   Late charges. If any charge for the services of the water, which
has been billed to a consumer of the water system, shall not be paid on or
before the due date specified on the bill, a delayed payment charge of 10% of
the amount of the bill shall be added thereto and collected therewith.
      (7)   Unpaid bills.
         (a)   If any bills for the service of the system shall remain unpaid
after 30 days following the due date specified on the bill therefore, the water
supply for the premises affected may be cut off and if cut off shall not be
turned on again, except on payment in full of the delinquent charges therefore,
and the fee charged for resumption of service. The township shall send a notice
by first class mail to its consumers of intent to terminate service.
         (b)   If payment is not received, or satisfactory arrangements have
not been made within seven days after the shut off notice is sent to the
consumer, the water service shall be shut off. No water service that has been
discontinued because of non-payment shall be restored until all past due bills
are paid.
      (8)   Non-receipt of bill. Failure of the consumer to receive any bill
shall not relieve that person of the liability for the charges incurred and the
consumer shall notify the Township Clerk if a bill has not been received the
fifteenth day after the end of a billing period.
      (9)   Charges to become a lien upon premises. The township shall have as
security for the collection of water rates, assessments, charges or fees due or
to become due for the use and installation, repair or maintenance to any house,
building or premises, a lien upon the house, building or premises, upon which
the water service was supplied. This lien shall become effective immediately
upon the providing of the water service to the premises.
         (a)   The lien created by this chapter shall have priority over all
other liens, except taxes or special assessments. The lien created by this
chapter shall not apply if a written lease has been legally executed containing
a provision that the lessor shall not be liable for payment of water use
charges, providing the lease was executed prior to the supply of water for
which the charges are made and providing that the lessor has filed an affidavit
with the Township Clerk verifying the execution of a lease containing the
provision. The lessor shall give the township 20-days' advance written notice
of any cancellation, change or termination of the lease. The affidavit shall
contain a notation of the expiration date of the lease.
         (b)   Charges for water services, which are under the provisions of §
21 of Pub. Act 94 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, shall be made
a lien on all premises served thereby. The charges for water furnished to any
premises are hereby recognized to constitute the lien and whenever any charge
against any piece of property or premises shall be delinquent for six months,
or more, that fact shall be certified on March 1 of each year, to the Tax
Assessing Officer of the township. Whereupon, the charge shall be by him or her
entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against the piece of property or
premises and the charges shall be collected and the lien thereof enforced in
the same manner as general township taxes against the premises.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.008 HYDRANTS AND USE.
   (A)   All water mains and hydrants on private property shall be installed at
the property owner's expense and shall be conveyed to the township by the
property owner and, at his or her expense, the property owner shall provide a
recorded easement sufficient for maintenance and repair of the same.
   (B)   No person shall open a township owned fire hydrant without the express
permission of the DPW Superintendent, except a municipal fire department, which
may at any time open a fire hydrant for the purpose of obtaining water for
extinguishment of fires or training and testing.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.009 COORDINATION WITH OTHER MUNICIPALITY.
   The township may delegate administrative duties and functions, including,
but not limited to, inspections, meter readings and billing, and maintenance to
any other municipality if so provided by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.010 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective upon publication.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
ADMINISTRATION/MANAGEMENT
§ 51.025 SUPERVISION AND CONTROL.
   The operation and management of the system shall be under the immediate
supervision and control of the Township Board with oversight from the Township
Department of Public Works Department.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.026 RIGHTS.
   The township has the exclusive right to establish, maintain and collect
rates and charges for water supplied from the water system. The Township Board
may make rules, orders or regulations, as it deems advisable and necessary to
assure the efficient management and operation of the system. The township may
employ or contract a person or persons in that capacity or capacities, as it
deems advisable to carry out the efficient management and operation of the
system.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.027 OPERATING YEAR.
   The system operation shall be based on an operating fiscal year commencing
on April 1 and ending on March 31 the next following.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.028 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE AND FEDERAL STANDARDS AND REGULATIONS.
   Standards and regulations established in this chapter or pursuant hereto are
deemed to be the minimum standards consistent with the preservation of public
health, safety and welfare and are necessary to fulfill the obligations of the
township concerning state and federal law and the rules and regulations adopted
pursuant thereto.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.029 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   The Township Board may, by resolution, make additional rules and regulations
concerning the water distribution system, connections thereto, meter
installation and maintenance, hydrants and water mains and appurtenances
thereto, which are not inconsistent herewith.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.030 RESTRICTING WATER USE.
   The Township Board may regulate, limit or prohibit the use by a consumer of
township supplied water if it is necessary for the health, safety and welfare
of the public including restricting the amount of water that would be available
to a consumer because of water shortage emergencies. The regulations may limit
use of water by the consumer to the extent deemed necessary to ensure an
adequate water supply for the essential needs and for fire fighting.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
USE REGULATIONS
§ 51.045 CONSUMER'S USE OF THE WATER SYSTEM.
   Any person owning property within a water supply district established by the
township and conforming to the standards, rules and regulations established in
or under terms of this chapter shall be permitted to receive water from the
water system provided necessary water main is in existence and crossing in
front of the "address side" of the consumer's premises.
   (A)   Required connection. Each new residential, commercial or industrial
premises built, other than sheds, residential garages, and/or additions to
existing structures, abutting the system or contained within a township water
district within the township, shall be required to connect to the system within
60 days of delivery of notice to do so using the shortest most direct route to
a water supply line.
   (B)   Turning on water service. No person other than an authorized employee
of the township shall turn on or turn off any water service at the curb stop.
Water service shall not be turned on unless all charges, fees and the like have
been paid.
   (C)   Turning off service.
      (1)   The township reserves the right to terminate service to a consumer,
after due notice has been given where payment for water supply has not been
timely received, and/or for violation of this chapter or any rules and
regulations adopted pursuant thereto. The township may shut off the water in
any main to make repairs or extensions, or for any other necessary purpose at
any time without notice to consumers.
      (2)   The consumer shall maintain all water service pipes so they are
free from leaks at all times. Whenever a leak appears in a consumer's
installation, which allows water to escape without registering upon the meter,
the township shall give the consumer written notice thereof and the consumer
shall immediately proceed to repair the service pipe. If the repairs have not
been completed within 48 hours after notice has been given, the township may
stop the service by shutting off the water at the curb stop or by excavating to
and closing the corporation stop. The costs incurred by the township of
excavating and shutting off the service shall be paid by the consumer or by the
owner of the premises before service is restored. If, in the determination of
the township, any leak on the consumer's installation is of a nature that
endangers public safety or constitutes a nuisance or a source of waste, the
township may shut off or stop the service until the leak is repaired.
   (D)   Change of consumer. When the premises are to be vacated or there is a
change of owner, occupant or agent, prompt written notice shall be given to the
Clerk's Office. The consumer may discontinue service by giving not less than
24-hours' written notice to the Clerk's office during its regular office hours.
   (E)   Outside service connections. Water main extensions and domestic water
connections to premises outside of water districts are prohibited, except where
approved by the Township Board.
   (F)   Water extensions. The total expense of extending water mains shall be
borne by the benefitted property owners in accordance with provisions of a
contract or by special assessments levied by the township in accordance with
state law.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.046 CONNECTION PERMITS REQUIRED; APPLICATIONS; DEPOSITS; CONTENTS.
   (A)   Application. Any person desiring to connect to the water system shall
file a written application to the Township Clerk, pay the water connection fee
established by resolution of the Township Board and all other charges, fees and
costs as provided by this chapter which would include, but not be limited to,
commodities surcharges and benefit charges. Further, the applicant shall pay
any delinquent special assessment installment(s) which are due and owing at the
time of the application.
   (B)   Permit required.
      (1)   No person in the township shall connect to the water system unless
the township or its designated representative has approved the proposed
connection. The application shall be made on forms provided by the township and
shall contain the street name, house number, phone number, e-mail address (if
available), lot number, the name of the plumber or contractor, the names of the
applicant and the owner, the size of the service pipe required by the consumer
and any other pertinent information which may be required by the township. An
application must be made and approval obtained from the township at least three
business days before the time a tap is to be made.
      (2)   Connection permits will be issued to builders if the prospective
lessee or owner consents in writing to the obtaining of the permit by the
builder.
      (3)   Water connections shall be installed in accordance with the
applicable building codes and regulations of this chapter and upon the payment
of the required charges and fees.
      (4)   (a)   All water furnished to structures through the township's
water distribution system shall be measured by a meter or meters owned and
controlled by the township. The owner of a structure may, upon application and
paying costs and fees as determined from time to time by the township, have an
additional meter installed for the separate metering of water used for lawn
sprinkling or other use where the water used does not pass through the sanitary
sewage disposal system.
         (b)   Duplex residences shall have separate meters and services
installed for each dwelling unit.
         (c)   Townhouses or apartments may have separate meters and/or
services installed for each dwelling unit upon payment of the costs and fees as
determined from time to time by the township.
      (5)   The applicant shall pay the expense of water service pipe
installation.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.047 USES ON ONE CONNECTION; LIMITATION.
   (A)   Unless written approval is granted by the township, separate premises
shall have separate curb stops, water service pipe installations and shall be
separately metered.
   (B)   Whenever water is to be supplied to more than one consumer located in
a single building and supplied through one service, the premises owner shall be
responsible for the payment of water bills.
   (C)   In no event shall a consumer extend water service pipes or plumbing
across any public way, or to an adjacent property in order to furnish service
thereto, even though the adjacent property is owned by the consumer.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.048 EXISTING PRIVATE WELLS.
   (A)   Construction of private wells in established water service districts
is prohibited, except for irrigation purposes only upon approval of the
Township DPW Superintendent and any other required governmental agencies.
   (B)   Private water wells that are located within a water supply district
and are in operation prior in time to the establishment of the water supply
district can be abandoned and shall not be connected in any way that may cause
a cross-connection with the municipal water system to any building connected to
the water system by the property owner in accordance with procedures
established by the County Health Department prior to connection to the township
water system.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
METERS
§ 51.060 REQUIRED; USE.
   (A)   All township water used on any premises must pass through a water
meter. Any bypass between the meter and the main is prohibited.
   (B)   All premises using township water shall be metered and shall pay for
water at the rates specified.
   (C)   Water meters shall be obtained from the township.
   (D)   Each water meter shall be served by its own water connection and water
service pipes unless the township approves another system incorporating
exterior valves to control water flow to each meter.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.061 TYPE; SIZE DETERMINATION.
   (A)   Unless otherwise authorized by the township, all meters shall be of
the disc type and read in gallons.
   (B)   All meters shall be under the control of the township and can be
equipped with an instrument capable of being remotely connected and read away
from the meter itself. The instrument shall be installed on the exterior of the
building/structure/meter pit, as directed by the township.
   (C)   All new inside meters will require remote registers or remote
telephonic reporting as the township may specify.
   (D)   When requesting connection to the water system, the consumer shall
furnish information about the amount of contemplated water supply demand and
the township shall determine the size and type of meter to be installed.
      (1)   For usual single-family domestic use and consumption water, five-
eighths inch meter shall be purchased by the consumer and installed by the
Township DPW.
      (2)   Except as stated above, where an application is made for a meter
larger than one inch the township shall determine whether a meter of that size
is required or authorized.
      (3)   The use of meters larger than one inch will be permitted only upon
specific written approval by the township after due consideration of pertinent
factors, such as the probable effect of their demand on the installed capacity
of water mains and water supply and the means of sewage disposal.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.062 INSTALLATION AND LOCATION REGULATIONS.
   (A)   All meters shall be installed in readily accessible location and in a
manner satisfactory to the township, but not in crawl spaces.
   (B)   A meter shall not be installed in a place where the meter reader
cannot readily reach it.
   (C)   All meters shall be installed horizontally in dry, clean, sanitary
location and in the places that small leaks and the spilling of water will do
no damage.
   (D)   All meters shall be in a suitable location to prevent the pipes and
meters from freezing in cold weather in a dry basement.
   (E)   Where the premises contain no basements or cellar, the meter shall be
installed in a location, which shall be approved by the Superintendent on the
first floor level.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.063 FAILURE TO REGISTER; WATER USAGE; AMOUNT.
   (A)   If any meter or metering system fails to register properly or if a
meter is inaccessible for reading, the Department shall estimate consumption
based on former consumption.
   (B)   Should a meter become defective or fail to register correctly, the
quantity of water used shall be determined by the amount used during the
corresponding period of the preceding year, or at the option of the township,
by averaging the amount for the period immediately preceding and subsequent to
the period wherein the meter registered quantities of water usage.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.064 TESTS; INSPECTIONS.
   The accuracy of the meter on any premises may be tested by the township or
upon written request of the owner and/or user who shall pay in advance a fee to
cover the cost of the test. If, on the test, the meter shall be found to
register over 3% more water than passes through it, another meter will be
substituted therefore, and the fee will be refunded, and the water bill will be
adjusted from the immediately preceding and current billing periods, if
appropriate in the judgment of the Township Board.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.065 REPAIRS.
   The expense of maintaining meters will be borne by the township.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.066 SEALS; TAMPERING AND THE LIKE; PROHIBITION.
   Meters shall be sealed by the township and no person except an authorized
employee of the township shall break the seals. No unauthorized person shall
change the location of, alter or interfere in any way with any meter.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
CONNECTIONS
§ 51.080 WATER CONNECTIONS.
   Water connections shall not be made unless the water main extends across the
frontage of the premises to be served or across the frontage of a premises
facing one street in the case of a corner lot.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.081 TAPPING MAINS; APPLICATION; REQUISITES.
   (A)   All connections to the system shall be made by a licensed contract or
with the proper tools and equipment for performing connections to the systems
mains. All taps and connections to the water main shall be installed at the
main by the township or under direct supervision of the township.
   (B)   Before an owner, user or contractor installs a water service pipe, he
or she shall obtain from the township the location for making the connection of
the water service. The terminus of the water service pipe shall be located so
that the water service pipe is installed to the water main in a straight line
perpendicular to the main, and there are no obstructions such as driveways,
manholes, trees and hydrants, or any other obstacles. Installation shall be a
minimum of five feet from any obstacle and ten feet horizontally and one foot
vertically from any sewer line.
   (C)   Single corporation stops, or pipe saddles, will be used to supply
services or private mains.
   (D)   (1)   A saddle will be required on services.
      (2)   All approved service will have the same size connection at the
main.
      (3)   No unauthorized person shall turn the water off or on at the
corporation stop.
   (E)   Pipe from the water main to the curb stop shall be a minimum grade
Type K soft tenser copper not less than one inch in diameter.
   (F)   All holes or trenches dug in the public streets or roads shall be
backfilled to a minimum of 95% density by thoroughly tamping dry sand in layers
not to exceed 12 inches. All excavated material shall be entirely removed from
the street. Excavated material that is wet, or otherwise unfit for backfill,
shall be entirely removed and the backfilling done with suitable dry sand
hauled in for that purpose.
      (1)   Tunneling under streets will be prohibited, except by special
permission of the County Road Commission, MDOT and the superintendent of the
DPW. Open cuts shall be allowed in graveled streets with prior Road Commission
approval.
      (2)   Connections under hard surfaced paving shall be made only by boring
or jetting with the prior approval of the County Road Commission, MDOT and the
Superintendent of the DPW.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.082 SERVICE CONTROL VALVES AND CURB BOXES.
   (A)   The township will provide and install a shut off valve in the form of
a curb stop and curb box as near the road right-of-way line as possible.
   (B)   An approved type round way, inverted core, ball type, tee head curb
stop of good bronze material shall be installed on all service lines two inches
and less at a point as near the road right-of-way as practical and permissible.
   (C)   Valves of non-rising stem gate valves or plug type valves may be used
for the larger size connections. They shall be of approved standard
manufacture, and housed in an approved type service or roadway valve boxes.
   (D)   A cast iron extension curb box of an approved pattern shall be
centered over the curb stop so that it is readily accessible for turning on and
off by township representatives. Curb stop boxes will be equipped with a
stainless steel rod with a maximum length of 48 inches. Valves two inches or
larger shall have a buffalo type box with a stainless steel rod centered in the
box. The top of the stop box shall be so placed that it is never below the
grade or over three inches above grade and must be set on a brick or concrete
foundation to prevent settlement.
   (E)   No person other than authorized personnel is permitted to turn water
on or off at the curb stop.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.083 WATER SERVICE PIPE; INSTALLATION; REQUIREMENTS.
   Water connections shall be installed in accordance with state and local
building regulations. Water service connections shall also be installed in
compliance with the following specifications.
   (A)   The connection of the Type K copper service pipe to the corporation
stop shall be made by using an approved adapter fitting.
   (B)   Water connections and water service pipes shall be installed in a
separate trench from the sewer service. The water service pipe may not be
placed in the same trench with the building drain. The water service pipe and
the building sewer must be have a minimum of ten feet horizontal and one foot
vertical separation.
   (C)   All water service pipe on either private or public property shall be
laid on a solid bottom not less than five and one-half feet underground or
below the established grade.
   (D)   The consumer shall continue the water service pipe connection from the
valve at the road right-of-way line to the riser pipe and valve inside the
building entirely at his or her expense.
   (E)   The service line from the water main to the premises shall have an
inside diameter no smaller in diameter than three-quarter inch. All service
pipes shall be of U.S. government specification Type K copper tubing; other
service pipe materials must be approved by AWWA. Those over two inches in
diameters may be approved blue 200 psi SDR 21, hdpe SDR 11 PVC or C900.
   (F)   The water service pipe shall be laid to provide for earth settlement
and for contraction and expansion through arching or beading to form an
expansion loop in the form of a half "S" bend and shall contain at least six
inches of excess material to provide for settlement and flexibility.
   (G)   There shall be no joints between the curb stop and the meter unless
commercial lengths are not available to allow for this provision (i.e., because
of excessive building setbacks). Only three-part flared unions or approved
compression unions shall be used for connections.
   (H)   Plugged tees or other accessible outlets between the meter and the
water main are prohibited. No connections or outlets shall be made on this line
other than for fire fittings. It shall be unlawful for the consumer, or any
employee or agent of the consumer, to make any connections on or use the
sprinkler system for any purpose or purposes other than for fire protection;
and any other use thereof shall be and constitute a violation of this chapter
and also the general ordinances of the township.
   (I)   Any repairs to any water service pipe shall be made at the expense of
the owner whose premises are served by the water service pipe.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.084 COMPLETION OF WORK INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Upon completion of any new water service pipe installation or repairs,
it shall be the duty of the permittee to obtain approval by the Township DPW
Superintendent before covering it.
   (B)   The service trench shall not be covered, backfilled or floored until
the tap has been completed and the Township DPW Superintendent has approved the
installation. Clean earth or sand shall be carefully tamped every two feet
above the top of the service line. This material shall be carefully and solidly
compacted with proper tools. The use of clay for that purpose is prohibited.
   (C)   If any building drainage or plumbing system or part thereof which is
installed, altered or repaired, is covered, it shall be uncovered for
inspection after notice to the plumber, contractor, owner, or other person to
uncover the work has been issued by the Township DPW Superintendent.
   (D)   A separate ball valve must be placed on the water service pipe just
inside the building wall so that the water may be turned off and drained from
the pipe in the event of accident or in order to make repairs. The stop shall
be equal in quality to the curb stop, approved by the Township DPW
Superintendent and placed before the meter. A valve immediately after the meter
is also required.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.085 REPAIR.
   (A)   Water service pipe from the curb stop to the meter shall be the
responsibility of the owner of the premises.
   (B)   Any plumber called upon to shut off water and drain pipes in any
premises shall do so inside the building only beyond the meter.
   (C)   Persons taking water must keep their water service pipe and their
meter protected from frost and hot water at their own expense. Where the water
service pipe or meter is damaged by frost or hot water, a licensed plumber, to
be employed and paid by the consumer, shall repair the water service pipe. The
township, at the expense of the consumer, shall replace the water meter.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 51.100 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Cross-connections shall be prohibited. It shall be unlawful for any
person to make, permit to be made, any cross-connection on any lot or parcel of
land owned or occupied by him or her.
   (B)   The township adopts by reference the water supply cross-connection
rules of the State Department of Public Health, being M.A.C. §§ 325.11401 to
325.11407, as amended and is covered by a separate cross-connection policy or
ordinance.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
51.999
§ 51.101 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the township to cause inspections to be made
of all properties served by the public water supply where a cross-connection
with the public water supply is deemed probable.
   (B)   The township shall establish the frequency or inspections and re-
inspection based on potential health hazards involved.
   (C)   The cost of inspection as determined by the township shall be borne
and paid by the property owner upon which the inspection takes place.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.102 ENTRY RIGHTS.
   The DPW Superintendent, or his or her designee, shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water distribution system of the township, for the purposes of inspecting the
piping system or systems thereof for cross-connections. On request, the owner,
lessees or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection
agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or systems on the
property. The refusal of the information or refusal of access, when requested,
shall be deemed prima facie evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.103 SHUT-OFF.
   Where contamination of any water main is an immediate possibility or where
contamination of any water main occurs and a cross-connection, is found, the
township may order the water to be immediately shut off without giving notice
to the owner or occupant of land as prescribed herein.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.104 CORRECTION REQUIRED.
   Water service to the property shall not be restored until the cross-
connection(s) have been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.105 PROTECTION AND NOTIFICATION.
   Potable water supply made available on the premises served by the water
distribution system shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this chapter and by the State and County Plumbing Code as adopted by the
township. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes
and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a
conspicuous manner as: "WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING".
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.106 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   This chapter does not supersede any State or Township Plumbing Code or
ordinance and it shall be supplementary to other lawful regulations as may from
time to time be adopted.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.107 PRECAUTIONARY MEASURES.
   The township is authorized and directed to take other precautionary measures
as may be deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the
water system. Water service to the land in question shall not be restored until
either the cross-connection has been eliminated, or evidence furnished and
access permitted to enable the township to, determine that no cross-connection
(prohibited by this chapter) exists.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 51.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served with written notice stating the nature of the violation and providing
a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction thereof. The offender
shall, within the period of time stated in the notice, permanently cease all
violations. Any person convicted of a violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment of
not more than 90 days or both the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of
the court.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is also declared to be a public nuisance
and the township may enforce it by injunction or other remedy, including the
right to correct the violation and recover the cost of obtaining the necessary
correction from the owner or person in charge of the premises therefore.
(Ord. 17-02, passed 3-20-2017)
CHAPTER 52: WATER DISTRICTS
Section
   
52.01   Water District No. 2
   
52.02   Water District No. 3
   
52.03   Water District No. 4
   
52.04   Water District No. 5
§ 52.01 WATER DISTRICT NO. 2.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the "Hook Up of Connection Charge
Ordinance for Water District No. 2", and any subdivisions thereof. The purpose
of this section is to establish minimum and uniform costs and charges for the
privilege of hooking up, or tapping into the township water supply system, and
to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare and safety of
the public and the protection of the water supply system of the township.
   (B)   The legal description of Water Extension No. 2, Special Assessment
District, shall be as described in the resolution confirming the special
assessment roll, dated 10-7-1991, and any appendix or exhibit attached to the
resolution.
   (C)   The following cost connection charges or tap-in fees shall be made for
a water service connection to the township water supply system known and
referred to as Water Supply District No. 2, and any subdivisions thereof.
      (1)   Every property to be hooked, connected or tapped in, within the
special assessment district shall be charged $29.50 per lineal front foot, for
a minimum of 100 front feet, and for a maximum of 200 front feet in residential
and agricultural land use classifications, with corner lots to be charged on
the basis of the longest dimension, plus ten feet, and subject to all other
provisions set forth in this section. Every property or parcel of land to which
water connection is made shall pay an additional charge of $1,000 per single-
family residential unit, as a single-family residential charge equivalent and
every other parcel of property shall pay equivalency charges computed as
follows.
Equivalency Charges for Water Connection
Use Units Unit Factors
Equivalency Charges for Water Connection
Use                                                                            Units Unit Factors
Auto dealers                                                                   1.5   Per premises, plus 0.20 per 1,000 square feet of
                                                                                     building including service area
Auto repair/collision                                                          1.5   Per premises, plus 0.20 per 1,000 square feet of
                                                                                     building including service area
Auto wash (coin-operated do-it yourself—10 gallons or less per car)          1.2   Per stall
Auto wash (mechanical—over 10 gallons per car; not recycled)                 12.0  Per stall or production line including approach
                                                                                     and drying area
Auto wash (mechanical—over 10 gallons per car—recycled)                    6.0   Per stall or production line including approach
                                                                                     and drying area
Banks, savings and loans, other financial institutions                         0.75  Per 1,000 square feet minimum 1 unit
Barber shop                                                                    1.0   Per chair, plus 0.1 per chair after 2
Bar                                                                            2.5   Per bar, plus 5.0 per 1,000 square feet over 500
                                                                                     square feet
Beauty shops                                                                   1.0   Per shop, plus 0.1 per booth after 2
Bowling alleys (no bar)                                                        1.0   Per premises, plus 0.2 per alley
Campgrounds
   Modern campground with water and sewer to each                           0.5   Per site
   Modern campground serviced by a service building                         0.3   Per site
   Primitive campground operated in conjunction with a modern campground    0.18  Per site, laundry, community buildings and office
                                                                                     to be computed separately
Churches and funeral chapels                                                   0.25  Per 1,000 square feet, minimum 1 unit
Cleaners (cleaning and pressing facilities)                                    1.0   Per premises, plus 0.6 per 500 square feet
Clinics (medical or dental)                                                    1.0   Per premises, plus 0.6 per exam room
Convalescent or boarding homes                                                 1.5   Per premises, plus 0.25 per bedroom
Convents                                                                       1.0   Per premises, plus 0.25 per bedroom
Country clubs and athletic                                                     1.5   Per 1,000 square feet of clubhouse, plus 0.3 per
                                                                                     table
Drug store                                                                     1.0   Per premises, plus snack bar and 0.1 per square
                                                                                     feet
Factories (office and production—not wet process)                            0.40  Per 1,000 square feet, minimum 1 unit
Funeral home                                                                   1.5   Per 1,000 square feet, minimum 1 unit, plus
                                                                                     residence to be computed separately
Grocery stores (not in shopping centers)                                       1.0   Per premises plus 0.4 per 1,000 square feet
Hospitals                                                                      1.1   Per bed
Hotel, motels and bed and breakfast                                            0.50  Per bedroom, plus restaurant and bar and residence
Laundry (self serve)                                                           1.0   Per premises, plus 0.5 per washer
Two-family residential                                                         1.2   Per unit
Mobile homes (free standing)                                                   1.0   Per unit
Marina                                                                         0.2   Per slip, minimum 1.0 per marina, laundry and the
                                                                                     like to be computed separately
Mobile home parks                                                              1.0   Per pad or site
Multiple-family residence
   Duplex or row houses                                                     1.0   Per dwelling unit
   Apartment complexes                                                      1.0   Per dwelling unit
Multiple use shopping centers
   Base charge
   (a) 0.035 per 1,000 square feet of buildings
   (b) 0.0085 per 1,000 square feet of parking lots
   Additional charges
   (a) 0.5 per professional office
   (b) 0.3 per table, for restaurants serving only meals
   (c) 0.75 per 1,000 square feet for restaurants serving alcoholic beverages
   (d) 2 per bar plus 4.0 per 1,000 square feet over 500 square feet for bars
   (e) all other charges for other uses specified in table at 65% of charge
specified. (Each area to be measured individually.)
Professional offices                                                           0.25  Per 500 square feet, minimum 1 unit
Public institutions                                                            0.75  Per 800 square feet, minimum 2 units
Restaurants (meal only)                                                        0.3   Per table up to 15 tables; 0.5 per table
                                                                                     thereafter
Restaurants (meals and drinks)                                                 0.95  Per 1,000 square feet, minimum 5 units
Restaurants auxiliary; dining rooms when used less than 20 hours per week      1.5   Per 1,000 square feet, minimum 2 units
Schools
   Without cafeterias, gymnasiums or showers                                1.6   Per classroom
   With cafeterias, and without gyms or showers                             2.5   Per classroom, plus 3 per 1,000 square feet
                                                                                     cafeteria and kitchen area
   With cafeterias, gymnasiums and showers                                        Same as above, plus 2.2 per 1,000 square feet for
                                                                                     gym and locker room area
Service stations                                                               0.6   Per 1,000 square feet of building area—minimum 1
                                                                                     unit
                                                                                     Per table up to 15 tables; 0.5 per table
Snack bars, drive-ins and the like                                             0.3   thereafter. Add for drive-in windows 20% of tables
                                                                                     for each window a minimum total of 5 units,
                                                                                     whichever is greater
Retail stores (other than listed)                                                    Per premises, plus 0.2 per 1,000 square feet
Theaters (drive in)                                                            0.05  Per car space—minimum 1 unit
Theaters                                                                       0.05  Per seat—minimum 1 unit
Post office                                                                    1.0   Per 1,000 square feet, minimum 1 unit
Warehouse and storage                                                          0.1   Per 1,000 square feet, minimum 1 unit
Veterinary facility                                                            1.8   Per facility
Veterinary facility with kennel                                                1.8   Per facility, plus 0.5 per 5 kennels
 
      (2)   The charges to be computed on the basis hereinbefore set forth
shall apply to all parcels of land split from a previously assessed parcel, or
to a parcel that was not previously assessed, or to any parcel that was in Pub.
Act 116 of 1974, that was not fully and completely assessed, for a water line
connection in the assessment roll or rolls of the water supply district as
previously confirmed by or in the assessment rolls for the water supply
district confirmed on 10-7-1991. It has been determined that the minimum sum
for a tap-in fee shall be paid, or an agreement to pay that minimum sum shall
be made before a tap in to the water supply system is made, so as to pay for
the water supply facilities constructed to service the area commonly known as
Water Supply District No. 2. The township has determined that the minimum basic
connection or tap-in fee shall be as set forth in this section, for the
privilege of tapping in, or connecting to the water supply system, subject to
the equivalency charges as set forth in this section, or any amendment thereto.
In addition to the foregoing enumeration of costs, and charges for the tap-in
privilege to the water supply system, interest shall be charged on any unpaid
part or portion of the tap-in fee at the rate of 6% per annum. In addition
thereto an inflation factor of 5% per year shall be added to the minimum tap-in
fee as determined in this section, computed from 11-1-1991, to the date of
payment of the minimum tap-in fee, or until a contract is executed between the
property owner and the township, agreeing to pay the minimum tap-in fee.
   (D)   This section shall be given immediate effect, upon the publication
thereof, inasmuch as it pertains to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the township.
(Ord. 94-1-W, passed 1-17-1994)
§ 52.02 WATER DISTRICT NO. 3.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the "Hook Up or Connection Charge
Ordinance for Water District No. 3", and any subdivision thereof. The purpose
of this section is to establish minimum and uniform costs and charges for the
privilege of hooking up, or tapping into the township water supply system, and
to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare and safety of
the public, and the protection of the water supply system of the township.
   (B)   The legal description of Water Extension No. 3, Special Assessment
District, shall be as described in the resolution confirming the special
assessment roll, dated 11-12-1992, and shall be all of the lands and parcels
set forth in the resolution, and Appendix A, Appendix B, Appendix C and all of
the exhibits attached to the resolution.
   (C)   The following cost connection charges or tap-in fees shall be made for
a water service connection to the township water supply system known and
referred to as Water Supply District No. 3 and any subdivisions thereof.
      (1)   Any parcel of property, except as provided in division (C)(2)
below, hereafter created as a result of a land division from a previously
assessed parcel located in the Water Supply District No. 3 or that was
previously exempt pursuant to Pub. Act 116 of 1974, the owner of the created
parcel shall be responsible for the payment of an amount determined by the "out
of formula" rate as established by Res. 02-03, as amended, before a tap into
the water supply system is made, so as to pay for the future maintenance and
upgrades of the water supply facilities constructed to service the area
commonly known as Water Supply District No. 3.
      (2)   The owners of the following parcels of property shall be entitled
to connect to the township water supply in the future upon full payment of $650
to the Township Treasurer or his or her designee and not the amount determined
by the "out of formula" rate as established by Res. 02-03, as amended:
18-13-4-29-3002-001
18-13-4-29-3002-002
18-13-4-29-3003-002
18-13-4-29-4002-001
18-13-4-29-4002-002
18-13-4-29-4003-000
18-13-4-32-1002-005
18-13-4-32-2001-004
18-13-4-32-3003-000
 
      (3)   For parcels of property that were not included in the County
Special Assessment District Water Extension No. 3, Special Assessment Roll, as
confirmed on 11-12-1992, that are located in Water District No. 3 that have
paid or entered into an agreement with the township to pay for the costs,
charges, expenses and tap-in fees charged as a condition precedent to
connecting or hooking up to the township water supply system in Water Supply
District No. 3, prior to 7-26-2006, the Township Board hereby directs that the
a prorated refund be given among the properties in accordance with the amount
charged against each property as multiplied by 34.99929%. The prorated surplus
shall be applied toward the payment of the installments next coming due to the
extent that there are unpaid installments with respect to the properties;
thereafter, any prorated surplus remaining shall be applied toward the payment
of the next township tax levied against the properties, or if there be no tax
it shall be refunded to the persons who are the respective record owners of the
properties on the date hereof.
   (D)   This section shall be given immediate effect, upon the publication
thereof, inasmuch as it pertains to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the township.
(Ord. 93-7-W, passed 12-20-1993; Ord. 06-12-W, passed 7-26-2006; Ord. 6-13-W,
passed 9-19-2006)
§ 52.03 WATER DISTRICT NO. 4.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the "Hook Up or Connection Charge
Ordinance for Water District No. 4", and any subdivisions thereof. The purpose
of this section is to establish minimum and uniform costs and charges for the
privilege of hooking up, or tapping into the township water supply system, and
to promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare and safety of
the public and the protection of the water supply system of the township.
   (B)   The legal description of Water District No. 4, Special Assessment
District, shall be as described in the resolution confirming the revised
special assessment roll, dated 2-21-1994, and shall be all of the lands and
parcels set forth in the resolution, and Appendix A, Appendix B, Appendix C and
all of the exhibits attached to the resolution.
   (C)   The following cost connection charges or tap-in fees shall be made for
a water service connection to the township water supply system known and
referred to as Water Supply District No. 4, and any subdivisions thereof.
      (1)   The following shall apply to all owners of real property, listed as
such, in the revised assessment roll dated 2-21-1994. As to all owners of
property as listed in the revised assessment roll dated 2-21-1994, who were not
assessed for the water supply facilities to be constructed, and who make
application to have a parcel of real property, lifted in the revised assessment
roll dated 2-21-1994, or any split therefrom connected to the water supply
system, shall pay an assessment and fees as follows: as to all parcels of land
within Water Supply District No. 4, which were not assessed in the revised
assessment roll dated 2-21-1994, or any splits therefrom, shall be required to
pay a connection fee of $8,000, plus a tap-in fee of $1,500, plus interest on
any unpaid balance or installments at 6% per annum until paid.
      (2)   The following shall apply to all owners of real property, other
than as referred to in division (C)(1) above: as to all owners of property, who
were not listed as owners in the revised assessment roll dated 2-21-1994, and
which parcels were not assessed for water supply facilities, and as to any
splits from a parcel of property, listed in the revised assessment roll dated
2-21-1994, which was assessed for water supply facilities, shall pay an
assessment or fees as follows.
         (a)   Residential assessments. A parcel of real property upon which
there is a residential structure, of less than four residential units, shall be
assessed, or a connection fee paid of $7,500, plus an additional tap-in fee of
$1,000, plus interest on all unpaid installments of 6% per annum until paid,
         (b)   Assessment for all other uses. A parcel of real property used
and utilized for commercial business, or institutional use, and for residential
uses exceeding four residential units, shall pay an assessment of $7,500, plus
a tap-in fee of $1,000, for a two-inch line or less, and for a line that
exceeds two inches, an assessment of $7,500, plus the square of the radius of
the water line times $1,000, plus interest on all unpaid installments of 6% per
annum until paid.
      (3)   The connection or tap-in charges as set forth herein may be spread
over a period of 20 years. Any owner, person or party who shall not pay cash
for a connection or tap-in fee, shall be required to sign a contract or
agreement to be prepared by the township; providing, in part, that the unpaid
installments shall become a lien on the property to which the water line
connection is made. All unpaid installments of special assessments shall bear
interest at the rate of 6% per annum. The township has determined that the
charges set forth herein shall be paid, or an agreement to pay the charges,
shall be made before any tap in to the water supply system is made or
completed. The charges to be computed on the basis hereinbefore set forth shall
apply to all parcels of land split from the previously assessed parcel, or to a
parcel that was not previously assessed, or to any parcel that was in Pub. Act
116 of 1974, that was not fully and completely assessed for a water line
connection in the assessment roll or assessment rolls, as finally revised and
confirmed.
   (D)   This section shall be given immediate effect, upon the publication
thereof, inasmuch as it pertains to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the township.
(Ord. 94-4-W, passed 2-21-1994)
§ 52.04 WATER DISTRICT NO. 5.
   (A)   This section shall be known as the "Hook Up or Connection Charge
Ordinance for Water District No. 5", and any subdivisions thereof. The purpose
of this section is to establish minimum and uniform costs and charges for the
privilege of hook up or tapping into the township water supply system, and to
promote the public health, safety, morals and general welfare and safety of the
public, and the protection of the water supply system of the township.
   (B)   The legal description of Water District No. 5, Special Assessment
District, shall be as described in the resolution confirming the special
assessment roll, dated 8-21-1995, and shall be all of the lands and parcels set
forth in the resolution, and Appendix A and Appendix B and all of the exhibits
attached to the resolution.
   (C)   The following cost connection charges or tap-in fees shall be made for
a water service connection of the township water supply system known and
referred to as Water Supply District No. 5, and any subdivisions thereof.
      (1)   The following shall apply to all owners of real property, listed as
such, in the assessment roll, dated 8-21-1995. As to all owners of property as
listed in the assessment roll, dated 8-21-1995, who were not assessed for the
water supply facilities to be constructed, and who make application to have a
parcel of real property, listed in the assessment roll dated 8-21-1995, or any
split therefrom connected to the water supply system, shall pay an assessment
and fees as follows: as to all parcels of land within Water Supply District No.
5, which were not assessed in the assessment roll dated 8-21-1995, or any
splits therefrom, shall be required to pay a connection fee of $8,000, plus a
tap-in fee of $1,500, plus interest on any unpaid balance or installments at 7%
per annum until paid.
      (2)   The following shall apply to all owners of real property, other
than as referred to in division (C)(1) above: as to all owners of property, who
were not listed as owners of the assessment roll, dated 8-21-1995, and which
parcels, were not assessed for water supply facilities, and as to any splits
from a parcel of property, listed in the assessment roll, dated 8-21-1995,
which was assessed for water supply facilities, shall pay an assessment or fees
as follows.
         (a)   Residential assessments. A parcel of real property upon which
there is a residential structure, of less than four residential units, shall be
assessed, or a connection fee paid of $7,500, plus an additional tap-in fee of
$1,000, plus interest on all unpaid installments of 7% per annum until paid.
         (b)   Assessment for all other uses. A parcel of real property used
and utilized for commercial, business or institutional use, and for residential
uses exceeding four residential units, shall pay an assessment of $7,500, plus
a tap-in fee of $1,000, for a two-inch line or less and for a line that exceeds
two inches, an assessment of $7,500, plus a square of the radius of the water
line times $1,000, plus interest on all unpaid installments of 7% per annum
until paid.
      (3)   The connection or tap-in charges as set forth herein may be spread
over a period of 20 years. Any owner, person or party who shall not pay cash
for a connection or tap-in fee, shall be required to sign a contract agreement
to be prepared by the township; providing, in part, that the unpaid
installments shall become a lien on the property to which the water line
connection is made. All unpaid installments of special assessments shall bear
interest at the rate of 7% per annum. The township has determined that the
charges set forth herein shall be paid, or an agreement to pay the charges
shall be made before any tap into the water supply system is made or completed.
The charges to be computed on the basis hereinbefore set forth shall apply to
all parcels of land split from a previously assessed parcel, or to a parcel
that was not previously assessed, or to any parcel that was in Pub. Act 116 of
1975, that was not fully and completely assessed for a water line connection in
the assessment roll or assessment rolls, as finally revised and confirmed.
   (D)   This section shall be given immediate effect, upon the publication
thereof, inasmuch as it pertains to the health, welfare and safety of the
citizens of the township.
(Ord. 95-1-W, passed 8-21-1995)
CHAPTER 53: RUBBISH
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Short title
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Collection by township
   
53.04   Collection supervised by the Supervisor
   
53.05   On-site burning
   
53.06   Scavenging of refuse materials
   
53.07   Disposal of refuse
   
53.08   Effective date
Pre-Collection Practices
   
53.20   Preparation of refuse
   
53.21   Refuse containers
   
53.22   Storing of refuse
   
53.23   Points of collection
Collection Practices
   
53.35   Frequency of collection
   
53.36   Limitation on quantity
Service Charges
   
53.50   Amount of service charge
   
53.51   Persons to be charged
   
53.52   Billing procedure
Cross-reference:
   Junk and Rubbish, see
Ch. 94
   Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 91
   Weeds, see
Ch. 95
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Kochville Township
Rubbish Pickup Ordinance".
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ASHES. The residue from the burning of wood, coal, coke or other combustible
materials.
   DWELLING UNIT. A building, or a portion thereof, designed for occupancy by
one family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities.
   FAMILY. One or two persons or parents with their direct lineal descendants
and adopted children (and including the domestic employees thereof); together
with not more than two persons not related, living together in the whole or
part of a dwelling unit comprising a single housekeeping unit.
   GARBAGE. Putrescible animal and vegetable wastes resulting from the
handling, preparation, cooking and consumption of food.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation or company
of any kind.
   REFUSE. A putrescible and non-putrescible solid wastes, except body wastes,
animal droppings or entrails, including garbage, rubbish, ashes, street
cleanings and solid market wastes.
   RESIDENCE. Any building or a portion thereof which is occupied for living
purposes, but does not include a building used as a motel, hotel or mobile home
in a state-licensed park.
   RUBBISH. Non-putrescible solid wastes (excluding ashes), consisting of both
combustible and non-combustible wastes, such as paper, cardboard, tin cans,
yard clippings, wood, glass, bedding, crockery, household appliances and
similar materials.
   SUPERVISOR. The Township Supervisor of the Township of Kochville.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
§ 53.03 COLLECTION BY TOWNSHIP.
   (A)   All refuse accumulated in the township shall be collected, conveyed
and disposed of by the township or contract hauler under contract to the
township. No persons shall collect, convey over any of the streets or alleys of
the township, or dispose of any refuse accumulated in the township.
   (B)   All dwelling units, multi-family residences and residences shall be
required to use the services of the township or contract hauler provided by the
township for disposal of refuse and shall engage the service within 30 days
after mailing of a notice of the availability to the premises by appropriate
township personnel.
   (C)   The township shall not pick up, haul or dispose of the refuse
accumulated by any commercial or industrial establishment or state-licensed
trailer coach park within the township, except that it is hereby provided that
all commercial or industrial establishments shall make adequate and proper
provision for the disposal of refuse accumulated on the premises of the
commercial or industrial establishment so as to prevent the accumulation from
becoming unsafe, unsanitary, unsightly or a nuisance.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.04 COLLECTION SUPERVISED BY THE SUPERVISOR.
   (A)   All refuse accumulated in the township shall be collected, conveyed
and disposed of by the contract hauler under the supervision of the Township
Supervisor.
   (B)   The Township Supervisor shall have the authority to make regulations
concerning the days of collection, routes of collection vehicles, type and
location of waste containers and other matters pertaining to the collection,
conveyance and disposal as he or she shall find necessary, and to change and
modify the same; provided that, the regulations are not contrary to the
provisions hereof.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
§ 53.05 ON-SITE BURNING.
   (A)   No person shall burn or permit to be burned on the premises within his
or her control any rubbish unless the same shall be burned in a completely
enclosed incinerator properly designed to prevent the emission of smoke, flying
paper and ash therefrom.
   (B)   A permit must be obtained from the Supervisor for any open burning.
The permit will be issued at the direction of the Supervisor.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.06 SCAVENGING OF REFUSE MATERIALS.
   Scavenging and junk picking of refuse materials placed for collection at the
curb is hereby expressly prohibited.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.07 DISPOSAL OF REFUSE.
   The township shall contract with a licensed contractor who has compiled with
all the statutes of the state and the municipal ordinance of the township and
its rules and regulations relative to the collection, transportation and
disposal of refuse. The contract hauler may be selected at the discretion of
the Township Board after providing adequate and sufficient public liability and
property damage insurance, as well as performance bond, all of the policies of
insurance to be in an amount determined by the Township Board. The Township
Board shall accept bids from qualified contract haulers and upon acceptance of
a bid from a suitable contract hauler shall enter into a contract for service
with the bidder as in the discretion of the Township Board shall adequately
serve the needs and requirements of the residents of the township.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
§ 53.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective immediately.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
PRE-COLLECTION PRACTICES
§ 53.20 PREPARATION OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Garbage. All garbage, before being placed in garbage cans for
collections, shall have drained from it all free liquids and shall be wrapped
in paper.
   (B)   Rubbish. All rubbish shall be drained of liquid before being deposited
for collection.
   (C)   Trimmings and clippings. Tree trimmings, hedge clippings and similar
material shall be cut to length not to exceed four feet and securely tied in
bundles not more than two feet thick before being deposited for collection.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.21 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Duty to provide and maintain in sanitary condition. Refuse containers
shall be provided by the owner, tenant, lessee or occupant of the premises.
Refuse containers shall be maintained in good condition. Any container that
does not conform to the provisions of this chapter, or that may have ragged or
sharp edges or any other defect liable to hamper or injure the person
collecting the contents thereof shall be promptly replaced upon notice. The
Supervisor shall have the authority to refuse collection services for failure
to comply herewith.
   (B)   Materials. Containers shall be made of metal or plastic, equipped with
suitable handles and tight fitting covers, and shall be water tight. Disposable
water proof bags may also be used.
   (C)   Capacity. Containers shall have a capacity of not more than 20 gallons
and shall be of a kind suitable for collection purposes and shall be of such
weight that they can be handled by one man.
   (D)   Sanitation. Containers shall be of a type approved by the township and
shall be kept in a clean, neat and sanitary condition at all times.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.22 STORING OF REFUSE.
   (A)   Public or private places. No person shall place any refuse in any
street, alley or other public place, or upon any private property, whether
owned by the person or not, within the township, except it be in proper
containers for collection, or under express approval granted by the Supervisor.
Nor shall any person throw or deposit any refuse in any stream or other body of
water.
   (B)   Burning and burying. No person shall throw any refuse upon the grounds
or burn the same in any manner that may menace the public health, cause a
nuisance or smoke ash or offensive odors, or burn the same in any manner that
may constitute a sight hazard.
   (C)   Unauthorized accumulation. Any unauthorized accumulation of refuse on
any premises is hereby declared to be a nuisance and is prohibited. Failure to
remove any existing accumulation or refuse within 30 days after the effective
date of this chapter shall be deemed a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Scattering of refuse. No person shall cast, place, sweep or deposit
anywhere within the township any refuse in a manner that it may be carried or
deposited by elements upon any street, sidewalk, alley, sewer, parkway or other
public place, or into any occupied premises within the township.
   (E)   Cleanliness. It shall be the duty of each owner, tenant, lessee or
occupant of any building, residential or commercial, having refuse to provide
for and have within the building storage containers of sufficient size to
handle the accumulation of refuse on the premises during the interval between
collection periods.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 53.23 POINTS OF COLLECTION.
   Refuse containers in residential areas shall be placed for collection at the
curbside in front of the property after 12:00 noon the day prior to collection.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
COLLECTION PRACTICES
§ 53.35 FREQUENCY OF COLLECTION.
   (A)   Refuse accumulated by residences, dwelling units or multi-family
residences shall be collected once each week throughout the entire year.
   (B)   The collection schedule shall be arranged so that the collection shall
fall upon the same day of the week, except for interruptions due to holidays.
   (C)   Should a collection day fall upon a holiday, then the Supervisor shall
set another day for the collection of the refuse and give reasonable notice of
the collection day.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
§ 53.36 LIMITATION ON QUANTITY.
   A reasonable accumulation of refuse for each residence or dwelling unit
shall be collected during a collection period for the standard charge.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
SERVICE CHARGES
§ 53.50 AMOUNT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The service charges for collection and disposal of refuse placed for
collection at curbside for residences, dwelling units and multiple-family
residences shall be set for each calendar year by resolution of the Township
Board for the township and cover all or any part of the cost to the township
for operation of the system and a portion thereof as may be deemed sufficient
to be set aside as a sinking fund for the development of the system, and shall
control for the ensuing calendar year.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
§ 53.51 PERSONS TO BE CHARGED.
   The service charge shall be made to the owners of all residences, multiple-
family residences and dwelling units in the township and shall pay to the
township the service charge for availability of the service as established by
the Township Board.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
§ 53.52 BILLING PROCEDURE.
   The charge for refuse service for the entire year shall be spread upon the
tax roll for the calendar year as a charge for availability of the services for
the year, and the charge for refuse service shall be collected, returned and
enforced in the same manner as the township taxes are certified, assessed,
collected and returned.
(Ord. 73-8-R, passed 9-17-1973)
CHAPTER 54: SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
   
54.01   Purpose
   
54.02   Definitions
   
54.03   Permit required
   
54.04   Connection required
   
54.05   Building sewer connections
   
54.06   Building sewer materials and specifications
   
54.07   Capital fee required
   
54.08   Prohibited use of the public sewers; interceptors; pretreatment
   
54.09   Protection from damage
   
54.10   Powers and authority of inspectors
   
54.11   Conditions of service
   
54.12   Billing
   
54.13   Interruption in service
   
54.14   Sanitary sewer rates, fees, and charges
   
54.15   Effective date
 
   
54.99   Penalty
§ 54.01 PURPOSE.
   The township provides sanitary sewer disposal services within designated
areas of the township. This chapter is intended to regulate the areas of the
township where public sewer is available or become available in the future.
Additionally, this chapter is intended to regulate the areas of the township
where public sewer is not available until such time as public sewer becomes
available in the future.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drain system
which receives the discharge from soil, waste and other drainage pipes inside
the walls of the building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning five
feet outside the inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   CAPITAL FEE (formally known as connection fee or facility unit charge).
Capital Fee shall be based on the present worth of the system as determined by
the township and shall be reviewed from time to time. CAPITAL FEES shall be a
set forth in the Township Rate Resolution.
   COUNTY. The County of Saginaw in the State of Michigan.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food,
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The liquid wastes from industrial, manufacturing,
process, trade, or business processes as distinct from sewage.
   INSPECTOR(S). Any person or persons duly authorized by the Township Board to
inspect and approve the installation of building sewers and their connection to
the public sewer.
   MANAGER. The person appointed by the Township Board or his or her designee
to supervise and enforce the provisions of this chapter or ordinance.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a water course, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or ground water.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, company, association, society, corporation or
group, public or private.
   PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. A sewage disposal system and all associated
facilities and appurtenances constructed in compliance with the requirements of
township's ordinances and specifications and the Health Department and the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and paid for by a private
individual, corporation, partnership, or other legal entity
   PUBLIC SEWER or SYSTEM. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and
disposing of sewage in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public authority and is constructed by, on behalf
of, or owned by the township to serve the township and its residents as well as
all future improvements, extensions and enlargements thereof which carries
sewage and to which storm, surface and ground waters are not admitted.
   QUARTER. A consecutive three-month period and shall coincide with the water
billing period for the premises if furnished water by a public supply.
   SANITARY SEWER RATES. Sanitary sewer rates shall be established by
resolution of the Township Board and shall be based on 1,000 gallons of water
service during a quarter billing period.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Township Board of the Township of Kochville, the
legislative and governing body thereof.
   UNIT. With respect to sanitary sewer rates for a particular premise, shall
be deemed to be the equivalent of a household. Unless otherwise provided, the
number of units assigned to a particular premise shall be as established by
resolution of the Township Board.
   USER. Any premises connected to a public sewer and include appurtenant land
and improvements.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.03 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to uncover, make any connections with or opening
into, use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without
first obtaining a written permit from the township and paying all necessary
permit application fees. The permit application shall be available at the
township and the fees shall be established resolution adopted by the Township
Board.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person without a permit to place, deposit
or permit to be deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private
property within the township or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
township, any human or animal excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste
which ordinarily would be regarded as sewage or industrial wastes.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to discharge without a permit into any natural
outlet within the township, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the
township, any sanitary sewage, industrial waste or other polluted waters,
except where suitable treatment has been provided in accordance with subsequent
provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   The Township Board may refuse to grant or may revoke any permit issued
under this chapter if it appears to the Township Board that the person
requesting or having been granted the permit has violated the terms and
conditions of this chapter.
   (E)   The permits shall be valid for a period of one year. Thereafter, the
permit holder shall re-apply for a permit pursuant to §
54.03(A) above.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.04 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Public sewers.  The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used
for human occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes situated within
the township, and abutting within 200 feet any street or as required by the
State Board of Health and the County Health Department, alley or right-of-way
in which there is now located or may in the future be located a public sewer of
the township is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable
toilet facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this chapter, no later than
six months (180 days) after notice is published by the township in a newspaper
of general circulation stating that the public sewer is available for
connections.
   (B)   Private sewer system.
      (1)   Where a public sewer is not available the building sewer shall be
connected to a private sewage disposal system complying with all requirements
of the township, the State Board of Health, the County Health Department, and
all state and federal rules and regulations, where applicable.
      (2)   Unless otherwise approved, all sewage disposal systems shall be
gravity.
      (3)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities In a sanitary manner at all times, at no expense to the township.
      (4)   In the event that a private sewage disposal system located on
private property shall fail, the township shall provide the owner or occupant
of the property with written notice to correct the failing system. If the owner
or occupant of the property thereafter fails to timely repair or replace the
failing private disposal system, the township may, upon receiving a court
order, enter upon the property to repair or replace the private sewage disposal
system and the cost of the repair shall become a debt of the owner or occupant
of the property and subject to §
54.13(G).
      (5)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to
interfere with any additional requirements that may be imposed by the State
Board of Health, the County Health Department, and all state and federal rules
and regulations, where applicable.
      (6)   At such time as the public sewer becomes an available public sewer
capable of serving a premise, lot, or parcel previously served by a private
sewer, the private sewer shall be abandoned for sanitary use in the manner
required by the Health Department.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.05 BUILDING SEWER CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation and connection
of the building sewer shall be borne by the owner. The owner, or the person
installing the building sewer for the owner, shall indemnify the township from
any loss or damage that may directly or indirectly be occasioned by the
installation.
   (B)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building, except where one building stands at the rear of another on an
interior lot and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear through an adjoining alley, court, yard or driveway. The building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building and the whole
considered as one building sewer. Other exceptions will be allowed only by
special permission granted by the manager.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.06 BUILDING SEWER MATERIALS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The building sewer shall be constructed of concrete sewer pipe and
fittings meeting the current A.S.T.M. specifications, extra strength concrete
sewer pipe or poly-vinyl chloride SDR 26 plastic pipe. If installed in filled
or unstable ground, the building sewer shall be of cast iron soil pipe; except
that, concrete pipe or plastic pipe may be accepted if laid on a suitable bed
or cradle as approved by the inspector.
   (B)   All joints and connections shall be made gas tight and water tight.
Poly-vinyl chloride SDR 26 plastic pipe shall bell and spigot, with spigot
tapered to accept gasket joint. All PVC pipe joints shall be rubber gasket
conforming to ASTM D-3212 and ASTM D1869. Lubricant shall be water soluble,
non-toxic, and have no deteriorating effect on the PVC or rubber gaskets. The
joints and connections shall conform to the manufacturer's recommendations.
   (C)   The size and slope of the building sewers shall be subject to the
approval of the Inspector, but in no event shall the diameter be less than six
inches; except that, for poly-vinyl chloride SDR 26 plastic pipe, the diameter
shall not be less than four inches. The slope of the pipe shall not be less
than one-eighth inch per foot, except as otherwise approved by the manager.
   (D)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within three feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. All
excavations required for the installation of a building sewer shall be open
trench work unless otherwise approved by the inspector. Pipe laying and
backfill shall be performed in accordance with current A.S.T.M. specifications;
except that, no backfill shall be placed until the work has been inspected by
the inspector.
   (E)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sewage carried by the drains shall be lifted
by approved artificial means and discharged to the building sewer at the
expense of the owner.
   (F)   The connection of the building sewer into the public sewer shall be
made at the "Y" or "T" branch designated for that property, if the branch is
available at a suitable location. Any connection not made at the designated "Y"
or "T" branch in the public sewer main shall be made only as directed by the
inspector.
   (G)   The applicant for the building sewer shall notify the inspector no
less than 24 hours prior to the building sewer being ready for inspection and
connection to the public sewer. The connection shall be made under the
supervision of the inspector or manager or his or her designee.
   (H)   All excavations for building sewer installation shall be adequately
guarded with barricades and lights so as to protect the public from hazard,
streets, sidewalks, parkways and other public property disturbed in the course
of work shall be restored in a manner satisfactory to the township.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.07 CAPITAL FEE REQUIRED.
   In addition to the permit application fee required pursuant to §
54.03:
   (A)   Residential connection. Each residence in the township abutting a
street or easement in which a public sewer is available within 200 feet, shall
be connected to the public sewer and at the time of connection, shall pay a
capital fee to the township as set forth in the rate resolution.
   (B)   Non-residential connection. In addition to the permit application fee
required pursuant to §
54.02(A), each business, commercial or property other than a single-family
residence from which sewage is generated and which abuts a street or easement
in which a sewage is installed shall connect to the public sewer if the public
sewer is available within 200 feet.
   (C)   Expansion or change in use. At the time of original connection,
expansions or change of existing use, additional capital fee shall be paid to
the township if the manager determines that the expansion or change of existing
use will increase the discharge of sewage to the public sewer.
   (D)   Special assessment credit. Provided, however, the capital fee will be
reduced in the amount of any assessment against the premises for public sewer
improvements which has been paid for or is an outstanding lien in an amount not
to exceed the computed capital fee. Credit shall also be allowed for
installation or extension of public sewer mains installed by the developer in
an amount not to exceed the computed capital fee.
   (E)   Multiple buildings/one connection. Where multiple buildings are served
by one connection, the total capital fee shall be the sum of REUs as determined
by the manager.
   (F)   Promissory note. The capital fee set forth above for each lot or
parcel must be paid prior to issuance of any permits. If the fees are in excess
of $80,000, the township may offer the developer an opportunity to execute a
promissory note providing for payment in four equal annual installments plus
interest at a rate to be determined by the Township Board. Until the promissory
note is paid in full. A lien shall be filed by the township against the
property. The first installment shall be paid at the time of connection to the
public sewer and the remaining three payments shall be paid on dates
established by the Township Board. Any installment payments which have not been
paid by the due date shall be subject to provisions of §
54.14(G).
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.08 PROHIBITED USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS; INTERCEPTORS; PRETREATMENT.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged any storm water,
surface water, ground water, roof runoff, foundation drainage, cooling water or
unpolluted industrial process waters into any public sewer.
   (B)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged to any public
sewer any harmful waters or wastes, whether liquid, solid or gas, capable of
causing obstruction to the flow in sewers, damage or hazard to structures,
equipment and personnel of the public sewer or other interference with the
proper operation of the public sewer.
   (C)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Inspector, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amount, or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients; except that, the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. Where installed, they shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operations at all times.
   (D)   The admission into the public sewers of any waters or wastes having
harmful or objectionable characteristics shall be subject to the review and
approval of the manager, who may prescribe limits on the strength and character
of these waters or wastes. Where necessary, in the opinion of the manager, the
owner shall provide, at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be
necessary to treat these wastes prior to discharge to the public sewer. Plans,
specifications and any other pertinent information relative to proposed
preliminary treatment facilities shall be submitted for the approval of the
manager and any other regulatory agency, and no construction of the facilities
shall be commenced until the approval is obtained in writing. Where preliminary
treatment facilities are provided for any waters or wastes, they shall be
maintained continuously in satisfactory and effective operation by the owner at
his or her expense.
   (E)   When required by the manager, the owner of any property served by a
building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install and maintain at his or
her expense a suitable control manhole in the building sewer to facilitate
observation, sampling and measurement of the wastes. All measurements, tests
and analysis of the characteristics of waters and wastes shall be determined in
accordance with Standard Methods for the Examination of Waters and Sewage, and
shall be determined at the control manhole or upon suitable samples taken at
the control manhole.
   (F)   In the event that no special manhole has been required, the control
manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public
sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017) Penalty, see §
54.99
§ 54.09 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall maliciously, willfully or negligently break,
damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structural appurtenance or
equipment which is a part of the public sewer.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.10 POWERS AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   (A)   The manager, inspector and other duly authorized employees of the
township bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to
enter upon all properties during normal business hours for the purpose of
inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing, in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   While performing the necessary work on private properties referred to
in division (A) above, the duly authorized employee of the township shall
observe all safety rules applicable to the premises established by the owner or
proprietor, who shall be held harmless for injury or death to the employee and
the township shall indemnify the owner or proprietor against loss or damage to
his or her property by the employees and against liability claims and demands
for personal injury or property damage asserted against the owner or proprietor
and growing out of the gauging and sampling operation, except as such as may be
caused by negligence or failure of the owner or proprietor to maintain safe
conditions.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.11 CONDITIONS OF SERVICE.
   (A)   The developer/owner shall install and maintain, at its expense, that
portion of the service from the public sewer main to the building or structure.
   (B)   Applications may be cancelled and/or public sewer service discontinued
by the township for any violation of any rule, regulation or condition of
service, and especially for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   Misrepresentation in the application as to the property or fixtures
to be serviced by the public sewer; and/or
      (2)   Non-payment of bills.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.12 BILLING.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer bills and notices will be mailed to each parcel or
premises based on the sanitary sewer rates established by the Township Board
for the period immediately preceding the date of the bill to the customer at
the address listed on the application, unless a change of address has been
filed in writing at the business office of the township. The township shall not
otherwise be responsible for delivery of any bill or notice, nor will the
customer be excused from non-payment of a bill or from any performance required
in the notice. The township may send a combined bill for sanitary sewer rates
and water rates, and funds received by the township in payment of such combined
billing shall be applied first to sanitary sewer rates and then to water rates.
   (B)   Bills for sanitary sewer services are due and payable at the business
office of the township or to any designated agent of the township on the date
specified on the bill or notice. As the township combines its water and
sanitary sewer fees and charges into a single bill, all bills not paid when due
shall be deemed delinquent and shall be subject to a late charge as more fully
set forth in §
51.007(B)(7) of the Kochville Township, Michigan Code of Ordinances in addition
to the remedies set forth in §
54.14(G) of this chapter.
   (C)   Where the water or sanitary sewer service supplied to a customer has
been discontinued for non-payment of delinquent bill, the township reserves the
right to request a nominal sum to be placed on deposit with the township for
the purpose of establishing or maintaining any customer's credit. The
reconnection will not be made until after all delinquent bills and other
charges, if any, owed by the customer to the township have been paid.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.13 INTERRUPTION IN SERVICE.
   (A)   The township shall make all reasonable efforts to eliminate
interruption of service, and when the interruption occurs, will endeavor to re-
establish service with the shortest possible delay. Whenever service is
interrupted for purpose of working on the system or the treatment equipment,
all consumers affected by the interruption will be notified in advance whenever
it is possible to do so.
   (B)   Except as provided in Act 222 of the Michigan Public Act, the township
shall not be held responsible for claims made against it by reason of the
breaking of any mains or service pipes, or by reason of any other interruption
of the service caused by the breaking of machinery or stoppage for necessary
repairs; and no person shall be entitled to damages nor have any portions of a
payment refunded for any interruption.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.14 SANITARY SEWER RATES, FEES, AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Sanitary sewer rates shall be established by resolution by the
Township Board and shall be based on each 1,000 gallons of water service,
during a quarter period or other period determined by the Township Board,
considering the following factors:
      (1)   Rate. Rates for sanitary sewer service which are charges to the
township by Northwest Utilities Authority for wastewater treatment and any
applicable outside service agreement, as they may be amended from time to time.
      (2)   Operating costs. A proportionate share of the township's current
cost of operating the system based on system operating costs for the prior year
and projected expenses for the current operating year.
      (3)   Depreciation. A proportionate share of the annual use (wear and
tear) of the system assets based on the original value and the expected useful
life of the system assets.
      (4)   Debt service.  The cost of system improvements, alterations, and
extension that are paid for by the township.
   (B)   Capital Fee. A Capital Fee shall be charged for every new connection
to the public sewer and shall vary based on the size of the water service
connection. The facility unit charge shall be established by resolution of the
Township Board considering the following factors:
      (1)   Northwest Utilities Authority charges. Any charges set forth by
Northwest Utilities Authority for new connections to the public sewer.
      (2)   Capital Fee. An equitable buy-in to the sanitary sewer system.
There will be three separate groups for the Capital Fee:
         (a)   Group 1. Group 1 includes parcels or premises that are part of a
Township Public Sewer Special Assessment ("SAD"). Group 1 shall have the
Capital Fee reduced in the amount of any assessment against the premises for
public sewer improvements which has been paid for or is an outstanding lien in
an amount not to exceed the computed capital fee.
         (b)   Group 2. Group 2 includes parcels or premises that have
installed or extended public sewer at the sole expense of the developer. Group
2 shall have the Capital Fee reduced in an amount as set forth in the Township
Rate Resolution.
         (c)   Group 3. Group 2 includes all parcels or premises not in Group 1
or Group 2. Group 3 parcel or premises owners will pay an equity buy-in
component based on the present value of the entire system.
      (3)   Material costs. The actual cost of equipment and accessories, and
costs associated with such equipment and accessories.
      (4)   Inspection charges. The cost of inspection of any new public sewer
connections and appurtenances.
      (5)   Connection size. The required size of each new connection shall be
determined by the manager based on the corresponding water meter size and
proposed use of the parcel or premises.
   (C)   The Township Board shall establish a flat fee for customers who do not
receive water service from the township based upon the recommendation of the
manager after the manager has had an opportunity to inspect the premises. In
lieu of the flat fee, the customer may request a flow meter be installed and
the cost of sewer service shall thereafter be based on the rates established by
the Township Board via resolution.
   (D)   No free sanitary sewer service. No free sanitary sewer service shall
be furnished by the township to any person, firm, entity, public or private
corporation, or public agency or instrumentality.
   (E)   Outside service. The rates for public sewer service to a parcel or
premises outside the unincorporated areas of the township shall be specified by
resolution of the Township Board. The township shall not provide public sewer
outside of the unincorporated areas of the township except under a written
agreement approved by the Township Board (outside service agreement).
   (F)   Capital fee: rates: review and revision. Capital fee and sanitary
sewer rates shall be determined by resolution of the Township Board. The
Township Board shall make such rules, orders, and regulations, as it deems
advisable and necessary to assure the efficient management of the system and
shall make such adjustment to the sanitary sewer rates and capital fee as shall
appear proper under the circumstances.
   (G)   Collection: liens.
      (1)   The township and its departments are authorized to enforce the
payment of sanitary sewer rates and capital fees for sanitary sewer services by
discontinuing the sanitary sewer service to a parcel or premises delinquent in
payment of such sanitary sewer rates or capital fees in the manner and upon
such notice as determined by the Township Board. In addition, the township may
institute a civil action against the delinquent sanitary sewer service user to
recover any unpaid sanitary sewer rates or capital fees. When the public sewer
to any parcel or premises is discontinued to enforce payment, the public sewer
service shall not be started again until all delinquent charges have been paid;
including turn-off and turn-on charges in such amounts as shall be established
by the Township Board.
      (2)   The sanitary sewer rates which, under the Revenue Bond Act of 1933
(M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 et seq.), are made a lien on a parcel or premises to which
it is furnished are hereby recognized to constitute such lien. The Township
Treasurer shall annually report to the Township Board all unpaid sanitary sewer
rates, which have remained unpaid for a period of six months. The Township
Board may then, after due notice to the owners of a delinquent parcel or
premises; assess the amount so found to be due as a tax against such parcel or
premises. The tax shall be certified to the Township Assessor, who shall place
it on the next tax roll of the township. The sanitary sewer rates so assessed
shall be collected in the same manner as general township taxes. When the
township is properly notified in accordance with the Revenue Bond Act of 1933
(M.C.L.A. §§ 141.101 et seq.) (the notice to include a true copy of the lease,
if there is one) that a tenant is responsible for the sanitary sewer rates,
public sewer service shall not be started or continued to such parcel or
premises until there has been deposited with the department of a sum sufficient
to cover twice the average quarterly bill for such parcel or premises, as
estimated by the department. A similar deposit may also be required by the
department in cases where the person applying for services has a delinquent
utility account or has had services shut off in the last 180 days because of
nonpayment at another location. Such deposits shall be applied against any
delinquent sanitary sewer rates. If the deposit satisfies the delinquency,
public sewer service shall not be discontinued. No deposit shall bear interest.
Each deposit, or any remaining balance, shall be returned to the person making
the deposit when public sewer service is discontinued or, except as to tenants
as to whom notice of responsibility for such sanitary sewer rates have been
filed with the township, when any eight successive quarterly bills have been
paid with no delinquency.
   (H)   Revenues. The revenues of the system as collected shall be set aside
in a separate utility fund and shall be accounted for in the manner required by
state law.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.15 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter is to be in full force and effect 30 days after its passage,
approval and publication according to the law of the state.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
§ 54.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the township, for any expense, loss or damage occasioned the
township by reason of the violation.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation convicted of violating the provisions
of §
54.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subjected to a fine of not to exceed
$500 or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not exceeding 90 days, or
both the fine and imprisonment, in the discretion of the court, together with
the costs of the prosecution.
   (C)   Any person found to be violating any provision of this chapter shall
be served by the Township Board with written notice stating the nature of the
violation and providing a reasonable time limit for the satisfactory correction
thereof. The offender shall, within the period of time stated in the notice,
permanently cease all violations.
   (D)   Any person who shall continue any violation beyond the time limit
provided for in §
54.09(A) shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall
be fined in an amount of not to exceed $500. Each day in which the violation
shall continue shall be deemed a separate offense. The township may also apply
to the appropriate court for injunctive relief.
(Ord. 17-03, passed 3-20-2017)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
      Chapter
         
70.   PARKING RULES
CHAPTER 70: PARKING RULES
Section
   
70.01   Title
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Designation of zones
   
70.04   Parallel parking
   
70.05   Insufficient width of roadway
   
70.06   Prohibited places
   
70.07   Effective date
 
   
70.99   Penalty
§ 70.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Kochville Township
Parking Ordinance".
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STOPPING, STANDING or PARKING. When prohibited, any halting even momentarily
of a vehicle whether occupied, or not, except when necessary to avoid conflict
with other traffic or in compliance with the directions of a police officer or
traffic control sign or signal.
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971)
§ 70.03 DESIGNATION OF ZONES.
   (A)   The Township Board may determine and, by resolution, designate zones
where stopping, standing or parking is prohibited due to hazardous conditions
which may exist or where conditions exist which would cause undue delay to
traffic. The zones shall be designated by posting proper signs at those
locations and the distance between the signs shall not exceed 100 feet.
   (B)   With consent of the owners or persons in charge of private property
open to the general public for travel, the Township Board may determine and, by
resolution, designate no parking zones on that property and shall place and
maintain appropriate signs indicating the same.
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971)
§ 70.04 PARALLEL PARKING.
   No person shall stand or park a vehicle in a roadway other than parallel
with the edge of the roadway headed in the direction of lawful traffic movement
and with the right-hand wheels of the vehicle within 12 inches of the curb or
edge of the roadway, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.05 INSUFFICIENT WIDTH OF ROADWAY.
   No person shall park any vehicle upon a street in a manner or under
conditions as to leave available insufficient width of the roadway for free
movement of vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.06 PROHIBITED PLACES.
   (A)   No person shall stop, stand or park a vehicle, except when necessary
to avoid conflict with other traffic or in compliance with law or the
directions of a police officer or traffic-control device, in any of the
following places:
      (1)   On a sidewalk;
      (2)   In front of a public or private driveway;
      (3)   Within an intersection;
      (4)   Within 15 feet of a fire hydrant;
      (5)   On a crosswalk;
      (6)   Within 20 feet of a crosswalk, or if none, then within 15 feet of
the intersection of property lines at an intersection of streets;
      (7)   Within 30 feet upon the approach to any flashing beacon, stop sign,
yield sign or traffic-control sign located at the side of a street;
      (8)   Between a safety zone and the adjacent curb or within 30 feet of
points on the curb immediately opposite the ends of a safety zone, unless a
different length is indicated by signs or markings;
      (9)   Within 50 feet of the nearest rail of a railroad crossing;
      (10)   Within 20 feet of the driveway entrance to any fire station and on
side of a street opposite the entrance to any fire station within 75 feet of
the entrance when properly sign-posted;
      (11)   Alongside or opposite any street excavation or obstruction when
the stopping, standing or parking would obstruct traffic;
      (12)   On the street side of any vehicle stopped or parked at the edge or
curb of a street;
      (13)   Upon any bridge or other elevated structure upon a street or
within a street tunnel;
      (14)   Within 200 feet of an accident at which police officers are in
attendance;
      (15)   In front of any theater;
      (16)   In any place or in any manner so as to block immediate egress from
any emergency exit or exits, conspicuously marked as such, of buildings;
      (17)   In any place or in any manner so as to block or hamper the
immediate use of an immediate egress from any fire escape, conspicuously marked
as such, providing an emergency means of egress from any building; and/or
      (18)   At any place where official signs prohibit stopping, standing or
parking.
   (B)   No person shall park a vehicle upon any street for the principal
purpose of:
      (1)   Displaying the vehicle for sale;
      (2)   Washing, polishing, greasing or repairing the vehicle, except for
repairs necessitated by an emergency;
      (3)   Displaying advertising;
      (4)   Selling merchandise from the vehicle, except in a duly established
market place, or when so authorized or licensed under the ordinances of this
governmental unit; and/or
      (5)   Storage for more than 48 continuous hours.
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective 30 days from and after publication thereof.
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who violates any provision of this chapter shall, upon
conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days in jail, or both. Each day's failure of compliance with
any provision of this chapter shall constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Legal proceedings to enjoin the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction in the name
of the township. The action shall be taken only as authorized by the Township
Board.
(Ord. 71-4, passed 7-12-1971)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
90.   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS; RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
         
91.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
         
92.   PARKS AND RECREATION
         
93.   FALSE ALARMS
         
94.   BLIGHT ELIMINATION
         
95.   WEEDS
         
96.   LITTER CONTROL
         
97.   RENTAL HOUSING
CHAPTER 90: VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDERS; RIGHT-OF-WAY MANAGEMENT
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Purpose
   
90.002   Consistent interpretation
   
90.003   Definitions
   
90.004   Applicability to permittees; compliance, insurance exception
   
90.005   Performance bond or letter of credit; municipal requirement
   
90.006   Duties of permittee
   
90.007   Different terms
   
90.008   Interpretation and severability
   
90.009   Violations
   
90.010   Authorized officials
   
90.011   Effective date
Contacts, Maps and Plans
   
90.025   Permittee contacts
   
90.026   Route maps
   
90.027   As-built records
Use of Public Right-of-Way
   
90.040   Overlashing
   
90.041   No burden on public right-of-way
   
90.042   No priority
   
90.043   Restoration of property
   
90.044   Marking
   
90.045   Tree trimming
   
90.046   Installation and maintenance
   
90.047   Pavement cut coordination
   
90.048   Compliance with laws
   
90.049   Street vacation
   
90.050   Relocation
   
90.051   Public emergency
   
90.052   Miss dig
   
90.053   Underground relocation
   
90.054   Identification
Indemnification
   
90.065   Indemnity
   
90.066   Notice; cooperation
   
90.067   Settlement
Insurance
   
90.080   Coverage required
   
90.081   Additional insured
   
90.082   Qualified insurers
   
90.083   Deductibles
   
90.084   Contractors
   
90.085   Insurance primary
Removal
   
90.100   Removal; underground
   
90.101   Removal; aboveground
   
90.102   Schedule
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Under the Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act, video service
providers may obtain a franchise to provide video services in the municipality
using a standardized, uniform form of franchise agreement established by the
MPSC. This form includes the right to use the public right-of-way to provide
the service, but does not contain right-of-way management and related
provisions.
   (B)   Telecommunications providers who obtain a standardized, uniform form
of franchise agreement generally will have previously obtained from the
municipality a permit under the Metro Act to construct and maintain their
telecommunications facilities in the public right-of-way. The Metro Act permits
set forth the terms and conditions for the right-of-way usage; standard forms
of the permits were agreed to in a collaborative process between municipalities
and providers that was initiated by the MPSC and the standard forms have since
been approved by the legislature and the MPSC.
   (C)   Because telecommunications providers typically provide video services
over combined video and telecommunications facilities, the Metro Act permits
generally provide adequate public right-of-way related protections for the
municipality and the public when the providers are providing video services.
   (D)   Other video service providers, in particular new providers or existing
cable companies, may not have a Metro Act permit issued by the municipality.
   (E)   The Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act and the standardized,
uniform franchise agreement require video service providers to comply with all
valid and enforceable local regulations regarding the use and occupation of the
public right-of-way in the delivery of video services, including the police
powers of the franchising entity, and makes the right-of-way usage subject to
the laws of the state and the police powers of the franchising entity.
   (F)   The Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act and the standardized,
uniform franchise agreement state that franchising entities shall provide video
service providers with open, comparable, non-discriminatory and competitively
neutral access to the public right-of-way, and may not discriminate against a
video service provider for the authorization or placement of a video service or
communications network in the public right-of-way.
   (G)   The State Constitution reserves reasonable control of its highways,
streets, alleys and public places to local units of government.
   (H)   (1)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote and protect the public
health, safety and welfare and exercise reasonable control over the public
right-of-way by regulating the use and occupation of the rights-of-way by video
service providers who have a standardized, uniform franchise, but who lack a
Metro Act permit from the municipality.
      (2)   This chapter does so by setting forth terms and conditions for the
usage and occupation from the forms of Metro Act permit approved by the MPSC
and approved by the legislature in § 6(1) of the Metro Act, thus providing
open, comparable, non-discriminatory and competitively neutral access to the
public right-of-way and not discriminating against a video service provider for
the authorization or placement of a video service or communications network in
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.002 CONSISTENT INTERPRETATION.
   This chapter shall be interpreted and applied so as to be consistent with
the Metro Act and corresponding provisions of the forms of Metro Act permit
approved by the MPSC, including applicable MPSC, Metro Authority and court
decisions and determinations relating to same.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.003 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Uniform Video Services Local Franchise Act, being Pub. Act 480 of
2007, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3301 and following, as amended from time to time.
   CLAIMS. The meaning set forth in §
90.065.
   FACILITIES. The lines, equipment and other facilities of a permittee which
use or occupy the public right-of-way in the delivery of video services in the
municipality.
   FRANCHISE AGREEMENT. The franchise agreement entered into or possessed by a
video service provider with the municipality as required by § 3(1) of the Act,
if it is the standardized, uniform form of franchise agreement established by
the MPSC.
   MANAGER. The municipality's Supervisor or his or her designee.
   METRO ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being Pub. Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq.,
and following.
   METRO ACT PERMIT. A permit to use the public right-of-way issued by the
municipality under its ordinance implementing the Metro Act after a provider's
application for same to the municipality as set forth in this chapter.
   METRO AUTHORITY. The same meaning as "Authority" in the Metro Act.
   MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission, and shall have the same
meaning as the term "Commission" in the Act and the Metro Act.
   MUNICIPALITY. Kochville Township.
   PERMITTEE. A video service provider with a currently valid franchise
agreement, but without a currently valid Metro Act permit. Upon applying to the
municipality for and then obtaining a Metro Act permit from the municipality, a
video service provider is not a PERMITTEE and is no longer required to comply
with this chapter. A video service provider is also not a PERMITTEE and is not
required to comply with this chapter if it and the municipality enter into a
voluntary franchise agreement, as described in §
90.007.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, association, partnership, governmental
entity or any other legal entity.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The same meaning as in the Act.
   STREET CONSTRUCTION and STREET RESURFACING. The meanings set forth in §
90.047.
   VIDEO SERVICE. The same meaning as in the Act.
   VIDEO SERVICE PROVIDER. The same meaning as in the Act.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.004 APPLICABILITY TO PERMITTEES; COMPLIANCE, INSURANCE EXCEPTION.
   All permittees shall comply with this chapter; except that, a permittee need
not comply with the insurance provisions of §§
90.080 through
90.085 if it is maintaining the insurance required by § II.j. of its franchise
agreement (pertaining to incumbent video providers continuing certain insurance
provided under their preceding franchise).
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.005 PERFORMANCE BOND OR LETTER OF CREDIT; MUNICIPAL REQUIREMENT.
   The municipality may require permittee to post a bond (or letter of credit),
in the amount provided in § 15(3) of the Metro Act, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§ 484.3115(3).
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.006 DUTIES OF PERMITTEE.
   Permittees shall faithfully perform all duties required by this chapter.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.007 DIFFERENT TERMS.
   (A)   The Act allows local units of government and video service providers
to enter into voluntary franchise agreements that include terms and conditions
which are different from those required under the Act or which are different
from those in the standardized, uniform form of franchise agreement established
by the MPSC. The Metro Act allows municipalities and providers to mutually
agree to Metro Act permit terms differing from those in the standard forms of
Metro Act permit approved by the MPSC.
   (B)   Current or prospective permittees who desire terms different from
those in this chapter, as applied to them, should request a voluntary franchise
agreement or a mutually agreed to Metro Act permit from the municipality.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.008 INTERPRETATION AND SEVERABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be liberally construed to protect and
preserve the peace, health, safety and welfare of the public, and should any
provision or section of this chapter be held unconstitutional, invalid,
overbroad or otherwise unenforceable, the determination/holding shall not be
construed as affecting the validity of any of the remaining conditions of this
chapter. If any provision in this chapter is found to be partially overbroad,
unenforceable or invalid, the permittee and the municipality may nevertheless
enforce the provision to the extent permitted under applicable law.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.009 VIOLATIONS.
   A permittee who violates any provision of this chapter is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction and shall be subject to the civil infraction fines
and costs as provided in the municipality's ordinances or municipal code.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies available to
the municipality in the event of a violation by a permittee of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.010 AUTHORIZED OFFICIALS.
   The Manager, which includes his or her designee, is hereby designated as the
authorized official of the municipality to issue municipal civil infraction
citations (directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil
infraction violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the
Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau) for violations of this chapter, as
provided by the municipality's ordinances or municipal code.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.011 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after publication in a newspaper of
general circulation within the township, as set forth in M.C.L.A. § 41.184.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
CONTACTS, MAPS AND PLANS
§ 90.025 PERMITTEE CONTACTS.
   (A)   The permittee shall provide the Manager with the names, addresses and
the like for engineering and construction related information for the permittee
and its facilities as follows:
      (1)   The address, e-mail address, phone number and contact person (title
or name) at the permittee's local office (in or near the municipality);
      (2)   If the permittee's engineering drawings, as-built plans and related
records for the facilities will not be located at the preceding local office,
the location address, phone number and contact person (title or department) for
them;
      (3)   The name, title, address, e-mail address and telephone numbers of
the permittee's engineering contact person(s) with responsibility for the
design, plans and construction of the facilities; and
      (4)   The address, phone number and contact person (title or department)
at the permittee's home office/regional office with responsibility for
engineering and construction related aspects of the facilities.
   (B)   The permittee shall, at all times, provide the Manager with the phone
number at which a live representative of the permittee (not voice mail) can be
reached 24 hours a day, seven days a week, in the event of a public emergency.
   (C)   The permittee shall notify the municipality in writing pursuant to the
notice provisions of the franchise agreement of any changes in the preceding
information.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.026 ROUTE MAPS.
   Within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
facilities in the municipality, the permittee shall submit route maps showing
the location of the facilities to the municipality, in the same manner and
subject to the same provisions as apply to telecommunications providers under
§§ 6(7) and 6(8) of the Metro Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(7) and (8).
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.027 AS-BUILT RECORDS.
   (A)   The permittee, without expense to the municipality, shall, upon 48-
hours' notice, give the municipality access to all "as-built" maps, records,
plans and specifications showing the facilities or portions thereof in the
public right-of-way.
   (B)   Upon request by the municipality, the permittee shall inform the
municipality as soon as reasonably possible of any changes from previously
supplied maps, records or plans and shall mark up maps provided by the
municipality so as to show the location of the facilities.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY
§ 90.040 OVERLASHING.
   (A)   The permittee shall not allow the wires or any other facilities of a
third party to be overlashed to the permittee's facilities without the
municipality's prior written consent.
   (B)   The municipality's right to withhold written consent is subject to the
authority of the MPS Cunder § 361 of the State Telecommunications Act.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.041 NO BURDEN ON PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   (A)   The permittee, its contractors, subcontractors and the facilities
shall not unduly burden or interfere with the present or future use of any of
the public right-of-way. The permittee's aerial cables and wires shall be
suspended so as to not endanger or injure persons or property in or about the
public right-of-way.
   (B)   If the municipality reasonably determines that any portion of the
facilities constitutes an undue burden or interference, due to changed
circumstances, the permittee, at its sole expense, shall modify the facilities
or take other actions as the municipality may determine is in the public
interest to remove or alleviate the burden, and the permittee shall do so
within a reasonable time period.
   (C)   The municipality shall attempt to require all occupants of a pole or
conduit whose facilities are a burden to remove or alleviate the burden
concurrently.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 90.042 NO PRIORITY.
   (A)   This chapter does not establish any priority of use of the public
right-of-way by the permittee over any present or future permittees or parties
having agreements with the municipality or franchises for the use.
   (B)   In the event of any dispute as to the priority of use of the public
right-of-way, the first priority shall be to the public generally, the second
priority to the municipality, the third priority to the state and its political
subdivisions in the performance of their various functions and, thereafter, as
between other permit, agreement or franchise holders, as determined (except as
otherwise provided by law) by the municipality in the exercise of its powers,
including the police power and other powers reserved to and conferred on it by
the state.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.043 RESTORATION OF PROPERTY.
   The permittee, its contractors and subcontractors shall immediately (subject
to seasonal work restrictions) restore, at the permittee's sole expense, in a
manner approved by the municipality, any portion of the public right-of-way
that is in any way disturbed, damaged or injured by the construction,
installation, operation, maintenance or removal of the facilities to a
reasonably equivalent (or, at the permittee's option, better) condition as that
which existed prior to the disturbance. In the event that the permittee, its
contractors or subcontractors fail to make the repair within a reasonable time,
the municipality may make the repair and the permittee shall pay the costs the
municipality incurred for the repair.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.044 MARKING.
   (A)   The permittee shall mark its facilities installed after the effective
date of this chapter as follows: aerial portions of the facilities shall be
marked with a marker on the permittee's lines on alternate poles which shall
state the permittee's name and provide a toll-free number to call for
assistance.
   (B)   Direct buried underground portions of the facilities shall have:
      (1)   A conducting wire placed in the ground at least several inches
above the permittee's cable (if the cable is non-conductive);
      (2)   At least several inches above that, a continuous colored tape with
a statement to the effect that there is buried cable beneath; and
      (3)   Stakes or other appropriate above ground markers with the
permittee's name and a toll-free number indicating that there is buried cable
below.
   (C)   Bored underground portions of the facilities shall have a conducting
wire at the same depth as the cable and shall not be required to provide the
continuous colored tape. Portions of the facilities located in conduit,
including conduit of others used by the permittee, shall be marked at its
entrance into and exit from each manhole and handhole with the permittee's name
and a toll-free telephone number.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.045 TREE TRIMMING.
   The permittee may trim trees upon and overhanging the public right-of-way so
as to prevent the branches of the trees from coming into contact with the
facilities, consistent with any standards adopted by the municipality. The
permittee shall dispose of all trimmed materials. The permittee shall minimize
the trimming of trees to that essential to maintain the integrity of the
facilities. Except in emergencies, all trimming of trees in the public right-
of-way shall have the advance approval of the Manager.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.046 INSTALLATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   The construction and installation of the facilities shall be performed
pursuant to plans approved by the municipality. The open cut of any public
right-of-way shall be coordinated with the Manager or the Manager's designee.
The permittee shall install and maintain the facilities in a reasonably safe
condition. If the existing poles in the public right-of-way are overburdened or
unavailable for the permittee's use, or the facilities of all users of the
poles are required to go underground, then the permittee shall, at its expense,
place the portion of its facilities underground, unless the municipality
approves an alternate location. The permittee may perform maintenance on the
facilities without prior approval of the municipality; provided that, the
permittee shall obtain any and all permits required by the municipality in the
event that any maintenance will disturb or block vehicular traffic or are
otherwise required by the municipality.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.047 PAVEMENT CUT COORDINATION.
   (A)   The permittee shall coordinate its construction and all other work in
the public right-of-way with the municipality's program for street construction
and rebuilding (collectively "street construction") and its program for street
repaving and resurfacing, except seal coating and patching (collectively,
"street resurfacing").
   (B)   The goals of the coordination shall be to encourage the permittee to
conduct all work in the public right-of-way in conjunction with or immediately
prior to any street construction or street resurfacing planned by the
municipality.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.048 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   The permittee shall comply with all valid and enforceable federal and state
statutes and regulations; and all valid and enforceable local regulations
regarding the use and occupation of the public right-of-way, including the
police powers of the municipality; regarding the construction, installation and
maintenance of its facilities, now in force or which hereafter may be
promulgated. Before any installation is commenced, the permittee shall secure
all necessary permits, licenses and approvals from the municipality or other
governmental entity as may be required by law, including, without limitation,
all utility line permits and highway permits. The municipality shall not
unreasonably delay or deny issuance of any permits, licenses or approvals. The
permittee shall comply in all respects with applicable codes and industry
standards, including, but not limited to, the National Electrical Safety Code
(latest edition adopted by the State Public Service Commission) and the
National Electric Code (latest edition). The permittee shall comply with all
zoning and land use ordinances and historic preservation ordinances as may
exist or may hereafter be amended. This section does not constitute a waiver of
the permittee's right to challenge laws, statutes, ordinances, rules or
regulations now in force or established in the future.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.049 STREET VACATION.
   If the municipality vacates or consents to the vacation of public right-of-
way within its jurisdiction and the vacation necessitates the removal and
relocation of the permittee's facilities in the vacated public right-of-way,
the permittee shall consent to the vacation and remove its facilities at its
sole cost and expense when ordered to do so by the municipality or a court of
competent jurisdiction. The permittee shall relocate its facilities to an
alternate route as the municipality and the permittee mutually agree, applying
reasonable engineering standards.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.050 RELOCATION.
   If the municipality requests the permittee to relocate, protect, support,
disconnect or remove its facilities because of street or utility work, or other
public projects, the permittee shall relocate, protect, support, disconnect or
remove its facilities, at its sole cost and expense, including where necessary
to an alternate route as the municipality and the permittee mutually agree,
applying reasonable engineering standards. The work shall be completed within a
reasonable time period.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.051 PUBLIC EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The municipality shall have the right to sever, disrupt, dig-up or
otherwise destroy facilities of the permittee if the action is necessary
because of a public emergency. If reasonable to do so under the circumstances,
the municipality shall attempt to provide notice to the permittee.
   (B)   PUBLIC EMERGENCY shall be any condition which poses an immediate
threat to life, health or property caused by any natural or human-made
disaster, including, but not limited to, storms, floods, fire, accidents,
explosions, water main breaks, hazardous material spills and the like.
   (C)   The permittee shall be responsible for repair at its sole cost and
expense of any of its facilities damaged pursuant to any action taken by the
municipality.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.052 MISS DIG.
   If eligible to join, the permittee shall subscribe to and be a member of
"miss dig", the association of utilities formed pursuant to Pub. Act 53 of
1974, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 460.701 et seq., and shall conduct its
business in conformance with the statutory provisions and regulations
promulgated thereunder.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.053 UNDERGROUND RELOCATION.
   If the permittee has its facilities on poles of Consumers Energy, Detroit
Edison or another electric or telecommunications provider and Consumers Energy,
Detroit Edison or another electric or telecommunications provider relocates its
system underground, then the permittee shall relocate its facilities
underground in the same location at the permittee's sole cost and expense.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.054 IDENTIFICATION.
   All personnel of the permittee and its contractors or subcontractors who
have as part of their normal duties contact with the general public shall wear
on their clothing a clearly visible identification card bearing the permittee's
name, their name and photograph. The permittee shall account for all
identification cards at all times. Every service vehicle of the permittee and
its contractors or subcontractors shall be clearly identified as such to the
public, such as by a magnetic sign with the permittee's name and telephone
number.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
INDEMNIFICATION
§ 90.065 INDEMNITY.
   The permittee shall defend, indemnify, protect and hold harmless the
municipality, its officers, agents, employees, elected and appointed officials,
departments, boards and commissions from any and all claims, losses,
liabilities, causes of action, demands, judgments, decrees, proceedings and
expenses of any nature (collectively "claims") (including, without limitation,
attorneys' fees) arising out of or resulting from the acts or omissions of the
permittee, its officers, agents, employees, contractors, successors or assigns,
but only to the extent the acts or omissions are related to the permittee's use
of or installation of facilities in the public right-of-way and only to the
extent of the fault or responsibility of the permittee, its officers, agents,
employees, contractors, successors and assigns.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.066 NOTICE; COOPERATION.
   (A)   The municipality shall notify the permittee promptly in writing of any
claims and the method and means proposed by the municipality for defending or
satisfying any claims.
   (B)   The municipality shall cooperate with permittee in every reasonable
way to facilitate the defense of any claims.
   (C)   The municipality shall consult with the permittee respecting the
defense and satisfaction of the claims, including the selection and direction
of legal counsel.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.067 SETTLEMENT.
   The municipality shall not settle any claim subject to indemnification under
§§
90.065 and
90.066 without the advance written consent of the permittee, which consent
shall not be unreasonably withheld. The permittee shall have the right to
defend or settle, at its own expense, any claim against the municipality for
which the permittee is responsible hereunder.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
INSURANCE
§ 90.080 COVERAGE REQUIRED.
   (A)   Prior to beginning any construction in or installation of the
permittee's facilities in the public right-of-way, the permittee shall obtain
insurance as set forth below and file certificates evidencing same with the
municipality. The insurance shall be maintained in full force and effect until
the end of the term of the franchise agreement. In the alternative, the
permittee may satisfy this requirement through a program of self-insurance,
acceptable to the municipality, by providing reasonable evidence of its
financial resources to the municipality. The municipality's acceptance of the
self-insurance shall not be unreasonably withheld.
   (B)   Commercial general liability insurance, including completed operations
liability, independent contractors liability, contractual liability coverage,
railroad protective coverage and coverage for property damage from perils of
explosion, collapse or damage to underground utilities, commonly known as XCU
coverage, in an amount not less than $5,000,000.
   (C)   Liability insurance for sudden and accidental environmental
contamination with minimum limits of $500,000 and providing coverage for claims
discovered within three years after the term of the policy. Pursuant to the
2006 MPSC decision in Case U-14720, the permittee need not comply with the
preceding sentence until the time after the effective date of this chapter that
it decides to place any new or existing facilities underground within the
public right-of-way in the municipality.
   (D)   Automobile liability insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000.
   (E)   Workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance with
statutory limits, and any applicable federal insurance of a similar nature.
   (F)   The coverage amounts set forth above may be met by a combination of
underlying (primary) and umbrella policies so long as in combination the limits
equal or exceed those stated. If more than one insurance policy is purchased to
provide the coverage amounts set forth above, then all policies providing
coverage limits excess to the primary policy shall provide drop down coverage
to the first dollar of coverage and other contractual obligations of the
primary policy, should the primary policy carrier not be able to perform any of
its contractual obligations or not be collectible for any of its coverages for
any reason during the term of the franchise agreement, or (when longer) for as
long as coverage could have been available pursuant to the terms and conditions
of the primary policy.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.081 ADDITIONAL INSURED.
   (A)   The municipality shall be named as an additional insured on all
policies (other than worker's compensation and employer's liability). All
insurance policies shall provide that they shall not be canceled, modified or
not renewed unless the insurance carrier provides 30-days' prior written notice
to the municipality. The permittee shall annually provide the municipality with
a certificate of insurance evidencing the coverage.
   (B)   All insurance policies (other than environmental contamination,
workers' compensation and employer's liability insurance) shall be written on
an occurrence basis and not on a claims made basis.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.082 QUALIFIED INSURERS.
   (A)   All insurance shall be issued by insurance carriers licensed to do
business by the state or by surplus line carriers on the State Insurance
Commission approved list of companies qualified to do business in the state.
   (B)   All insurance and surplus line carriers shall be rated A+ or better by
A.M. Best Company.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.083 DEDUCTIBLES.
   (A)   If the insurance policies required by this chapter are written with
retainages or deductibles in excess of $50,000, they shall be approved by the
Manager in advance in writing.
   (B)   The permittee shall indemnify and save harmless the municipality from
and against the payment of any deductible and from the payment of any premium
on any insurance policy required to be furnished hereunder.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.084 CONTRACTORS.
   The permittee's contractors and subcontractors working in the public right-
of-way shall carry in full force and effect commercial general liability,
environmental contamination liability, automobile liability and workers'
compensation and employer liability insurance which complies with all terms of
this subchapter. In the alternative, the permittee, at its expense, may provide
coverages for any or all its contractors or subcontractors (such as by adding
them to the permittee's policies).
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.085 INSURANCE PRIMARY.
   (A)   The permittee's insurance coverage shall be primary insurance with
respect to the municipality, its officers, agents, employees, elected and
appointed officials, departments, boards and commissions (collectively "them").
   (B)   Any insurance or self-insurance maintained by any of them shall be in
excess of the permittee's insurance and shall not contribute to it (where
"insurance or self-insurance maintained by any of them" includes any contract
or agreement providing any type of indemnification or defense obligation
provided to, or for the benefit of them, from any source, and includes any
self-insurance program or policy, or self-insured retention or deductible by,
for or on behalf of them).
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
REMOVAL
§ 90.100 REMOVAL; UNDERGROUND.
   (A)   (1)   As soon as practicable after the term of the franchise agreement
expires, the permittee or its successors and assigns shall remove any
underground cable or other portions of the permittee's facilities from the
public right-of-way which has been installed in a manner that it can be removed
without trenching or other opening of the public right-of-way. The permittee
shall not remove any underground cable or other portions of the facilities
which requires trenching or other opening of the public right-of-way, except
with the prior written approval of the Manager.
      (2)   All removals shall be at the permittee's sole cost and expense.
   (B)   For purposes of this section, CABLE means any wire, coaxial cable,
fiber optic cable, feed wire or pull wire.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.101 REMOVAL; ABOVEGROUND.
   As soon as practicable after the expiration of the term of a franchise
agreement, the permittee or its successor or assigns at its sole cost and
expense shall, unless waived in writing by the Manager, remove from the public
right-of-way all aboveground elements of its facilities, including, but not
limited to, poles, pedestal-mounted terminal boxes and lines attached to or
suspended from poles.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
§ 90.102 SCHEDULE.
   The schedule and timing of removal shall be subject to approval by the
Manager. Unless extended by the Manager, the removal shall be completed not
later than 12 months following the expiration of the term of the franchise
agreement. Portions of the permittee's facilities in the public right-of-way
that are not removed within the time period shall be deemed abandoned and, at
the option of the municipality exercised by written notice to the permittee at
the address provided for in the franchise agreement, title to the portions
described in the notice shall vest in the municipality.
(Ord. 08-02, passed 4-15-2008)
CHAPTER 91: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Private Roads
   
91.01   Purpose
   
91.02   Title
   
91.03   Intent
   
91.04   Definitions
   
91.05   Private road requirements
   
91.06   Applicable construction standards/inspections
   
91.07   Exceptions or design modifications
   
91.08   Procedure
   
91.09   Approval process
   
91.10   Disclosure statement and maintenance agreement
   
91.11   Existing non-conforming private roads
   
91.12   Fees
   
91.13   Easements and utilities
   
91.14   Land division approval
   
91.15   Bond
   
91.16   Effective date
Excavations
   
91.30   Purpose
   
91.31   Short title
   
91.32   Unlawful operation
   
91.33   Effective date
Sidewalks
   
91.50   Title
   
91.51   Regulations
   
91.52   Construction specifications and standards
   
91.53   Determination of the need to repair hazardous condition
   
91.54   Notice and methods of service to property owner
   
91.55   Enforcing authority
   
91.56   Enforcement
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Subdivisions, see
Ch. 152
   Traffic Code, see Title VII
   Video Service Providers; Right-of-Way Management, see
Ch. 90
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
PRIVATE ROADS
§ 91.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the construction, maintenance
and use of private roads within the township, the use thereof by traffic, the
administration and enforcement thereof, fees to defray the administrative and
enforcement costs incident thereto, and to ensure that residences, buildings
and uses within the township may be accessible to police, fire and emergency
services, and for other purposes.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.02 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Kochville Township Private Road
Ordinance".
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.03 INTENT.
   (A)   Unobstructed, safe and continuous access to lots is necessary to
promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare and ensure that
police, fire and emergency services can safely and quickly enter and exit
private property at all times. It is the intent of this subchapter to permit
access to the interior of certain sections within the township by private roads
which permit unobstructed, safe and continuous vehicle access. It is further
the intent of this subchapter to ensure that private roads are maintained and
repaired by the private property owners who own and use the road.
   (B)   The procedures, standards and specifications hereinafter set forth are
determined to be the minimum procedures, standards and specifications necessary
to meet the intention of this subchapter.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A property owner or the property owner's authorized legal agent
who is submitting an application to construct a private road within the
township.
   APPROVED PLANS. The plans submitted by the applicant and approved by the
township as part of the approval process. APPROVED PLANS include notes and
comments made by the township and its representatives and agents. The APPROVED
PLANS do not include contracts, proposals and other documents unless
specifically noted or approved by the township.
   BASEMENT. The right of an owner of property by reason of the ownership, to
use the property of another for purposes of ingress, egress, utilities,
drainage and similar uses.
   BOND. A type of contract bond which protects against loss due to the
inability or refusal of a contractor to perform his or her contract. BONDS are
required at the discretion of the township.
   HARDSHIP. The criteria for determining whether a hardship exists shall be
the same criteria used to determine a hardship when a zoning variance is
sought.
   LOT. A parcel of land; real estate.
   OWNERS OF THE PRIVATE ROAD. A natural person, firm, association,
partnership, corporation or combination of any of these or any other person or
entity having an interest in the private road involved.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. Kochville Township Planning Commission.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A privately owned (or controlled) and maintained street, road
or any improved or unimproved surface, not dedicated to the County Road
Commission as a public road, which provides the primary means of vehicular
ingress and egress from a public road to two or more dwelling units, lots,
parcels or principal buildings, whether created by a private right-of-way,
easement or other device. PRIVATE ROAD does not include a field driveway or
access point used primarily for agricultural purposes.
   TOWNSHIP. Kochville Township, Saginaw County, Michigan.
   TOWNSHIP ATTORNEY. An attorney appointed by the Township Board to the
position of Township Attorney or any other person authorized by the Township
Board to perform the duties of Township Attorney as set forth in this
subchapter.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Kochville Township Board of Trustees.
   TOWNSHIP CLERK. The Clerk of Kochville Township.
   TOWNSHIP ENGINEER/PLANNER. An engineer or planner appointed by the Township
Board to the position of Township Engineer, Planner or any other person
authorized by the Township Board to perform the duties of Township Engineer or
Planner as set forth in this subchapter.
   TOWNSHIP OFFICIAL. Any individual employed by the township acting on behalf
of the township.
   TOWNSHIP ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. The Zoning Administrator of Kochville
Township.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.05 PRIVATE ROAD REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No private road shall be constructed within the township, except in
accordance with this subchapter.
   (B)   The standards and requirements of this subchapter shall apply to all
private roads created or constructed after the date of adoption of this
subchapter. Furthermore, the standards and requirements of this subchapter
shall also apply to existing private roads when any of the following occurs:
      (1)   An extension or addition is added to an existing private road;
      (2)   One or more lots are added to an existing private road or one or
more lots along an existing private road are to be divided or combined; or
      (3)   The Township Board determines that an existing private road is
unsafe or will not permit reasonable access to firefighting and emergency
vehicles throughout the entire year to all portions of the private road.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 APPLICABLE CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS/INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   All private roads shall be built to the specifications as outlined in
the County Road Commission's publication entitled, Procedures, Standards and
Specifications for Plat, Condominium and Land Division Development, adopted 7-
22-2003, as amended, and/or any other publication authorized by the township by
resolution in the future.
   (B)   (1)   To protect the health, safety and general welfare of the
residents of the township, the applicant/owners of the private road at its own
expense shall pay for an inspector, designated by the township, to be present
during the entire time the private road is being constructed to ensure that it
is built according to the specifications as outlined in the Procedures,
Standards and Specifications for Plat, Condominium and Land Division
Development, adopted 7-22-2003, as amended, and/or any other publication
authorized by the township by resolution in the future.
      (2)   The township, at its discretion, may establish an amount to be
deposited in escrow by the applicant/owners of the private road with the
township and the costs of the inspector deducted from this escrow at the
township's discretion until the inspector is paid in full or the township can
require the applicant to pay the inspector directly. This escrow amount is in
addition to any other required developmental fees or escrows designated by the
township.
      (3)   After all required fees have been paid in full and the requirements
set forth in this subchapter are satisfied, the Township Engineer/Planner shall
deliver to the Township Clerk a letter of completion.
      (4)   Ninety days after the Township Clerk receives the letter of
completion from the Township Engineer/Planner, the township shall refund to
applicants/owners of the private road, whichever deposited the original amount
in escrow, any amount remaining in the escrow fund established for the payment
of an inspector.
      (5)   The township takes no responsibility for the quality of work being
performed as a result of this inspection requirement.
   (C)   All signage shall conform to the Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic
Control Devices and the installation and maintenance shall be at the sole
expense of the applicant/owners of the private road.
   (D)   (1)   Any private road which will serve or permit access to 20 or more
lots or dwelling units shall have two means of direct access to public roads.
The second means of access may be used for emergency access purposes only with
approval from the township and the access shall be maintained at the
applicant's/owner's of the private road expense.
      (2)   Each access shall be built and maintained to the standards required
for private roads.
      (3)   Where the applicant can demonstrate a hardship, the township may
waive this requirement by majority vote of the Trustees present at a regularly
called meeting of the Township Board.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.07 EXCEPTIONS OR DESIGN MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Township Board approval, the Township Board may modify the
standards for new private roads for a given project for good cause shown.
   (B)   The Township Board reserves the right to place higher design
requirements and standards on a development which provides access by means of a
private road should it be in the best interests of the township and for the
protection of the health, safety and general welfare of its residents. The
additional requirements and standards shall be recognized and accepted by
professional associations and engineering societies including, but not limited
to, the American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials, the
American Society of Civil Engineers, the Institute of Transportation Engineers,
the Building Officials and Code Administrator International (BOCA) and the
National Fire Protection Association.
   (C)   For situations involving existing non-conforming private roads, the
Township Board may grant design modifications should the Township Board
determine, in its sole discretion, that the design requirements and standards
deny the property owner reasonable use of his or her property. Should the
Township Board grant design modifications, it may impose conditions onto the
affected property and private road, which protect the public health, safety and
general welfare of all township residents.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.08 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   An application shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator on a
form for that purpose together with a fee as determined by the Township Board.
   (B)   Upon receipt of an application for a design modification, notice will
be given to all property owners within 300 feet of the property requesting the
exception, that the Planning Commission will hold a public hearing on the
application.
   (C)   In addition, any property owner who lives on or uses the private road
as access to his, her or their property will be notified of the hearing.
   (D)   In the case of a design modification, the Planning Commission shall,
within a reasonable amount of time after the public hearing give a
recommendation to the Township Board on whether to deny, approve or approve
with conditions the request.
   (E)   The Township Board shall then hold a meeting within a reasonable
period of time to make a decision.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.09 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   (A)   Upon receipt of an application, the Township Clerk shall bring the
application before the Township Board at its next regular meeting. The Township
Board shall refer the application to the Planning Commission and any other
appropriate body for review and comment.
   (B)   The Township Engineer/Planner shall report in writing to the Planning
Commission and Township Board as to whether the proposed private road conforms
to the standards and specifications of this subchapter. The report may include
any suggested conditions to be attached to the approval which, in the Township
Engineer/Planner's judgment, are necessary to achieve the intent of this
subchapter.
   (C)   The Planning Commission, within a reasonable time, shall hold a public
meeting and discuss the application and proposed project. The Planning
Commission should render a written decision to the Township Board after
discussing with the Township Engineer/Planner its recommendation and after
making a thorough investigation of the proposed project. Prior to the
conclusion of the public meeting, the Planning Commission shall direct the
Secretary to send its written opinion approving, denying or approving with
modifications the proposed project to the Township Board.
   (D)   The Township Board shall consider the application, the Township
Engineer/Planner's report, the Planning Commission's recommendation and all
other relevant information in determining whether to grant the application. If
the information submitted by the applicant does not establish that the proposed
private road will conform to the standards and specifications of this
subchapter, the Township Board shall not approve the application. The Township
Board shall impose the conditions on the approval of the application as it
deems necessary to achieve the intent and objectives of this subchapter, which
may include, but need not be limited to, conditions suggested by the Township
Engineer/Planner. The breach of any condition proposed by the Township Board
shall automatically invalidate any approval granted by the Township Board.
   (E)   As a condition to the granting of any approval under this subchapter,
the Township Board may require that the applicant to deposit with the Township
Clerk a bond in an amount sufficient to guarantee that the applicant shall
perform the terms and conditions of the approved application, including the
payment of required fees.
   (F)   As a condition to the granting of any approval under this subchapter,
the Township Board shall require that the applicant deposit with the Township
Clerk a sum of money in the amount sufficient to guarantee the payment of the
administrative review of the applicant's application for a private road. It is
understood that the township employs agents that assist in the review process
and any agent's fees in connection with the review of the applicant's
application for a private road and/or enforcement of this subchapter, including
attorneys' fees, shall be deducted from the applicant's deposit. Ninety days
after the Township Clerk receives the letter of completion from the Township
Engineer/Planner, any unused portion of the deposit, if any, shall be refunded
to the applicant.
   (G)   Once the Township Board approves the applicant's plans, the plans
become approved plans only after all fees are paid and bonds and approval from
other governmental agencies with administrative review power are received.
After the Township Board approves the plans, but before the plans become
approved plans, the Township Zoning Administrator may issue a tentative
approval letter if another governmental agency with administrative review power
requires written confirmation of the Township Board's decision.
   (H)   Only the Township Board shall have the authority to approve
applications. No other permit issued by any township official, other
governmental body or official shall be a substitute for the approval by the
Township Board.
   (I)   (1)   Once the Township Board approves the plans, the applicant shall
not begin construction until the time as the applicant furnishes the township
with written approval from any federal, state or local agency that has
administrative review power with regard to the proposed private road. It is the
applicant's responsibility to submit the appropriate documentation and fees to
any other governmental agency with administrative review power and obtain
approval from that agency.
      (2)   After the Township Zoning Administrator verifies that the Township
Board has approved the project, all fees have been paid, all bonds have been
posted and all other governmental units with administrative review power have
submitted letters of approval, the Township Zoning Administrator shall send a
letter to the applicant stating that construction may begin.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.10 DISCLOSURE STATEMENT AND MAINTENANCE AGREEMENT.
   (A)   The applicants/owners of the private road shall be responsible for
maintaining the private roads at all times to the standards required by this
subchapter and all other applicable laws. The reasonable maintenance shall
include, but not be limited to, plowing snow and removing ice in the winter so
that firefighting and emergency vehicles can access all portions of the private
road at all times, grading, lighting and any other general maintenance.
   (B)   (1)   The applicant/owners of the private road shall provide the
township with a recordable private road maintenance or restrictive covenant
agreement between the applicant/owners of the private road and any other
parties having any interest therein or lots whereon or other documentation
satisfactory to the township which shall provide for and assure that the
private road shall be regularly maintained, repaired and snow plowed so as to
comply with this subchapter and to assure that the private road is safe for
travel at all times and that the costs thereof will be paid for by the
applicants/owners of the private road. The applicants/owners of the private
road agree that, by filing an application for and receiving approval for a
private road and by utilizing the private road, they will assure that any
buildings or lots thereafter created or constructed adjacent to the private
road shall also be subject to the road maintenance or restrictive covenant
agreement and that the agreement shall be recorded, shall run with the land and
shall bind all lots and properties benefitted by the private road. The
agreement shall also indicate that the owners of all lots and properties
benefitted by the private road may improve any portion of the private road and
shall be jointly and severally liable and responsible for maintaining the
entire length of the private road so that it is, at all times, in compliance
with this subchapter and all applicable township standards and requirements.
The agreement shall provide that it is enforceable by the township at its
option.
      (2)   Additionally, the agreement shall provide that, if the private road
is not maintained to the requirements of this subchapter, all of the owners of
lots or properties utilizing or benefitting by the private road shall be deemed
to have consented to a special assessment district being created by the
township to maintain or upgrade the private road. The agreement shall also
provide that, alternately, the Township Board, at its option, may improve and
maintain the private road so that it meets the requirements of this subchapter
and the township may charge the owners of all lots that utilize and or will be
benefitted by the private road for the costs thereof, and the costs shall be
secured by either placing a lien on the benefitted lots and properties or by
placing the costs thereof on the tax roll.
   (C)   (1)   The applicant for a private road approval, all owners of the
private road and lots thereon, all those who utilize the private road, and all
persons securing a building permit to construct a building served by the
private road all agree that, by applying for and securing a permit for a
building that utilizes the private road and by utilizing the private road, they
shall indemnify and will save and hold the township (as well as its officers,
agents and employees) harmless for, from and against any and all claims, causes
of action, costs and damages for personal injury and/or property damage arising
out of the use of the private road or the failure to properly construct,
maintain, repair and/or install the private road any appurtenances thereto.
      (2)   The applicants/owners of the private road shall inset the above
language into the maintenance agreement (or other approved document) and it
shall run with the land and shall bind all purchasers of properties benefitted
by the private road.
   (D)   (1)   All maintenance agreements for private roads shall be submitted
to the township for review and approval prior to the maintenance agreement
being recorded and prior to any construction on the private road.
      (2)   Each maintenance agreement shall also contain the following
statement: "The road is private and it is not required to be maintained by the
Saginaw County Road Commission or any governmental unit".
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.11 EXISTING NON-CONFORMING PRIVATE ROADS.
   (A)   The township recognizes that there may be existent private roads which
were lawful prior to the adoption of this subchapter which do not fully conform
to the standards herein. The roads are declared by this subchapter to be legal
non-conforming roads. The township also recognizes the importance of having
these roads upgraded if and when one or more of the following occur.
   (B)   Any applicants/owners of the private road, who desire to engage in one
or more of the situations listed in divisions (B)(1), (B)(2), (B)(3) or (B)(4)
below, shall be required to upgrade the entire private road to conform to the
standards for new private roads:
      (1)   One or more lots are added to an existing non-conforming private
street;
      (2)   The division or splitting of a lot occurs on an existing non-
conforming private road;
      (3)   The addition of an extension, addition or branch to or from an
existing non-conforming private road; and/or
      (4)   The widening of an existing non-conforming private road.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.12 FEES.
   The fee for the review of any proposed private road shall be separate from
the any fees charged under the zoning ordinance, as amended. The Township Board
of Trustees shall determine the fees to be charged for the review of private
roads by resolution. This fee shall include at a minimum, the cost of
application review, engineering review, enforcement and any other fees the
Township Board determines.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.13 EASEMENTS AND UTILITIES.
   The private road application and plans shall show the location of an
easement for utilities that is adjacent to the private road, unless otherwise
approved by the township. The size of the easement shall be decided at the time
the plan is approved by the township. This easement shall be dedicated to the
township and recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.14 LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   No land division approval by the township shall occur for or involving a lot
or lots to be accessed by a private road (or extension thereof) until the
private road has been formally approved by the township hereunder, the
maintenance agreement has been approved by the township, the maintenance
agreement has been fully executed by all parties having an interest in the
private road, and all lots to be served by the private road and the same has
been recorded with the County Register of Deeds records with proof thereof
provided to the township.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.15 BOND.
   The construction of all improvements required by this subchapter shall be
paid for and completed by the applicants/owners of the private road. The
township may require that a bond, cash or letter of credit be submitted by the
applicant for the completion of the private road or required upgrades. The
security shall be in a form approved by the township, payable to the township
and in the amount of the township's estimate of the cost of all improvements.
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
§ 91.16 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days after publication (or summary
thereof).
(Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 91.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to protect public property and utilities
and to promote the public health, safety and general welfare and safety of the
public utilities owned by the township or in which they have an interest,
including buildings and structures.
(Ord. 74-7, passed 9-3-1974)
§ 91.31 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as "The Kochville Township Excavation
Ordinance".
(Ord. 74-7, passed 9-3-1974)
§ 91.32 UNLAWFUL OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to tunnel under, or
make any excavation, or drive any rod or other device into the ground, in any
street, alley or other public place in the township or in any easement or
right-of-way heretofore obtained or hereafter obtained by the township, without
obtaining a permit from the appropriate officer of the township or from the
County Road Commission or the State Highway Department. Further, no person,
firm or corporation shall make any excavation in or near any water line, power
line, gas line, telephone cable without first ascertaining the exact location
of the utility line and without first securing a stakeout of the utility line
from the person, company, firm or municipality owning or having the control
over the same. Any stake-out or location of a water line, sewer line or any
kind of utility line owned by the township, or in which it has an interest,
shall be at the expense of the person, firm or corporation requesting the
stakeout.
(Ord. 74-7, passed 9-3-1974) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.33 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall be effective 30 days from and after publication
thereof.
(Ord. 74-7, passed 9-3-1974)
SIDEWALKS
§ 91.50 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and shall be cited as the “Kochville Township
Sidewalk Ordinance.”
(Ord. 17-08, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 91.51 REGULATIONS.
   The Township Board hereby declares its intention to regulate the repair and
construction of public sidewalks and to keep them in a proper and safe
condition for public use; to provide standards for proper sidewalk maintenance,
repairs and construction; and to provide for indemnification of the township
for costs of required maintenance and repair not accomplished by abutting or
adjacent land owners. The township declares this subchapter as necessary for
the benefit, protection, safety, convenience and general welfare of the
citizens of Kochville Township. This subchapter does not apply to the non-
motorized pathways in; Kochville Township.
(Ord. 17-08, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 91.52 CONSTRUCTION SPECIFICATIONS AND STANDARDS.
   (A)   All sidewalks, or portions thereof, constructed after the effective
date of this subchapter from which this article is derived or repaired shall
comply with the following specifications:
      (1)   All new sidewalks shall be at least five feet in width or as may be
determined by the Township. Where replacement of a sidewalk or section adjoins
a sidewalk of a lesser or greater width, the replacement section shall match
the width of the adjoining sidewalk.
      (2)   Four inches of sand shall be used as a base when the native ground
is found to be unsuitable. When fill is necessary to bring the level to the
desired grade, sand fill shall be used.
      (3)   Sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete at least four inches in
thickness, except in locations accessible to motor vehicles which shall be at
least six inches in thickness. Sidewalks shall be uninterrupted across
driveways in residential districts.
      (4)   Sidewalks shall include barrier free ramps and detectible warning
domes at the curb line of each ramp and be constructed in compliance with
Michigan Department of Transportation standards.
      (5)   Sidewalks shall be flush with abutting curbs and paved surfaces.
      (6)   Concrete shall be of at least 3,500 pounds per square inch
compression strength within 28 days of paving.
      (7)   All sidewalks shall be located at the direction of the township
engineer and/or township manager, or his/her designee.
      (8)   Grade elevations shall be established by the township engineer and/
or township manager or his/her designee.
      (9)   All sidewalks constructed over filled trenches shall be six inches
in thickness and shall be reinforced with four No. 4 bars spaced at 12 inch
centers.
      (10)   Drainage structures shall be provided at locations as required
and/or designated by the township engineer and/or township manager, or his/her
designee.
      (11)   Expansion joints of one-half inch in size, the full depth of the
sidewalk shall be placed at uniform intervals of not more than 50 feet, and at
all locations where sidewalks abut paved roads or driveways and where thickness
of the sidewalk changes from four inches to six inches.
      (12)   Construction joints shall be placed at intervals equal to the
width of the sidewalk and shall be a minimum of three-fourths of an inch in
depth. All joints shall be constructed at right angles to the center line of
the sidewalk.
      (13)   Forms shall be clean and straight, composed of wood or metal. The
forms shall be staked to line and grade in a manner that will prevent
deflection or settlement. Forms shall be sprayed with a release agent before
placing concrete.
      (14)   The base shall be thoroughly wetted and the concrete deposited
thereon to the proper depth. Concrete shall be spaded along the forms,
compressed and struck off flush with the top of the forms. The surface shall be
floated with a steel float, edges and joints properly tooled, and then finished
with a wood float or brush, transverse to the center line of the sidewalk to
provide a non-slip surface.
      (15)   Concrete shall not be placed on frozen ground. When the
temperature is below forty degrees Fahrenheit (40 °F), or when freezing
temperatures within the next 24 hour period are forecast, concrete shall not be
placed unless protection against freezing of the concrete is provided as
required by the township engineer or building official.
      (16)   Sidewalks shall not be painted and/or carpeted.
   (B)   Maintenance and repair. No person shall permit any sidewalk which
crosses or adjoins property owned by such person to fall into a state of
disrepair.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for the persons in control of any property to
deposit snow from said property onto any street or sidewalk in the township.
   (D)   Area between lot line and street. All sidewalks and driveway
approaches between the lot line and the street curb of an improved street,
shall be repaired and maintained by the abutting property owner and shall
comply with all requirements of this subchapter.
   (E)   Liability of owner for injury and damages. Any owner of any such
premises who shall allow any such sidewalk to remain in disrepair shall be
responsible and liable for injuries and damages arising out of the disrepair of
said sidewalk, provided that such condition constitutes a condition for which
liability otherwise exists under Michigan Law. Such owner shall further
indemnify and reimburse the township for any and all liability, costs and
expenses which the township might incur as a result of any such defective or
dangerous sidewalk.
   (F)   Under Public Act No. 246 of 1931, as amended (MCL §§ 41.288 et seq.),
the township board may construct, repair or maintain, or may order the
construction, repair or maintenance of, sidewalks for the health, safety and
general welfare of the residents of the township after notifying the involved
property owners of the time and place of a hearing on such order. Following the
hearing, the township may construct, repair or maintain the sidewalk and bill
the property for the construction, repair or maintenance in the following
manner:
      (1)   If the cost of construction, repair, or maintenance is $999.99 or
less, the township shall invoice the property owner and the amount due and
owing to the township shall be paid within 30 days of receipt.
      (2)   If the cost of construction, repair or maintenance is $1,000 or
greater, the township may assess the cost over a five year period against the
abutting property owners, which assessment shall be collected and treated in
the same manner as taxes assessed under the general laws of the state or permit
the owners within a specified time to have the sidewalk constructed, repaired
or maintained according to the specifications of this ordinance at their
expense.
      (3)   The Township Board, at its discretion, may also, after
constructing, repairing or maintaining a sidewalk, authorize collection of the
costs of such construction, repair or maintenance by civil process,
counterclaim, or such other means as may be proper for the collection of debts
by legal process.
(Ord. 17-08, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 18-01, passed 6-18-2018)
§ 91.53 DETERMINATION OF THE NEED TO REPAIR HAZARDOUS CONDITION.
   The authorized township official, as determined by the township manager,
shall determine when a sidewalk is in need of repair based upon one or more of
the following conditions:
   (A)   Vertical cracks - upheaval or settlement greater than one-half inch.
   (B)   Horizontal cracks or joint separation greater than one inch.
   (C)   Tilted sections - if tilted greater than two inches in any direction
of a five foot by five foot section.
   (D)   Spalled or pitted sections - of greater than 25% of the surface or
depressions that are greater than three inches in diameter.
(Ord. 17-08, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 91.54 NOTICE AND METHODS OF SERVICE TO PROPERTY OWNER.
   (A)   A notice of the need to repair a hazardous condition of a sidewalk
shall be given or sent to the responsible property owner. Such notice shall
indicate the location and nature of the condition and a time limit for the
repair or replacement thereof. Thereafter, it shall be the duty of, the owner
to place the sidewalk in a safe condition. The owner need only be notified of a
hazardous condition one time. Re-occurring instances of the same condition or
conditions shall be deemed to have been noticed by the township. Such notice
shall specify a reasonable time, not less than 30 days, for repairs or
replacement for which such work shall be completed with due diligence.
   (B)   Notice regarding sidewalk repairs shall be served in the following
manner:
      (1)   Mail. By mailing the notice by first class mail to the owner at the
address on the most recent tax roll;
      (2)   Personal delivery. If the address is unknown, by delivering the
notice to the owner personally;
      (3)   Posting on premises. If the owner is unknown, by posting the notice
in some conspicuous place on the premises which shall specify a reasonable
time, not less than 30 days before the required work shall be completed. No
person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear down any
official notice or placard posted.
(Ord. 17-08, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 91.55 ENFORCING AUTHORITY.
   The township manager, the building department, the code enforcement
department, and the zoning/planning department, is hereby designated the
enforcing authority under this subchapter.
(Ord. 17-08, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 91.56 ENFORCEMENT.
   Any person or other entity who violates any of the provisions of this
article is responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 17-08, passed 11-20-2017)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
91.01 through
91.16 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be subject to a fine not
exceeding $500 and/or imprisonment in the county jail for a period not
exceeding 90 days. Any violation of the terms of §§
91.01 through
91.16 shall be declared to be a nuisance per se and the use may be abated,
restrained, enjoined and prohibited upon the commencement of an appropriate
action in the Circuit Court.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates any provision of §§
91.30 through
91.33 shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $200 or by
imprisonment of not more than 90 days or both. Each day's failure of compliance
with any provision of §§
91.30 through
91.33 shall constitute a separate offense. Further, legal proceedings to enjoin
the violation of any of the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.33 may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction in the name of the
township. The action for injunctive relief shall be brought when authorized by
the Township Board. The enforcement and administration of the provisions of §§
91.30 through
91.33 shall otherwise be under and by the Township Building Inspector. Further,
any damage resulting to any water line, sewer line or utility line owned by the
township or in which it has an interest as a result of a violation of §§
91.30 through
91.33 shall be paid for by the person, firm, corporation or the employee of any
or either of them, causing the damage.
(Ord. 74-7, passed 9-3-1974; Ord. 06-01, passed 3-21-2006)
CHAPTER 92: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Purpose
   
92.002   Definitions
   
92.003   Effective date
   
92.004   Inspection
Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
   
92.015   Creation
   
92.016   Composition and compensation
   
92.017   Duties and responsibilities
   
92.018   Budget
   
92.019   Gift, bonds and grants
   
92.020   Annual report
Rules and Regulations
   
92.035   Park hours
   
92.036   Minors on park property
   
92.037   Glass containers, including alcoholic beverages
   
92.038   Motor vehicles
   
92.039   Fires
   
92.040   Litter
   
92.041   Recreational vehicles
   
92.042   Destruction of property
   
92.043   Animals in park
   
92.044   Cruising
   
92.045   Signs and handbills
   
92.046   Noise restrictions
   
92.047   Fireworks
   
92.048   Weapons
   
92.049   Commercial activities
   
92.050   Permits
   
92.051   Disorderly conduct
Non-Motorized Pathway Systems
   
92.065   Operation and maintenance
   
92.066   General; right-of-way; use of non-motorized pathway
   
92.067   Prohibitions
Reward for Information Leading to Conviction
   
92.080   Reward for information leading to a conviction regarding defacing,
theft, destruction or damage to park property
   
92.081   Reward for information leading to a conviction regarding the operation
or unauthorized operation of motor vehicles on park property
   
92.082   Reward amount established by Township Board by resolution
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 PURPOSE.
   Establishes a Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee, its composition and
compensation; establishes the duties and responsibilities of the Parks and
Recreation Advisory Committee and how its budget shall be approved; establishes
how municipal bonding and grants can be obtained; and requires an annual report
of activities conducted by the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee;
regulates certain activities within township parks and on or around the non-
motorized pathways located within the township in order to promote the public
health, safety and welfare of the persons using these amenities; and
establishes a penalty for person violating the provision of this chapter; and
rewards persons that provide information that leads to a conviction.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage having an alcoholic content of more than
0.5% by volume.
   CONTINUOUSLY CRUISE. The repeated driving of a motor vehicle in and through
a township park without stopping for the purpose of using a township park.
   DIRECTOR. The moderator of all Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
meetings and the person that assists in the coordination of all township parks
activities. If the township employs a Superintendent of Parks, the
Superintendent of Parks shall be the person who oversees all township park day
to day activities.
   DOG PARK. Any area within a township park that has been designated and
established by resolution of the Township Board as an area where, subject to
and in compliance with rules, policies and procedures established by the
Township Board, dogs may be off the leash that is required in other areas of
the township.
   HUMAN-POWERED. Movement accomplished or propelled by human power, such as
walking, running or by any vehicle or device which is designed and equipped to
be propelled by human power, without any assistance by a motor or power unit
(e.g., bicycle, roller skates, skateboard and wheel chair).
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is self-propelled, by any means whatever,
including all devices in, upon or by which any person or property may be
transported or drawn, excluding only those devices moved exclusively by human
power. The term includes any trailer in tow of any size, kind or description.
Exception is made for the use and operation of a motorized wheelchair by a
person who ordinarily uses the equipment, township employees or others
authorized by the township to perform inspection, repair or maintenance work,
and to persons providing emergency medical or veterinary services, in the
performance of their official or professional duties.
   NON-MOTORIZED PATHWAY(S) or PATHWAY(S). An off-road hard-surfaced path that
may be separated from motorized vehicular traffic by an open space or barrier,
which has been designated, or designed and designated by the township for
public use for human-powered travel or movement.
   PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE. The Committee appointed by the
township to handle or deal with matters pertaining to parks and recreation
located in the township.
   PEDESTRIAN. A person who is walking, jogging, biking or running on a non-
motorized pathway or within the township park(s).
   PERSON(S). Any person, group of persons, firm, partnership, association,
corporation, company or organization of any kind.
   SUPERINTENDENT OF PARKS. The person employed as Superintendent of Parks,
which oversees the day to day township park activities. In the absence of a
hired Superintendent of Parks, the Township Supervisor or his or her designee
shall serve in this capacity.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville, Saginaw County, Michigan.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Township Board, constituted as provided in § 70 of
Revised Statutes of 1846, being M.C.L.A. §§ 41.70 et seq.
   TOWNSHIP PARK(S). Any area or plat of land owned or operated by the township
which is developed and used for public recreational purposes, including, but
not limited to, landscaped tracts, picnic grounds, playgrounds, non-motorized
pathway, motor vehicle drives and other recreational structures and facilities
for the use and benefit of the public.
   TOWNSHIP SUPERVISOR. The supervisor of the township elected under Chapter
XVI of the Michigan election law, Pub. Act 116 of 1954, being M.C.L.A. §§
168.341 to 168.373.
   USER. Any person who is traveling on or is otherwise lawfully using a non-
motorized pathway, as provided, and includes pedestrians.
   VEHICLE. Any wheeled conveyance, whether motor powered, animal-drawn or
self-propelled. Exception is made for baby carriages and similar devises.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.003 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter will become effective 30 days after publication, as required by
law in a paper of general circulation in the township.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.004 INSPECTION.
   A copy of this chapter can be obtained from the Clerk of the township at the
township offices.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
PARKS AND RECREATION ADVISORY COMMITTEE
§ 92.015 CREATION.
   The township hereby creates a Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee that
shall advise the township in the operation of the township's parks,
recreational activities and playgrounds; have the power to request the Township
Board to acquisition property or accept gifts; with Township Board approval, it
shall equip and maintain land, buildings or other recreational facilities; with
Township Board approval, it shall employ a superintendent of recreation and
assistants; with Township Board approval, it shall maintain, manage and control
parks and places of recreation located within the township.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.016 COMPOSITION AND COMPENSATION.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall consist of an odd
number of members not fewer than five, or more than nine, as determined by the
Township Board. If the Township Board decides to increase or decrease the
number of members serving on the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee, any
increase or decrease shall not take effect until the beginning of the next
fiscal budget adopted by the Township Board.
   (B)   The Township Supervisor or his or her designee shall serve as the
Township Board representative to the Recreation Advisory Committee. The Parks
and Recreation Advisory Committee shall annually elect a Vice-Director and
Secretary and adopt rules for the conduct of its business.
   (C)   The current individuals serving on the Parks and Recreation Advisory
Committee shall continue to serve in that capacity.
   (D)   All future appointments to the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee
shall be done pursuant to the process established by Township Board Policy 06-
01, § 24.0, Boards and Committees (attached to the ordinance codified herein).
   (E)   The members of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee can receive
compensation if allowed and established by the Township Board. The Parks and
Recreation Advisory Committee may employ clerical assistance and incur other
expenses that are authorized by the Township Board. The compensation and
expenses shall be paid from the parks and recreation budget, as approved by the
Township Board.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.017 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall advise and make
recommendations to the Township Board regarding the planning, maintaining,
improving, financing and supervision of the township parks. Further, the Parks
and Recreation Advisory Committee shall have the authority to maintain,
improve, manage and control township parks if so directed by the Township
Board.
   (B)   The Township Board, in the name of the township, may accept gifts,
grants and other devises of land suitable for township parks, and gifts and
bequests of money on behalf of the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee. The
money shall be held in trust and used for the acquisition and improvement of
land suitable for township parks or improvements to equipment, facilities or
play structures located in the township parks.
   (C)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee may request the Township
Board to acquire land or condemn land for its purposes, in accordance with the
condemnation laws of the state.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.018 BUDGET.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall submit to the
Township Board a recommended budget request covering the cost of maintenance
and development of the township parks for the ensuing year. The Township Board
shall examine the budget and shall approve the entire budget, or a part of the
budget that the Township Board considers reasonable and necessary, which sum
shall be incorporated into the township budget.
   (B)   Expenditures for township parks shall be paid in a manner consistent
with the payment of township debts generally incurred.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 15-05, passed 10-28-2015)
§ 92.019 GIFT, BONDS AND GRANTS.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee is authorized to solicit
gifts or donations of money or other property for Township Park purposes;
provided that, any gifts or donations shall be received by the township
pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 123.871.
   (B)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee may request that the
Township Board issue bonds or apply for grants, the proceeds of which shall be
used for the acquisition and improvement of land suitable for township parks or
improvements to equipment, facilities or play structures located in the
township parks.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.020 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee shall submit to the Township
Board a detailed annual report regarding the township parks.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 92.035 PARK HOURS.
   (A)   (1)   Township parks, with the exception of the non-motorized pathway
that is always open unless otherwise posted, will remain open daily between the
hours of 7:00 a.m. and sunset (local time) throughout the year unless otherwise
posted by the township.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any person to enter or remain in any
township park after the posted closing hours without the written permission of
the township.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or occupy any area or
facility in any township park when the area or facility is closed to the use of
the public or by order of the township.
   (C)   It shall not be unlawful for township employees, while on township
business, to remain in or on any township park during the times as the township
park shall be closed to the public.
   (D)   It shall not be unlawful for person other than township employees to
be on or in township park property after hours; provided that, the person has
the prior approval and written permission of the Township Supervisor and that
the approval shall not be granted, except in pursuance of and when related to
township business or a special event approved by the Township Board.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.036 MINORS ON PARK PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 18 years and/or who is
enrolled as a student at a primary or secondary school, whether suspended or
not, to enter into or remain upon any township park owned or operated by the
township during regular school hours of a normal school day, except as follows:
   (A)   Unless accompanied by a parent or guardian; or
   (B)   Unless on a class assignment and accompanied by a teacher or school
administrator.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.037 GLASS CONTAINERS, INCLUDING ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess, consume or
transport any beverages, including alcoholic beverages, in a glass container
while the person is on any part of the property constituting a township park.
      (2)   For the purposes of this chapter, any beverage located in or upon
any motor vehicle parked or operated on the township park property shall be
deemed to be in the possession of the person who caused the motor vehicle to
enter upon the township park property and shall also be deemed to be in the
possession of the registered owner of the motor vehicle.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to sell alcoholic beverages on
township park property.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.038 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle in any
township park, except in that area laid out and appropriated as driving lanes
or parking area.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate his or her vehicle
faster than 15 mph or the designated speed limit posted in any township park or
to operate his or her vehicle in any unsafe or reckless manner.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to stop, stand or park a motor
vehicle, except in areas as may be laid out and designated as a parking area by
the township.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a motor vehicle on any
lane or service drive, whether posted or not, which is laid out as a means of
access for maintenance employees to the various sections of the township park.
   (E)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or store any motor
vehicle in any township park, parking area or driving lane owned or operated by
the township during the hours a township park is closed, pursuant to §
92.035.
      (2)   A law enforcement officer duly appointed by the United States, the
state or by a political subdivision thereof is hereby authorized to remove any
vehicles or motor vehicles so parked or stored.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether a pedestrian or person
operating a motor vehicle of any type, to fail to obey any applicable traffic
control sign, signal, lane marking or other device, whether permanent or
temporary, unless otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer duly
appointed by the United States, the state or by a political subdivision thereof
or township personnel conducting township business.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.039 FIRES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave a fire unattended in any
township park. All fires shall be extinguished upon leaving the vicinity.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully set or cause to be
set a fire upon township park property, except within fireplaces, cooking
grills or other receptacles provided for and designated by the township.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump any burning material or
hot ashes into any trash containers or elsewhere within the boundaries of any
township park unless the container or locality is marked as a receptacle for
the material.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.040 LITTER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw, place or otherwise
abandon in or on any lands or water areas within the boundaries of any township
park any garbage, sewage, bottles, refuse, trash, waste or other obnoxious
material, except in receptacles provided for that purposes.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.041 RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or have in his or her
possession within the boundaries of any township park any off-road motor
vehicle, including, but not limited to, a minibike, dirtbike, dunemobile,
dunebuggy, all-terrain vehicle, snowmobile, converted snowmobile or similar
motorized device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate, drive, push or
otherwise propel any motor vehicle on any portions of any park covered by grass
or other natural vegetation. All motor vehicles must remain on the roadways or
in the designated parking areas.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.042 DESTRUCTION OF PROPERTY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to injure, deface, disturb or
befoul or in any matter destroy or cause to be destroyed, defaced, disturbed or
befouled any portion of any township park or any facility, building, sign,
structure, equipment, utility or other property found therein.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dig up or around, remove,
injure or destroy any tree, flower, shrub, plant or other growing thing, or any
wildlife, except as otherwise provided by law, or any rock, mineral, artifact
or other material within the boundaries of any township park without the
written permission of the township.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.043 ANIMALS IN PARK.
   (A)   Except when lawfully in a dog park, as defined, no person shall bring
into or have in his or her possession or control within the boundaries of any
township park, any dog or animal of any kind, unless the dog or animal shall be
kept on a leash not over six feet in length and under the reasonable control of
some responsible person.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to bring into, or have in his or
her possession or control, any dog or animal of any kind, in any township park
other than picnic areas, non-motorized pathways and open areas. No dog or
animal shall be allowed in any recreation area, including, but not limited to,
ball diamonds, play structures, water play area or waterpark. This section
shall not apply to leader dogs for the blind or to dogs under the control of
the township or other law enforcement agency.
   (C)   All persons shall be responsible for the removal of all solid waste
generated by any animal under their control.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to ride or lead any horse within
the boundaries of any township park without written permission from the
township. This section shall not apply to a law enforcement officer duly
appointed by the United States, the state or by a political subdivision thereof
utilizing horses in the performance of his or her official duties.
   (E)   It shall be unlawful for any person to annoy, chase, harass, kill or
cause injury to any wildlife located on township park property. This division
(E) does not prohibit the township or its agents from eradicating pests,
varmints or other animals that may cause or that are causing damage to any
township park property.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.044 CRUISING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person other than a law enforcement officer
duly appointed by the United States, the state or by a political subdivision
thereof or township employee in the course of his or her official duty to
continuously cruise in any motor vehicle in or through any area of a township
park.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.045 SIGNS AND HANDBILLS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person other than the township employees
conducting official township business to offer or distribute handbills or other
circulars within the boundaries of any township park without the written
authorization of the township.
      (1)   If written authorization is obtained, handbills or other circulars
may be offered or distributed within the boundaries of any township park only
by passing them hand to hand.
      (2)   The distribution shall be allowed only in automobile parking lots,
unless other areas for the distribution are designated by the township.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to post, fasten, paint or affix
any placard, bill, notice or sign upon any structure, tree or automobile within
the boundaries of any township park; except that, temporary directional signs
for group picnics or events may be placed on in an area as not to endanger the
lives of any person or operators of motor vehicles, which must be removed at
the conclusion of the event.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.046 NOISE RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or play any musical
instrument, radio, record or tape player, loudspeaker, public address system or
sound amplifying equipment of any kind within the boundaries of any township
park in a manner as to cause the sound emanating therefrom to exceed a loudness
of 75 decibels when measured on the 70 db scale at a distance of 15 feet from
the sound source without a written permit issued by the township or in a manner
as to disturb or annoy the peace and good order of any township park.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.047 FIREWORKS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, whether an adult or a minor to use any
firework devices, as defined by the State Fireworks Law, being M.C.L.A. §§
750.243(a) through 750.243(e), unless the use is authorized under a written
permit issued by the Township Board within any township park.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.048 WEAPONS.
   No person shall, at any time, bring into or upon the township property, nor
have in the person’s possession, nor discharge or set off anywhere upon said
properties, explosive devices, air rifles, air guns, water guns, or any bow or
other device that discharges projectiles by force of air, or any other force;
or any other firearm contrary to the laws of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 15-05, passed 10-28-2015) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.049 COMMERCIAL ACTIVITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than the township, its agents or
employees or any person that has obtained written permission from the Township
Board, within the boundaries of any township park to advertise, offer for hire,
vend or sell any service, food, beverage, merchandise or other personal
property, or advertise, carry on or conduct any other business or commercial
activity, nor shall any person or organization beg or solicit contributions or
donations within the boundaries of any township park.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.050 PERMITS.
   (A)   The township can require prior approval or a written permit for the
use of any township parks, equipment, facilities or play structures located in
the township parks. The township can require that any written approval or
permit impose additional requirements other than those identified in this
chapter.
   (B)   Where a fee or charge is required for any service, privilege, permit
or license offered by the township within the boundaries of any township park,
no person shall obtain or attempt to obtain the service, privilege, permit or
license without payment of the fee or charge.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person not to honor any permits issued by
the township, for any area, including, but not limited to, picnic grounds, ball
fields and pavilions; provided that, the permit is on an official form when
presented.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.051 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in any drunken, loud,
boisterous, disorderly or indecent conduct within the boundaries of any
township park.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit or engage in any assault
or other activity which shall endanger, annoy other persons, disturb the peace
or good order within the boundaries of any township park.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the boundaries of any
township park to intentionally expose the male or female buttocks or genital
areas or the female breast; or observe or attempt to observe any person of the
opposite sex while occupying a restroom or other facility.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person within the boundaries of any
township park to obstruct, resist, hinder, assault or oppose any law
enforcement officer duly appointed by the United States, the state or by a
political subdivision thereof, ordinance officer, township officer or park
employee in the performance of his or her official duties; or provide or
furnish false identification concerning himself or herself to any law
enforcement officer duly appointed by the United States, the state or by a
political subdivision thereof, ordinance officer, township officer or park
employee engaged in the performance of his or her official duties; or remain
within the boundaries of any township park after being requested by a law
enforcement officer duly appointed by the United States, the state or by a
political subdivision thereof, ordinance officer, township officer or park
employee in the performance of his or her official duties to leave the township
park for violation of a rule or regulation of the township.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
NON-MOTORIZED PATHWAY SYSTEMS
§ 92.065 OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   All non-motorized pathways systems shall be operated and maintained by
the township's Department of Public Works.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to excavate any portion of a non-
motorized pathway or the immediate area around any non-motorized pathway
without the prior written approval of the Township Board.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.066 GENERAL; RIGHT-OF-WAY; USE OF NON-MOTORIZED PATHWAY.
   (A)   The Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee with approval of the
Township Board can adopt and post rules and regulations which are reasonably
necessary for the full and safe enjoyment of the users of the non-motorized
pathway.
   (B)   Non-motorized pathways are for the use of pedestrian and any human-
powered vehicles or devices, with the exception of the use and operation of a
motorized wheelchair by a person who ordinarily uses the equipment, township
employees or others authorized by the township to perform inspection, repair or
maintenance work, and to persons providing emergency medical or veterinary
services, in the performance of their official or professional duties.
   (C)   A user who is operating a human-powered device, motor vehicle or
vehicle upon a non-motorized pathway shall yield the right-of-way to any
pedestrian. A user operating a bicycle shall yield to skaters and pedestrians;
and skaters shall yield to pedestrians.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to race any motor vehicle or
vehicle on or along any non-motorized pathway unless the race is approved by
the Parks and Recreation Advisory Committee and permitted by the Township
Board.
   (E)   Users of any non-motorized pathway located in the township shall:
      (1)   Travel at a rate of speed which is reasonable and prudent under the
conditions at the point of operation, taking into account the amount and
character of pedestrian traffic, grade and width of the pathway and condition
of surface. In every event, the user shall control speed as may be necessary to
avoid colliding with other users;
      (2)   Obey all instructions of any traffic-control device, warning sign
or pavement marking applicable to the use of the non-motorized pathway, unless
otherwise directed by a law enforcement officer duly appointed by the United
States, the state or by a political subdivision thereof, ordinance officer,
township officer or park employee engaged in the performance of his or her
official duties;
      (3)   Exercise due care and caution to avoid colliding with any other
users;
      (4)   Refrain from entering any portion of the non-motorized pathway when
it is flooded or contains standing water;
      (5)   Travel in a consistent and predictable manner;
      (6)   Travel as near to the right side of the pathway as is safe, except
as may be appropriate while preparing to make or making turning movements, or
while overtaking or passing another user traveling in the same direction;
      (7)   Occupy only the right half of the non-motorized pathway, measured
from the right side, so as not to impede the normal and reasonable movement of
other pathway users;
      (8)   Pass other users on the left and only when it can be done safely,
returning to the right upon safely clearing the user being passed;
      (9)   Give an audible warning signal (e.g., voice, bell or mechanical or
electrical signaling device), in sufficient time to allow response, before
passing any user; and
      (10)   Remove themselves and any equipment at least three feet off the
non-motorized pathway when stopping, standing or parking.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.067 PROHIBITIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully throw, deposit or cause to
be thrown or deposited, upon any non-motorized pathway any glass bottles,
glass, nails, tacks, wires, cans or any other object, substance or debris,
including animal waste. Any person who drops, or causes to be dropped, thrown
or deposited upon a non-motorized pathway any material will immediately remove
it or cause it to be removed and shall be further subject to a civil infraction
as provided for in this chapter.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
92.999
REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO CONVICTION
§ 92.080 REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO A CONVICTION REGARDING DEFACING,
THEFT, DESTRUCTION OR DAMAGE TO PARK PROPERTY.
   The township offers a reward to any person who supplies information leading
to the conviction or the admitting of responsibility of any person for the
defacing, theft, destruction or damage of township park property.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.081 REWARD FOR INFORMATION LEADING TO A CONVICTION REGARDING THE OPERATION
OR UNAUTHORIZED OPERATION OF MOTOR VEHICLES ON PARK PROPERTY.
   The township further offers a reward to any person who supplies information
leading to the conviction or the admitting of responsibility of any person that
operates a motor vehicles on township park property in a prohibited area,
including any non-motorized pathway within the township park.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.082 REWARD AMOUNT ESTABLISHED BY TOWNSHIP BOARD BY RESOLUTION.
   The reward to the individual shall be in the amount established by the
Township Board by resolution for any incident that is of public concern or
safety.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter and/or
posted rules and regulations shall be punishable by a civil infraction. The
Township Code Enforcement Officer or any law enforcement officer duly appointed
by the United States, the state or by a political subdivision thereof, shall be
authorized to issue and pursue violations of this chapter. Any person convicted
as a juvenile offender shall be punished in the discretion of the court.
   (B)   Nothing in this section shall prohibit a court of competent
jurisdiction from ordering any person convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter and/or posted rules and regulations from reimbursing
the township for any reward offered, all of its actual cost of replacement of
any damaged township park, facility or equipment, and reasonable attorneys'
fees.
(Ord. 06-10, passed 10-17-2006)
CHAPTER 93: FALSE ALARMS
Section
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Statement of purpose
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Liability
   
93.05   Violations
   
93.06   Delinquent fines and fees
   
93.07   Appeal
   
93.08   Savings clause
   
93.09   Effective date
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Kochville Township
False Alarm Ordinance.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 93.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   When a fire-detection system alarm is activated, the township’s Fire
Department responds to protect the lives and property of the citizens and
businesses of the township. This rapid response requires the Fire Department to
place emergency vehicles on the streets, which inherently increases the dangers
to members of the Fire Departments, and to the citizens of the township.
Although the township supports and encourages the use of alarm systems to
discover fires, malfunctions of such systems result in increased dangers and
unnecessary expense. Therefore, the purpose of this chapter is to encourage
alarm users throughout the township to maintain operational reliability and
properly use alarm systems in a manner which will reduce false-alarm responses
by the Fire Department, thereby reducing and preventing the misuse of fire
resources at taxpayer expense.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ALARM SYSTEM. Any device or piece of equipment or an assembly of
equipment and/or devices designed or arranged to signal visibly, audibly,
electronically, mechanically or by any combination of these methods, or by any
similar or like method, the presence of a fire requiring urgent attention and
to which the township’s Fire Department is expected, requested, or likely to
respond. The term includes any system that can electronically cause an expected
response by a fire services agency to a premises by means of the activation of
an audible signal, visible signal, electronic notification, or video signal, or
any combination of these signals, or any similar or like signal. The term ALARM
SYSTEM shall include, but shall not be limited to, the following types of
devices: “personal emergency response alarm,” “temperature fire alarm,” “manual
fire alarm,” “fire alarm,” “automatic sprinkler,” and/or “water flow alarm.”
      ALARM USER. Any person(s) or entity/entities, whether an owner, occupant,
or tenant, whether residential or commercial properties, upon whose premises an
alarm system is maintained or operated within the township, except for alarm
systems on motor vehicles. This term also includes the person(s), partnership
(s), corporation(s), company(s), or other entity/entities who requested the
installation of the alarm system, or who has either an ownership interest in
the premises, a leasehold interest, or who occupies the premises, or who has
some dominion and control over the premises, where the alarm system is
installed and operating. In the event the premises are owned or occupied by a
partnership(s), corporation(s), or other entity/entities, each owner(s),
officer(s), partner(s), or operator(s) shall be deemed to be an ALARM USER. For
purposes of prosecuting violations of the penal provisions of this chapter, and
for purposes of collecting fees incurred for false alarms, the person(s) or
entity/entities whose name appears as being associated with the property
protected by the alarm system on the most recent assessment roll and/or whose
name appears in the township’s records, shall be presumed to be an ALARM USER.
      CALENDAR YEAR. Dates that occur between January 1 and December 31 of each
year.
      CONTRACTOR. A person(s), firm(s), and/or entity/entities who/which have
been contracted to perform building modifications, inspection, testing, and/or
maintenance of life-safety systems.
      FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system eliciting a response by
the Township Fire Department (or such other fire department that may respond)
which is not in response to actual or threatened danger to person(s) or damage
to property. FALSE ALARM also means the activation of an alarm system through
mechanical failure, malfunction, improper installation, maintenance, or
negligence of the alarm user or his/her employee(s), representative(s), guest
(s), resident(s), invitee(s) and/or agent(s). This term also includes the
activation of an alarm system causing a sound or visual signal through
mechanical failure, faulty equipment, malfunction, improper installations, and/
or lack of prudent maintenance, or the negligence of the alarm user or of his/
her, or its employee(s), representative(s), guest(s), resident(s), invitee(s)
and/or agent(s). A FALSE ALARM shall be presumed when an alarm is tested
without prior written notice to the township, and when an investigation reveals
no evidence of fire or potential fire, or need for medical attention, upon the
activation of the alarm system, with the following exceptions: This does not
include alarm activations caused by violent conditions of nature or other
extraordinary circumstances not reasonably subject to control by an alarm user.
      MONITORING COMPANY. The firm charged with monitoring the fire alarm
system.
      PREMISES. Any private or public residential, commercial, or industrial
land and/or buildings located within the township.
   (B)   Any term that is not specifically defined herein shall be given its
plain and ordinary meaning. It shall be appropriate to refer to the dictionary
definition of any term that is not specifically defined herein.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 93.04 LIABILITY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person(s) or entity/entities to cause a false
alarm or permit a false alarm to be caused. The alarm user or contractor
responsible for causing the alarm shall be responsible for the costs, fines,
and/or fees for the response of the Fire Department as set forth by this
chapter. Alarm user(s) and/or contractor(s) shall be jointly and severally
responsible for violation(s) of this chapter. The payment of false alarm
response costs, fines, and/or fees shall not be construed to conflict,
contravene, enlarge, or reduce any civil or criminal liability of the person(s)
or entity/entities billed for the response costs, fines, and/or fees, except to
the extent that such responsibility arises out of this chapter.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.05 VIOLATIONS.
   The occurrence of a false alarm shall constitute a violation of this
chapter. Any person(s) or entity/entities to cause a false alarm or permit a
false alarm to be caused are guilty of a violation of this chapter. To ensure
that all alarm systems are properly maintained in good operating order and to
minimize the cost to the township, alarm users and or contractors shall be held
responsible as provided in §
93.99.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.06 DELINQUENT FINES AND FEES.
   If any fine(s), cost(s) and/or service fee(s) due to the township pursuant
to this chapter shall remain unpaid for a period of 30 days or more after the
date of the mailing of the invoice/bill for said fine(s), cost(s) and/or
service fee(s) to the responsible party/parties, the amount due shall
thereafter accrue interest at the rate of 6% per month from the date of the
false alarm to which the invoice/bill applies. The township may seek to collect
said fine(s), cost(s), and/or service fee(s) by a suit at law or in equity, or
the township may assess the amount of the invoice/bill against the premises on
which the false alarm occurred. Such assessment shall constitute a lien upon
the premises on which the false alarm occurred and may be billed and collected
in the same manner as property taxes pursuant to the General Property Tax Act,
Act 206 of 1893. Where a contractor(s) or monitoring company(ies) has failed to
pay to the township any amount invoiced/billed to said contractor(s) or
monitoring company(ies) pursuant to this chapter, the township may initiate a
suit in law or in equity against said contractor and/or monitoring company(ies)
for the amount of the invoice, plus any additional relief, damages, fees, or
costs to which the township may be entitled.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 93.07 APPEAL.
   Any person(s) or entity/entities against whom a fine, cost, and/or service
fee has been assessed, as provided in this chapter, who believes that said
fine, cost, and/or service fee has been improperly assessed, may appeal the
assessment to the Township Board of Trustees. Any such appeal shall be in
writing and shall be filed with the Township Clerk within 30 days of the date
of the invoice/bill for said fine, cost, and/or service fee.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 93.08 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   All proceedings pending and all rights and liability existing, acquired or
incurred at the time the chapter takes effect are saved and may be consummated
according to the law in force when they were commenced, nor shall any just or
legal right or remedy of any character be lost, impaired or affected by this
chapter.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 93.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter, as amended, shall take effect 30 days following publication as
required by law following adoption by the Township Board.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person(s) and/or entity/entities (or any combination thereof) who/
which causes a false alarm or permits a false alarm to be caused shall be
punished as follows:
      (1)   First false alarm in the calendar year: warning notice issued by
the township.
      (2)   Second, third, or fourth false alarm in the calendar year: $250 fee
plus the cost of the Fire Department response as set forth by the Fire
Department’s adopted fee schedule.
      (3)   Fifth, sixth, or seventh false alarm in the calendar year: $500 fee
plus the cost of the Fire Department response as set forth by the Fire
Department’s adopted fee schedule.
      (4)   Eighth or subsequent false alarm in the calendar year: $750 fee
plus the cost of the Fire Department response as set forth by the Fire
Department’s adopted fee schedule.
   (B)   Contractors who/that fail to take proper precautions to prevent a Fire
Department response shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   First false alarm: $250 plus the cost of the Fire Department
response as set forth by the Fire Department’s adopted fee schedule.
      (2)   Second false alarm: $500 plus the cost of the Fire Department
response as set forth by the Fire Department’s adopted fee schedule.
      (3)   Third or subsequent false alarm: $750 plus the cost of the Fire
Department response as set forth by the Fire Department’s adopted fee schedule.
   (C)   Monitoring company/companies that initiate a Fire Department response
when advised by a contractor or the alarm user shall be punished as follows:
      (1)   First false alarm: $250 plus the cost of the Fire Department
response as set forth by the Fire Department’s adopted fee schedule.
      (2)   Second false alarm: $500 plus the cost of the Fire Department
response as set forth by the Fire Department’s adopted fee schedule.
      (3)   Third or subsequent false alarm: $750 plus the cost of the Fire
Department response as set forth by the Fire Department’s adopted fee schedule.
(Ord. 20-04, passed 10-19-2020)
CHAPTER 94: BLIGHT ELIMINATION
Section
   
94.01   Purpose
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Findings
   
94.04   Causes of blight or blighting factors
   
94.05   Notification
   
94.06   Appeal
   
94.07   Removal by township; lien
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the letter and spirit of M.C.L.A. § 125.71 et seq., it is
the purpose of this chapter to prevent, reduce or eliminate blight or blight
factors and causes of blight in the township by the prevention or elimination
of certain environmental causes of blight or blighting factors which exist or
which may in the future exist in Kochville Township.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED VEHICLE. Any vehicle which has remained on private property for a
period of 48 consecutive hours, or more, without the consent of the owner or
occupant of the property, or for a period of 48 continuous hours or more after
the consent of the owner or occupant of the property has been revoked.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE. Any dwelling, garage or outbuilding, or any factory,
shop, store, office building, warehouse or any other structure or part of a
structure which, because of fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration, is no longer habitable as a dwelling, or useful for the purpose
for which it may have been intended.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Lumber, brick, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment,
shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws or any other materials used
in constructing any structure.
   JUNK. Parts of machinery or motor vehicles, broken, unusable and/or
inoperable furniture, stoves, refrigerators or other appliances, remnants of
wood, metal or any other cast-off material of any kind, whether or not the same
could be put to any reasonable use.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLES. Any vehicle which is not licensed for use upon the
highways of the state for a period in excess of 60 days, and shall also
include, whether licensed or not, any motor vehicle which is inoperative for
any reason for a period in excess of 60 days; provided that, there is excepted
from this definition unlicensed, or inoperative, vehicles which are kept as the
stock in trade of a regularly licensed and established new or used automobile
dealer or other motorized vehicle dealer; provided, further, the vehicles are
excepted as are upon the premises of a motor vehicle repair garage.
   PERSON. All natural persons, firms, co-partnerships, corporations and all
associations of natural persons, incorporated or unincorporated, whether acting
by themselves or by a servant, agent or employee. All persons who violate any
of the provisions of this chapter, whether as owner, occupant, lessee, agent,
servant or employee shall, except as herein otherwise provided, be equally
liable as principals.
   TRASH and RUBBISH. Any and all forms of debris not herein otherwise
classified.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 94.03 FINDINGS.
   It is hereby determined that the uses, structures and activities which are
set forth in §
94.04 are causes of blight or blighting factors which, while allowed to exist,
will tend to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods, the spread of
vermin and disease, the increase in criminal activity and therefore, on and
after the effective date of this chapter, no person, firm or corporation of any
kind shall maintain or permit to be maintained any of the causes of blight or
blighting factors upon any property in the township owned, leased, rented or
occupied by such person.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 94.04 CAUSES OF BLIGHT OR BLIGHTING FACTORS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store, or to permit the storage
or accumulation of trash, rubbish, junk, junk motor vehicles or abandoned
vehicles on any private property within the township, except within a
completely enclosed building or upon the premises of a properly zoned or
legally operating, licensed or approved junk dealer, junk buyer, dealer in used
auto parts, dealer in second hand goods or junk, operator of a automobile
repair garage and/or automobile wrecker business,
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any blighted
or vacant structure, dwelling, garage, outbuilding, factory, shop, store or
warehouse unless the same is kept securely locked, the windows kept glazed or
neatly boarded up, and otherwise protected to prevent entrance thereto by
unauthorized persons or unless the structure is in the course of construction
in accordance with a valid building permit issued by the township, and unless
the construction is completed within a reasonable time.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to store or permit the storage or
accumulation of building materials on any private property, except in a
completely enclosed building or except where the building materials are part of
the stock in trade or business located on the property, or except when the
materials are being used in the construction of a structure on the property in
accordance with a valid building permit issued by the township and unless the
construction is completed within a reasonable time.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump, deposit, place, throw or
leave or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving
of litter, trash, junk, rubbish, refuse, offal, garbage, paper, glass, cans,
bottles, or other foreign substances, debris, grass clippings, or brush on any
private or public property within the township.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 94.05 NOTIFICATION.
   If, upon inspection, the Building Inspector, Code Enforcement Officer, Fire
Inspector, Township Supervisor, or his designee shall find that any property
within the township is being used in violation of this chapter, the owner and/
or occupant shall be notified of the violation which may be given in person or
certified and first class mail to the owner as he or she appears on the tax
rolls of the township or by service upon the occupant personally by any
official of the township.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 94.06 APPEAL.
   (A)   The owner and/or occupant may appeal to the Township Board for a
public hearing which shall be held at the next regular Township Board meeting
providing he or she files a request in writing with the Township Clerk within
ten days of the receipt of the notice as provided in §
94.05.
   (B)   Following the hearing, the decision of the Township Board as to the
violation is final.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 94.07 REMOVAL BY TOWNSHIP; LIEN.
   (A)   Responsibility for abatement costs. If the owner and/or occupant of
the premises fails to remove, eliminate or correct the condition of blight
within five days of receipt of the notice, or in the event that an appeal is
taken pursuant to §
94.06 within five days of the date of the decision of the Township Board, then
township may abate the condition of blight by removing, eliminating, or
correcting it. When such action is taken, the owner and/or occupant shall be
billed for the actual cost of the work plus an administrative fee of 20% of the
actual cost. The cost and the fee shall be in addition to fines and costs
assessed upon a finding of responsibility for a municipal civil infraction.
   (B)   Charge included in tax bill. When the township has taken action
pursuant to division (A) above to correct the blight condition, or has paid for
its removal, the actual cost thereof, plus the administrative fee shall be
charged to the owner of such property on the next regular tax bill forwarded to
such owner by the township, and said charge shall be due and payable by said
owner at the time of receipt of such bill.
   (C)   Recorded statement constitutes lien. Where the full amount due the
township is not paid by such owner within 60 days after the date of billing as
provided for in divisions (A) and (B) above, then the township shall cause to
be recorded in the Register of Deeds Office, a sworn statement showing the cost
and expense incurred for the work, the date the work was done, and the location
of the property. The sworn statement shall constitute a lien which shall remain
in full force and effect for the amount due in principal and interest, plus
costs of court, if any, for collection, until final payment has been made. Said
costs and expenses shall be collected in the manner fixed by law for the
collection of taxes.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any violation of or any failure to comply with the provisions of this
chapter on the first and second offense shall be deemed a municipal civil
infraction punishable by a fine not to exceed $250.
   (B)   Any subsequent violation of, or any failure to comply with the
provisions of this chapter shall be deemed a municipal civil infraction
punishable by a fine not to exceed $500. In addition, the township may seek
other remedies through a court of competent jurisdiction to enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-05, passed 8-27-2013)
CHAPTER 95: WEEDS
Section
   
95.01   Purpose
   
95.02   Short title
   
95.03   Definition
   
95.04   Application
   
95.05   Unlawful to permit noxious weeds; presence thereof a public nuisance
   
95.06   Failure or refusal of owner and the like to comply; action by township;
expenses charged to owner and the like; collection; form of notice
   
95.07   Effective date
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 PURPOSE.
   An ordinance for the purpose of furthering the control and eradication of
noxious weeds on any lot, lots or any parcel of property within the township;
to impose obligations upon the owner, agent or occupant of the lot, lots or any
parcel of property, with respect to the control and eradication; to implement
the enforcement of the obligations by lien on the lot, lots or any parcel of
property involved and to provide penalties for the violation thereof.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 95.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Kochville Township Weed
Ordinance".
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 95.03 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, NOXIOUS WEEDS shall include Canada thistle
(circium arvense), dodders, (any species of Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black
mustard and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis), wild carrot
(Daucus carata), bindweed (convolvulus arvenis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus
arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa incana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior 1.) any
poison ivy (rhus toxicodendron), poison sumac (toxicondendron vermix), oxeyes
daisies, ragweed, goldenrod or other plant which is recognized as deleterious
to health, safety or public welfare and recognized as common nuisance.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 95.04 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall apply to and cover noxious weeds, as in this chapter
defined, found growing on any lot, lots or any parcel of property within the
township.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 95.05 UNLAWFUL TO PERMIT NOXIOUS WEEDS; PRESENCE THEREOF A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent or occupant of any lot, lots or
parcel of property in the township, to cause, or permit to grow, on the lot,
lots or any parcel of property, any noxious weeds. The presence of the weeds
upon the lot, lots or any parcel of property, is hereby deemed to be
detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare and shall constitute a
public nuisance.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975) Penalty, see §
95.99
§ 95.06 FAILURE OR REFUSAL OF OWNER AND THE LIKE TO COMPLY; ACTION BY TOWNSHIP;
EXPENSES CHARGED TO OWNER AND THE LIKE; COLLECTION; FORM OF NOTICE.
   (A)   (1)   In the event the owner, agent or occupant of any lot, lots or
any parcel of property to which this chapter applies, shall fail or refuse to
comply with the provisions of §
95.05, then after ten-days' notice to the person, firm or legal entity of the
fact of a violation of §
95.05, by certified mail, return receipt requested, in substantially the form
set forth in this chapter, then the Commissioner of Noxious Weeds of the
township may cause any officer, inspector, agent or employees of the township
to enter upon the lot, lots or parcel of property, and cut and destroy any and
all noxious weeds located thereon. In the discretion of the Commissioner of
Noxious Weeds, or any officer, inspector or employees of the township, he or
she may authorize the destruction of the noxious weeds by and/or mechanical
means, and all due care shall be taken to avoid unnecessary damage to any lot,
lots or parcels of property. The owner, agent or occupant of the lot, lots or
parcels of property, within the township shall be liable for all costs incurred
by the township in connection with the cutting and destruction.
      (2)   From the time of the commencement of the cutting and destruction of
the noxious weeds, the township shall have a lien upon the lot, lots or parcels
of property, and in the event the charges involved are not paid by the owner,
agent or occupant of the lot, lots or parcels of property, within 30 days from
the date of billing, the person by registered or certified mail, return receipt
requested, payment shall be deemed delinquent and the lien enforceable as a tax
lien as is provided by law against the lot, lots, or parcels of property to be
charged and collected as in the case of general property taxes against the lot,
lots, or parcels of property in question.
   (B)   (1)   The notice to be given to the owner, agent or occupant of any
lot, lots or any parcel of property located within the township shall conform
substantially to the following:
 
NOTICE
To the owner, agent or occupant of any lot, lots or any parcel of property in
the Township of Kochville covered by this Ordinance.
Notice is hereby given that you are in violation of Ord. 75-1 of the Township of
Kochville, making it unlawful to cause, or permit, the growing of noxious weeds,
as defined therein, on any lot, lots or any parcel of property located within
the Township of Kochville. You are particularly in violation of Sections II and
IV, of the ordinance which reads as follows:
   "Section II. For the purpose of this Ordinance, "Noxious Weeds" shall include
Canada thistle (circium arvense), dodders, (any species of Cuscuta), mustards
(charlock, black mustard and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or Sinapis),
wild carrot (Daucus carata), bindweed convolvulus arvenis), perennial sowthistle
(Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa incana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior
1.) and poison ivy (rhus toxicodendron), poison sumac (toxicodendron vermix),
oxeyes daisies, ragweed, goldenrod, or other plant which is recognized as
deleterious to health, safety, or public welfare and recognized as common
nuisance."
   "Section IV. It shall be unlawful for the owner, agent, or occupant of any
lot, lots in the Township, to cause, or permit to grow, on said lot, lots, or
any parcel of property, any noxious weeds. The presence of such weeds upon such
lot, lots or parcel of property is hereby deemed to be detrimental to the public
health, safety and welfare and shall constitute a public nuisance."
In addition to a fine not to exceed $100, for which you are now liable and
subject to prosecution, failure to comply with this notice within ten days from
the date hereof shall make the owner, agent or occupant of any lot, lots or
parcel of property, subject to the cutting and destruction of weeds by the
township and liable for the total costs of the township in connection therewith,
as provided in the ordinance. The liability for costs may be enforced as a tax
lien, as is provided by law against the lot, lots or any parcel of property to
be charged, and collected as in the case of general property taxes against the
lot, lots or parcel of property.
COMMISSIONER OF NOXIOUS WEEDS FOR KOCHVILLE TOWNSHIP
 
      (2)   Further, the township may, in lieu of the notice required herein,
publish a notice in a newspaper of general circulation in the county during the
month of March that weeds not cut by June 1 of that year will be cut by the
township and the owner of the property charged with the cost under the
provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 95.07 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective 30 days from and after the publication
thereof.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, firm or legal entity who violates any provision of this
chapter shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine of not more than $100.
Each day's failure of compliance with any provision of this chapter shall
constitute a separate offense.
   (B)   Legal proceedings io enjoin the violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter may be brought in any court of competent jurisdiction in the name
of the township. The action shall be taken only as authorized by the Township
Board. Further, a civil action may be brought, as authorized by the Township
Board, to recover the costs incurred by the township in connection with the
cutting and destruction of weeds.
(Ord. 75-1, passed 3-3-1975)
CHAPTER 96: LITTER CONTROL
Section
   
96.01   Definitions
   
96.02   Purpose
   
96.03   Litter in public places or upon private premises
   
96.04   Business property to be kept free of litter
   
96.05   Trucks causing litter
   
96.06   Litter in public places
   
96.07   Distribution of handbills or newspapers
   
96.08   Placing handbills on vehicles
   
96.09   Posting notices prohibited
   
96.10   Blowing litter
   
96.11   Clearing of litter from open private property by township
   
96.12   Trash storage
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. That portion of the township which is included within the
Kochville Township Downtown Development District, as described in §§
154.01 through
154.20.
   COMMERCIAL HANDBILL. Any sample, and any handbill, that primarily solicits
or provides information regarding a commercial transaction or enterprise
involving the exchange of service or goods for compensation.
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample, dodger, circular,
leaflet, pamphlet, paper, booklet or other type of written or printed matter,
except a newspaper, a legal notice, a traffic citation or business card having
an area smaller than three square inches.
   LITTER and TRASH. Any garbage, refuse, rubbish or other waste material.
   PUBLIC PLACES. Those portions of the township which are owned or maintained
by the township, including public building sites, parks, trails and other
places which are open to the public.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.02 PURPOSE.
   The control of litter within the township Business District is important to
maintain the appearance of the Business District and all of the businesses
which are located within said District. The township desires to maintain the
Business District for the benefit of both the businesses which are located
therein, as well as for the persons who visit the Business District.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.03 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES OR UPON PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in or upon any street, sidewalk,
park, or other public place, or upon any private premises, except in waste
receptacles or in officially designated refuse disposal sites.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.04 BUSINESS PROPERTY TO BE KEPT FREE OF LITTER.
   Persons who own or occupy places of business within the Business District
shall keep the sidewalks, parking lots and other outdoor areas which are within
the owned area of the business free of litter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.05 TRUCKS CAUSING LITTER.
   No person shall drive or move any truck or other vehicle within the township
unless such vehicle is so constructed or loaded as to prevent any load,
contents, or litter from being blown or deposited upon any street or public
place, or on private property adjacent thereto,
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.06 LITTER IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall throw or deposit litter in any park or other public place
within the township except into designated receptacles.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.07 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS OR NEWSPAPERS.
   No person shall throw or deposit any handbill or newspaper upon any
sidewalk, street, park or other public place except for drop off distribution
points for newspapers to be delivered the same day as distributed. However, it
shall not be unlawful for a person to hand out or distribute a handbill or
newspaper to any person willing to accept it.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.08 PLACING HANDBILLS ON VEHICLES.
   No person shall throw, attach or deposit any handbill in or upon any
vehicle. However, it shall not be unlawful for a person to distribute a
handbill to an occupant of a vehicle who is willing to accept it.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.09 POSTING NOTICES PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall paint, post or in any way affix any notice, banner,
poster or other paper or device on any lamp post, public utility post or shade
tree within the limits of any public way or on any public structure, building,
improvement or appurtenance thereof, including but not limited to: public
refuse containers, fences, traffic signs and poles, and hydrants, nor cause the
same to be done, except as may be authorized or required by law.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this section, it shall not
be a violation of this section for a person to place a poster on a utility pole
or lamp post within a public right-of-way if the following conditions are met:
      (1)   The poster contains a date not more than 14 days following the
placement of the poster. The date of an event advertised in a poster may be
used to comply with this division.
      (2)   The person affixing the poster shall remove all of the outdated or
undated posters.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.10 BLOWING LITTER.
   No person shall allow litter from its trash receptacles or from its business
use or patronage to be carried by the wind from its property onto the property
of others.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.11 CLEARING OF LITTER FROM OPEN PRIVATE PROPERTY BY TOWNSHIP.
   Whenever private property is in a condition which violates this chapter, the
township is authorized to remove the litter. Before removing the litter
pursuant to this section, the township shall give notice of violation by
posting the notice at a conspicuous place on the property at least 24 hours
prior to removing the materials. The township may also deliver the notice to
the property owner as shown on assessment records by sending the notice by
first class mail to the property owner as shown on the assessment records at
least 48 hours prior to removing the materials. No notice shall be required if
a public health hazard necessitates immediate removal of materials. All costs
(including labor, equipment, materials, disposal and overhead) of work
performed by the township under this section shall be charged to the owner of
the involved property. If the charges are not paid, they may be assessed
against, and become a lien upon, the property.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.12 TRASH STORAGE.
   Trash storage within the Business District shall be in an enclosed area,
shielded from view. The method of screening shall be consistent with the
Cardinal Square guidelines §
155.332 et seq., which have been established by the township for trash storage
and shall be subject to approval by the Zoning Administrator.
   (A)   Businesses which are located within the Business District as of the
date of this chapter shall conform with the trash storage requirements of this
section within five years of the date of this chapter.
   (B)   Variances. A variance from the requirements of this section may be
granted by a Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals, which shall be appointed
by the Township Board, shall consist of one member each of the Downtown
Development Authority, Township Planning Commission and Township Zoning Board
of Appeals. A request for variance shall be filed no later than six months
prior to expiration of the five-year period as provided in division (A) above.
   (C)   Basis for variance. The Board of Appeals may allow a variance in cases
involving practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships when the evidence in
the official record of the appeal supports the following findings:
      (1)   The alleged hardships or practical difficulties, or both, are
exceptional and peculiar to the property of the person requesting the variance,
and result from conditions which do not exist generally throughout the
township;
      (2)   The alleged hardships or practical difficulties, or both, which
will result from a failure to grant the variance, include substantially more
than mere inconvenience, or mere inability to attain a higher financial return;
      (3)   Allowing the variance will result in substantial justice being
done, considering the public benefits intended to be secured by this chapter,
the individual hardships that will be suffered by a failure to grant a
variance, and the rights of others whose property would be affected by the
allowance of the variance, and will not be contrary to the public purpose and
general intent and purpose of this chapter.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   Each violation of this chapter shall constitute a civil infraction,
punishable by a civil fine not to exceed $500, plus costs and all other
remedies available by statute. Each day of a violation shall be a separate
violation.
(Ord. 13-02, passed 4-23-2013)
CHAPTER 97: RENTAL HOUSING
Section
   
97.01   Purpose
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Registration for rental or lease of dwellings
   
97.04   Application for registration
   
97.05   Inspection required for registration, certification of compliance
   
97.06   Issuance of registration certificate
   
97.07   Maintenance of registered dwellings
   
97.08   Inspection by the Department in response to tenant complaints, right of
entry
   
97.09   Appeal of denial, suspension, or revocation of registration certificate
   
97.10   All charges paid
 
   
97.99   Penalty
§ 97.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the registration and upkeep
of rental property, to help eliminate blight conditions, to prevent
deterioration of rental properties, to prevent decrease in property values, to
insure rental properties are in compliance with building and other codes, and
to ensure safe habitation of persons residing in rental units.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEPARTMENT. The Community Development Department or any successor department
or division that may be established.
   DWELLING. A non-owner occupied dwelling as defined in the most recent State
Building Code or the State Residential Code, as promulgated by the State
Construction Code Commission, including all amendments and supplements; and any
accessory building or structure defined under the housing law for the state
and/or Kochville Township's zoning ordinance, as amended.
   OCCUPANT. In determining total occupancy of a unit, OCCUPANT shall mean any
individual who inhabits the unit for more than 24 hours. (Time does not have to
be consecutive.)
   OWNER. The owner(s) of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate in the
premises, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, an assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, or any other person, sole proprietorship, partnership,
association, or corporation directly or indirectly in control of a dwelling, or
his/her/its agents, servants, or employees.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.03 REGISTRATION FOR RENTAL OR LEASE OF DWELLINGS.
   It shall be unlawful for an owner to rent or lease a dwelling unless a
registration certificate has been issued and maintained for the dwelling in the
manner required by this subchapter.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.04 APPLICATION FOR REGISTRATION.
   The Department shall receive applications for the registration of dwellings
under the provisions of this subchapter upon forms provided by the Department.
The application shall be signed by the owner of record, notarized, and attached
to the dwelling(s) to be registered. The application shall be accompanied by a
registration fee in such amount as the Kochville Township Board shall from time
to time establish by resolution.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.05 INSPECTION REQUIRED FOR REGISTRATION, CERTIFICATION OF COMPLIANCE.
   The owner of the dwelling identified in the application shall submit a
Certification of Compliance certifying that the owner has made the required
inspection as provided for on the registration application and that the home is
in compliance with all applicable codes in effect, including the International
Property Maintenance Code, the State Building Code, the State Residential Code,
the State Electrical Code, the State Mechanical and Plumbing Codes, and the
township's zoning ordinance, as amended, and is fit for occupancy.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.06 ISSUANCE OF REGISTRATION CERTIFICATE.
   After receiving the application, the "Certification of Compliance"
inspection form and the fee for registration, the Department shall issue to the
applicant a registration certificate, which shall be valid for two years. The
registration certificate shall be in the name of the owner and cannot be
transferred.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.07 MAINTENANCE OF REGISTERED DWELLINGS.
   The owner of the dwelling registered under the provisions of this subchapter
shall maintain the dwelling and property in compliance with the above-stated
codes, and township zoning ordinance. Should the owner fail to maintain the
dwelling in compliance with said codes, and ordinances, the registration
certificate may be suspended or revoked or subject to other sanctions by the
Department, as authorized by law, including bringing such violation before the
court. Other sanctions may include removal of the occupants depending on the
nature of the violation. The owner shall be given notice, in writing, of the
determination and the reasons for the determination. If applicable, the owner
may be given a time specified by the Department to rectify the violations. The
notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the address listed on the owner's
application form.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.08 INSPECTION BY THE DEPARTMENT IN RESPONSE TO TENANT COMPLAINTS, RIGHT OF
ENTRY.
   The Department shall have the authority to make inspections where there is
reasonable cause to believe that there exists in a structure or upon the
premises a condition in violation of the above codes. Where a complaint is
received by a tenant, due to failure of the owner to address and correct an
alleged violation, the Department shall first send out notice to the owner,
when applicable and schedule a time for inspection. Where the inspection is of
an emergency nature due to an unsafe condition, the Department may inspect the
property without prior notice. An unsafe condition may be cause for the
immediate vacating of the dwelling until such time as the unsafe condition can
be corrected.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.09 APPEAL OF DENIAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF REGISTRATION
CERTIFICATE.
   (A)   Should the Department determine that the dwelling is not in
compliance, and for that reason deny, suspend, or revoke a registration
certificate; the owner shall have the right to appeal such determination in the
following manner:
      (1)   The owner shall file the appeal with the township, in writing,
within 15 days of the date of the Department's determination. Filing of the
appeal shall stay any suspension or revocation of a registration certificate
but not any action brought before the court of which the court has
jurisdiction. The appeal shall contain a short and plain statement of the
matter(s) asserted by the owner, including factual and legal bases upon which
the owner relies.
      (2)   Upon receipt of the appeal, the Board of Appeals shall schedule a
hearing and provide notice of the hearing to the owner by sending written
notice by first-class mail to the address listed on the owner's application
form. The owner may appear at the hearing in person, or by representative. If
the owner or representative fails to appear at the hearing after proper notice,
the Board of Appeals may proceed with the hearing and issue a decision. The
owner shall be given an opportunity to present evidence and arguments on issues
of law and fact.
      (3)   Within a reasonable period after the hearing is concluded, the
Board of Appeals shall issue a final decision, in writing, setting forth its
findings. A copy of the decision shall be sent by first-class mail to the
address listed on the owner's application form, or to the representative that
appeared at the hearing.
      (4)   The Board of Appeals shall:
         (a)   Affirm the determination of the Department; or
         (b)   Reverse the determination of the Department and order the
issuance or reinstatement of a registration certificate.
   (B)   The Board of Appeals shall have no power to vary or modify any code,
law, or ordinance nor may it vary or modify the procedures herein provided.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.10 ALL CHARGES PAID.
   No license shall be issued if there are any outstanding delinquent water or
sewer charges owing to the township, and until such charges are paid full or as
may be permitted by the township through a payment arrangement.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter or any part thereof shall be punishable by a
civil infraction. In addition, the township specifically reserves the right to
proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with this chapter, including cessation of the non-complying rental housing unit
and legal fees incurred by the township in enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 15-02, passed 3-16-2015)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
      Chapter
         
110.   GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURE
         
111.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
         
112.   TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
         
113.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
         
114.   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
         
115.   MEDICAL MARIHUANA
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL LICENSING PROCEDURE
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   Purpose
   
110.04   License requirements
   
110.05   Display
   
110.06   Right of appeal and hearing
   
110.07   No refund of license fee
   
110.08   Exemptions
   
110.09   Effective date
Procurement Procedure for License
   
110.20   Application required
   
110.21   Multiple businesses
   
110.22   State-licensed business
   
110.23   Fee required
   
110.24   Term of license
Other Conditions for Issuing of License and Renewals
   
110.35   Compliance with laws and ordinances
   
110.36   Transfer of license
   
110.37   Inspection by issuing officer
   
110.38   Renewal fees
Restrictions
   
110.50   All charges paid
   
110.51   Compliance with all laws
   
110.52   Legal under existing law
 
   
110.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Kochville Township Licensing
Ordinance".
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession, work, commerce or other
activity owned or operated for profit by any person within the township
excluding, however, political, charitable or religious establishments.
   LICENSING AGENT. The Township Clerk or other township official or employee
as may be designated by resolution of the Township Board.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, association or corporation.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.03 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to assist the township with information to
provide more adequate police and fire protection; more equal and equitable real
and personal property taxation; better efficiency and economy in furnishing
public utility services within the township; more comprehensive and informed
planning and zoning for uses of land and structures within the township; and to
establish a registry of businesses operating within the township for the
general information of the public and for the promotion of the township.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.04 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   No person may commence or continue a business, as herein defined, within the
township without having first obtained a township license therefore as
hereinafter provided and without maintaining the license in current effect
during any business operation or activity.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.05 DISPLAY.
   The license shall be prominently displayed to public view.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.06 RIGHT OF APPEAL AND HEARING.
   The licensee may appeal all revocations to the Township Board, which, for
cause shown, may uphold the revocation or reinstate the license after giving
the licensee reasonable notice and after holding a hearing at which the
licensee shall have an opportunity to be heard.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.07 NO REFUND OF LICENSE FEE.
   In the event of revocation, the license fee shall not be refunded.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.08 EXEMPTIONS.
   No license shall be required of any political, charitable or religious
establishment situated within the township. The provisions of this chapter are
not applicable to any agency of the United States of America, the state or any
political subdivisions thereof.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days from date of adoption.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
PROCUREMENT PROCEDURE FOR LICENSE
§ 110.20 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   No license to commence or continue a business shall be issued until the
owner or operator thereof shall have first submitted an application to the
licensing agent of the township on a form provided by the licensing agent for
those purposes. No person shall make any false statement or representation in
connection with any application for a license under this chapter.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.21 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   The granting of a license or permit to any person operating, conducting or
carrying on any trade, profession, business or privilege which contains within
itself, or is composed of, trades, professions, businesses or privileges which
are required by this chapter to be licensed, shall not relieve the person to
whom the license or permit is granted from the necessity of securing individual
licenses or permits for each trade, profession, business or privilege.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.22 STATE-LICENSED BUSINESS.
   The fact that a license or permit has been granted to any person by the
state to engage in the operation, conduct or carrying on of any trade,
profession, business or privilege shall not exempt the person from the
necessity of securing a license or permit from the township if the license or
permit is required by this chapter.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.23 FEE REQUIRED.
   (A)   A fee, as determined by the Township Board, shall accompany the
application. Upon the filing of a properly completed application and upon
payment of the fee, the licensing agent shall issue a license to the person to
commence or continue the business designated in the application if the business
complies with the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   The fees required for issuance of a license shall be subject to change
by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.24 TERM OF LICENSE.
   The license year applicable to annual licenses, shall begin on April 1 of
each year and shall terminate at midnight on March 31 the following year.
License applications for license renewals shall be accepted and licenses issued
for a period of 15 days prior to the annual expiration date.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
OTHER CONDITIONS FOR ISSUING OF LICENSE AND RENEWALS
§ 110.35 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   No license shall be issued by the licensing agent where the existing or
proposed business would be illegal under any law or ordinance of the United
States of America, the state, the county having jurisdiction thereof or the
township.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.36 TRANSFER OF LICENSE.
   No license may be transferred by the holder to any other person, except upon
prior approval of the Township Board.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.37 INSPECTION BY ISSUING OFFICER.
   (A)   The licensing agent shall have the right of inspection of the business
premises to assure compliance with this chapter.
   (B)   In the event of any non-compliance with the provisions of this chapter
after a license has been issued, the same may be revoked by order of the
licensing agent until the non-compliance has been corrected as determined by
the agent.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.38 RENEWAL FEES.
   (A)   A licensee shall pay an annual renewal fee as determined by the
Township Board.
   (B)   If the renewal fee is not paid within 30 days of the due date, but
prior to 60 days past the due date, the renewal fee shall be two times the fee
renewal fee set by the Township Board.
   (C)   If the renewal fee is paid 61 or more days past the due date, the
renewal fee shall be four times the fee set by the Township Board.
   (D)   The fees required for renewal of a license shall be subject to change
by the Township Board.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
RESTRICTIONS
§ 110.50 ALL CHARGES PAID.
   No license shall be issued until storm water fees, all hookup fees,
connection fees or other charges required by the township code of ordinances
shall be paid in full or as permitted by ordinance code provisions.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.51 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS.
   No license shall be issued unless the applicant has complied with all
township, county, state and federal laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.52 LEGAL UNDER EXISTING LAW.
   No license shall be issued by the licensing agent where the existing or
proposed business would be illegal under any law or ordinance of the United
States of America, the state, the county having jurisdiction thereof or the
township.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   Any violation of this chapter or any part thereof shall be punishable by a
civil infraction. In addition, the township specifically reserves the right to
proceed in any court of competent jurisdiction for the purpose of obtaining an
injunction, restraining order or other appropriate remedy to compel compliance
with this chapter, including cessation of the non-complying business and legal
fees incurred by the township in enforcing this chapter.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 11-18-2008)
CHAPTER 111: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Short title
   
111.02   Statement of purpose
   
111.03   Legal authority
   
111.04   Definitions
   
111.05   Effective date
   
111.06   Fees
   
111.07   Nudity, dancing and live entertainment
Approval of Transfer or Issuance of License
   
111.20   Approval of Township Board required
   
111.21   Application; contents
   
111.22   Factors determining grant of approval; authority of Township Board;
discretion to approve issuance of licenses
   
111.23   Objection to renewal or request for revocation; notice
   
111.24   Criteria for non-renewal or revocation
   
111.25   Public hearing and review
   
111.26   Approval
   
111.27   Change in existing operations
   
111.28   Annual license and permit review
   
111.29   Intra-family license transfer
 
   
111.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A:   Alcoholic Beverages License Application
Cross-reference:
   General Licensing Procedure, see
Ch. 110
   Transient Merchants, see
Ch. 112
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Kochville Township
Liquor Management Ordinance".
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to allow the township to establish and
administer a policy for the issuance and transfer of liquor licenses and
permits; to provide for the enforcement of liquor laws, regulations and
ordinances; and to manage the number of liquor licenses which are issued within
the township.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.03 LEGAL AUTHORITY.
   The authority for enacting this chapter is based upon the police power of
the township, together with the requirement for local approval of the issuance
of liquor licenses and the revocation of the licenses, pursuant to M.C.L.A. §§
436.1501 et seq.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.04 DEFINITIONS.
   Words or phrases used in this chapter that are specifically defined in the
State Liquor Control Code, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 et seq., have the
meanings given to them by that code and the regulations promulgated under the
code, including, without limitation, the following: "alcoholic liquor" (also
referred to in this chapter as "alcoholic beverage"), "beer", "wine" and
"spirits".
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after publication as required by law
following adoption by the Township Board.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.06 FEES.
   Each applicant for a new license or permit, for transfer of an existing
license or permit, for expansion of an existing establishment, and for renewal
of an existing license or permit shall pay a non-refundable application
investigation fee of $1,000. Each applicant for renewal of a license that was
originally established on or before 10-26-2010, (the day before enactment)
shall be exempt from annual renewal fees; all others shall pay an annual review
fee of $1,000. The fees will be in addition to any fee required by the Liquor
Control Commission and shall be set by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010; Res. 10-028, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.07 NUDITY, DANCING AND LIVE ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   No licensee under the State Liquor Control Code, as amended, M.C.L.A.
§§ 436.1101 et seq., shall permit on the licensed premises:
      (1)   Any display or exhibition of live nude male or female dancing or
entertainment involving any of the following:
         (a)   Patently offensive displays, representations or descriptions of
ultimate sexual acts, normal or perverted, actual or simulated; or
         (b)   Patently offensive displays, representations or descriptions of
masturbation, excretory functions or genitalia.
      (2)   Any display or exhibition of live nude male or female dancing or
entertainment in which the male or female genitalia, buttocks or anus are
exposed or exhibited or any display or exhibition of live nude female dancing
or entertainment including any topless activity in which the female breasts are
exposed or exhibited.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      NUDE or NUDITY. Exposure to public view of the whole or part of the pubic
region; the whole or the part of the anus; the whole or part of the buttocks;
the whole or part of the genitals; or the breast area including the nipple or
more than half of the area of the breast.
      TOPLESS. Display, exposure or exhibition of the female breast area,
including the nipple, or more than half of the area of the breast, is directly
exposed or exposed by means of see-through clothing or a body stocking:
   (C)   Regardless of whether the licensee has been granted any other permits
under the State Liquor Control Code, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 et seq.,
including, but not limited to, an entertainment permit, dance permit,
combination dance-entertainment permit, the following restrictions and
prohibitions apply within the township.
      (1)   Live entertainment shall be restricted to the area consisting of
the dance floor and/or stage.
      (2)   The total square footage area of any dance floor may not exceed the
combined total square footage area of the bar and eating area.
      (3)   Table dancing or pole dancing is strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010) Penalty, see §
111.99
APPROVAL OF TRANSFER OR ISSUANCE OF LICENSE
§ 111.20 APPROVAL OF TOWNSHIP BOARD REQUIRED.
   Any establishment seeking a liquor license from the State Liquor Control
Commission for the sale of beer, wine or spirits or other alcoholic beverages
for consumption on the premises (an on-premises license) shall first obtain
approval of its application by the Township Board, as provided by this chapter.
The applicant shall bear the burden of establishing compliance with all
requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.21 APPLICATION; CONTENTS.
   Applications for approval by the Township Board of an on-premises license
shall be made to the Township Board in writing, signed by the applicant (if an
individual) or by a duly authorized agent (if a partnership, limited liability
company, corporation or other entity), verified by oath or affidavit, and shall
be accompanied by all necessary documents evidencing compliance with or
providing assurances for future compliance with all requirements of this
ordinance as well as the Michigan Liquor Control Code, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§
436.1101 et seq. All applications shall contain, at a minimum, the following
information:
   (A)   The name, age and address of the applicant in the case of an
individual; or, in the case of an entity, all of the owners, other persons
entitled to profits or distributions from the entity, all persons having a
right to participate in the management of the enterprise, and certified copies
of the entity’s organizational documents including by way of illustration, the
following: articles, bylaws, partnership agreement, and operating agreement;
   (B)   The contact person for the applicant, including address and telephone
number;
   (C)   A description of the premises location and business to be operating
under the license;
   (D)   A statement that the applicant will not violate any local, state or
federal laws and regulations in the conduct of the business;
   (E)   Plans showing all structures and premises, including the specific
areas where the license is to be utilized;
   (F)   A complete copy of the Application for New License, Permits or
Transfer of Ownership or Interest, being Form LCC-3011, or any replacement form
of the Liquor Control Commission and any attachments submitted to the Michigan
Liquor Control Commission.
   (G)   A completed copy of any investigations, inspections, reports,
correspondence, and communications issued to the licensee applicant by the
Michigan Liquor Control Commission;
   (H)   A completed copy of the Police Investigation Recommendation, being
Form LC 1800, or any replacement form of the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission.
   (I)   Any other information deemed necessary by the township to adequately
review the application as provided by this section and authorized by law.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010; Am. Ord. 12-005, passed 7-24-2012)
§ 111.22 FACTORS DETERMINING GRANT OF APPROVAL; AUTHORITY OF TOWNSHIP BOARD;
DISCRETION TO APPROVE ISSUANCE OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Review factors. In reviewing a request for a new license or permit or
transfers of ownership of existing licenses or transfers into the township of
new on-premises licensees, the Township Board may consider and/or weigh the
following factors:
      (1)   Conserve the expenditure of funds for public improvements and
services to conform with the most advantageous uses of land, resources and
property;
      (2)   Total number of similar licenses in the township;
      (3)   Input from residents and surrounding business owners;
      (4)   Impact of the establishment on surrounding businesses and
neighborhoods;
      (5)   Whether a proposed licensed premises is part of a multi-use project
with substantial new retail, office or residential components. The size of the
licensed premises relative to the overall project or development;
      (6)   Crowd control;
      (7)   Parking availability;
      (8)   Preservation or restoration of historic buildings;
      (9)   Locating in an underdeveloped area;
      (10)   Concentration of drinking establishments and impact on policing
requirements;
      (11)   Policing requirements;
      (12)   Business history;
      (13)   Business experience;
      (14)   State Liquor Control Commission and/or State Liquor Control Code
violation history;
      (15)   Percent of floor area devoted to dining versus bar area;
      (16)   Size of bar area;
      (17)   Size of dance floor, if any;
      (18)   Type or character of the establishment (e.g., dining, nightclub,
hotel, dance club);
      (19)   Non-payment of taxes or other payment due to the township; and
      (20)   Any other factor(s) that may affect the health, safety and welfare
or the best interests of the community.
   (B)   Supplementary. This chapter shall not operate to limit any legal
authority vested in the Township Board and shall be considered to be
supplementary to the exercise of the Township Board's authority.
   (C)   Distribution of licenses. Notwithstanding any provision of this
chapter to the contrary, the Board shall be under no obligation to distribute
any unissued licenses available within the township at any given time. No
applicant has a right to the issuance of a license, and the Board reserves its
right to exercise reasonable discretion to determine which application, if any,
to approve of for the issuance. Further, no applicant shall have the right to
have its application processed, and the Board reserves its right to take no
action with respect to any application for approval filed with the township.
The Board may maintain a list of all applicants and review the list when, in
its discretion, it determines that the issuance of an additional license is in
the best interests of the township at large and for the needs, benefit and
convenience of its citizens.
   (D)   Time for commencement of construction. Approval by the Township Board
of an application for a license shall be subject to the condition that any
necessary remodeling or new construction for the use of the license shall be
commenced by the applicant within six months of the action of the State Liquor
Control Commission approving the license, and shall be completed within six
months of the commencement date. Further, the site plan shall comply with all
site plan review provisions provided by the Township Planning Commission and
must be pre-approved by all reviewing township departments.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.23 OBJECTION TO RENEWAL OR REQUEST FOR REVOCATION; NOTICE.
   (A)   Before filing an objection to the renewal or a request for revocation
of a license with the State Liquor Control Commission, the township shall serve
the license holder with notice of a hearing on the matter by the Township
Board. The notice shall be served by first class mail, mailed not less than 15
days prior to hearing, and shall contain the following information:
      (1)   The nature of the action proposed to be taken by the Township Board
(i.e., objection to renewal or request for revocation);
      (2)   The reasons for the proposed action;
      (3)   The date, time and place of the hearing;
      (4)   A statement that the licensee may present evidence, witnesses,
testimony and arguments, and confront adverse witnesses, if any; and
      (5)   The licensee's right to be represented by an attorney.
   (B)   The hearing shall be held as provided in §
111.25. Within a reasonable time following the hearing, the Township Board
shall provide the license holder and the State Liquor Control Commission with a
written statement of its findings and determination, including any resolution
adopted by the Township Board indicating the specific action requested.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.24 CRITERIA FOR NON-RENEWAL OR REVOCATION.
   The Township Board may recommend non-renewal or revocation of a license upon
a determination by it that, based upon a preponderance of the evidence
presented at the hearing, one or more of the following conditions or
circumstances exist:
   (A)   A violation of any applicable Building, Electrical, Mechanical,
Plumbing or Fire Codes, zoning ordinances, public health ordinances or any
other applicable law or ordinances;
   (B)   The maintenance by the licensee of a nuisance upon the premises;
   (C)   The failure to begin the sale of alcoholic beverages under the license
at the premises within 12 months after approval of the license by the Township
Board;
   (D)   The ceasing of active operation of the licensed business for more than
six consecutive months; and/or
   (E)   Amounts owed to the township by the applicant or any owner or tenant
of the licensed premises, including, but not limited to, any real or personal
property taxes, special assessments, sewer charges or water charges, which are
delinquent or remain unpaid.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.25 PUBLIC HEARING AND REVIEW.
   (A)   Hearing. The Township Board shall hold a public hearing upon a request
for a new license, the establishment of a new permit, transfer of an existing
license to new owners, for the transfer of a new license into the township or
before filing an objection to the renewal or a request for revocation of a
license with the State Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Notice. Notice of all hearings shall be provided to all property
owners and residents within 1,000 feet of the proposed establishment, all LCC
Class C license holders, the Chamber of Commerce and the Kochville Community
Schools. The applicant shall pay the cost of the notice.
   (C)   Appearance. The applicant will be required to appear at the hearing
before the Township Board and make a written and/or oral presentation
concerning the request.
   (D)   Recommendation. The Township Board shall review and may recommend
approval or disapproval of all requests to the Township Board.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.26 APPROVAL.
   (A)   If after a review by the Township Board and/or a public hearing, the
Township Board is satisfied that the establishment or operation will provide a
benefit to the township and constitute an asset to the community, it will adopt
a resolution granting approval, subject to the satisfaction of any conditions
stated in the resolution.
   (B)   If the request involves a change to the physical size or layout of the
establishment, when the applicant's building or remodeling is completed, it
must meet all state and local regulations and must comply with the
representations made to the Township Board by the applicant. If the physical
alteration is approved by the Township Board and it is subsequently determined
that the project was not substantially completed as required by the plans and
specifications presented to the township, or in substantial compliance with
representations made to the township, the township may recommend that the
license be revoked or not be renewed for the following year.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.27 CHANGE IN EXISTING OPERATIONS.
   If the request involves a change in existing operations, it shall be subject
to a new review, as provided in §
111.22.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.28 ANNUAL LICENSE AND PERMIT REVIEW.
   (A)   Township Board review. The Township Board may undertake a review of a
license or permit for the purpose of making a recommendation to the State
Liquor Control Commission regarding renewal of the license or permit. The Board
shall consider whether a licensed establishment has been operated in a manner
consistent with the provisions of this chapter and all other applicable laws,
and regulations of the township and the state.
   (B)   Annual investigation. Each year, the Township Supervisor shall cause
an investigation to be made relative to each existing on-premises licensed
establishment. The investigation shall include, but not be limited to, the
following.
      (1)   The licensee shall submit copies of current valid licenses from
appropriate county, state or federal governments to ensure authorization to
serve food at the establishment.
      (2)   An inspection of the premises shall be made to determine whether
the licensee is in compliance with the license itself, its approved site plan
and if applicable its plan of operation, as well as any conditions imposed by
the township or the State Liquor Control Commission, or representations made by
the licensee at the time of issuance or transfer of the license.
      (3)   An inspection of township records to determine whether all taxes
and other monies due the township have been paid.
      (4)   An inspection of police files or other sources of information to
determine whether any activity in connection with the licensed premise is in
violation of the law, disturbs the public peace and tranquility, constitutes a
nuisance or contributes to the disruption of the normal activities of those in
the neighborhood of the licensed premise.
      (5)   A review of the operation of the licensed establishment to
determine whether the business is being operated in compliance with any and all
representations that may have been made by the licensee to the township or the
Township Board.
   (C)   Recommendations from township departments. Following receipt of a
fully completed application, fees and other information as may be requested by
the township, the Township Clerk shall forward the application to the Township
Supervisor. The Township Supervisor shall distribute the application to the
Fire Department, Building Department, Treasurer's office, Planning Commission
and other departments as required by the Township Supervisor, which departments
shall make their reviews and recommendations prior to consideration by the
Township Board. In conducting its review, the township may request other
pertinent information from the licensee.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
§ 111.29 INTRA-FAMILY LICENSE TRANSFER.
   (A)   Family business entity transfer. Unless the Township Board otherwise
directs, an applicant which seeks to transfer a license to a business entity in
which the applicant, together with members of the applicant’s immediate family,
are the owners, shall not require the filing of an application or a hearing
which is required under this section. The Township Board may consider approval
or disapproval based upon the local approval notice as provided by the Michigan
Liquor Control Commission.
   (B)   Family member transfer. Unless the Township Board otherwise directs,
an applicant which seeks to transfer the ownership of a license, or part
ownership of a license, to a member of the applicant’s immediate family, shall
not require a filing of an application or a hearing under this section. The
Township Board may consider approval or disapproval based upon the local
approval notice as provided by the Michigan Liquor Control Commission.
(Ord. 11-005, passed 10-25-2011)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil infraction by other than licensee. Any person, other than
persons required to be licensed under the State Liquor Control Code, who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter shall be guilty of a civil
infraction.
   (B)   Civil infraction by licensee. Any licensees who shall violate any of
the provisions of the State Liquor Control Code or any rule or regulation of
the State Liquor Control Commission promulgated thereunder, or who shall
violate any of the provisions of this chapter, and any person who shall
prohibit or interfere with the authorized inspection of a member of the
township enforcement offices shall be guilty of a civil infraction. Each day
that a violation continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Injunction. The township may institute legal proceedings in a court of
competent jurisdiction to seek all appropriate relief for violations of this
chapter or of any license or permit issued under this chapter. The action may
seek temporary or permanent injunctive relief, damages, penalties, costs,
including reasonable attorneys' fees, and any other relief, at law or equity
that a court may order.
   (D)   Recovery of enforcement costs. In addition to the penalties provided
in this chapter, the township may recover costs incurred as a consequence of
enforcing this chapter, including reasonable attorneys' fees, court costs and
other expenses associated with enforcement activities. The costs shall be
recoverable from the person found to have violated this chapter or the orders,
rules, regulations or permits issued under this chapter.
   (E)   Remedies cumulative. A civil infraction shall not be a bar against or
prerequisite for taking any other action against a person.
(Ord. 10-002, passed 10-26-2010)
APPENDIX A: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES LICENSE APPLICATION
KOCHVILLE TOWNSHIP
5851 Mackinaw Road Saginaw, MI 48604
APPLICATION - ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES LICENSE
********************************************************
FEES
An application fee of $1,000 is due from each applicant when applying for a liquor license. All applications are subject to the requirements of the Michigan Liquor Control Code, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 et seq., the Michigan Liquor Control Commission and the Kochville Liquor Management
Ordinance. APPLICATION FEES ARE NON-REFUNDABLE.
******************************************************************************
                        Date:                                                                                 
Type of license requested (MLCC application):                                                                                                               
Name and address of applicant:  Phone:( )
Business name/DBA name:                                                                                                                                           
Business address:  Phone:( )
Type of business (i.e. partnership, limited liability company, corporation, etc.):                                                                    
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   Attach certified copies of entity's organization documents (i.e., articles of incorporation, articles
of organization, bylaws, partnership agreement, operating agreement, etc.)
Business ID number:                                                                                                                                                     
Number of years in business:                                                                                                                                          
List manager's name and address:  Phone:( )
Legal description of property:                                                                                                                                        
Do you owe any taxes in Kochville Township?                                                                                                                  
If so, list locations:                                                                                                                                                        
Date:                                                     Applicant's signature:                                                                                   
Date:                                                     Witness:                                                                                                     
IN ADDITION TO THE ABOVE INFORMATION, PLEASE PROVIDE A FULL COPY INCLUDING ANY ATTACHMENTS OR SUPPORTING DOCUMENTATION SUBMITTED TO THE MICHIGAN LIQUOR CONTROL COMMISSION AS PART OF THE LICENSE APPLICATION.
ALL APPLICATIONS SHALL BE COMPLETED IN FULL AND INCLUDE THE FOLLOWING ITEMS.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   Attach copy of application submitted to MLCC and all attachments.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   Attach copy of application investigation report issued by the MLCC regarding MLCC application.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   Attach certified copies of entity's organization documents (i.e., articles of incorporation, articles
of organization, bylaws, partnership agreement, operating agreement, etc.)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   [https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/IMAGES/0-0-0-1341.jpg]   Application fee of $              . Checks shall be made payable to the Township of Kochville -
Alcoholic Beverages License Application.
ANY APPLICATION WHICH DOES NOT CONFORM TO THESE REQUIREMENTS WILL BE CONSIDERED INCOMPLETE AND WILL NOT BE CONSIDERED. APPLICATIONS SHALL BE SUBMITTED TO THE TOWNSHIP CLERK AT THE TOWNSHIP OFFICES LOCATED AT 5851 MACKINAW ROAD, SAGINAW, MICHIGAN 48604.
 
(Res. 10-028, passed 10-26-2010)
CHAPTER 112: TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
Section
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   Association with merchant
   
112.03   Permit
   
112.04   Application
   
112.05   Fee
   
112.06   Revocation; suspension
   
112.07   Effective date; publication
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT. All persons, associations, firms and corporations and
their agents, servants and employees, who engage temporarily in a retail sale
of goods, wares or merchandise within the limits of the township. The
transaction of business by any merchant for a period of time of not less than
eight hours on two separate days of each week for less than six consecutive
months shall be considered a TRANSIENT MERCHANT, according to this section.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 112.02 ASSOCIATION WITH MERCHANT.
   No transient merchant shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter by
reason of associating temporarily with any merchant, tradesperson or other
person doing business permanently within the township, or by conducting
business in connection with or as a part of the permanent business, or in the
name of, any merchant, tradesperson or other person doing business permanently
in the township.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 112.03 PERMIT.
   (A)   No transient merchant shall transact business or advertise within the
limits of the township without having first obtained a permit from the
township.
   (B)   Permits shall be valid for a period not to exceed 30 days from the
date of issue.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 4-20-2004) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.04 APPLICATION.
   Any transient merchant desiring to engage in business, as a transient
merchant within the limits of the township shall make and file, with the
Township Zoning Administrator, a written application for a permit to engage in
business as a transient merchant. The application shall contain the name,
address, telephone number of the owner of the business, the name and address of
all individuals who will work within the township limits, the articles to be
offered for sale, description of any vehicles to be used, the hours and days of
proposed operation and whether any of the persons who will work within the
township have been convicted of a crime.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 112.05 FEE.
   The Township Board shall set the fees for a permit. The application and
permit fee shall be $300.
(Res. 04-14, passed - -2004; Ord. 04-09, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 112.06 REVOCATION; SUSPENSION.
   (A)   The Township Zoning Administrator shall have the power to suspend any
permit issued for violation of a township ordinance, state statute or any
condition or regulation under which the permit was granted, or for undesirable
business practices. The Township Zoning Administrator shall report all
suspensions to the Township Board, which may, for cause shown, revoke or
reinstate the permit after giving the permit holder reasonable notice and an
opportunity to be heard. No person whose permit has been revoked shall receive
another permit for a period of one year thereafter. In the event of revocation,
the permit fee shall not be refunded.
   (B)   No transient merchant shall offer for sale any articles approved by a
permit in any township parks or other municipally owned property within the
township. This requirement does not apply to recognized civic and municipal
organizations.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 4-20-2004)
§ 112.07 EFFECTIVE DATE; PUBLICATION.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after publication and a copy of this
chapter is available for public use and inspection at the office of the
Township Clerk.
(Ord. 04-09, passed 4-20-2004)
CHAPTER 113: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Purpose
   
113.02   Conflict
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Effective date
   
113.05   Construction/engineering permit
   
113.06   Conduit or utility poles
   
113.07   Route maps
   
113.08   Repair of damage
   
113.09   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
113.10   Modification of existing fees
   
113.11   Savings clause
   
113.12   Use of funds
   
113.13   Annual report
   
113.14   Cable television operators
   
113.15   Existing rights
   
113.16   Compliance
   
113.17   Reservation of police powers
   
113.18   Authorized township officials
Permit Requirements
   
113.30   Permit required
   
113.31   Application
   
113.32   Confidential information
   
113.33   Application fee
   
113.34   Additional information
   
113.35   Previously issued permits
   
113.36   Existing providers
Issuance of Permit
   
113.50   Approval or denial
   
113.51   Form of permit
   
113.52   Conditions
   
113.53   Bond requirement
 
   
113.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and on-going use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120 (Pub. Act 48 of 2002)
("Act") and other applicable law, and to ensure that the township qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in a manner as to conflict with
the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120 (Pub. Act 48 of 2002), as
amended from time to time.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
chapter to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the
township for its telecommunications facilities.
      TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville.
      TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Township Board of the Township of Kochville or its
designee. This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the Township Board.
      TOWNSHIP SUPERVISOR. The Township Supervisor or his or her designee.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including, without limitation, the
following.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services and shall have the same meaning as the term
"Commission" in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of Title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided by
any wireless, two-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in § 102 of the State Telecommunications Act, Pub. Act
179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not
include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of Part I of
the Communications Act of 1934, Ch. 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, or
service provided by any wireless, two-way communication device. For the purpose
of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the
following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect upon publication. A full copy of this chapter
may be secured and/or examined at the office of the Clerk of the township.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.05 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public rights-of-way in the township without first
obtaining a construction or engineering permit as required under township
ordinances, as amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way. No
fee shall be charged for a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.06 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.07 ROUTE MAPS.
   (A)   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall,
within 90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the township, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
township.
   (B)   The route maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and
until the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.08 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
township, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to
the street surface and all installations under, over, below or within the
public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.09 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the township set
forth in §
113.33, a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in the
township's public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.10 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1), being M.C.L.A. §
484.3113(1), of the Act, the township hereby modifies, to the extent necessary,
any fees charged to telecommunications providers after 11-1-2002, the effective
date of the Act, relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to
an amount not exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act,
which shall be paid to the Authority.
   (B)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4), the township also hereby approves modification of the
fees of providers with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way
within the township's boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees
required under § 8 of the Act.
   (C)   The township shall provide each telecommunications provider affected
by the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of §
13(4), being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(4), of the Act.
   (D)   To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers in
excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the township's policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the township, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.11 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5), being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(5), of the Act, if § 8 of the
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3108, is found to be invalid or unconstitutional, the
modification of fees under §
113.10 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.12 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant § 10(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(4), all amounts
received by the township from the Authority shall be used by the township
solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.13 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3110(5), the Township
Supervisor shall file an annual report with the Authority on the use and
disposition of funds annually distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.14 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3113(6), the township
shall not hold a cable television operator in default or seek any remedy for
its failure to satisfy an obligation, if any, to pay after 11-1-2002, the
effective date of this Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of
gross revenues from charges the cable operator received for cable modem
services provided through broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.15 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3104(2), except as
expressly provided herein with respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect
any existing rights that a telecommunications provider or the township may have
under a permit issued by the township or under a contract between the township
and a telecommunications provider related to the use of the public rights-of-
way.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.16 COMPLIANCE.
   The township hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in a manner as to achieve that purpose. The township
shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the Act, including, but
not limited to, the following:
   (A)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act, Pub.
Act 442 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in §
113.32;
   (B)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
113.35;
   (C)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit and excusing the providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
113.36;
   (D)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days from
the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit for
access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the township, in accordance
with §
113.50;
   (E)   Notifying the MPSC when the township has granted or denied a permit,
in accordance with §
113.50;
   (F)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
113.50;
   (G)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
113.51;
   (H)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with §
113.52;
   (I)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with §
113.53;
   (J)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees for
construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
113.05;
   (K)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the township's
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
113.10;
   (L)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
113.13; and
   (M)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure to
pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
113.14.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.17 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(2), this chapter
shall not limit the township's right to review and approve a telecommunication
provider's access to and on-going use of a public right-of-way or limit the
township's authority to ensure and protect the health, safety and welfare of
the public.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.18 AUTHORIZED TOWNSHIP OFFICIALS.
   The Township Supervisor or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized township official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by
the township ordinances.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 113.30 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a telecommunications provider using
or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the township for its
telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit pursuant to
this chapter.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.31 APPLICATION.
   Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on an application form
approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. §
484.3106(1). A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the
application with the Township Clerk, one copy with the Township Supervisor and
one copy with the Township Attorney. Applications shall be complete and include
all information required by the Act, including without limitation a route map
showing the location of the provider's existing and proposed facilities in
accordance with § 6(5) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5).
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.32 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   If a telecommunications provider claims that any portion of the route maps
submitted by it as part of its application contain trade secret, proprietary or
confidential information, which is exempt from the Freedom of Information Act,
Pub. Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of
the Act, , being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(5), the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.33 APPLICATION FEE.
   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the application shall be
accompanied by a one-time non-refundable application fee in the amount of $500.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.34 ADDITIONAL INFORMATION.
   The Township Supervisor may request an applicant to submit additional
information which the Township Supervisor deems reasonably necessary or
relevant. The applicant shall comply with all requests in compliance with
reasonable deadlines for additional information established by the Township
Supervisor. If the township and the applicant cannot agree on the requirement
of additional information requested by the township, the township or the
applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(2).
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.35 PREVIOUSLY ISSUED PERMITS.
   Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3105(1), authorizations
or permits previously issued by the township under § 251 of the State
Telecommunications Act, Pub. Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2251 and
authorizations or permits issued by the township to telecommunications
providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the State Telecommunications
Act, but after 1985, shall satisfy the permit requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.36 EXISTING PROVIDERS.
   Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A § 484.3105(3), within 180 days
from 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications provider
with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the township as of that
date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under § 251 of
the State Telecommunications Act, Pub. Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, shall submit to the township an application for a permit in
accordance with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the
Act, being M.C.L.A § 484.3105(3), a telecommunications provider submitting an
application under this section is not required to pay the $500 application fee
required under §
113.33. A provider under this section shall be given up to an additional 180
days to submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided
in § 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
ISSUANCE OF PERMIT
§ 113.50 APPROVAL OR DENIAL.
   The authority to approve or deny an application for a permit is hereby
delegated to the Township Supervisor. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3), the Township Supervisor shall approve or deny an
application for a permit within 45 days from the date a telecommunications
provider files an application for a permit under §
113.31 for access to a public right-of-way within the township. Pursuant to § 6
(6) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3106(6), the Township Supervisor shall
notify the MPSC when the Township Supervisor has granted or denied a permit,
including information regarding the date on which the application was filed and
the date on which permit was granted or denied. The Township Supervisor shall
not unreasonably deny an application for a permit.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.51 FORM OF PERMIT.
   If an application for permit is approved, the Township Supervisor shall
issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without additional
or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2) and 15 of the Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3106(1), 484.3106(2) and 484.3115.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.52 CONDITIONS.
   Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(4), the Township
Supervisor may impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions
shall be limited to the telecommunications provider's access and usage of the
public right-of-way.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.53 BOND REQUIREMENT.
   Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.3115(3), and without
limitation on §
113.52, the Township Supervisor may require that a bond be posted by the
telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a bond is
required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the public
right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates any provision of this chapter or the terms or
conditions of a permit is responsible for a municipal civil infraction and
shall be subject to a fine in the amount of $500. Nothing in this section shall
be construed to limit the remedies available to the township in the event of a
violation by a person of this chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 03-01, passed 1-21-2003)
CHAPTER 114: SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES
Section
   
114.01   Title
   
114.02   Purpose and findings
   
114.03   Definitions
   
114.04   General license conditions
   
114.05   Persons ineligible
   
114.06   Application fee and contents
   
114.07   Procedures for processing license application
   
114.08   Conditions and display of license
   
114.09   Term and renewal of license
   
114.10   Revocation or suspension of license
   
114.11   General requirements
   
114.12   Additional requirements for sexually oriented businesses offering live
entertainment
   
114.13   Prohibited conduct
   
114.14   Inspection
   
114.15   Violations
   
114.16   Additional remedies
   
114.17   Exemption
§ 114.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Kochville Township Sexually
Oriented Business chapter.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.02 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   The provisions of this chapter have neither the purpose nor effect of
imposing a limitation or restriction on the content of any communicative
materials, including sexually oriented materials. Similarly, it is neither the
intent nor effect of this chapter to restrict or deny access by adults to
sexually oriented materials protected by the First and Fourteenth Amendments to
the Constitution of the United States or to deny access by distributors and
exhibitors of sexually oriented entertainment to their intended market.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate sexually
oriented businesses to promote the health, safety, morals, and general welfare
of the citizens of the Kochville Township and to establish reasonable and
uniform regulations to:
      (1)   Prevent additional criminal activity within the township;
      (2)   Prevent deterioration of neighborhoods and its consequent adverse
effect on real estate values of properties within the neighborhood;
      (3)   Locate sexually oriented businesses away from residential areas,
schools, places of worship, public parks, playgrounds and public libraries; and
      (4)   Prevent concentration of sexually oriented businesses within
certain areas of the township.
   (B)   Findings. The Township Board makes the following findings about the
adverse secondary effects sexually oriented businesses may have on the
character of the township’s neighborhoods. In making these findings, the
Township Board accepts the recommendations of staff who have reviewed the many
reports, studies, judicial decisions, and experiences of cities and other
townships around the state and country concerning the secondary effects on the
areas in which such activities are located or take place, including: Pap’s A.M.
v. City of Erie, 529 U.S. 277 (2000); Thomas v. Chicago Park District, 534 U.S.
316 (2002); City of Littleton v. Z.J. Gifts D-4, L.L.C., 541 U.S. 774 (2004);
City of Renton v. Playtime Theatres, Inc., 475 U.S. 41 (1986); Arcara v. Cloud
Books, Inc., 478 U.S. 697 (1986); City of Newport, Kentucky v. Iacobucci, 479
U.S. 92 (1986); United States v. O'Brien, 391 U.S. 367 (1968); Hang On, Inc.,
v. City of Arlington, 65 F.3d 1248 (5th Cir. 1995); South Florida Free Beaches,
Inc. v. City of Miami, 734 F.2d 608 (11th Cir. 1984); Young v. American Mini
Theatres, 427 U.S. 50 (1976); Barnes v. Glen Theatre, Inc., 501 U.S. 560
(1991); California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109 (1972); Sensations, Inc. v. City of
Grand Rapids, Case Nos. 1:06-CV-300, 4:06-CV-60 (W.D. Mich. Oct. 23, 2006)
(unpublished); 2006 U.S. Dist. LEXIS 77159; DLS, Inc. v. City of Chattanooga,
107 F.3d 403 (6th Cir. 1997); East Brooks Books, Inc. v. City of Memphis, 48
F.3d 220 (6th Cir. 1995); Broadway Books v. Roberts, 642 F. Supp. 486 (E.D.
Tenn. 1986); Bright Lights, Inc. v. City of Newport, 830 F. Supp. 378 (E.D. Ky.
1993); Exec. Arts Studio v. City of Grand Rapids, 391 F.3d 783 (6th Cir. 2004);
Richland Bookmart v. Nichols, 137 F.3d 435 (6th Cir. 1998); Deja Vu v. Metro
Government, Case Nos. 96-6512, 96-6573, 97-5924, 97-5938 (6th Cir. Jan. 13,
1999) 1999 U.S. App. LEXIS 535 (unpublished); Bamon Corp. v. City of Dayton,
923 F.2d 470 (6th Cir. 1991); Threesome Entertainment v. Strittmather, 4 F.
Supp.2d 710 (N.D. Ohio 1998); J.L. Spoons, Inc. v. City of Brunswick, 49
F.Supp.2d 1032 (N.D. Ohio 1999); Triplett Grille, Inc. v. City of Akron, 40
F.3d 129 (6th Cir. 1994); O'Connor v. City and County of Denver, 894 F.2d 1210
(10th Cir. 1990); Deja Vu of Nashville, Inc., et al. v. Metropolitan Government
of Nashville and Davidson County, 274 F.3d 377 (6th Cir. 2001); Z.J. Gifts D-2,
L.L.C. v. City of Aurora, 136 F.3d 683 (10th Cir. 1998); Connection Distrib.
Co. v. Reno, 154 F.3d 281 (6th Cir. 1998); Sundance Assocs. v. Reno, 139 F.3d
804 (10th Cir. 1998); American Library Association v. Reno, 33 F.3d 78 (D.C.
Cir. 1994); American Target Advertising, Inc. v. Giani, 199 F.3d 1241 (10th
Cir. 2000); ILQ Investments, Inc. v. City of Rochester, 25 F.3d 1413 (8th Cir.
1994); Bigg Wolf Discount Video Movie Sales, Inc. v. Montgomery County, 184
F.Supp.2d 445 (D. Md. 2002); Currence v. Cincinnati, 28 Fed. Appx. 438 (6th
Cir. 2002); and other cases; and on testimony to Congress in 135 Cong. Rec. S.
14519; 135 Cong. Rec. S 5636; 134 Cong. Rec. E 3750; and reports of secondary
effects occurring in and around Adult Entertainment Activities, including, but
not limited to, Phoenix, Arizona - 1979; Minneapolis, Minnesota-1980; Houston,
Texas - 1997; Amarillo, Texas; Garden Grove, California - 1991; Los Angeles,
California - 1977; Whittier, California - 1978; Austin, Texas - 1986; Seattle,
Washington - 1989; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma - 1986; Cleveland, Ohio - and
Dallas, Texas - 1997; St. Croix County, Wisconsin - 1993; Bellevue, Washington,
- 1998; Newport News, Virginia - 1996; New York Times Square study - 1994;
Phoenix, Arizona - 1995-98; and also on findings from the paper entitled
“Stripclubs According to Strippers: Exposing Workplace Sexual Violence,” by
Kelly Holsopple, Program Director, Freedom and Justice Center for Prostitution
Resources, Minneapolis, Minnesota, and from “Sexually Oriented Businesses: An
Insider’s View,” by David Sherman, presented to the Michigan House Committee on
Ethics and Constitutional Law, Jan. 12, 2000, and the Report of the Attorney
General’s Working Group On The Regulation Of Adult Entertainment Activities,
(June 6, 1989, State of Minnesota), which conclude that:
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses lend themselves to ancillary unlawful
and unhealthy activities that are frequently uncontrolled by the operators of
the establishments responsible for the activities that occur on their premises.
      (2)   Crime statistics show that all types of crimes occur with more
frequency in neighborhoods where sexually oriented businesses are located
[e.g., Crime-Related Secondary Effects of Sexually-Oriented Businesses: Report
to the City Attorney, Richard McCleary, Ph.D., May 6, 2007; Crime Risk in the
Vicinity of a Sexually Oriented Business: A Report to the Centralia City
Attorney’s Office, Richard McCleary, Ph.D., February 28, 2004; A Methodological
Critique of the Linz-Paul Report: A Report to the San Diego City Attorney’s
Office, Richard McCleary, Ph.D. and James W. Meeker, J.D., Ph.D., March 12,
2003; Final Report to the City of Garden Grove: The Relationship Between Crime
and Adult Business Operations on Garden Grove Boulevard, Richard McCleary,
Ph.D. and James W. Meeker, J.D., Ph.D., October 23, 1991.
      (3)   Sexual acts, including masturbation, oral and anal sex, may occur
at sexually oriented businesses, especially those which provide private or
semi-private booths or cubicles for viewing films, videos, or live sex shows
[e.g., California v. LaRue, 409 U.S. 109, 111 (1972); Final Report of the
Attorney General’s Commission on Pornography (1986), pgs. 376-377].
      (4)   Offering and providing such booths and/or cubicles encourages such
activities, which may create unhealthy conditions [e.g., Final Report of the
Attorney General’s Commission on Pornography (1986) pg. 377].
      (5)   Certain persons frequent certain adult theaters, adult arcades, and
other sexually oriented business [e.g., Arcadia v Cloud Books, Inc., 478 U.S.
697, 698 (1986); Final Report of the Attorney General’s Commission of
Pornography (1986) pgs, 376-377].
      (6)   At least 50 communicable diseases may be spread by activities
occurring in sexually oriented businesses including, but not limited to:
syphilis, gonorrhea, human immunodeficiency virus infection (HIV-AIDS), genital
herpes, hepatitis B, hepatitis C, amebiasis, salmonella infections, and
shigella infections (e.g., Study of Fort Meyers, Florida).
      (7)   As of December 2003, roughly 1.1 million persons in the United
States were living with HIV-AIDS. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention estimates that approximately 40,000 persons in the United States
become infected each year (e.g., CDC. HIV/AIDS Surveillance Report, 2005. Vol
17.
      (8)   According to the best scientific evidence available, HIV infection,
as well as syphilis and gonorrhea, are principally transmitted by sexual acts
and the best way to prevent HIV transmission is by abstinence and prevention
and treatment of Sexually Transmission Diseases (STDs) in sexually active
persons [e.g., CDC. HIV Prevention Through Early Detection and Treatment of
Other Sexually Transmitted Diseases - United States Recommendations of the
Advisory Committee for HIV and STD Prevention, 47(RR12); 1-24/July 31, 1998].
      (9)   Numerous studies and reports have determined that bodily fluids,
including semen and urine, are found in the areas of sexually oriented
businesses where person view “adult” oriented films (e.g., Final Report of the
Attorney General's Commission on Pornography, pg. 377 (1986)).
      (10)   Nude dancing in commercial establishments may encourage
prostitution, increase sexual assaults and attract other criminal activity
[e.g., Barnes v. Glenn Theater, 501 U.S. 560, 583 (1991)].
      (11)   Nude dancing in commercial establishments may increase the
likelihood of drug-dealing and drug use [e.g., Key, Inc. v. Ketsap County, 793
F.2d 1053, 1056 (9th Cir. 1986)].
   (C)   The findings noted in §
114.02(B)(1) through (11) raise substantial governmental concerns. Sexually
oriented businesses have operational characteristics which should be reasonably
regulated in order to protect those substantial governmental concerns. A
reasonable licensing procedure is an appropriate mechanism to place the burden
of that reasonable regulation on the owners and the operators of the sexually
oriented business. Further, such a licensing procedure will place a heretofore
no-existent incentive on the operators to see that the sexually oriented
business is run in a manner consistent with the health, safety, and welfare of
its patrons and employees, as well as the citizens of the township. It is
appropriate to require reasonable assurances that the licensee is the actual
operator of the sexually oriented business, fully in possession and control of
the premises and activities occurring therein.
Licensing of sexually oriented businesses shall address:
      (1)   The disclosure of certain information by those persons ultimately
responsible for the day-to-day operation and maintenance of the sexually
oriented business, where such information is substantially related to the
significant governmental interest in the operation of such uses, will aid in
preventing the spread of sexually transmitted diseases and criminal activity;
      (2)   The prevention of the spread of communicable diseases by obtaining
a limited amount of information regarding all employees who may engage in the
conduct this chapter is designed to prevent or who are likely to be witnesses
to such activity;
      (3)   The barring of individuals previously convicted of a sex-related
felony, which leads to the rational assumption that the applicant may engage in
conduct in contravention to this chapter, from operating or being employed in a
sexually oriented business for a period of ten years from the date of
conviction.
   (D)   (1)   The above findings recognize the potential adverse secondary
effects that can occur by a physical concentration of sexually oriented
businesses and/or by the existence of such establishments that are subject to
only the limited regulations permitted under the Constitutions of the United
States of America and the State of Michigan.
      (2)   The township recognizes that the only sexually oriented business in
the township, that being an establishment operated by DV Saginaw, LLC, at 6530
Bay Road, Kochville Township, is a lawful non-conforming use under the
provisions of the Kochville Township Zoning Code, and that in order to be able
to obtain site plan approval that permitted it to demolish its then-current
structure and erect an all-new building on its premises, and closer to
residentially zoned and used property, all of which would have otherwise been
lawfully precluded in light of its status as a non-conforming use, the property
owner, MIC Limited, and Deja Vu of Saginaw, Inc. (the predecessor to DV
Saginaw, LLC), agreed to a variety of building, construction, site plan and
operational restrictions/requirements as specifically requested by Township
officials, that could not have otherwise been lawfully imposed by the Township
upon MIC Limited and/or Deja Vu of Saginaw, Inc., as a result of the
protections found in the Constitutions of the United States of America and the
State of Michigan.
      (3)   The township further acknowledges that in order to grant the site
plan approval requested by MIC Limited, the Kochville Township Planning
Commission was required to make specific and detailed findings in support of a
conclusion that the granting of the site plan approval, which ultimately
permitted MIC Limited and/or Deja Vu of Saginaw, Inc., to demolish their then-
current structure and erect an all-new building on the premises, and closer to
residentially zoned and used property, satisfied each and every one of the
strict standards of the Kochville Township Zoning Code, and in particular that,
among other things, it would not impede the normal and orderly development of
surrounding properties for uses permitted in the Kochville Township Zoning
Ordinance and that it otherwise was consistent with, furthered, and did not
adversely affect, the health, safety, and welfare of the Township or of its
citizens. In addition, in granting the site plan approval application filed by
MIC Limited, the Kochville Township Planning Commission required MIC Limited
and/or Deja Vu of Saginaw, Inc., as a condition for the granting of its
approval, that they comply with the voluntary building and operational
restrictions contained in the site plan approval application. Subsequent
experience has verified and confirmed the findings made and conclusions reached
by the Kochville Township Planning Commission in regard to the site plan
approval application filed by MIC Limited.
      (4)   The township further acknowledges that the findings of the
Kochville Township Planning Commission in regard to the site plan approval
request sought by MIC Limited, predicated upon the voluntary restrictions/
requirements agreed to by MIC Limited and by Deja Vu of Saginaw, Inc., in
support of the application, which the township could not otherwise lawfully
impose upon that establishment, and subsequent experience with regard to the
operation of the establishment now owned by DV Saginaw, LLC, subject to those
restrictions/requirements, are inconsistent with the findings above. As a
result, the township recognizes that in the unique circumstances presented by
DV Saginaw, LLC, the township cannot utilize the findings herein in order to
justify regulations that would apply to that business.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter words pertaining to sexual oriented
business, specified anatomical areas, and specified sexual activities shall
have the following meaning:
   ADULT ARCADE. Any place to which the public is permitted or invited wherein
coin-operated or slug-operated or electronically or mechanically controlled
still or motion picture machines, projectors, or other image- producing devices
are maintained to show images to five or fewer persons per machine  at any one
time, and where the images so displayed are predominately distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to
“specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE.
      (1)   An adult bookstore or adult video store means a commercial
establishment which has a substantial portion of its stock in trade for sale or
rent, for any form of consideration, any one or more of the following items:
         (a)   Books, magazines, periodicals or other printed matter, or
photographs, pictures, films, motion pictures, video cassettes, video tapes,
any material in digital format [including but not limited to compact discs
(CDs) or digital video discs (DVD), greeting cards, video reproductions,
slides, or other visual representations or electronic media or other
merchandise which is predominantly distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified anatomical areas” or
“specified sexual activities”; or
         (b)   Instruments, devices, or paraphernalia that are designed for use
in connection with “specified sexual activities”.
      (2)   A commercial establishment may have other stock in trade which does
not involve the offering for sale or rental of merchandise depicting or
describing “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities” and
still be categorized as an adult bookstore or adult video store. Such other
stock in trade will not serve to exempt such a commercial establishment from
being characterized as an adult bookstore or adult video store so long as a
substantial portion of the commercial establishment’s stock in trade is the
offering for sale or rental for consideration the specified merchandise which
is predominantly distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction
or description of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual
activities”.
   The phrase “substantial portion of its stock in trade” shall be construed as
one or more of the following relevant factors:
         (a)   Twenty-five percent or more of the commercial establishment’s
gross sales area is used for the sale of merchandise which is predominantly
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”. For purposes
of the chapter, gross sales area is defined as the floor area within the inside
perimeter of the exterior walls of the commercial establishment, exclusive of
vent shafts and courts, storage, stock, office and shipping areas, without
deduction for corridors, display fixtures, stairways, public restrooms,
closets, the thickness of interior walls, columns or other features.
         (b)   Twenty-five percent or more of the commercial establishment’s
stock in trade (inventory) is comprised of merchandise which is predominantly
distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description
of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
      (3)   There is a rebuttable presumption that a commercial establishment
constitutes an adult bookstore or adult video store if the commercial
establishment:
         Conducts business exclusively for the patronage of adults and as to
which minors are specifically excluded from patronage either by law or by the
operators of such business.
   ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. An establishment or business that provides the
service of applying paint or other substance, whether transparent or
nontransparent, to or on the body of a patron when such body is wholly or
partially nude in terms of “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT CABARET. An adult cabaret means a nightclub, restaurant, or other
similar commercial establishment which regularly features or displays:
      (1)   Persons who appear in a state of nudity; or
      (2)   Live performances predominately distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on the exposure of any “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities”; or
      (3)   Films, motion pictures, video cassettes, videotapes, any material
in digital format [including, but not limited to, compact discs (CDs), digital
video discs (DVDs)], slides, other photographic reproductions or visual media
which are predominately distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of any “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities”.
   ADULT CARWASH. A wash facility for any type of motor vehicle that allows
employees, agents, independent contractors, or persons to appear in a state of
nudity or to display “specified anatomical areas”.
   ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment or business, if such
establishment excludes minors because of age, or which provides the service of
engaging in or listening to conversation, talk or discussion between an
employee of the establishment and a customer, if such concerns “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY. A building or space in which an admission is
charged for the entrance, or food or nonalcoholic beverages are sold or
intended for consumption, and in which may be observed live presentations of
entertainment distinguished by an emphasis on matters depicting, describing, or
relating to “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. An establishment, building or business engaged in any
of the following activities or which uses either of the following procedures or
practices:
      (1)   Any business conducted exclusively for the patronage of adults and
as to which minors are specifically excluded from patronage either by law or by
the operators of such business; or
      (2)   Any other business that offers its patrons services, products or
entertainment distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matters
depicting, exposing, describing, discussing or relating to specified “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   Specifically included in the term, but without limitation, are adult
bookstores, adult motion-picture theaters, adult mini- motion picture theaters,
adult massage parlors, adult health clubs, adult saunas, adult companionship
establishments, adult cabarets, adult carwashes, adult novelty businesses,
adult motion-picture arcades, adult modeling studios, adult hotels or motels
and adult body painting studios.
   ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH/SPORT CLUB. A massage parlor or health/sport
club that during the massage there is display of “specified anatomical areas”
or engagement in “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. A business, building or establishment in
an enclosed building with a capacity for less than 50 persons used for the
presenting of visual media material if such business as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age or law, or if such material is distinguished
or characterized by an emphasis on “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities” for observation by patrons.
   ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATER. A business premises within an enclosed
building with a capacity of 50 or more persons used for presenting visual media
material if the business as a prevailing practice excludes minors by virtue of
age or if the material is distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual
activities” for observation by the patrons.
   ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS. A business premises within an enclosed building used
for presenting visual media material if the business as a prevailing practice
excludes minors by virtue of age and if the material is distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   ADULT MOTEL. An adult motel means a hotel, motel, or similar commercial
establishment that:
      (1)   Offers accommodations to the public for any form of consideration
and provides patrons with closed-circuit television (as distinguished from
commercial cable services and on-demand services) transmissions, films, motion
pictures, video cassettes, videotapes, any material in digital format
[including, but not limited to, compact discs (CDs) or digital video discs
(DVDs), slides other photographic reproductions or visual media that are
predominately distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on matter
depicting, describing or relating to “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities”; and
      (2)   Offers a sleeping room for rent, or allows a tenant or occupant of
a sleeping room to sub-rent the room, for a period of time that is less than
ten hours.
   ADULT SAUNA/STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE. A business that excludes minors because of
age and which provides a steam bath or heat bathing room used for bathing,
pleasure, relaxation or reducing, and which utilizes steam or hot air as a
cleaning, relaxing or reducing agent, if the service provided by the sauna/
steam room/bathhouse is distinguished or presentation of “specified anatomical
areas” or engagement in “specified sexual activities”.
   BOOTH. A small enclosed area located in a building that is used to separate
the individuals inside of the small enclosed area from the individuals located
inside of the building but outside of the small enclosed area. A BOOTH must
comply with all of the following requirements:
      (1)   It must be unobstructed by any door, lock, or other entrance and
exit control device;
      (2)   One side must be totally open to a public, lighted aisle so that
there is an unobstructed view at all times from the adjoining aisle of any
occupant in the booth, room or cubicle;
      (3)   It must be illuminated such that a person of normal visual acuity
looking into the booth from the entrance adjoining the public lighted aisle can
clearly determine the number of people within;
      (4)   There shall be no holes or openings in any side or rear wall not
related to utility, ventilation or temperature control services or otherwise
required by any governmental code or authority;
      (5)   Only one individual shall occupy the booth, room or cubicle at any
one time; and
      (6)   An individual occupying an adult booth, room or cubicle shall not
engage in any “specified sexual activities”, nor shall he or she damage or
deface any portion of the booth, room, or cubicle.
   MASSAGE. Any method of applying pressure on, friction against, stroking,
kneading, rubbing, tapping, pounding, vibrating or stimulating the external
parts of the body, for remedial or hygienic or other purposes with the hands,
with or without the aid of any mechanical, magnetic or electrical apparatus or
appliances, with or without supplementary aids such as rubbing alcohol,
liniments, antiseptics, oils, powders, creams, lotions, ointments or other
similar preparations.
   MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT. Any building, room, place, or establishment where
body massage is regularly practiced on the human body, to club members or to
the general public, for a charge. The term MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT includes, but
is not limited to, massage parlors, health clubs, sauna baths, and steam baths
if massages are performed at those locations. The term MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT
shall not include:
      (1)   Hospitals, nursing homes, medical clinics;
      (2)   The office of a state-licensed physician, surgeon, physical
therapist, osteopath or chiropractor;
      (3)   The establishment of a barber, manicurist, beautician or
cosmetologist who is duly licensed under the laws of this state, or another
state within the United States, or the federal government, and who practices
within the establishment limits of his or her license, and who administers a
massage in the normal course of his or her duties in which massages are
administered only to the scalp, face, neck, back, legs, hands, feet or
shoulder;
      (4)   The establishment of a myomassologist who is current member of the
American Massage Therapy Association or other national massage therapy
organization with comparable prerequisites for certification; or
      (5)   A nonprofit organization operating a community center, swimming
pool, tennis court or other educational, cultural, recreational, or athletic
facility for the welfare of the residents of the area.
   MATERIAL. Anything tangible, whether through the medium of reading,
observation, sound, or in any other manner, including, but not limited to,
anything printed or written, any book, magazine, newspaper, pamphlet, picture,
drawing, pictorial representation, motion picture, photograph, video tape,
video disc, film transparency, slide, audiotape, audio disc, computer tape,
holographic images, or any other medium used to electronically produce or
reproduce images on a screen, or any mechanical, chemical, or electronic
reproduction.  MATERIAL includes undeveloped photographs, molds, printing
plates, and other latent representational objects whether or not processing or
other acts are required to make the content of the material apparent. This
definition is intended to include material which is the product of any
technology, whether that technology is available on the effective date of this
chapter becomes available after that date.
   MERCHANDISE. Material and novelty.
   MINOR. Any person under the age of 18 years.
   NOVELTY. Any instrument, devise or paraphernalia which depicts or describes
any “specified anatomical areas” or any “specified sexual activities”, or which
is designed for use, or commonly used, in connection with “specified sexual
activities”, excluding condoms and other birth control and disease prevention
products.
   NUDE MODEL STUDIO. Any place where a person who displays “specified
anatomical areas” is regularly observed, sketched, drawn, painted, sculpted,
photographed, or similarly depicted by other persons who pay money or any form
of consideration. NUDE MODEL STUDIO does not include either of the following:
      (1)   An educational institution funded, chartered or recognized by the
State of Michigan; or
      (2)   Any modeling session for a local, nonprofit organization, that is
not open to the public or to any persons other than members of the
organization, that is for the purpose of instruction in the artistic depiction
in two-dimensional or three-dimensional media of the human form, during which
no “specified sexual activities” occur and during which the model remains in a
fixed pose.
   PLACE OF WORSHIP. A building or space that is principally used as a place
where people of the same faith or religion regularly assemble for worship.
   PUBLIC LIBRARY. Any library that provides free access to all residents of a
township, city or county without discrimination and that is organized under
Michigan P.A. 89, 1977.
   PUBLIC PARK. A park, reservation, playground, public multipurpose pathway,
beach, or recreation or community center in the township owned, leased, or used
wholly or in part by the township, county, state, school district, or federal
government for recreational purposes.
   SCHOOL. A building or space that is principally used as a place where 25 or
more persons receive a full course of educational instruction. Any post-
secondary or post-high school educational building, including any college or
any vocational/technical college, shall not be deemed a school for purposes of
this chapter.
   SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. A business or commercial establishment, except that
which is part of the practice of and under the supervision and control of a
physician, psychologist or psychiatrist licensed to practice in the State of
Michigan, that, as one of its principal business purposes, offers for any form
of consideration:
      (1)   Physical contact in the form of wrestling or tumbling between
person of the opposite sex; or
      (2)   Activities between male and female persons and/or persons of the
same sex when one or more of the persons are in a state of nudity or exposes or
displays any “specified anatomical areas”.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. Any adult arcade, adult body painting studio,
adult bookstore, adult cabaret, adult carwash, adult hotel or motel, adult
motion-picture theater, adult mini-motion adult companionship establishment,
adult novelty business, adult modeling studio, sexual encounter center and
other premises, establishments, businesses, or places open to some or all
members of the public in which there is an emphasis on the presentation or
display, depiction or description of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified
sexual activities” which the public could see. This definition does not apply
to the practice of medicine, surgery, osteopathy, chiropractic, physical
therapy, or podiatry by state-licensed or registered persons. Activities
defined as obscene by Act 343 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1984, as amended
are not lawful and are not included in the definitions of adult uses.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered human genitals, pubic
region or pubic hair, buttock, anus, or female breast below a point immediately
above the top of the areola or any combination of the foregoing; and
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES.
      (1)   Actual sexual intercourse; oral copulation; anal intercourse; oral-
anal copulation; bestiality; direct physical stimulation or fondling of
unclothed genitals, pubic region, buttock, or female breast; flagellation or
torture in a sexual relationship; and any of the following sexually oriented
acts or conduct: anilingus, buggery, coprophagy, coprophilia, cunnilingus,
fellatio, necrophilia, pederasty, pedophilia, piquerism, sapphism, sodomy,
zooerasty;
      (2)   Human genitals in the state of sexual stimulation, arousal, or
tumescence;
      (3)   Use or acts of human or animal ejaculation, sexual intercourse,
sodomy, oral copulation, coitus or masturbation;
      (4)   Fondling or touching of human genitals, pubic regions or pubic
hair, buttocks, female breasts;
      (5)   Situations involving persons, any of whom are nude, clad in
undergarments or in sexually revealing costumes, who are engaged in activities
involving the flagellation, torture, fettering, binding or other physical
restraint of any such persons;
      (6)   Erotic or lewd touching, fondling or other sexually oriented
contact with an animal by a human being;
      (7)   Human excretion, urination, menstruation, vaginal or anal
irrigation; or
      (8)   Any combinations of subsections (1) through (7) of this definition.
   STATE OF NUDITY OR PUBLIC NUDITY. Knowingly or intentionally displaying in a
public place, or in any other place for payment or promise of payment by a
person, including, but not limited to, payment or promise of payment of an
admission fee, any individual’s genitals, pubic area, vulva, anus or anal cleft
with less than a fully opaque covering, a female individual’s breast with less
than a fully opaque covering of the nipple and areola, or the covered male
genitals in a discernibly turgid state. Public nudity does not include any of
the following:
      (1)   A woman’s breast-feeding of an infant shall not under any
circumstances constitute public nudity irrespective of whether the nipple is
covered during or incidental to the feeding.
      (2)   Any display of any part of the anatomy occurring as part of the
regular curriculum of an educational institution that is funded, chartered, or
recognized by the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.04 GENERAL LICENSE CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A person shall not establish, operate or maintain a sexually oriented
business with Kochville Township without a valid sexually oriented business
license issued by the township pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   A person who operates or maintains a sexually oriented business which
exists prior to the effective date of this chapter shall not continue to
operate or maintain said business unless that person obtains a valid sexually
oriented business license issued by the township pursuant to this chapter
within 90 days of the effective date of this chapter.
   (C)   A person shall not establish, operate, or maintain a sexually oriented
business within Kochville Township except in the manner authorized by and in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the licensee’s license.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.05 PERSONS INELIGIBLE.
   The township shall not grant a sexually oriented business license nor may
one be held by any person who:
   (A)   Is under 18 years of age;
   (B)   Has been convicted of a felony or any obscenity crime as defined by
Act 266 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1974 (Criminal Sexual Conduct Act) and
respective amendments;
   (C)   Is not the proprietor of the establishment for which the license is
issued.
   (D)   Has not paid the license and investigative fees required by this
division.
   (E)   Is not a citizen of the United States or a lawful resident alien;
   (F)   Has had an adult use or similar permit or license revoked within ten
years prior to date of application under an ordinance or statute similar to
this chapter.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.06 APPLICATION FEE AND CONTENTS.
   (A)   Fee. A person desiring to obtain a license to operate a sexually
oriented business shall, if not already operating at the time this chapter is
adopted, shall file an application with the Township Code Enforcement Officer
or his/her designee along with a nonrefundable license fee in an amount
established by resolution of the Kochville Township Board. A massage
establishment as defined in §
114.03 is not a sexually oriented business, and a person seeking to establish,
operate or maintain a massage establishment does not have to comply with the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Contents. The application for a sexually oriented business license
shall be upon a form provided by the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her
designee and shall be signed by the applicant. The application shall contain
the following information:
      (1)   The full name and present residential and mailing addresses of the
applicant.
      (2)   The date of birth and social security number of the applicant.
      (3)   The two previous residential addresses immediately prior to the
present residential address of the applicant and the dates of residence at each
residential address.
      (4)   Any other name(s), nickname(s), or aliases which the applicant has
been known by during the previous five years.
      (5)   A description of the services to be provided and the merchandise to
be offered for rent or sale.
      (6)   The location and mailing address of the sexually oriented business.
      (7)   The full name, any aliases, and the present residential and mailing
addresses of each current employee ad each known intended employee (including,
but not limited to, managers and supervisors).
   (C)   If the applicant is a corporation:
      (1)   The corporation’s complete name and official business address.
      (2)   The full name and current business address of each of the officers
and directors of the corporation.
      (3)   The full name and current business address of each stockholder who
has a controlling or significant share in the business (more than 10% of the
corporation).
      (4)   The full name and current business address of each individual
responsible in whole or in part for the management and operation of the
sexually oriented business.
      (5)   Proof that the corporation is a corporation in good standing and
authorized to conduct business in the State of Michigan.
      (6)   The full name of the registered corporate agent and the address of
the registered agent office for service of process.
   (D)   If the applicant is a partnership or other business entity:
      (1)   The organization’s complete name and official business address.
      (2)   The full name and current business address of each of the partners
(including limited partners) or members of each of the persons entitled to
share in the profits of the organization.
      (3)   The full name and current business address of each individual
responsible in whole or in part for the management and operation of the
sexually oriented business.
      (4)   Proof of a certificate of fact not cancelled with respect to a
limited partnership.
      (5)   Proof of a status certificate with respect to a limit liability
company.
      (6)   The full name of the resident agent and the address of the
registered office for service of process.
   (E)   If the applicant is a corporation, partnership, or other business
entity, the following information shall be required with respect to each
individual responsible in whole or in part for the management of the sexually
oriented business and with respect to each individual responsible in whole or
in part for the operation of the sexually oriented business:
      (1)   Height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair.
      (2)   Business, occupation, or employment history for the three years
immediately preceding the application.
      (3)   All felony and misdemeanor convictions and all ordinance violation
other than minor traffic violations, and the nature of the offense (charge) for
which the individual was convicted.
      (4)   Written proof (birth certificate or sworn affidavits) that the
individual is at least 18 years of age.
      (5)   A complete set of fingerprints, recorded by the Sheriff's
department.
   (F)   If the applicant is an individual or a group of individuals, the
following information shall be required with respect to each individual
applicant:
      (1)   Height, weight, sex, color of eyes and hair.
      (2)   Business, occupation, or employment history for the three years
immediately preceding the application.
      (3)   All felony and misdemeanor convictions and all ordinance violation
other than minor traffic violations, and the nature of the offense (charge) for
which the individual was convicted.
      (4)   Written proof (birth certificate or sworn affidavits) that the
individual is at least 18 years of age.
      (5)   A complete set of fingerprints, recorded by the Sheriff’s
department.
   (G)   One portrait photograph of at least two inches by two inches which
shall be taken by the Sheriff’s department, and the results of a criminal
history records investigation of the applicant completed within 30 days
immediately prior to the date of the filing of the application which shall
include all criminal history information on file at the state police central
records division pertaining to the applicant (the applicant shall provide his
or her fingerprints to the Sheriff’s department for the purpose of obtaining
such criminal history information). In the event that the applicant is a
corporation, partnership, or other business entity, the applicant shall submit
the required photograph and results of a criminal history records investigation
of each individual responsible in whole or in part for the management of the
sexually oriented business and each individual responsible in whole or in part
for the operation of the sexually oriented business.
   (H)   The history of the applicant in the operation of the sexually oriented
business or similar business or occupation, including, but not limited to,
whether or not such applicant, in previously operating in the township or in
another jurisdiction, has had a sexually oriented business license revoked or
suspended and the reason therefore, and the business activity or occupation
subsequent to such action or suspension.
   (I)   The amount of the establishment’s gross sales area which will be used
for the sale of merchandise which is predominately distinguished or
characterized by an emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”; and how much of the
establishment’s stock in trade (inventory) will be comprised of merchandise
which is predominately distinguished or characterized by an emphasis on the
depiction or description of “specified anatomical areas” or “specified sexual
activities”.
   (J)   Such other identification and information bearing on the application
as the township may reasonably require.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.07 PROCEDURES FOR PROCESSING LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   General. An applicant for a sexually oriented business license shall
present to the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee the application
containing all of the information, data, and documentation described in §
114.06 and the license fee which shall be in an amount established by
resolution of the Township Board. An application shall be deemed complete if
the application contains all of the information, data, and documentation
described in §
114.06 and the license fee has been paid (completed application). The Code
Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall date a completed application upon
receipt with the date that it is received. Applications which are not
completely or correctly filled out or do not contain the appropriate
information, data and documentation, or are to accompanied by the required
application fee shall be rejected as incomplete by the Code Enforcement Officer
or his/her designee and shall be returned to the applicant. All completed
applications shall be reviewed in accordance with the following procedure:
      (1)   Within five business days after receipt of a completed application,
the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall forward a copy of the
completed application to the Sheriff, Fire Chief, Zoning Administrator, and the
township Building Inspector for review in accordance with this section. The
Sheriff, Fire Chief, Zoning Administrator, and Township Building Inspector
shall review the application, conduct any inquires or inspections, and within
30 calendar days of the receipt of the application from the Code Enforcement
Officer or his/her designee, report the findings of such inquiries and
inspections to the Township Board on whether the application and the proposed
premises comply with the requirements of this chapter.
         (a)   The Sheriff shall review the application to determine whether
the applicant, any individual in the management of the corporation,
partnership, or other business entity operating the sexually oriented business
or any employee has been convicted of any criminal offenses other than minor
traffic offenses, has violated any provision of this article or has had a
sexually oriented business license or similar license denied or revoked by the
township or by another governmental body and the reasons therefore.
         (b)   The Fire Chief shall review the application to determine if the
premises and the proposed sexually oriented business comply with all fire
codes.
         (c)   The Township Building Inspector shall review the application to
determine if the premises and the proposed sexually oriented business comply
with the zoning ordinance and all applicable electrical, mechanical, building
and plumbing codes.
      (2)   The Township Board, after receiving the reports of the Sheriff,
Fire Chief, Zoning Administrator, and Township Building Inspector, and after
reviewing the complete application, shall approve or deny a license to the
sexually oriented business in accordance with the standards set forth in
division (B) of this section. If no report is received from any one or more of
the officials, then the Township Board shall assume that all requirements the
missing report are satisfied by the applicant. The Township Board shall make a
determination within 60 calendar days after the Code Enforcement Officer or
his/her designee’s receipt of the completed application. If approved, then the
Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall issue the sexually oriented
business license.
   (B)   Standards for issuance of license. The Township Board shall make a
licensing decision within 60 calendar days as referenced above in division (A)
(2) of this section, notwithstanding other ordinance requirements, and the
Township Board shall not predicate a license denial on a deficiency in the
application that is due to the township’s failure to perform under this
section. The Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee shall issue a
sexually oriented business license to an applicant unless the Township Board
finds any of the following:
      (1)   Failure of the applicant, the premises, or the sexually oriented
business license to comply with this section, this chapter, the zoning
requirements of the Kochville Township Zoning Ordinance, all applicable fire,
mechanical, electrical, and building codes, or any other provision of this
chapter.
      (2)   Prior criminal conviction, other than minor traffic offenses, of
the applicant, any individual in the management of any corporation,
partnership, or other business entity operating the sexually oriented business,
a manager, a supervisor or an employee of the sexually oriented business, when
such criminal conviction involves moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or
other crime of a sexual nature and is a felony conviction which arose within
ten years of the date of the application.
      (3)   Misrepresentation of any material fact in the application for a
license.
      (4)   Violations of this chapter by the applicant, an individual in the
management of the corporation, partnership, or other business entity operating
the sexually oriented business, a manager, a supervisor, or an employee of the
sexually oriented business.
      (5)   The applicant, and individual in the management of the corporation,
partnership or other business entity operating the sexually oriented business,
a manager, a supervisor, or an employee of the sexually oriented business is
not at least 18 years of age.
      (6)   The applicant, an individual in the management of the corporation,
partnership or other business entity operating the sexually oriented business,
a manager, a supervisor or an employee of the sexually oriented business was
denied a sexually oriented business license within 12 months immediately
preceding the date of the application; had a sexually oriented business license
revoked within 12 months immediately preceding the date of the application; or
has a sexually oriented business license under suspension at the time of
application.
   (C)   Written findings of fact in support of denial.  In the event that a
sexually oriented business license is denied, the Township Board shall make
written findings of fact in support of the denial based on the standards
described above and shall notify the applicant of the denial in writing. The
Township Board’s written notice of denial shall be delivered in person or by
certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt requested, addressed to
the applicant’s address as set forth in the application. The application shall
be deemed denied on the day that the notice of denial is delivered in person or
three days after it is placed in the U.S. mail provided in this division.
   (D)   Appeal. The applicant may appeal such denial to the Township Board by
filing a written request for an appeal with the Township Supervisor within ten
business days following the receipt of notification of the denial. In the event
of an appeal, The Township Board shall hold a public hearing on the denial
within 30 calendar days of the receipt of the written request for an appeal.
The Township Board shall have the power to reverse, affirm, or modify its
decision and shall render a written decision on the appeal within ten calendar
days of hearing the appeal. The Township Board shall, in its determination,
make findings of fact supporting its decision, and the reasons shall be based
on the standards described in division (B) of this section. The determination
of the Township Board shall be final. Any person aggrieved by the decision of
the Township Board may promptly appeal such decision to a court of competent
jurisdiction in accordance with the Michigan Constitution and applicable state
law and court rules. If such a person aggrieved by the decision of the Township
Board seeks judicial review, then a temporary license shall be issued pending
the outcome of the appeal. If judicial review is pursued, then the township
shall submit the administrative transcript to the court within 45 days of being
served with pleadings commencing the appeal process. A temporary license may be
revoked if the applicant/appellant fails to comply with the procedural
requirements for processing the appeal.
   (E)   License deemed issued.  If the Township Board does not issue or deny a
sexually oriented business license within 60 days after the properly completed
application is submitted for review and determination, then the sexually
oriented business license applied for shall be deemed to have been issued.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.08 CONDITIONS AND DISPLAY OF LICENSE.
   Every license shall be granted subject to the conditions put forth in
divisions (A) and (B) of this section and all other provisions of this chapter
and of any applicable township, state, or federal law.
   (A)   General conditions.
      (1)   The township shall issue the sexually oriented business license to
the applicant. The license shall not be transferred to another holder.
      (2)   The license shall be issued only for the premises or location
described in the application. No license may be transferred to another location
or place without the approval of the Township Board.
      (3)   No minor shall be allowed in or on the premises of a sexually
oriented business.
      (4)   Every licensee shall be responsible for the conduct of his or her
place of business and shall maintain conditions consistent with this chapter
and all federal, state and local rules and regulations generally.
   (B)   Display of license.
      (1)   Every sexually oriented business shall be provided with a license
which prominently states on its face the expiration date of the license, the
name of the licensee, the name, and type of the sexually oriented business, and
the address of the sexually oriented business. The licensee shall only conduct
business at the address and in the name shown on the license. If the licensee
has other sexually oriented businesses, then the licensee must obtain a
separate license for each business and operate at separate locations.
      (2)   A license for sexually oriented business shall be displayed on the
premises of the sexually oriented business in a conspicuous place so that it
may be readily seen by person entering the premises, and, upon request, the
licensee shall make the license available to law enforcement or to the Township
Building Inspector during normal business hours.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.09 TERM AND RENEWAL OF LICENSE.
   (A)   Every license issued pursuant to this chapter shall terminate on March
31st, unless it is revoked sooner, and a license must be renewed before
operation is allowed for the subsequent 12 months beginning on April 1st and
ending on March 31st.
   (B)   The application for renewal shall contain such information, data, and
documentation as is required for an application for a new license. An
application for renewal shall be processed in accordance with the procedure
outlined in §
114.07 regarding the procedure for processing a license application.
   (C)   A license renewal fee in the amount established by resolution of the
Township Board shall accompany the renewal application when it is filed with
the Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee. In addition to the renewal
fee, a late renewal fee in the amount established by resolution of the Township
Board shall be assessed against an applicant who files for a renewal less than
60 days before the license expires.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.10 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   The Township Board can revoke or suspend a license for any or the
following reasons:
      (1)   Discovery that false or misleading information, data or
documentation was given on any application or that material facts were omitted
from any application.
      (2)   The licensee, an individual in the management of the corporation,
partnership, or other business entity operating the sexual oriented business, a
manager, a supervisor or an employee of the sexually oriented business has
violated any provision of this chapter or any rule or regulation adopted by the
Township Board pursuant to this chapter, provided that in the case of a first
offense by a licensee where the conduct was solely that of an individual in the
management of the corporation, partnership, or other business entity operating
the sexually oriented business, a manager, a supervisor or an employee, the
penalty shall not exceed a suspension of 30 days if the Township Board finds
that the licensee had no actual or constructive knowledge of such violation and
could not by the exercise of due diligence have had such actual or constructive
knowledge.
      (3)   The licensee becomes ineligible to obtain a license, or the
licensee is convicted of, or pleads nolo contendere to, any felony or any crime
involving moral turpitude, prostitution, obscenity or other crime of a sexual
nature.
      (4)   Any cost or fee required to be paid by this chapter is not paid.
      (5)   Any controlled substance or intoxicating liquor or cereal malt
beverage is sold, served, used, possessed, or consumed on the premises of the
sexually oriented business.
      (6)   The licensee fails to comply with the zoning requirements of the
Kochville Township Zoning Ordinance, including the Cardinal Square
requirements.
   (B)   The Township Board, before revoking or suspending any license, shall
give the licensee at least ten days written notice of the charges against him
or her and the opportunity for a public hearing before the Township Board, as
hereinafter provided.
      (1)   Before the Township Board revokes or suspends any license issued
under this chapter, the Township Board shall cause written notice to be
delivered in person or by certified U.S. mail, postage prepaid, return receipt
requested, addressed as set forth in the application to the licensee or
applicant affected, informing such person of the right to a hearing upon
request. The application shall be deemed revoked or suspended the day that the
notice of revocation or suspension is delivered in person or three days after
it is placed in the U.S. mail.
      (2)   If the licensee does not request a hearing within 14 days of the
date the notice was sent then the license may be forthwith revoked or
suspended. If the licensee requests a hearing before the Township Board
regarding said proposed revocation or suspension, then said hearing shall be
held within 30 calendar days after the date of the written request.
      (3)   Any license issued by the township may be immediately suspended by
the supervisor or any appointed township official if it is determined that the
licensee has violated or someone at or upon the licensed location has violated
the township ordinance or state law and that continued operation under the
license is contrary to the public health, safety, and welfare. A licensee shall
have the right to a hearing before the Township Board on any license suspension
by the supervisor or duly appointed township official, and notice thereof shall
be given in accordance with divisions (B)(1) and (B)(2) above.
      (4)   Both the township and the licensee shall be afforded a reasonable
opportunity to present evidence on the issue at a hearing. The Township Board
shall, in its determination, make findings of fact supporting its decision, and
the reasons shall be based on the standards described in division (A) of this
section. The Township Board shall render a written decision on the proposed
revocation or suspension within ten calendar days of the hearing. Action taken
by the Township Board shall be final, and any fees hereunder shall not be
refunded to the applicant or licensee.
   (C)   The transfer of a licensee or any interest in a license shall
automatically and immediately revoke the license.
   (D)   Any licensee whose license is revoked shall not be eligible to receive
a license for ten years from the date of revocation. No location or premises
for which a license has been issued shall be used as a sexually oriented
business for one year from the date of revocation of the license.
   (E)   Any licensee whose license is revoked or suspended pursuant to this
section may appeal the revocation or suspension to a court of competent
jurisdiction in accordance with the Michigan Constitution, applicable state
law, and court rules. If such a licensee seeks judicial review, then a
temporary license shall be issued pending the outcome of the appeal. If
judicial review is pursued, then the township shall submit the administrative
transcript to the court within 45 days of being served with pleadings
commencing the appeal process.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.11 GENERAL REQUIREMENTS.
   All sexually oriented businesses shall comply with each of the following
requirements:
   (A)   With the provisions of this chapter, all other applicable township
ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations and all other applicable
federal, state, and local laws.
   (B)   Obtaining and maintaining a valid license to operate a sexually
oriented business issued in accordance with this chapter.
   (C)   A person under the age of 18 shall not enter or be on the premises of
a sexually oriented business at any time the sexually oriented business is
open.
   (D)   A person under the age of 18 shall not be employed, contracted or
engaged to provide any services within, for or on behalf of a sexually oriented
business.
   (E)   An owner, partner, performer, contractor or employee of a sexually
oriented business shall not sell or provide goods, merchandise or services to
persons under the age of 18 on the premises.
   (F)   A sexually oriented business or any other person at any sexually
oriented business shall not appear, be present, or perform while nude. A
sexually oriented business or any other person at any sexually oriented
business shall not perform any “specified sexual activities” with or for any
sexually oriented business patron or any other sexually oriented business
employee or any other person. A sexually oriented business patron or any other
person at any sexually oriented business shall not perform or conduct any
“specified sexual activities” with or for any sexually oriented business
employee or any other sexually oriented business patron or any other person.
   (G)   A sexually oriented business shall be open to inspection by the
Township License Officer, Ordinance Enforcement Officer, Township Building
Inspector, any public safety officer, any police officer, any firefighter, any
sheriff deputy and any Michigan State Police trooper that has reasonable cause
to believe that the licensee or the sexually oriented business is not in
compliance with the law, and such inspection shall be allowed at any time the
establishment is occupied or open for business and anywhere in the
establishment where patrons are allowed. Upon request, the licensee shall make
available to the inspector documentation regarding the stock in trade
(inventory) of the sexually oriented business and documentation regarding the
gross revenues of the sexually oriented business, which documentation shall
show how much of the gross revenues are generated by the sale or rental of
merchandise which is predominantly distinguished or characterized by an
emphasis on the depiction or description of “specified anatomical areas” or
“specified sexual activities”.
   (H)   The prohibitions of division (C), shall be posted on signs placed in
at least two conspicuous (i.e., so they will be easily viewed by persons
occupying the premises) places on the business premises. Such signs shall be at
least 24" x 36" in size and shall be printed in bold face type at least 24
points in size.
   (I)   The exterior of the business premises shall not have any photographs,
silhouettes, drawings, or pictorial representations that depict “specified
anatomical areas” or “specified sexual activities”.
   (J)   A sexually oriented business shall not sell or dispense alcoholic
beverages, fermented or distilled. A sexually oriented business shall not allow
the consumption of alcoholic beverages, fermented or distilled, anywhere on a
parcel containing that business.
   (K)   The merchandise or activities within the business premises shall not
be visible or audible from a point that is outside of the business premises.
   (L)   Daily hours of operating shall be limited to the period of time from
7:00 a.m. until 2:30 a.m. the following day on any day of the week except
Sunday, when daily hours of operation shall be limited to the period of time
from 12:00 noon until 2:30 a.m. the following day.
   (M)   One or more manager’s stations shall be in each sexually oriented
business, and the interior of each sexually oriented business shall be
configured in such a manner that there is a direct and substantially
unobstructed view from at least one manager’s station to every part of each
area, except restrooms, of the establishment to which any sexually oriented
business patron is permitted access for any purpose. A manager’s station must
be occupied for each area in use.
   (N)   A sexually oriented business shall comply with the following: The
business is equipped with operational security cameras, both inside and outside
and with doors in view, which shall be used at all times the business is open.
   (O)   A booth, located in any sexually oriented business (excepting an adult
motel), which is used by patrons for the viewing of merchandise or any other
entertainment.
   (P)   A sexually oriented business shall not contain any video, pinball,
slot, bagatelle, pigeon hole, pool or any other games, machines, tables or
implements.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.12 ADDITIONAL REQUIREMENTS FOR SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES OFFERING LIVE
ENTERTAINMENT.
   (A)   All sexually oriented businesses offering live entertainment shall
comply with each of the following requirements:
      (1)   A dressing room for performers with direct access between said
dressing area and the performance area or stage shall be provided, such that a
performer may enter the performance area or stage without entering the area
from which patrons will view the performance.
      (2)   All performances shall occur on a stage elevated at least 18" above
the immediate floor level and removed at least six feet from the nearest
employee or patron.
      (3)   The dressing area for performers shall be separate and not freely
accessible from areas of the business accessible to patrons, and the dressing
area shall contain hot and cold running water and toilet facilities.
      (4)   There shall be no physical contact between any performer and any
other performer or between any performer and any owner, independent contractor,
employee, patron or other person during or for at least 15 minutes following
such performance, and there shall be no physical contact between any person on
the stage or performance area and any owner, independent contractor, employee,
patron or other person during or for at least 15 minutes following any
performance. “Physical contact” includes, but is not limited to, any contact in
which any part of the body or clothing of one person touches any part of the
body or clothing of the other person, or if a person causes anything under his
or her direct control to touch any part of the body or clothing of another
person.
      (5)   An escort agency shall maintain permanent records on the premises
showing the name, address and telephone number of every person for whom an
escort is provided, the fee paid, the name of the escort or escorts so
provided, and the location where the escort and the person requesting the
escort initially met. These records shall be made available, upon demand and
without prior notice, to a Township official inspecting the premises pursuant
to this chapter.
      (6)   No tip or gratuity from any sexually oriented business patron may
be offered or accepted for any performance by a sexually oriented business
employee at any time prior to the completion of any such performance. No
sexually oriented business patron shall offer, and no sexually oriented
business employee having performed live at a sexually oriented business shall
accept any form of tip or gratuity offered directly to the employee by the
sexually oriented business patron. Following completion of a performance, all
tips, and gratuities to a sexually oriented business employee performing live
shall be placed into a receptacle provided for receipt of such tips and
gratuities by the sexually oriented business.
   (B)   Additional conditions for adult cabarets:
      (1)   No person shall dance at an adult cabaret without a valid dancer’s
license issued by the township.
      (2)   The application for a dancer’s license and procedures for issuance
of the license shall be as follows:
         (a)   The application for a dancer’s license shall be made to the
township.
         (b)   An application for the dancer’s license shall be verified and
shall contain or set forth the information required in §
114.06(B) and the business name and address where the applicant intends to
dance.
         (c)   The application shall be accompanied by the currently required
nonrefundable fee. The amount of such fee shall be set from time to time by the
Township Board, and a schedule of such fees is on file and available in the
township offices.
         (d)   Within five days of receipt of an application for a dancer’s
license, the township shall issue or deny with cause the license.
         (e)   A dancer’s license shall entitle a dancer to dance only at the
business indicated on the dancer’s license application.
      (3)   A dancer’s license may be renewed by following the application
procedure in §
114.06.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.13 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided by this chapter, no person within a
sexually oriented business shall display to the view of any other person
“specified anatomical areas”, or dance, entertain, display or otherwise engage
in any exhibition or performance in such a manner as to expose to the view of
any person any device, costume or covering which gives the appearance of or
simulates any “specified anatomical areas”.
   (B)   No person shall engage in any “specified sexual activities” on the
premises of a sexually oriented business or any other commercial establishment.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.14 INSPECTION.
   (A)   An applicant for an adult oriented business license or licensee shall
permit health officials and representatives of state or county law enforcement,
Fire Department, Code Enforcement Officer or his/her designee, and the Township
Building Inspector to inspect the premises of a sexually oriented business for
the purpose of ensuring compliance with the law, at any time it is occupied or
open for business.
   (B)   A person who operates a sexually oriented business or his or her agent
or employee commits an offense if he refuses to permit a lawful inspection of
the premises by health officials or representatives of state or county law
enforcement, fire department, and the Township Building Inspector at any time
it is occupied or open for business. Refusal to permit inspections may result
in the suspension, revocation or nonrenewal of the license as provided in §
114.15.
   (C)   The provisions of this section do not apply to areas of an adult
motel, which are currently being rented by a customer for use as a permanent or
temporary habitation.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.15 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall be a civil
infraction.
   (B)   Permitting, allowing, encouraging, or promoting any violation of any
provision of this chapter shall be a civil infraction.
   (C)   Aiding, assisting or abetting the violation of any provision of this
chapter shall be a civil infraction.
   (D)   Any violation of this chapter or the zoning requirements of the
Kochville Township Zoning Ordinance may result in suspension and/or revocation
of a license to operate a sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.16 ADDITIONAL REMEDIES.
   A violation of any provision of this chapter shall also be a nuisance per
se, and in addition to the remedies and penalties otherwise provided in this
chapter, the township shall be entitled to seek and obtain temporary and
permanent equitable relief, enjoin violations of this chapter, and seek all
other remedies as provided by law.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
§ 114.17 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of the this chapter, and specifically §§
114.03 through §
114.16 hereof, shall not apply to any business operated at 6530 Bay Road,
Kochville Township, pursuant to the site plan approval previously granted by
the Kochville Township Planning Commission.
(Ord. 11-007, passed 1-17-2012)
CHAPTER 115: MEDICAL MARIHUANA
Section
   
115.01   Title
   
115.02   Definitions
   
115.03   Marihuana establishments prohibited
   
115.99   Penalty
§ 115.01  TITLE.
   This ordinance shall be known as and may be cited as the Kochville Township
Prohibition of Marihuana Establishments chapter.
(Ord. 19-01, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 115.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, MCL 333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 19-01, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 115.03  MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS PROHIBITED.
   Kochville Township hereby prohibits all marihuana establishments within the
boundaries of Kochville Township pursuant to Initiated Law 1 of 2018, MCL
333.27951 et seq., as may be amended.
(Ord. 19-01, passed 2-4-2019)
§ 115.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes allows or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this ordinance. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fines shall not be less than $ 100 nor more than $500 per violation, in the
discretion of the Court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the
rights of the Township to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and
proper remedies. Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include
all expenses, direct and indirect, which the Township incurs in connection with
the municipal civil infraction, including the legal fees that the Township
incurs in prosecuting the violator of this ordinance.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   In addition, the township may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the ordinance-
enforcement officer of the township or by such other person(s) as designated by
the Township Board from time to time.
(Ord. 19-01, passed 2-4-2019)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
      Chapter
         
130.   NOISE REGULATIONS
         
131.   AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION
CHAPTER 130: NOISE REGULATIONS
Section
   
130.01   Title
   
130.02   Anti-noise regulations; nuisance party; exceptions
   
130.03   Effective date
 
   
130.99   Penalty
§ 130.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Kochville Township Anti-Noise
and Nuisance Party Ordinance.”
(Ord. 05-10, passed 7-21-2005; Ord. 15-04, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 130.02 ANTI-NOISE REGULATIONS; NUISANCE PARTY; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   General regulation. No person, firm or corporation shall cause or
create any unreasonable or unnecessarily loud noise or disturbance, injurious
to the health, peace or quiet of the residents and property owners of the
township. This includes, but is not limited to, the following:
      (1)   Yelling, shouting, hooting or singing on the public streets between
the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., or at any time or place so as to
unreasonably upset or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of any persons in
the vicinity;
      (2)   Use any premises or suffer any premises under his, her, or its
control to be used so as to destroy the peace and tranquility of the
surrounding neighborhood. This includes, but is not limited to, any person who
is the owner, occupant, tenant, or has any other possessory interest of
premises in the township, who either sponsors, conducts, hosts, invites,
suffers, permits, continues, or allows to continue a social gathering or party
which is, or during the course thereof becomes, a nuisance party. For the
purposes of this subsection, the term NUISANCE PARTY means a social gathering
or party which is conducted on premises in the township and which, by reason of
the conduct of those persons in attendance, results in any one or more of the
following occurrences or conditions:
         (a)   Consumption of alcoholic beverages in public or public
drunkenness.
         (b)   Public urination or defecation.
         (c)   The unlawful sale, furnishing, or consumption of alcoholic
beverages.
         (d)   The unlawful deposit of trash or litter on public or private
property.
         (e)   The destruction of public or private property.
         (f)   The generation of pedestrian or vehicular traffic of parking of
motor vehicles which obstructs the free flow of residential traffic or
interferes with the ability to render emergency services.
         (g)   Excessive, unnecessary, or unusually loud noise which disturbs
the comfort and quiet repose of the neighborhood.
         (h)   Public disturbances, brawls, fights, or quarrels.
         (I)   Assembly of persons in excess of limits imposed by conditions,
rules, or requirements of lease or occupancy agreement.
         (j)   Any similar conduct which annoys, injures, or endangers the
safety, health, comfort, or repose of any neighboring residents.
      (3)   The emission or creation of any excessive noise that unreasonably
interferes with the operation of any school, church, hospital or court; and
      (4)   The keeping of any animal, bird or fowl, which emanates frequent or
extended noise which shall unreasonably disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of
any person in the vicinity; such as allowing or permitting any dog to bark
repeatedly in an area where the barking can be clearly heard from nearby
residential property.
   (B)   Exceptions. None of the prohibitions hereinbefore enumerated shall
apply to the following:
      (1)   Any police vehicle, ambulance, fire engine or emergency vehicle
while engaged in necessary emergency activities;
      (2)   Excavation or repair of bridges, streets or highways or other
property by or on behalf of the state, the township or the county, between
sundown and 7:00 a.m. when the public welfare, safety and convenience render it
impossible to perform the work during other hours;
      (3)   Warning devices emitting sound for warning purposes as authorized
by law;
      (4)   Construction projects shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels specified for industrial districts as long as a valid building
permit has been issued by the township and is currently in effect;
      (5)   All railroad operations shall be subject to the maximum permissible
noise levels allowed in industrial districts, regardless of the zone where they
are located;
      (6)   Noises occurring between 7:00 a.m. and sundown caused by home or
building repairs or from maintenance of grounds are excluded;
      (7)   Noises emanating from the discharge of firearms are excluded;
providing, the discharge of the firearms was authorized under state law and all
local ordinances; and
      (8)   Any commercial, agricultural or industrial use of property which
exists now or in the future as a legal non-conforming use (as defined in the
township's zoning ordinance) in a higher zoning classification shall be allowed
to emit noise in excess of these limitations for the particular zoning
classification where the use is located; providing that, the noise does not
exceed either of the following limitations:
         (a)   The noise level emitted by the use at the time it became a legal
non-conforming use as a result of the enactment of an amendment of the township
zoning ordinance if available; and/or
         (b)   The limitations contained herein based upon a use being located
in the highest zoning district (either commercial and agricultural or
industrial) where a use is specifically allowed as a permissible use.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 7-21-2005; Ord. 15-04, passed 6-15-2015) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after publication and a copy of the
ordinance is available for public use and inspection at the office of the
Township Clerk.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 7-21-2005; Ord. 15-04, passed 6-15-2015)
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be a civil infraction and shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $250. Any further violation of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than
90 days, or by both.
   (B)   Any violation of, or failure to comply with, this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance per se and may be abated by any and all available
means, including without limitation, equitable relief by any court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person violating this chapter shall pay the cost and
expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the township
abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 05-10, passed 7-21-2005; Ord. 15-04, passed 6-15-2015)
CHAPTER 131: AGGRESSIVE SOLICITATION
Section
   
131.01   Definitions
   
131.02   Soliciting
   
131.03   Effective date
 
   
131.99   Penalty
§ 131.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings provided in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning;
   ACCOSTING. Approaching or speaking to a person in such a manner as would
cause a reasonable person to fear imminent bodily harm or the commission of a
criminal act upon his or her person, or upon property in his or her immediate
possession.
   ASK, BEG OR SOLICIT. Includes, without limitation, the spoken, written or
printed word or other acts as are conducted in furtherance of the purpose of
obtaining donations.
   FORCING ONESELF UPON THE COMPANY OF ANOTHER. Continuing to ask, beg or
solicit from a person after that person has made a negative response; blocking
the passage of the individual addressed; or otherwise engaging in conduct which
could reasonably be construed as intended to compel or force a person to accede
to demands.
(Ord. 15-03, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 131.02 SOLICITING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things
of value:
      (1)   Within 50 feet of the entrance to or exit from any public toilet
facility;
      (2)   Within 50 feet of a bank, credit union, or an automated teller
machine, provided that when an automated teller machine is located within an
automated teller machine facility, such distance shall be measured from the
entrance or exit of the automated teller machine facility;
      (3)   Within any public transportation vehicle, or within 50 feet of any
bus stop, taxi stand or rapid transit stop;
      (4)   From any operator or passenger of a motor vehicle that is in
traffic on a public street; provided, however, that this subsection shall not
apply to services rendered in connection with emergency repairs requested by
the owner or passengers of such vehicle; or for an approved fundraising event;
      (5)   From any person who is waiting in line for entry to any building,
public or private, including, but not limited to, any business or athletic
facility;
      (6)   While under the influence of alcohol or a controlled substance;
      (7)   After sunset nor before sunrise.
   (B)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, nothing herein shall be interpreted to
prohibit related parties from soliciting money or other things of value from
one another.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful for any person to solicit money or other things
of value in an aggressive manner by:
      (1)   Accosting another;
      (2)   Forcing oneself upon the company of another;
      (3)   Using violent, profane, or threatening gestures or language toward
a person solicited, before, during, or after the act of solicitation;
      (4)   Conspicuously following the person to be solicited or who has been
solicited; or
      (5)   Intentionally touching or causing physical contact with another
person without that person's consent in the course of soliciting.
(Ord. 15-03, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 131.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after adoption and publication.
(Ord. 15-03, passed 5-18-2015)
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be a civil infraction and shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $250. Any further violation of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than
90 days, or by both.
   (B)   Any violation of, or failure to comply with, this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance per se and may be abated by any and all available
means, including without limitation, equitable relief by any court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person violating this chapter shall pay the cost and
expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the township
abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 15-03, passed 5-18-2015)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
      Chapter
         
150.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CODES
         
151.   DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
         
152.   SUBDIVISIONS
         
153.   SIGNS
         
154.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
         
155.   ZONING
         
156.   SOLAR ENERGY FACILITIES
         
157.   FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION CODES
Section
   
150.01   State Plumbing Code
   
150.02   State Building Code
   
150.03   State Mechanical Code
   
150.04   State Electrical Code
   
150.05   International Property Maintenance Code
   
150.06   International Fire Code
§ 150.01 STATE PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   The township hereby elects to enforce the State Plumbing Code within
the township.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Plumbing Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Pub. Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, the Plumbing Code Official of the township is hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under Pub.
Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531. The township
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   This section shall be effective after legal publication and in
accordance with provision of the Act governing same.
(Ord. 02-09, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 150.02 STATE BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   The township hereby elects to enforce the State Building Code within
the township.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Building Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Pub. Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, the Building Code Official of the township is hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under Pub.
Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531. The township
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   This section shall be effective after legal publication and in
accordance with provision of the Act governing same.
(Ord. 02-08, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 150.03 STATE MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   The township hereby elects to enforce the State Mechanical Code within
the township.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Mechanical Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Pub. Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, the Mechanical Code Official of the township is hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under Pub.
Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531. The township
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   This section shall be effective after legal publication and in
accordance with provision of the Act governing same.
(Ord. 02-10, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 150.04 STATE ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   The township hereby elects to enforce the State Electrical Code within
the township.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Electrical Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Pub. Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through
125.1531, the Electrical Code Official of the township is hereby designated as
the enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the township under Pub.
Act 230 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 through 125.1531. The township
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act
throughout its corporate limits.
   (C)   This section shall be effective after legal publication and in
accordance with provision of the Act governing same.
(Ord. 02-13, passed 8-20-2002)
§ 150.05 INTERNATIONAL PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   (A)   That a certain document, three copies of which are on file in the
office of the Township Clerk of Kochville Township, being marked and designated
as the International Property Maintenance Code, 2015 edition, as published by
the International Code Council, be and is hereby adopted as the Property
Maintenance Code of Kochville Township, in the State of Michigan, for
regulating and governing the conditions and maintenance of all property,
buildings and structures; by providing the standards for supplied utilities and
facilities and other physical things and conditions essential to ensure that
structures are safe, sanitary and fit for occupation and use; and the
condemnation of buildings and structures unfit for human occupancy and use, and
the demolition of such existing structures as herein provided; providing for
the issuance of permits and collection of fees therefor; and each and all of
the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of said Property
Maintenance Code on file in the office of Kochville Township are hereby
referred to, adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this
legislation, with the additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any,
prescribed in Section 2 of this ordinance.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      Section 101.1. Title. Insert: These regulations shall be known as the
Property Maintenance Code of Kochville Township (hereafter referred to as "this
code").
      Section 102.3. Application of Other Codes. Substitute Michigan Building
Code for International Building Code. Substitute Michigan Rehabilitation Code
for Existing Buildings for the International Existing Building Code, Substitute
the Michigan Mechanical Code for the International Mechanical Code, Substitute
the Michigan Plumbing Code for the International Plumbing Code, Substitute the
Michigan Residential Code for the International Residential Code, Substitute
the Kochville Township Zoning Ordinance for the International Zoning Code.
      Section 103.5. Fees. Fees, if any, shall be in accordance with a
resolution or ordinance which may, from time to time, be adopted by the
Kochville Township Board.
      Section 106.3. Prosecution of Violation. Delete first sentence of Section
and insert in its place the following: Any person failing to comply with a
notice of violation or order served in accordance with Section 107 shall be
deemed guilty of a civil infraction as determined by the local municipality,
and the violation shall be deemed a strict liability offense.
      Section 107.2 (5). For violations of sections 108, 109 or 110, inform the
property owner of the right to appeal.
      Section 111. Means of Appeal. Any person directly affected by the
decision of the Code Official or a Notice or Order issued for violation of this
code, shall have the right to appeal to the Kochville Township Zoning Board of
Appeals. All appeal requests shall be in accordance with Kochville Township
Zoning Ordinance, specifically Section 155.388(D). An application for appeal
shall be based on a claim that the true intent of this code or the rules
legally adopted hereunder have been incorrectly interpreted, the provisions of
this Code do not fully apply, or the requirements of this Code are adequately
satisfied by other means.
      Delete Sections 111.1 through 111.8
      Section 112.4. Insert; not less than $250.00 dollars or more than $500.00
dollars.
      Section 201.3. Terms Defined in Other Codes. Replace section with: Where
terms are not defined in this Code and are defined in the Michigan Residential
Code, International Fire Code, Kochville Township Zoning Ordinance, Michigan
Plumbing Code, Michigan Mechanical Code, Michigan Building Code, Michigan
Rehabilitation Code for Existing Buildings and the Michigan Electrical Code,
such terms shall have the meanings ascribed to them as in those codes.
      Section 302.4. Weeds. Insert 10 inches. Add, at the end of the second
paragraph the following sentence: The Township shall have a lien upon such
property for such cost which shall be enforceable in the manner provided by the
general laws of the State of Michigan for the enforcement of tax liens.
      Section 304.14. Insect Screens. Insert May 1st to October 1st for dates.
      Section 401.3. Alternative Devises. Substitute Michigan Building Code for
International Building Code.
      Section 602.2. Residential Occupancies. Substitute Michigan Plumbing Code
for International Plumbing Code.
      Section 602.3. Heat Supply. Insert September 1st to June 1st for dates.
Exceptions: Substitute Michigan Plumbing Code for International Plumbing Code.
      Section 602.4. Occupiable Workspaces. Insert September 1st to June 1st
for dates.
      Section 702.3. Locked Doors. Substitute Michigan Building Code for
International Building Code.
(Ord. 15-01, passed 1-13-2015; Ord. 17-07, passed 5-15-2017)
§ 150.06 INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   (A)   The International Fire Code, (2018 edition, including Appendix
Chapters A-M (See International Fire Code section 101.2.2012 edition)), as
published by the International Code Council, Inc., a copy of which is on file
in the office of the Clerk of Kochville Township, is hereby adopted as the Fire
Code of Kochville Township, State of Michigan regulating and governing the
safeguarding of life and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from
the occupancy of buildings and premises as herein provided; providing for the
issuance of permits and collection of fees therefore. All of the regulations,
provisions, penalties, conditions and said terms of said Fire Code are hereby
adopted, and made a part hereof, as if fully set out in this section, with the
additions, insertions, deletions and changes, if any prescribed in division (B)
below. The Code is hereby adopted by reference as provided under M.C.L.A. §
41.805.
   (B)   The following sections are hereby revised:
      Amend Section 101.1 Title. 
      These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of Kochville Township,
hereinafter referred to as The Fire Code.
      Amend to read Section 102.7.1 Conflicts. 
      Where conflicts occur between provisions of this code and referenced
codes and standards, the provisions which establishes the higher standard for
the promotion of the safety and welfare of the public shall apply.
      Add Section 102.7.3- References to International Codes. 
      In this Code, all references to the following International Codes shall
be deemed to be references to the following Current Michigan Codes. References
to other International or NFPA Codes shall apply to the extent that said Codes
have been adopted by Kochville Township by reference, as authorized by Michigan
law.
      Amend to read Section 106.2- Schedule of Permit Fees. 
      A fee for each permit shall be paid as required in accordance with the
schedule as established by the Governing Authority. The fees shall be subject
to modification by the Township Board by resolution.
      Amend to read Section 108.3 Recordkeeping. 
      A record of periodic inspections, tests, servicing and other operations
and maintenance shall be maintained on the premises or other approved location
for not less than 3 years, or a different period of time where specified in
this code or referenced standards. Records shall be made available for
inspection by the fire code official on site and a digital copy of the records
shall be provided to the fire code official. The fire code official is
authorized to prescribe the form and format of such recordkeeping. The fire
code official is authorized to require that all inspection, testing, and
maintenance records be submitted electronically.
      Amend to read Section 110.4 Violation Penalties. 
      Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or who shall fail to
comply with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter,
repair, or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or
direction of the fire code official, or of a permit or certificate issued under
the provisions of this code, shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction.
Unless otherwise stated in this code the referenced penalties and sanctions
shall be those which are established under the Kochville Township Municipal
Sanctions for Ordinance Violations Ordinance, as amended from time to time. The
imposition of one (1) municipal civil infraction fine for any violation shall
not excuse the violation or permit it to continue, and all persons who are
violation shall be required to correct or remedy such violation or defects.
Every day of noncompliance shall be deemed a separate violation.
      Amend to read Section 112.4- Failure to Comply. 
      Any person who shall continue any work after being served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform or remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be liable for a fine of not less than
$95.00 and not more than $500.00.
      Section 202 Definitions. 
      Delete Bonfire
      Section 302.1 
      Delete Bonfire
      Amend to read Section 305.1- Clearance from Ignition Sources. 
      Clearance between ignition sources, such as luminaries, heaters, flame-
producing devices, and combustible materials shall be a minimum of thirty-six
inches (36") clear space or the clearance specified by the manufacturer.
      Amend to read Section 307.1.1- Prohibited Burning. 
      Open burning shall be prohibited when atmospheric conditions or local
circumstances make such fires hazardous or offensive because of location,
smoke, or odor emissions. Exception: Prescribed burning for the purpose of
reducing the impact of wild land fire when authorized by the fire code
official.
      Exception: Prescribed burning for the purpose of reducing the impact of
wild land fire when authorized by the fire code official.
      Amend to read Section 307.3- Extinguishment Authority. 
      Where open burning creates or adds to a hazardous situation, or a
required permit for open burning has not been obtained, the fire code official
or other identified member of the Fire Department is authorized to order the
extinguishment of the open burning operation.
      Amend to read Section 307.4- Location. 
      The location for open burning shall be not less than 50 feet (15 240 mm)
from any structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from
spreading to within 50 feet (15 240 mm) of any structure for piles that are in
approved containers or are less than 3 feet (914mm) in diameter and less than 2
feet high (610mm). Exceptions: 1. Fires in approved containers that are not
less than 15 feet (4572 mm) from a structure. 2. The minimum required distance
from a structure shall be 100 feet (7620 mm) where the pile size is greater
than 3 feet or less in diameter and 4 feet or less in height.
      Delete Section 307.4.1- Bonfires.
      Amend to read Section 307.4.3- Portable outdoor fireplaces. 
      Delete Exception
      Amend to read Section 307.5- Attendance. 
      Open burning, recreational fires, and use of portable outdoor fireplaces
shall be constantly attended, by a responsible adult, at least eighteen (18)
years of age, until the fire is extinguished. A minimum of one portable fire
extinguisher complying with Section 906 with a minimum 4-A rating or other
approved on-site fire extinguishing equipment such as dirt, sand, water barrel,
garden hose or water truck, shall be available for immediate utilization.
      Add Section 307.6- Operational Times. 
      Open burning, recreational fires and fires in portable outdoor fireplaces
shall begin at 8:00 am and extinguished by 11:00 pm each day.
      Add Section 307.7- Prohibited Materials. 
      Materials other than natural vegetation shall not be burned
      Amend to read Section 401.5- Making a false report. 
      It shall be unlawful for a person to give, signal or transmit a false
alarm. Any person convicted of knowingly making a false report shall be liable
for a fine equal to the actual costs of the fire department response, but not
less than $1000.00.
      Amend to read Section 503.3 Marking. 
      Where required by the fire code official, an approved marking or signs
shall be provided at 50-foot intervals along fire apparatus roads and
designated fire lanes to identify such roads or prohibit the obstruction
thereof. Signs shall be maintained in a clean and legible condition at all
times and replaced or repaired when necessary to provide adequate visibility.
      Add Section 504.4- Equipment Access. 
      An approved ladder shall be provided when building equipment is located
above the first floor and on or above the roof level. Access ladders shall
extend from finished floor or exterior grade to at least three (3) feet above
equipment level, roof, or parapet wall. Roof access ladders shall be provided
with side rails and be capable of supporting a 500 lbs. load.
      Amend to read Section 505.1 Address Identification. 
      New and existing buildings shall have approved address numbers, building
numbers or approved building identification placed in a position that is
plainly legible and visible from the street.
      Add Section 506.3- Mounting Height. 
      The approved lock box shall be mounted at a height not less than five (5)
feet and not greater than six (6) feet above finish grade of new and existing
buildings.
      Amend to read Section 507.5.5 Clear space around hydrants. 
      A five (5) foot (1542 mm) clear space shall be maintained around the
circumference of fire hydrants except as otherwise required or approved.
      Amend to read Section 603.5.2- Heating appliance installation and
maintenance. 
      Heating appliances shall be installed and maintained in accordance with
the manufacturer’s instructions, the International Building Code, the
International Fuel Gas Code, and the ICC Electrical Code. A minimum of thirty-
six (36) inches of clear space shall be maintained around the perimeter of all
heating appliances.
      Amend to read Section 604.10- Portable electric space heaters. 
      Where not prohibited by other sections of this code, portable electric
heaters shall be permitted to be used in all occupancies other than Group I-
2 and in accordance with Sections 605.10.1 through 605.10.5.
      Add Section 604.10.6- Tip over switch. 
      Portable heating appliances shall be equipped with a tilt or tip over
switch that automatically shuts off the unit if the appliance is tilted more
than 15 degrees (0.26 rad) from the vertical position.
      Add Section 607.5- Appliance Location Identifiers. 
      Appliances that are provided with casters or that can be moved for
cleaning, shall be provided with an approved method to ensure the equipment is
placed back in the proper position.
      Amend to read 806.1.1- Natural cut trees. 
      Natural cut trees shall be prohibited in Group A, B, E, I-1, I-2, I-3, I-
4, M, R-1, R-2, and R-4 occupancies.
      Delete Exceptions 1 & 2
      Amend to read Section 901.6.4 Records. 
      Records of all system inspections, tests and maintenance required by the
referenced standards shall be submitted to the fire code official as required
by section 108.3
      Amend to read Section 901.7 Systems out of service. 
      Where a required fire protection system is out of service, the fire
department and the fire code official shall be notified immediately and, where
required by the fire code official, the building shall be either evacuated or
an approved fire watch shall be provided for all occupants left unprotected by
the shutdown until the fire protection system has been returned to service.
Where utilized, fire watches shall be in compliance with Appendix O
      Amend to read Section 901.8 Removal of or tampering with equipment. 
      It shall be unlawful for any person to remove, tamper with or otherwise
disturb any fire hydrant, fire detection and alarm system, fire suppression
system or other fire appliance required by this code except for the purposes of
extinguishing fire, training, recharging or making necessary repairs or where
approved by the fire code official. Person(s) found to have violated this
section shall be guilty of a municipal civil infraction with a fine of $200.00
per offense in a calendar year.
      Amend to read Section 903.4.3 Control valves. 
      Approved supervised indicating control valves and flow switches shall be
installed on each floor of buildings that exceed 1-story in height. The Fire
Code Official is also authorized to require supervised indicating control
valves and flow switches in multiple tenant occupancies that are one or more
stories in height.
      Add Section 912.1.1 Approved Fire Department Connections. 
      All fire department connections for fire sprinkler systems shall be a 5-
inch Stortz connection with a 30° downward angle.
      Add Section 915.7 Notification of alarm. 
      Occupancies that are required to have a monitored fire alarm system shall
also monitor the carbon monoxide alarm system. Upon activation of the carbon
monoxide alarm, the monitoring company shall receive the signal as an alarm and
the occupant notification system shall activate.
      Amend to read A101.5 Secretary of Board. 
      The Fire Board of Appeals shall appoint one of the members to be the
secretary and they shall keep a detailed record of all its proceedings, which
shall set forth the reason for its decisions, the vote of each member, the
absence of a member and any failure of a member to vote.
      Amend to read A101.10 Procedures. 
      The board shall be operated in accordance with the Open Meetings Act of
Michigan. Meetings shall also be conducted in accordance with Roberts Rules of
Order.
      Amend to read Section C 103.1 Hydrant spacing. 
      The number of fire hydrants available to a building shall be not less
than the minimum specified in Table C102.1. Hydrants shall be provided at all
intersections within all plats. In residential areas, hydrants shall have a
maximum spacing of 500 feet. Hydrant spacing in commercial, industrial, or
high-density residential areas shall not exceed 300 feet unless otherwise
required per table C102.1.
      Add Appendix O- Fire Watch
      Add Section 0 101 General-
      0 101.1 Scope. 
      When a fire watch is required by this code, the fire code official, and
or fire code official designee in an existing structure(s) or portions thereof,
or for a fire protection system that is out of service, or other fire hazard
situation, it shall be in accordance with this appendix.
      Add Section 0 102 Definitions
      0 102.1 Definitions. 
      For the purpose of this appendix certain terms are defined as follows:
         Fire Code Official- See section 202
         Fire Watch- See section 202
      Add Section O 103 Requirements
      O 103.1 Fire Watch. 
      A fire watch shall have all of the elements listed in this section
      O103.2- Dedicated Persons. 
      At least one dedicated person is required to conduct patrols. Additional
personnel shall be added as necessary to meet the interval requirements of
K103.3. All personnel shall meet the following criteria and be:
      1.   18 years of age or older
      2.   Competent to identify fire and unsafe conditions
      3.   Capable of effectively communicating the need for a fire department
response
      4.   Physically capable to perform patrols and self-preservation
      5.   Familiar with the structure(s), hazards associated with the
structure(s), and the emergency plan for the structure(s)
      O103.3 Patrol Intervals. 
      The structure(s) or portions there of shall be checked for fire and life
safety hazards a minimum of every 30 minutes or as approved by the fire code
official.
      O103.4 Notification.
      At least one reliable method of communication to initiate a fire
department response is required. Fire watch personnel shall have a cellular
phone or other means of communications acceptable to the fire code official. In
the event of a fire, fire watch personnel shall alert occupants, take
appropriate actions, and notify the fire department immediately.
      O103.5 Documentation. 
      The fire code official and or designee shall have the responsible person
for the fire watch complete a notice of fire watch form and also complete an
activity log that lists who conducted the fire watch, time of each activity,
and the description of the activity performed
      O103.7 Termination. 
      A fire watch shall continue until the initiating circumstances have been
abated and the fire code official has been notified.
(Ord. 20-03, passed 10-19-2020)
CHAPTER 151: DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Title
   
151.002   Definitions
   
151.003   Prohibition
   
151.004   Enforcement hearing before the Township Board or Dangerous Building
Board of Appeals
   
151.005   Sanction for non-conformance with order
   
151.006   Appeal of Township Board/Board of Appeals decision
   
151.007   Effective date
Notice of Dangerous Building; Hearing
   
151.020   Notice requirement
   
151.021   Parties entitled to notice
   
151.022   Contents of notice
   
151.023   Service of notice
Dangerous Building Hearing Officer
   
151.035   Appointment
   
151.036   Filing notice with Hearing Officer
   
151.037   Hearing testimony and decision
   
151.038   Compliance with Hearing Officer order
   
151.039   Non-compliance with Hearing Officer order, request to enforce order
Implementation and Enforcement of Remedies
   
151.050   Implementation of order by township
   
151.051   Reimbursement of costs
   
151.052   Notice of costs
   
151.053   Lien for unpaid costs
   
151.054   Court judgment for unpaid costs
   
151.055   Enforcement of judgment
   
151.056   Lien for judgment amount
Dangerous Building Board of Appeals
   
151.070   Establishment and duties
   
151.071   Membership
   
151.072   Terms
   
151.073   Officers
   
151.074   Quorum and final action votes
   
151.075   Compensation and expenses
   
151.076   Open Meetings Act applicable
   
151.077   Freedom of Information Act applicable
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the "Kochville Township Dangerous
Buildings Ordinance". An ordinance to provide for the demolition of dangerous
buildings within the township, to provide definitions relating to dangerous
buildings, to prohibit the maintenance of dangerous buildings, to provide a
procedure for notice and hearing relating to repair or demolition of dangerous
buildings, to provide for an appeal of the decision of the Township Building
Official, to provide for the recovery by the township of costs related to the
demolition of dangerous buildings, to repeal Ord. 71-3 for the preservation of
the public health, safety and general welfare of the citizens of the township.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure, residential or otherwise,
that has one or more of the following defects or is in one or more the of the
following conditions:
      (1)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit does not
conform to the Township Fire Code or Township Building Code;
      (2)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood or other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the
building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe;
      (3)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse, and injure persons or damage property;
      (4)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to an extent
that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure have
materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by the Township Building Code;
      (5)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or
for other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way;
      (6)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
      (7)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind or flood, or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children, or
could become a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or enables
persons to resort to the building or structure or committing a nuisance or an
unlawful or immoral act;
      (8)   A building or structure used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement, or otherwise, is unsanitary or
unfit for human habitation, is in a condition that the State or County Health
Officer or the Township Code Enforcement Officer determines the conditions are
likely to cause sickness or disease, or is likely to endanger the health,
safety or general welfare of people living in the dwelling;
      (9)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated or open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers; and/or
      (10)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease or rent with a real estate broker licensed under Art. 25 of the
Occupational Code, Pub. Act 299 of 1980, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.2501 et seq., or
is not publicly offered for sale by the owner. This subdivision does not apply
to either of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both
of the following:
            1.   Notifies the Township Code Enforcement Officer that the
building or structure will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive
days. The notice shall be given by the owner or agent not more than 30 days
after the building or structure becomes unoccupied; and
            2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds.
         (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied
for a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies the
Township Code Enforcement Officer that the dwelling will remain unoccupied for
a period of 180 days consecutive days or more each year. An owner who has given
the notice prescribed by this division shall notify the Kochville Township Code
Enforcement Officer not more than 30 days after the dwelling no longer
qualifies for this exception. As used in this definition, SECONDARY DWELLING
means a dwelling such as a vacation home, hunting cabin or summer home, that is
occupied by the owner or a member of the owner's family during part of year.
   ENFORCING AGENCY. The township, through the Township Code Enforcement
Officer and/or other official(s) or agency as may be designated by the Township
Board to enforce this chapter.
   TOWNSHIP BUILDING CODE. The Building Code administered and enforced in the
Township pursuant to the State Construction Code Commission Act, Pub. Act 230
of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.003 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
building or part thereof which is a dangerous building as defined in this
chapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 151.004 ENFORCEMENT HEARING BEFORE THE TOWNSHIP BOARD OR DANGEROUS BUILDING
BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Township Board, or the Dangerous Building Board of Appeals, as
applicable, shall fix a date not less than 30 days after the hearing prescribed
herein for a hearing on the findings and order of the Hearing Officer and shall
give notice to the owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed herein of
the time and place of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner, agent or lessee
shall be given the opportunity to show cause why the order should not be
enforced. The Township Board or the Board of Appeals shall either approve,
disapprove or modify the order.
   (B)   If the Township Board or the Board of Appeals approves, or modifies
the order, the Township Board shall take all necessary action to enforce the
order. If the order is approved or modified, the owner, agent or lessee shall
comply with the order within 60 days after the date of the hearing under this
section.
   (C)   In the case of an order of demolition, if the Township Board or the
Board of Appeals determines that the building or structure has been
substantially destroyed by fire, wind, flood or other natural disaster and the
cost of repair of the building or structure will be greater than the state
equalized value of the building or structure, the owner, agent or lessee shall
comply with the order of demolition within 21 days after the date of the
hearing under this section.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.005 SANCTION FOR NON-CONFORMANCE WITH ORDER.
   Any person or other entity who fails or refuses to comply with an order
approved or modified by the Township Board, or Board of Appeals, as applicable,
under §§
151.070 through
151.077 within the time prescribed by that section is responsible for a
municipal civil infraction as defined by state law and subject to a civil fine
of not more than $500, plus costs, which may include all direct or indirect
expenses to which the township has been put in connection with the violation. A
violator of this chapter shall also be subject to additional sanctions,
remedies and judicial orders as are authorized under state law. Each day a
violation of this chapter continues to exist constitutes a separate violation.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.006 APPEAL OF TOWNSHIP BOARD/BOARD OF APPEALS DECISION.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Township Board, or
the Board of Appeals, as applicable, under §§
151.070 through
151.077 may appeal the decision or order to the Circuit Court by filing a
petition for an order of superintending control within 20 days from the date of
the decision.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.007 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 30 days after publication as required by law.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
NOTICE OF DANGEROUS BUILDING; HEARING
§ 151.020 NOTICE REQUIREMENT.
   Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, if a building or
structure is found to be a dangerous building, the enforcing agency shall issue
a notice that the building or structure is a dangerous building.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.021 PARTIES ENTITLED TO NOTICE.
   The notice shall be served on each owner of or party in interest in the
building or structure in whose name the property appears on the last local tax
assessment records of the township.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.022 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall specify the time and place of a hearing on whether the
building or structure is a dangerous building and state that the person to whom
the notice is directed shall have the opportunity at the hearing to show cause
why the Hearing Officer should not order the building or structure to be
demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.023 SERVICE OF NOTICE.
   The notice shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to whom
the notice is directed either personally or by certified mail, return receipt
requested, addressed to the owner or party in interest at the address shown on
the tax records. If a notice is served upon a person by certified mail, a copy
of the notice shall also be posted upon a conspicuous part of the building or
structure. The notice shall be served upon the owner or party in interest at
least ten days before the date of the hearing included in the notice.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
DANGEROUS BUILDING HEARING OFFICER
§ 151.035 APPOINTMENT.
   The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Township Supervisor to serve
at his or her pleasure. The Hearing Officer shall be a person who has expertise
in housing matters, including, but not limited to, an engineer, architect,
building contractor, building inspector or member of a community housing
organization. An employee of the enforcing agency shall not be appointed as a
Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.036 FILING NOTICE WITH HEARING OFFICER.
   The enforcing agency shall file a copy of the notice of the dangerous
condition of any building with the Hearing Officer.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.037 HEARING TESTIMONY AND DECISION.
   At a hearing prescribed by this chapter, the Hearing Officer shall take
testimony of the enforcing agency, the owner of the property and any interested
party. Not more than five days after completion of the hearing, the Hearing
Officer shall render a decision either closing the proceedings or ordering the
building or structure demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.038 COMPLIANCE WITH HEARING OFFICER ORDER.
   If the Hearing Officer determines that the building or structure should be
demolished, otherwise made safe or properly maintained, the Hearing Officer
shall so order, fixing a time in the order for the owner, agent or lessee to
comply with the order. If the building is a dangerous building under §
151.002, the order may require the owner or agent to maintain the exterior of
the building and adjoining grounds owned by the owner of the building
including, but not limited to, the maintenance of lawns, trees and shrubs.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.039 NON-COMPLIANCE WITH HEARING OFFICER ORDER, REQUEST TO ENFORCE ORDER.
   (A)   If the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses
to comply with the order issued under §
151.038, the Hearing Officer shall file a report of the findings and a copy of
the order with the Township Board not more than five days after non-compliance
by the owner and request that necessary action be taken to enforce the order.
If the Township Board has established a Dangerous Building Board of Appeals
pursuant to §§
151.070 through
151.077, the Hearing Officer shall file the report of the findings and a copy
of the order with the Board of Appeals and request that necessary action be
taken to enforce the order.
   (B)   A copy of the findings and order of the Hearing Officer shall be
served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed in §
151.023.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
IMPLEMENTATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF REMEDIES
§ 151.050 IMPLEMENTATION OF ORDER BY TOWNSHIP.
   In the event of the failure or refusal of the owner or party in interest to
comply with the decision of the Township Board, or the Board of Appeals, as
applicable, the Township Board may, in its discretion, contract for the
demolition, making safe or maintaining the exterior of the building or
structure or grounds adjoining the building or structure.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.051 REIMBURSEMENT OF COSTS.
   The costs of the demolition, of making the building safe or of maintaining
the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure, incurred by the township to bring the property into conformance with
this chapter shall be reimbursed to the township by the owner or party in
interest in whose name the property appears.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.052 NOTICE OF COSTS.
   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon the
last local tax assessment records shall be notified by the Township Assessor of
the amount of the costs of the demolition, of making the building safe, or of
maintaining the exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the
building or structure, by first class main at the address shown on the township
records.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.053 LIEN FOR UNPAID COSTS.
   If the owner or party in interest fails to pay the costs within 30 days
after mailing by the Assessor of the notice of the amount of the cost, in the
case of a single-family dwelling or a two-family dwelling, the township shall
have a lien for the costs incurred by the township to bring the property into
conformance with this subchapter. The lien shall not take effect until notice
of the lien has been filed or recorded as provided by law. A lien provided for
in this section does not have priority over previously filed or recorded liens
and encumbrances. The lien for the costs shall be collected and treated in the
same manner as provided for property tax liens under the General Property Tax
Act, Pub. Act 206 of 1893, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 et seq.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.054 COURT JUDGMENT FOR UNPAID COSTS.
   (A)   In addition to other remedies under this chapter, the township may
bring an action against the owner of the building or structure for the full
cost of the demolition, of making the building safe, or of maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure. In the case of the single-family dwelling or a two-family dwelling,
the township shall have a lien on the property for the amount of a judgment
obtained pursuant to this section.
   (B)   The lien provided for in this section shall not take effect until
notice of the lien is filed and recorded as provided for by the law. The lien
does not have priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.055 ENFORCEMENT OF JUDGMENT.
   A judgment in an action brought pursuant to §
151.054 may be enforced against assets of the owner other than the building or
structure.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.056 LIEN FOR JUDGMENT AMOUNT.
   (A)   In the case of a single-family dwelling or a two-family dwelling the
township shall have a lien for the amount of a judgment obtained pursuant to §
151.054 against the owner's interest in all real property located in the state
that is owned in whole or in part by the owner of the building or structure
against which the judgment is obtained.
   (B)   A lien provided for in this section does not take effect until notice
of the lien is filed or recorded as provided by law, and the lien does not have
priority over prior filed or recorded liens and encumbrances.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
DANGEROUS BUILDING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 151.070 ESTABLISHMENT AND DUTIES.
   The Township Board may establish a Dangerous Building Board of Appeals to
hear all of the cases and carry out all of the duties of the Township Board
described in §§
151.050 through
151.056. If the Township Board establishes a Board of Appeals, the
establishment and operation of the Board of Appeals shall be controlled by the
following provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.071 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Board of Appeals shall be appointed by the Township Board and shall
consist of the following members:
   (A)   A building contractor;
   (B)   A registered architect or engineer;
   (C)   Two members of the general public; and
   (D)   An individual registered as a building official, plan reviewer or
inspector under the Building Officials and Inspectors Registration Act, Pub.
Act 54 of 1986, being M.C.L.A. §§ 338.2301 et seq. The individual may not be an
employee of the enforcing agency.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.072 TERMS.
   Board of Appeals members shall be appointed for three years, except that of
the members first appointed, two members shall serve for one year, two members
shall serve for two years and one member shall serve for three years. A vacancy
created other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the balance of
the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. A member may
be reappointed for additional terms.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.073 OFFICERS.
   The Board of Appeals annually shall select a Chairperson, Vice Chairperson
and other officers that the Board of Appeals considers necessary.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.074 QUORUM AND FINAL ACTION VOTES.
   A majority of the Board of Appeals members appointed and serving constitutes
a quorum. Final action of the Board of Appeals shall be only by affirmative
votes of a majority of the Board members appointed and serving.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.075 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   The Township Board shall fix the amount of any per diem compensation
provided to the members of the Board of Appeals. Expenses of the Board of
Appeals incurred in the performance of official duties may be reimbursed as
provided by law for employees of the Township Board.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.076 OPEN MEETINGS ACT APPLICABLE.
   A meeting of the Board of Appeals shall be held pursuant to the Open
Meetings Act, Pub. Act 267 of 1976, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et
seq. Public notice of the time, date and place of the meeting shall be given in
the manner required by the Open Meeting Act.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
§ 151.077 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT APPLICABLE.
   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of or retained by the
Board of Appeals in the performance of an official function shall be made
available to the public pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, Pub. Act
442 of 1976, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et seq.
(Ord. 01-03, passed 6-19-2001)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
   
152.01   Purpose
   
152.02   Short title
   
152.03   Definitions
   
152.04   Prior approval requirement for land division
   
152.05   Application for land division approval
   
152.06   Procedure for review of applications for land division approval
   
152.07   Standards for approval of land divisions
   
152.08   Allowance for approval of other land divisions
   
152.09   Consequences of non-compliance with land division approval requirement
   
152.10   Effective date
 
   
152.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Zoning, see
Ch. 155
§ 152.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State Land
Division Act (Pub. Act 288 of 1967, as amended, formerly known as the
Subdivision Control Act), codified at M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.:
   (A)   To prevent the creation of parcels of property which do not comply
with applicable ordinances and the Act;
   (B)   To minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly
development of the township; and
   (C)   Otherwise provide for the health, safety and welfare of the residents
and property owners of the township by establishing reasonable standards for
prior review and approval of land divisions within the township.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Kochville Township Land
Division Ordinance".
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination of any of them that holds an ownership interest in land whether
recorded or not.
   DIVIDED or DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of
sale or lease of more than one year, or of building development that results in
one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that satisfies
the requirements of §§ 108 and 109 of Pub. Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293. DIVIDE and DIVISION does not include a
property transfer between two or more adjacent parcels, if the property taken
from one parcel is added to an adjacent parcel; and any resulting parcel shall
not be considered a building site unless the parcel conforms to the
requirements of Pub. Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
through 560.293 or the requirements of other applicable local ordinances.
   EXEMPT SPLIT. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns, that results in one or more parcels of
less than 40 acres or the equivalent; provided, all resulting parcels are
accessible for vehicular travel and utilities from existing public or private
roads, through existing adequate roads or easements, or through areas owned by
the owner of the parcel that can provide the access.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Forty acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   STATE LAND DIVISION ACT. Pub. Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 through 560.293.
   TOWNSHIP. Kochville Township, Saginaw County, Michigan.
   TOWNSHIP BOARD. The Kochville Township Board, as provided in § 70 of the
State Revised Statutes of 1846.
   TOWNSHIP SUPERVISOR. The Supervisor of Kochville Township, Saginaw County,
Michigan, elected under Ch. XVI of the State Election Law, Pub. Act 116 of
1954, being M.C.L.A. §§ 168.341 to 168.373.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.04 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT FOR LAND DIVISION.
   Land in the township shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Township Supervisor, or other official designated by the
Township Board, in accordance with this chapter and the State Land Division
Act; provided that, the following shall be exempted from this requirement:
   (A)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the State Land Division Act;
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
State Land Division Act; and
   (C)   An exempt split, as defined in this chapter, or other partitioning or
splitting that results in parcels of 20 acres or more if each is not accessible
and the parcel was in existence on 3-31-1997, or resulting from exempt
splitting under the State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.05 APPLICATION FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   An applicant shall file all of the following with the Township Clerk or
other official designated by the Township Board for review and approval of a
proposed land division before making any division either by deed, land
contract, lease for more than one year or for building development:
   (A)   A completed application form or a form as may be approved by the
Township Board, signed by the property owner(s);
   (B)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
   (C)   A certified survey of the proposed division that includes for each
proposed parcel; an accurate legal description in meets and bounds, the
boundary lines, detailed dimensions, the accessibility for automobile and
emergency vehicle traffic and the location of public utilities;
   (D)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act and this
chapter have been met;
   (E)   The history and specifications of any previous divisions of land of
which the proposed division was a part sufficient to establish the parcel to be
divided was lawfully in existence as of 3-31-1997, the effective date of the
State Land Division Act;
   (F)   Proof that all due and payable taxes and installments of special
assessments pertaining to the land proposed to be divided are paid in full;
   (G)   If a transfer of division rights is proposed in the land transfer,
detailed in formation about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer; and
   (H)   The fee, as can from time to time establish by resolution of the
Township Board for land division reviews pursuant to this chapter, to cover the
costs of review of the application and administration of this chapter and the
State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.06 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS FOR LAND DIVISION APPROVAL.
   (A)   The township shall approve or disapprove the land division applied for
within 45 days after receipt of a complete application conforming to this
chapter's requirements and § 109 of the State Land Division Act, and shall
promptly notify the applicant in writing of the decision, and if denied, the
reasons for denial.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the decision of the Assessor or
designee may, within ten days of the decision, appeal the decision to the
Township Board or another board or person designated by the Township Board
which shall consider and resolve the appeal by a majority vote of the Board or
by the designee at its next regular meeting or session affording sufficient
time for a five-day written notice to the applicant (and appellant where other
than the applicant) of the time and date of the meeting and appellant hearing.
The Township Board, or other board or person designated by the Township Board,
shall return a decision upon each appeal within 30 days after a request or
appeal has been filed, unless an extended time is agreed upon with the parties
concerned. Any decision of the Township Board or another board or person
designated by the Township Board shall not become final until the expiration of
the five days from the date of entry of the order, unless the Township Board or
another board or person designated by the Township Board shall find the
immediate effect of the order is necessary for the preservation of property or
personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
   (C)   The Township Supervisor or designee shall maintain an official record
of all approved and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (D)   Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting
parcels comply with other ordinances or regulations.
   (E)   The township and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a land division if building permits for construction on the parcels
are subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal
facilities or otherwise, and any notice of approval shall include a statement
to this effect.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.07 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL OF LAND DIVISIONS.
   A proposed land division shall be approved if the following criteria are
met:
   (A)   All parcels created by the proposed division(s) have a minimum width
of 150 feet (as measured by the road frontage or required front setback line,
whichever is appropriate) unless otherwise provided for in an applicable zoning
ordinance;
   (B)   All parcels shall contain a minimum area of one acre, measured from
the right(s)-of-way unless otherwise provided for in an applicable zoning
ordinance;
   (C)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel of ten acres or less created
by division does not exceed a four to one ratio exclusive of access roads,
easements or non-development sites as measured from the abutting road right(s)-
of-way. A parcel of ten acres or more does not have a depth to width; however,
the township can, at its sole discretion, restrict the depth to width ration if
the physical conditions of the lands so require or there is an incompatibility
with surrounding lands;
   (D)   The proposed land division(s) comply with all requirements of this
chapter and the State Land Division Act; and
   (E)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefore, for public utilities and
emergency and other vehicles not less than the requirements of the applicable
zoning ordinance, major thoroughfare plan, road ordinance or this chapter. In
determining adequacy of accessibility, any ordinance standards applicable to
plats shall also apply as a minimum standard.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.08 ALLOWANCE FOR APPROVAL OF OTHER LAND DIVISIONS.
   Notwithstanding disqualification from approval pursuant to this chapter, a
proposed land division which does not fully comply with the applicable lot,
yard, accessibility and area requirements of the applicable zoning ordinance or
this chapter may be approved in any of the following circumstances:
   (A)   Where the applicant executes and records an affidavit or deed
restriction with the County Register of Deeds, in a form acceptable to the
township, designating the parcel as "not buildable". Any parcel shall also be
designated as "not buildable" in the township records, and shall not thereafter
be the subject of a require to the Township Board of Zoning Appeals for
variance relief from the applicable lot and/or area requirements, and shall not
be developed with any building or above ground structure exceeding four feet in
height;
   (B)   Where, in circumstances not covered by division (A) above, the Zoning
Board of Appeals has, previous to this chapter, granted a variance from the
lot, yard, ratio, frontage or area requirements with which the parcel failed to
comply; and/or
   (C)   Where the proposed land division involves only the minor adjustment of
a common boundary line or involves a conveyance between adjoining properties
which does not result in either parcel violating this chapter, any applicable
zoning ordinance or the State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.09 CONSEQUENCES OF NON-COMPLIANCE WITH LAND DIVISION APPROVAL
REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the township tax roll or
assessment roll and no construction thereon which requires the prior issuance
of a construction or building permit shall be allowed. The township shall
further have the authority to initiate injunctive or other relief to prevent
any violation or continuance of any violation of this chapter.
   (B)   Any unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option of
the purchaser and shall subject the seller to the forfeiture of all
consideration received or pledged therefore, together with any damages
sustained by the purchaser, recoverable in an action at law.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be effective upon publication after adoption.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
§ 152.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Penalties and enforcement shall be consistent with provisions set
forth by the township's zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Any person who violates any of the provisions of this chapter shall
also be subject to additional sanctions, remedies and judicial orders as are
authorized under state law.
(Ord. 06-06(LD), passed 3-21-2006)
CHAPTER 153: SIGNS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Authority
   
153.002   Title
   
153.003   Statement of purpose
   
153.004   Substitution clause
   
153.005   Definitions
   
153.006   Prohibited signs
   
153.007   Signs authorized without a permit
   
153.008   Signs authorized with a permit
   
153.009   Bonus provisions
   
153.010   Effective date
Construction Requirements
   
153.020   Codes
   
153.021   Fastenings
   
153.022   Fire escapes
   
153.023   Identification
   
153.024   Display of street address
   
153.025   Responsibility for compliance
Illumination
   
153.040   State Electrical Code
   
153.041   Shading
   
153.042   Intermittent lights
   
153.043   Colored lights
   
153.044   Reflection
   
153.045   Exposed bulbs
Non-Conforming Signs
   
153.060   Intent
   
153.061   Continuance
   
153.062   Nuisance
   
153.063   Inventory
   
153.064   Condemnation
Permit Requirements
   
153.075   Permit
   
153.076   Application
   
153.077   Site plan
   
153.078   Sign drawing
   
153.079   Neighborhood identification signs
   
153.080   Temporary signs
   
153.081   Review procedures
   
153.082   Permit fees
   
153.083   False information
   
153.084   Permits issued
Administration
   
153.095   Administrator
   
153.096   Enforcement
   
153.097   Department powers
Sign Board of Appeals
   
153.110   Generally
   
153.111   Appeals authorized
   
153.112   Fees
   
153.113   Appeal procedure
   
153.114   Action of Sign Board of Appeals
   
153.115   Stay
   
153.116   Variances
   
153.117   Review by Circuit Court
 
   
153.998   Severability clause
   
153.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 AUTHORITY.
   This chapter is enacted pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 41.2, as amended, and
M.C.L.A. § 41.181, as amended, and repeals all other sign ordinances of the
township.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-11, passed 7-18-2006; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Kochville Township Sign Ordinance".
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.003 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   These standards are adopted to:
      (1)   Maintain and enhance the aesthetics of the community;
      (2)   Enhance pedestrian and traffic safety;
      (3)   Preserve public health, safety and welfare;
      (4)   Limit the intrusion of visual messages;
      (5)   Minimize the adverse effects of signs on nearby public and private
property;
      (6)   Minimize driver distraction;
      (7)   Protect and enhance the scenic views and natural landscapes;
      (8)   Protect and enhance economic viability by assuring aesthetic appeal
for visitors and residents;
      (9)   Promote the use of aesthetically pleasing sign materials and
colors;
      (10)   Avoid obstacles, distractions or traffic hazards that impair a
traveler's ability to see pedestrians, traffic signs or vehicles;
      (11)   Preserve the right to enjoy scenic amenities;
      (12)   Enhance the effectiveness of necessary directional and warning
signs;
      (13)   Preserve property values;
      (14)   Provide for the effectiveness of permitted signs;
      (15)   Avoid adverse lighting or reflection; and
      (16)   Require structurally safe signs.
   (B)   The standards in this chapter are determined to be the minimum
necessary to achieve the above stated purposes.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.004 SUBSTITUTION CLAUSE.
   Signs containing non-commercial speech are permitted anywhere that
advertising or business signs are permitted, subject to the same regulations
applicable to such signs.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.005 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED. A sign shall be deemed ABANDONED if:
      (1)   It does not display a well-maintained structure or sign face for a
consecutive 120-day period;
      (2)   The owner of the sign cannot be located at the owner's last known
address, as reflected on the records of the Department;
      (3)   A structure designed to support a sign no longer supports the sign
for a period of 120 consecutive days; or
      (4)   Any sign not repaired or maintained properly, after notice,
pursuant to the terms of this section.
   AMORTIZATION PERIOD. The time between the date of adoption of this chapter
and 2-16-2016.
   AREA OF SIGN.
      (1)   The entire area within a circle, triangle, parallelogram or other
geometric configuration enclosing the extreme limits of writing,
representation, emblem or any figure or similar character, together with any
frame or other material or color forming an integral part of the display or
used to differentiate the sign from the background against which it is placed.
      (2)   For purposes of calculating SIGN AREA, the following shall be
excluded:
         (a)   The necessary supports or columns on which the sign is attached;
         (b)   The portion of a ground mounted or monument sign that is used as
the base; and
         (c)   Any numbers displaying the address of the property.
   AWNING SIGN. See CANOPY SIGN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1635.png]
   BILLBOARD. A freestanding outdoor sign which advertises an establishment,
service, merchandise, use, entertainment, activity product or message which is
not conducted, sold, produced, manufactured or furnished upon the parcel or lot
in which the sign is located, and additionally shall include those signs as
regulated by the state pursuant to Pub. Act 106 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
252.301 et seq.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign attached to or constructed on a canopy. A CANOPY is a
permanent roof-like shelter extending from part of or all of a building face.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN/READER BOARD. A sign or portion thereof with
characters, letters or illustrations that can be changed or rearranged without
altering the face or the surface of the sign.
   CLEAR VISION AREA. The area bounded by the street property lines of corner
lots and a line intersecting the street property lines, 30 feet from their
point of intersection.
   DEPARTMENT. The Building and Zoning Department of Kochville Township.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign on private property for the purpose of directing
traffic onto or off of the premises. DIRECTIONAL SIGNS do not require a permit.
   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD.
      (1)   A variable message sign that utilizes computer generated messages
or other electronic means of changing copy.
      (2)    These signs include displays using incandesce nt lamps, LEDs, LCDs
or a flipper matrix.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1637.png]
   FLAG. A flag shall mean any fabric or bunting containing colors, patterns,
or symbols used to signify a government or other entity or organization.
   FREESTANDING SIGN A sign supported by one or more uprights, braces, pylons
or foundation elements located in or upon the ground and not attached to a
building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1639.png]
   GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. A sign authorized by this municipality, a governmental
agency, the state or the federal government for the benefit of the public. The
signs may include safety signs, danger signs, trespassing signs, street
direction signs, destination signs, hazardous condition signs or signs for
traffic control purposes.
   GROUND MOUNTED. See MONUMENT SIGN.
   INDUSTRIAL CENTER. A coordinated development of a tract of land with two or
more separate industrial buildings. The development is planned, designed,
constructed and managed on a integrated and coordinated basis with special
attention given to on-site vehicular circulation, parking, utility needs,
building design, orientation and open space.
   INTEGRAL SIGN. Signs made an integral part of the walls of the structure or
roof for farm buildings, or when carved into stone, concrete or similar
material or made of bronze, aluminum or other permanent type construction.
   MARQUEE. Any hood, canopy, awning or permanent construction that projects
from a wall of a building, usually above an entrance.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1641.png]
   MENU BOARD. A freestanding sign orientated to the drive-through lane for a
restaurant that advertise the menu items available from the drive-through
window.
   MONUMENT SIGN. A freestanding sign where the base of the sign structure is
permanently in the ground or integrated into landscaping or other solid
structural features.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1643.png]
   NON-CONFORMING SIGN. Any advertising structure or sign which was lawfully
erected and maintained prior to the effective date of this chapter, and any
amendments thereto, and which fails to conform to all applicable regulations
and restrictions of this chapter, or a sign for which a permit was previously
issued that does not comply with the provisions of this chapter.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL SIGN. A sign located on a parcel that does not have a
dwelling as its principle structure and is located in the CG, AG, R-1, R-1 A,
R-2, R-3 districts. Examples of the uses that may be associated with non-
residential uses in these districts include but are not limited to
subdivisions, schools, religious institutions, public buildings and cemeteries.
   OWNER. A person owning the sign and/or the property owner upon which the
sign is located.
   PARCEL. Contiguous real estate taxed as a single parcel on one side of a
public road.
   PERMIT. The authorization for the installation of a sign issued by the
Department.
   PERSON. Any individual or entity, including a firm, partnership,
association, corporation, limited liability company, trustee and their legal
successors.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign that is not permanently anchored or secured to a
building and not having supports or braces permanently secured in the ground,
included, but not limited to, "sandwich" signs and signs mounted on wheels so
as to be capable of being pulled by a motor vehicle from one location to
another, and which direct attention to the business, profession, or activity
conducted on the premises or to a commodity, service, or entertainment that is
sold, offered, manufactured, processed, or fabricated on the property. Banners,
pennants, pinwheels, ribbons, streamers, strings of light bulbs, inflatables or
similar devices intended for a limited period of display shall also be
considered a PORTABLE SIGN.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1645.png]
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign affixed to any part of a building or structure that
extends beyond the building or structure by more than 36 inches.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1647.png]
   REGIONAL COMMERCIAL CENTER.
      (1)   A coordinated development of a tract of land with two or more
separate commercial buildings with uses classified as regional business uses
for zoning purposes.
      (2)   The development is planned, designed, constructed and managed on a
integrated and coordinated basis with special attention given to on-site
vehicular circulation, parking, utility needs, building design, orientation and
open space. REGIONAL COMMERCIAL CENTERS are greater than 20 acres in site size.
   REGIONAL PLAZA/CENTER. Commercial development, usually one store deep. This
type of development can include individual buildings on one site or a linear
shopping centers with coordinated parking and access. PLAZA/CENTERS are less
than 20 acres in size. PLAZA/CENTERS must have a minimum of three businesses.
   REPLACING COPY. Any change consisting of re-lettering, replacing or changing
the sign face, repainting, cleaning or other similar non-structural changes.
   RESIDENTIAL NEIGHBORHOOD IDENTIFICATION SIGN. A sign at the entrance of a
residential neighborhood identifying the neighborhood.
   ROOF LINE. The highest point on any building where an exterior wall encloses
usable floor space. The term ROOF LINE includes the top of any parapet wall;
providing, the parapet wall extends around the entire perimeter of the building
at the same elevation. The facade of a building is not defined as part of the
ROOF LINE.
   ROOF SIGN. A sign erected, constructed or maintained upon, or which projects
above, the roof line of a building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1649.png]
   SIGN. A structure which includes the name, identification, image,
description, display or illustration which is affixed to, painted or
represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or parcel of
land, and which directs attention to an object, product, place, activity,
facility, service, event, attraction, person, institution organization or
business, or idea and which is visible from any street, right-of-way, sidewalk,
alley, park or other public property. This definition includes the base, frame
and support members of the sign. Customary displays of merchandise or objects
and material within an enclosed building or placed behind a store window are
not SIGNS.
   SIGN BOARD OF APPEALS. Is the governing body hearing sign ordinance variance
requests.
   SIGN LOCATION. Permitted freestanding or monument signs may be located
anywhere on the premises, except in clear vision area or within the proposed
right-of-way.
   SIGN SETBACK. Where it is specified that a sign must be located a minimum or
other certain distance from property lines, or public rights-of-way, or
proposed public rights-of-way, the distance shall be measured from the portion
of the sign structure nearest to the specified line. For the purpose of this
measurement, the property lines and public right-of-way lines extend vertically
and perpendicularly from the ground to infinity. Unless otherwise noted, all
signs shall be set back at the proposed right-of-way line.
   SIGN WIDTH. The distance between two sign faces back to back on a
freestanding or monument sign shall not exceed six feet measured from the front
of each sign face. This applies to parallel and non-parallel sign faces. Signs
constructed in a triangular manner shall not exceed six feet at the widest
point.
   STREET BANNER. Fabric signs, suspended across public streets advertising a
public entertainment or event. The Township Board, County Road Commission and/
or State Department of Transportation must specially approve the location and
contents of each STREET BANNER.
   STRUCTURAL ALTERATION.
      (1)   The modification of a sign and or sign structure that affects size,
shape, height or sign location; changes in structural materials; or the
addition of electronic elements to a non-electrified sign would be structural
alterations.
      (2)   Exception: STRUCTURAL ALTERATION does not include ordinary
maintenance or repair, repainting an existing sign surface, including changes
of message or image, exchanging painted and pasted or glued materials on
painted wall signs, or exchanging or release and closing clips or other
brackets.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign bearing a message which is displayed before, during
and after an event, to which the sign relates, and which is scheduled to take
place at a specific time and place. A TEMPORARY SIGN includes banners,
valances, or advertising display constructed of cloth, canvas and fabric,
cardboard, plastic, plywood, wallboard, or other light materials, with or
without frames, intended to be displayed for a limited period of time only.
   THROUGH LOT. A lot having frontage on two non-intersecting streets.
   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to, painted upon, placed against or supported by
the exterior surface of any building. WALL SIGNS also include marquees and
canopy signs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1651.png]
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 10-01, passed
7-27-2010; Ord. 10-003, passed 10-26-2010; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord.
16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.006 PROHIBITED SIGNS.
   The following signs are considered to be unsafe, dangerous and hazardous, an
attractive nuisance or nuisance, therefore, these signs shall not be permitted,
erected or maintained in any zoning district:
   (A)   Any sign for which a permit has not been issued and which is not a
permitted sign is prohibited, excluding any existing legal non-conforming sign.
   (B)   Signs which incorporate in any manner any flashing or moving lights,
not including LED panels.
   (C)   Street banners, pennants, spinners and streamers, and inflatable
figures, except as specifically permitted in accordance with other sections of
this chapter.
   (D)   Any sign or sign structure which:
      (1)   is structurally unsafe;
      (2)   Constitutes a hazard to the safety or health of person or property
by reason of inadequate design, fabrication, mounting or maintenance or because
it has been abandoned;
      (3)   Is not kept in good repair; or
      (4)   Is capable of causing electrical shocks to persons that may come in
contact with it.
   (E)   Any sign which by reason of it size, location, content, coloring,
intensity or manner of illumination constitutes a traffic hazard or a detriment
to traffic safety by obstruction of visibility or creation of driver confusion
of any traffic sign or control device on any public street or road.
   (F)   Any sign which obstructs free ingress or egress from a required door,
window, fire escape, driveway or other required access route.
   (G)   Any sign or other advertising structure or display which conveys,
suggests, indicates or otherwise implies by pictures, drawings, words, emblems,
logos or other communication methods including, which relate to but not limited
to, human genitalia, sexual acts, adult nude human bodies, obscene words or
obscene gestures.
   (H)   Any permanently mounted sign, hereafter existing of which the purpose
of the sign has ended, ceases to exist or is over, shall be removed by the
owner within 30 calendar days after a business closes or vacates the premises;
if the sign face removed exposes any electrical equipment, lighting, etc., it
shall be required that the face be replaced with a blank covering.
   (I)   Any sign, except traffic or other municipal approved signs, as
permitted in this chapter that is located in or projects into or over a public
right-of-way or dedicated easement.
   (J)   Any sign that exceeds the height limitation for structures in the
zoning district in which it is located, or a wall sign that extends beyond or
above the structure to which the sign is affixed, except as may specifically be
provided for in other provisions.
   (K)   Placards, posters, circulars, show bills, handbills, cards, leaflets
or other advertising matter, except as otherwise provided herein, shall not be
posted, pasted, nailed, placed, printed, stamped or in any way attached to any
fence, wall, post, tree, sidewalk, pavement, platform, pole, tower, curbstone
or surface in or upon any public easement, right-of-way or any public or
private property without the consent, authorization or ratification of the
owner of the property. However, nothing herein shall prevent official notices
of the township, school districts, county, state or federal government from
being posted on any public property deemed necessary. All placards, posters,
circulars, show bills, handbills, cards, leaflets or other advertising matter
posted, pasted, nailed, placed, printed, stamped on any right-of-way or public
property may be removed and disposed of by the Township Code Enforcement
Officer without regard to other provisions of this chapter.
   (L)   Roof signs, which project above, the roof line of a building.
   (M)   No portion of a privately-owned sign, or its supporting structures,
such as poles or cables, shall be placed on, or within the air space above,
publicly-owned property, a public right-of-way (such as a street or sidewalk)
or a proposed public right-of-way.
   (N)   Signs which obstruct free use of a roadway, required door, window,
fire escape or other required exit way. No sign may obstruct the clear vision
area.
   (O)   Off-premise portable signs located on vacant parcels except those with
valid permits as required by the Michigan Department of Transportation and
regulated by the Highway Advertising Act, 106 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
252.301 et seq.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.007 SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   The following signs are permitted without a sign permit in all zoning
districts where the principle permitted use to which they are related is a
permitted use in that district:
   (A)   Address numbers, nameplates (including apartment units and office
suites) identifying the occupant or address of a parcel of land;
   (B)   Signs painted on or permanently attached to legally licensed vehicles
that are used upon the highways for transporting persons, goods or equipment;
   (C)   Traffic or other municipal signs including, but not limited to, the
following: legal notices, historic site designations, municipal facility
directional signs, street or traffic signs, railroad crossing signs, danger and
other emergency signs as may be approved by the Township Board or any federal,
state or county agency having jurisdiction over the matter of the sign. The
signs may be located in any zoning district. However, all signs on governmental
property on which a municipal building is located shall meet the commercial
zoning district requirements stated herein;
   (D)   Community special event signs approved by the Township Board;
   (E)   Temporary signs not exceeding six square feet in area, four feet in
height in residential districts, except in the R-l A Residential/Agricultural
District, for a temporary seasonal retail business operation. In agricultural,
commercial and industrial districts, the sign shall be limited to 32 square
feet in area and eight feet in height;
   (F)   Flags of government, civic, philanthropic, educational, religious
organizations and other public entities;
   (G)   Temporary signs:
      (1)   No temporary sign shall be placed closer than ten feet from the
edge of the road or placed in such a way that it obstructs visibility of
pedestrians and motorists at intersections and driveways.
      (2)   No temporary sign shall be placed on any public property.
      (3)   Temporary signs are not permitted on vacant parcels of land without
the owner's permission.
      (4)   Signs that are found within ten feet of the road, or which
obstructs visibility creating a safety hazard may be removed without notice by
the township.
      (5)   A temporary sign of which the purpose of the sign has ended, ceases
to exist, or is over, such signs shall be removed within ten days.
   (H)   Agricultural signs;
   (I)   Painting, re-painting, cleaning, maintenance, repair and change of
sign message or graphics shall not be considered erection or alteration of a
sign which requires issuance of a permit, provided that no structural
alterations or additions to the display area are made;
   (J)   Private traffic control signs on private property such as directional
signs. The signs may not exceed one and one-half square feet or three feet in
height; and
   (K)   Directional signs not larger than four feet in height and one and one-
half square feet in size.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 10-01, passed
7-27-2010; Ord. 10-003, passed 10-26-2010; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord.
16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.008 SIGNS AUTHORIZED WITH A PERMIT.
   The Department may issue a permit for signs in accordance with the following
provisions.
   (A)   Agricultural, flood plain, conservation district signs.
      (1)   Wall, residential. One wall sign is permitted on a dwelling
structure. The sign may be up to six square feet in size and be placed anywhere
on the wall of the structure.
      (2)   Wall, non-residential. A wall sign is permitted on the principal
structure of a non-residential use. The sign may be up to 32 square feet in
size and be placed anywhere on the wall of the structure. Non-residential uses
with greater than 400 lineal feet of frontage on one road or located on a
corner lot may have two wall signs, each no greater than 32 square feet in
size.
      (3)   Integral sign, non-residential. One integral sign may be
incorporated into the structure of the non-dwelling on the parcel.
      (4)   Freestanding/monument non-residential use. One freestanding or
monument sign is permitted for each parcel. The freestanding or monument sign
may not exceed a height of eight feet above the uniform finished grade or 50
square feet in size.
         (a)   Corner lots. Non-residential uses on a corner lot may be
permitted two signs of up to 50 square feet each and eight feet in height if
they are located a minimum of 100 feet from the intersection and any other
sign.
         (b)   Entrance signs. In addition to the above-mentioned regulations,
if the non-residential use is located on a parcel of at least five acres in
size, a monument or ground mounted sign is permitted at no more than two
entrances. Each sign must comply with the following regulations.
            1.   Each monument or ground mounted sign may be up to 24 square
feet in area and five feet in height for each entrance from a public road.
            2.   These ground mounted or monument signs are only allowed if the
other signs on the parcel are farther than 100 feet from the entrance.
         (c)   Electronic message boards prohibited. No portion of these signs
is permitted to be an electronic message board.
      (5)   Neighborhood. A single-family residential neighborhood, mobile home
park or multiple-family residential development is permitted to have two
monument signs identifying the residential neighborhood for each street
entrance. The signs shall not extend into any public right-of-way or proposed
right-of-way. The face of each sign shall not exceed 24 square feet. Both signs
must be the same size. The height of the signs may not exceed five feet above
the uniform finished grade.
      (6)   Portable. One portable sign is permitted per improved parcel. The
sign shall not exceed 50 square feet in area and shall not exceed a total of 60
days in any calendar year. Exception: Where multiple tenants occupy a tenant
space on a single parcel, no more than two portable signs, not exceeding 50
square feet, may be placed at any one time, placed no closer than 100 feet
apart.
      (7)   Electronic message boards. A sign or portion thereof that is an
electronic message board shall not be greater than 36 square feet in area and
shall comply with the following regulations.
         (a)   If signs are determined to be a nuisance or traffic hazard, the
maximum brightness for the sign shall be reduced so not to exceed an
illumination of 5,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during day light hours
or 1,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during the period from sunset to
sunrise, as measured from a sign face at maximum brightness.
         (b)   Each electronic message board shall have a dimmer control to
produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower one for the period of time from sunset to sunrise. Each sign must
appropriately adjust brightness to conform with applicable brightness
specifications as ambient light levels change at each sign location due to
sunrise, sunset, prevailing weather conditions or otherwise.
         (c)   No additional electronic message board is permitted on the
building if it is visible from a public road.
   (B)   R-l, R-2, R-3 residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Wall, residential. One wall sign is permitted on a dwelling
structure. The sign may be up to six square feet in size and be placed anywhere
on the wall of the structure.
      (2)   Wall, non-residential. A wall sign is permitted on a non-
residential use. The sign may be up to 32 square feet in size and be placed
anywhere on the wall of the structure. Non-residential uses with greater than
400 lineal feet of frontage on one road or located on a corner lot may have two
wall signs, each no greater than 32 square feet in size.
      (3)   Wall/marquee, residential multiple-family. One wall sign is
permitted on a non-dwelling. The sign may be up to 32 square feet in size and
be placed anywhere on the wall of the structure. Non-dwelling uses with greater
than 400 lineal feet of frontage on one road or located on a corner lot may
have two wall signs, each no greater than 32 square feet in size.
      (4)   Neighborhood. A residential neighborhood is permitted to have two
monument residential neighborhood identification signs for each street
entrance. The signs shall not extend into any public right-of-way or proposed
right-of-way. The face of each sign shall not exceed 24 square feet. Both signs
must be the same size. The height of the signs may not exceed five feet above
the uniform finished grade.
      (5)   Freestanding/monument residential multiple-family use. A
residential multiple-family use is permitted to have one freestanding/monument
sign not to exceed 32 square feet in area and five feet above the uniform
finished grade.
      (6)   Portable. One portable sign is permitted per improved parcel, not
to exceed 50 square feet and shall not exceed a total of 60 days in any
calendar year.
      (7)   Electronic message boards. A sign or portion thereof that is an
electronic message board shall not be greater than 36 square feet in area and
shall comply with the following regulations.
         (a)   If signs are determined to be a nuisance or traffic hazard, the
maximum brightness for the sign shall be reduced so not to exceed an
illumination of 5,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during day light hours
or 1,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during the period from sunset to
sunrise, as measured from a sign face at maximum brightness.
         (b)   Each electronics message board shall have a dimmer control to
produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower one for the period of time from sunset to sunrise. Each sign must
appropriately adjust display brightness to conform with applicable brightness
specifications as ambient light levels change at each sign location due to
sunrise, sunset, prevailing weather conditions or otherwise.
         (c)   No additional electronic message board is permitted on the
building if it is visible from a public road.
   (C)   B-l Office Business.
      (1)   Freestanding/monument.
         (a)   One freestanding or monument sign is permitted for each B-l,
office or business developed parcel with up to 400 lineal feet in frontage on
the public right-of-way. The signs shall not exceed 50 square feet in size,
limited to two faces back to back and a height of eight feet above the uniform
finished grade. All freestanding/monument signs shall be landscaped with two
square feet of landscaping for each square foot of sign face.
         (b)   For parcels with greater than 400 lineal feet or frontage and
less than 20 acres in size, one 50 square foot sign is permitted for each 400
lineal feet and fraction thereof. Each sign must be located at least 100 feet
from any other sign on the same parcel and 25 feet from and any side lot line
and must not block and existing property owner's previously erected sign.
         (c)   If the lot is a through lot, this 400-foot regulation applies to
each road frontage as calculated independently of one another. If the lot is a
corner lot, each road frontage shall be calculated independently on their own
true road frontage measured along the road right-of-way intersection.
      (2)   Wall/marquee sign. A wall sign may not project more than 12 inches
from the surface of the building to which it is mounted or into any right-of-
way.
      (3)   Projecting sign. A projecting sign may not project from the wall of
the structure more than 36 inches or any higher than the height of the wall,
nor less than nine feet above the average grade of a walking surface, limited
to a maximum of 20 square feet and to one projecting sign per business.
      (4)   Awning or canopy signs. Awning or canopy signs shall not project
more than seven feet from the surface to which it is attached nor less than
nine feet above the average grade of a walking surface. Awning or canopy signs
shall not extend more than 24 inches above the roof line.
      (5)   Portable. One portable signs is permitted per improved parcel, not
exceed 50 square feet in area and shall not exceed a total of 60 days in any
calendar year.
      (6)   Street banners. Street banners may extend across a public right-of-
way subject to approval of township administration and the County Road
Commission or State Department of Transportation, but in no case may be
displayed more than 14 days before an event and seven days after an event.
      (7)   Electronic message boards. A sign or portion thereof that is an
electronic message board shall not be greater than 36 square feet in area and
shall comply with the following regulations.
         (a)   If signs are determined to be a nuisance or traffic hazard, the
maximum brightness for the sign shall be reduced so not to exceed an
illumination of 5,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during day light hours
or 1,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during the period from sunset to
sunrise, as measured from a sign face at maximum brightness.
         (b)   Each electronics message board shall have a dimmer control to
produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower one for the period of time from sunset to sunrise. Each sign must
appropriately adjust display brightness to conform with applicable brightness
specifications as ambient light levels change at each sign location due to
sunrise, sunset, prevailing weather conditions or otherwise.
         (c)   No additional electronic message board is permitted on the
building if it is visible from a public road.
      (8)   Billboards. Billboards are regulated through Pub. Act 89 of 2009,
being M.C.L.A. Chapter 252.
      (9)   Directional signs. A sign on private property for the purpose of
directing traffic onto or off of the premises. Directional signs do not require
a permit. However:
         (a)   Only one set of entrance/exit directional signs is allowed per
legal driveway;
         (b)   A directional sign may not exceed one and one-half square feet
or more than four feet in height; and
         (c)   Directional signs must not be within the road right-of-way and
must not use blinking lights.
      (10)   Menu board.
         (a)   A freestanding sign orientated to the drive-through lane for a
restaurant that advertise the menu items available from the drive-through
window, and which has no more than 20% of the total area for a sign utilized
for business identification. A menu sign may be no larger than 90 square feet.
         (b)   Not more than two menu boards are allowed per site.
   (D)   B-2 Neighborhood Business, B-3 Commercial Zoning Districts.
      (1)   Freestanding/monument.
         (a)   One freestanding or monument sign is permitted for each B-2 and
B-3, community commercial development parcel with up to 400 lineal feet in
frontage on the public right-of-way. The signs shall not exceed 64 square feet
in size, limited to two faces back to back and a height of 12 feet above the
uniform finished grade. All freestanding/monument signs shall be landscaped
with two square feet of landscaping for each square foot of sign face.
         (b)   For parcels with greater than 400 lineal feet of frontage, one
64 square foot sign is permitted for each 400 lineal feet and fraction thereof.
Each sign must be located at least 100 feet from any other sign on the same
parcel, and 25 feet from any side lot line and must not block an existing
property owner's previously erected sign.
         (c)   If the lot is a through lot, this 400-foot regulation applies to
each road frontage as calculated independently of one another. If the lot is a
corner lot, each road frontage shall be calculated independently on their own
true road frontage measured along the road right-of-way from the intersection.
      (2)   (a)   Regional Commercial Centers. A Regional Commercial Center
sign, not to exceed 150 square feet and 12 feet in height, is permitted for
each public road frontage or at no more than two entrances, subject to the
following.
         (b)   Signs must incorporate brick, stone, or decorative block as part
of the sign structure and have two square feet of landscaping for each square
foot of sign face, consisting of shrubs, flowers, or grasses, or a combination
of such, as approved by the Zoning Administrator, and separated by protective
edging from the surrounding grass area. This area must also have ground cover
consisting of decorative stone or mulch over a weed barrier.
      (3)   Wall/marquee sign. A wall sign may not project more than 12 inches
from the surface of the building to which it is mounted or into any right-of-
way.
      (4)   Projecting sign. A projecting sign may not project from the wall of
the structure more than 36 inches or any higher than the height of the wall nor
less than nine feet above the average grade of a walking surface, limited to a
maximum of 20 square feet and to one projecting sign per business.
      (5)   Awning or canopy signs. Awning or canopy signs shall not project
more than seven feet from the surface to which it is attached not less than
nine feet above the average grade of a walking surface. Awning or canopy signs
shall not extend more than 24 inches above the roof line. In no event may
awning or canopy signs project into the right-of-way.
      (6)   Portable. One portable sign is permitted per improved parcel, and
shall not exceed 50 square feet in area and shall not exceed a total of 60 days
in any calendar year. Where multiple tenants occupy a tenant space on a single
parcel, no more than two portable signs, not exceeding 50 square feet, may be
placed at any one time, placed no closer than 100 feet apart.
      (7)   Street banners. Street banners may extend across a public right-of-
way subject to approval of Saginaw Charter/Kochville Township administration
and the County Road Commission or State Department of Transportation, but in no
case may be displayed more than 14 days before an event and seven days after an
event.
      (8)   Electronic message boards. A sign or portion thereof that is an
electronic message board shall not be greater than 36 square feet in area and
shall comply with the following regulations.
         (a)   If signs are determined to be a nuisance or traffic hazard, the
maximum brightness for the sign shall be reduced so not to exceed an
illumination of 5,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during day light hours
or 1,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during the period from sunset to
sunrise, as measured from a sign face at maximum brightness.
         (b)   Each electronics message board shall have a dimmer control to
produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower one for the period of time from sunset to sunrise. Each sign must
appropriately adjust display brightness to conform with applicable brightness
specifications as ambient light levels change at each sign location due to
sunrise, sunset, prevailing weather conditions or otherwise.
         (c)   No additional electronic message board is permitted on the
building if it is visible from a public road.
      (9)   Directional signs.
         (a)   A sign on private property for the purpose of directing traffic
onto or off of the premises. Directional signs do not require a permit;
         (b)   However:
            1.   Only one set of entrance/exit directional signs is allowed per
legal driveway;
            2.   A directional sign may not exceed one and one-half square feet
or more than four feet in height; and
            3.   Directional signs must not be within the road right-of-way and
must not use blinking lights.
      (10)   Menu board.
         (a)   A freestanding sign orientated to the drive-through lane for a
restaurant that advertise the menu items available from the drive-through
window, and which has no more than 20% of the total area for a sign utilized
for business identification. A menu sign may be no larger than 90 square feet.
         (b)   Not more than two menu boards are allowed per site.
   (E)   Industrial/manufacturing signs - Ml and M2 Districts.
      (1)   Freestanding/monument.
         (a)   One freestanding or monument sign is permitted for each
industrially developed parcel with up to 400 lineal feet in frontage on the
public right-of-way. The signs shall not exceed 64 square feet in size, limited
to two faces back to back and a height of ten feet above the uniforms finished
grade.
         (b)   For parcels with a greater than 400 lineal feet of frontage, one
64 square foot sign is permitted for each 400 feet and fraction thereof. Each
sign must be located at least 100 feet from any other sign on the same parcel,
and 25 feet from any side lot line and must not block an existing property
owners previously erected sign.
         (c)   If the lot is a through lot, this 400-foot regulation applies to
each road frontage as calculated independent of one another. If the lot is a
corner lot, each road frontage shall be calculated independently on their own
true road frontage measured along the road right-of-way intersection.
      (2)   Industrial centers.
         (a)   Two signs, not to exceed 74 square feet each and 12 feet in
height, are permitted for each public road frontage.
         (b)   One monument or ground mounted sign is permitted at no more than
two entrances. The monument or ground mounted signs may be up to 24 square feet
and five feet in height, for each entrance from a public road. These ground
mounted or monument signs are only allowed if the other signs on the parcel are
farther than 100 feet from the entrance.
      (3)   Wall/marquee sign. A wall sign may not project more than 12 inches
from the surface of the building to which it is mounted or into any right-of-
way.
      (4)   Portable. One portable sign is permitted per improved parcel, and
shall not exceed 50 square feet in area and shall not exceed a total of 60 days
in any calendar year.
      (5)   Electronic message boards. A sign or portion thereof that is an
electronic message board shall not be greater than 36 square feet in area and
shall comply with the following regulations.
         (a)   If signs are determined to be a nuisance or traffic hazard, the
maximum brightness for the sign shall be reduced so not to exceed an
illumination of 5,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during day light hours
or 1,000 NITS (candelas per square meter) during the period from sunset to
sunrise, as measured from a sign face at maximum brightness.
         (b)   Each electronic message board shall have a dimmer control to
produce a distinct illumination change from a higher illumination level to a
lower one for the period of time from sunset to sunrise. Each sign must
appropriately adjust display brightness to conform with applicable brightness
specifications as ambient light levels change at each sign location due to
sunrise, sunset, prevailing weather conditions or otherwise.
         (c)   No additional electronic message board is permitted on the
building if it is visible from a public road.
      (6)   Billboards. Billboards are regulated through Pub. Act 89 of 2009,
being M.C.L.A. Chapter 252.
Regulations for Signs That Require a Permit - Also See Regulations in the Text
by Zoning District
Zoning Districts      Sign Type               Maximum Sign Size per Height
                                              Parcel
                      Wall, residential       6 sq. ft.             Wall height
                      Wall, non-residential   32 sq. ft             Wall height
                      Integral, non-          no limit              No limit
Agricultural/Conserva residential
tion Greenbelt        Freestanding/monume nt  50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                      Neighborhood            24 sq. ft.            5 ft.
                      Portable                50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                      Electronic message      36 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                      board
                      Wall, residential       6 sq. ft.             wall height
                      Wall, non-residential   32 sq. ft.            wall height
                      Wall/marquee multiple-  32 sq. ft.            wall height
                      family
                      Neighborhood            24 sq. ft.            5 ft.
Residential R-l, R-2, Freestanding/monume nt, 32 sq. ft.            5 ft.
R-3                   multiple-family
                      Freestanding/monume nt, 50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                      non-residential
                      Portable                50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                      Electronic message      36 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                      board non-residential
Regulations for Signs That Require a Permit - Also See Regulations in the Text
by Zoning District
Zoning Districts    Sign Type                 Maximum Sign Size per Height
                                              Parcel
                    Freestanding/monume nt    50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                    Wall/marquee              no limit              wall height
                    Awning/canopy             see text              see text
Commercial B-l      Projecting sign           see text              see text
                    Portable                  50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                    Street banner             see text              see text
                    Electronic message board  36 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                    Freestanding/monume nt    64 sq. ft.            12 ft.
                    Regional commercial       150 sq. ft.           12ft.
                    center
                    Wall/marquee              no limit              wall height
Commercial B-2, B-3 Awning/canopy             see text              see text
                    Projecting sign           see text              see text
                    Portable                  50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
                    Street banner             see text              see text
                    Electronic message board  36 sq. ft.            12 ft.
                    Special event sign        see text              see text
                    Freestanding/monume nt    64 sq. ft.            10 ft.
                    Regional industrial       74 sq. ft.            12 ft.
Industrial M-l, M-2 center
                    Electronic message boards 36 sq. ft.            10 ft.
                    Portable                  50 sq. ft.            8 ft.
NOTES TO TABLE:
-The future right-of-way line is determined by referencing the official right-
of-way map kept by the State Department of Transportation and the County Road
Commission.
-Billboards are regulated through Pub. Act 89 of 2009, refer to M.C.L.A.
Chapter 252.
 
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 10-01, passed
7-27-2010; Ord. 10-003, passed 10-26-2010; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord.
16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.009 BONUS PROVISIONS.
   (A)   A 20% bonus in sign area will be allowed if at least 50% of the total
sign structure is comprised of brick, stone or architectural block.
   (B)   In zoning districts where landscaping is not specifically required, a
10% bonus in the size of the sign may be given for any freestanding or monument
sign that is erected in a landscaped area. The landscaped area must contain a
minimum of two square feet for each square foot of the sign area. The landscape
design must be approved by the Zoning Administrator, or the Planning Commission
as part of the site plan approval, if required.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 7-27-2010; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.010 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effective 30 days after date of publication.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003)
CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.020 CODES.
   All signs shall conform to the latest edition of the applicable Building and
Electrical Codes.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.021 FASTENINGS.
   (A)   All signs must remain safe and secure during the period of use.
   (B)   All parts of the signs, including bolts and cables, shall remain
painted and free of corrosion.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.022 FIRE ESCAPES.
   A sign may not obstruct a fire escape.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.023 IDENTIFICATION.
   All signs for which a permit is required shall identify the name and
operating telephone number of the person responsible for the sign.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.024 DISPLAY OF STREET ADDRESS.
   (A)   The street address number shall be displayed on the primary
freestanding identification sign for each premises on land located in any
commercial or industrial district.
   (B)   Display of street address numbers shall conform with the following
standards.
      (1)   Address number shall be displayed on the sign face or on the
supporting structure of the sign, at a minimum height of two feet above grade.
      (2)   The height of numbers shall be eight inches.
      (3)   If the premises which are identified by a primary freestanding
identification sign contain more than one street address number, the street
address number displayed on the sign shall identify the lower and upper ends of
the address range to which the sign pertains.
      (4)   Display of street address numbers on a sign structure shall not be
considered a sign subject to the regulations contained in unless the height of
the address numbers exceeds eight inches, in which case the street address
number shall be considered a sign, subject to the limitations on size and
number signs contained in this chapter.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.025 RESPONSIBILITY FOR COMPLIANCE.
   The owner of the parcel on which a sign is placed and the person maintaining
the sign are each fully responsible for the condition and the maintenance of
the sign and the area around the sign.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
ILLUMINATION
§ 153.040 STATE ELECTRICAL CODE.
   Any electrical illumination of a sign shall be done in full compliance with
the State Electrical Code, as amended and adopted by the township.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.041 SHADING.
   The light from any illuminated sign shall be so shaded, shielded or directed
that the light intensity or brightness will not be objectionable to occupants
of surrounding properties, and so that no direct rays from the light source are
visible from any public right-of-way or from abutting property.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.042 INTERMITTENT LIGHTS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, no sign shall have
blinking, flashing or fluttering lights or other illuminating devices, such as
changing light intensity, brightness or color.
   (B)   Beacon lights are not permitted.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.043 COLORED LIGHTS.
   No colored lights shall be used at any location or in any manner so as to be
confused with or construed as traffic control devices.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.044 REFLECTION.
   Neither the direct, nor reflected, light from primary light sources shall
create a traffic hazard to operators of motor vehicles on public streets.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.045 EXPOSED BULBS.
   No exposed reflective type bulbs, no strobe lights and no incandescent
lamps, any of which exceed 40 watts shall be used so as to expose the face of
the bulb, light or lamp to any public street or adjacent property.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
NON-CONFORMING SIGNS
§ 153.060 INTENT.
   This subchapter is intended to encourage the eventual elimination of signs
that do not comply with the chapter. The elimination of non-conforming signs is
as much a subject of health, safety and welfare as is the prohibition of new
signs in violation of this chapter. Therefore, this chapter attempts to realize
the removal of non-conforming signs and to avoid any unreasonable invasion of
established property rights.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.061 CONTINUANCE.
   (A)   A non-conforming sign may be continued during the useful life of the
sign if it is maintained in good condition. It shall not, however, be replaced
by another non-conforming sign. A non-conforming sign shall be brought into
conformance upon a change of ownership or change of tenant. It may not be
structurally altered so as to prolong the useful life of the sign. It may not
be reestablished after damage or destruction if the Zoning Department
determines that the estimated cost of reconstruction exceeds 50% percent of the
estimated replacement costs.
   (B)   All non-conforming signs in existence at the time of adoption of this
chapter are presumed to have a useful life that ends on 2-26-2016, after which
time, they must come into conformance with this chapter.
   (C)   Any non-conforming sign owner who believes their non-conforming sign
has a useful life beyond 2-26-2016, may file a petition with the Sign Board of
Appeals, no earlier that 2-26-2015, requesting determination be made that a
non-conforming sign's useful life be extended beyond 2-26-2016.
   (D)   The Sign Board of Appeals, after hearing as provided in this chapter,
may determine that the sign has a different useful life than established by the
chapter, and if so, shall determine the remaining useful life of the sign.
   (E)   All petitions to extend the useful life of a non-conforming sign shall
include the following information:
      (1)   Copies of all leases for the sign for the last five years;
      (2)   Copies of all maintenance records for the sign for the last five
years;
      (3)   A description of all deferred maintenance on the sign that needs to
be accomplished and the estimated cost;
      (4)   The square footage of the sign;
      (5)   The height of the above ground level;
      (6)   A drawing showing the position of the sign and all other structures
on the parcel and all roads abutting the property;
      (7)   Date when sign was installed; and
      (8)   Initial capital cost of sign.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 10-01, passed 7-27-2010; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.062 NUISANCE.
   An unsafe or abandoned sign that is declared a public nuisance shall be
removed.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.063 INVENTORY.
   The Department shall inventory all non-conforming signs within one year of
the adoption of this chapter.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.064 CONDEMNATION.
   The Township Board may initiate proceedings and prosecute for condemnation
of non-conforming sings under the power of eminent domain in accordance with
Pub. Act 149 of 1911, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 213.21 through 213.41, or
other appropriate statutes.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003)
PERMIT REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.075 PERMIT.
   A permit is not required for "signs authorized without a permit". A permit
must first be obtained from the Zoning Department for all other signs. The
permit process is not intended to review the content of the message to be
displayed.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.076 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Applications for sign permits shall be made upon a form provided by
the Zoning Department for this purpose.
   (B)   The application shall contain the following information.
      (1)   Name, address, phone and, if available, fax and e-mail of the
person applying for the permit;
      (2)   Name, address, phone and, if available, fax and e-mail of the
person owning the parcel upon which the sign is proposed to be placed;
      (3)   Address and permanent parcel number of the property on which the
sign is or will be located;
      (4)   Identification of the type of sign (monument, freestanding, wall
and the like);
      (5)   Name of business or name of premises to which the sign belongs or
relates;
      (6)   Two copies of the plans and specifications. The method of
construction and/or attachment to a building, or in the ground, shall be
explained in the plans and specifications;
      (7)   Copy of stress sheets and calculations, if deemed necessary by the
Department, showing the structure as designed for dead load and wind pressure
as determined by the Building Code;
      (8)   Name, address, phone and, if available, fax and e-mail of the
person erecting the sign;
      (9)   Other information as the Department may require showing compliance
with this chapter and any other applicable laws;
      (10)   The seal or certificate of a registered structural or civil
engineer, when required by the Department;
      (11)   The zoning district in which the sign is to be placed; and
      (12)   A notice stating: "Any change in the information in this
application, such as a change of address, shall be submitted to the Department
within seven days after the change".
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.077 SITE PLAN.
   (A)   Two copies of a sketch illustrating where the sign will be on the site
with setbacks accurately dimensioned.
   (B)   The sketch should also show the location of all existing buildings,
roads, parking areas, signs, entrances and exits on the site.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.078 SIGN DRAWING.
   Two copies of a drawing of the proposed sign(s) shall include all of the
following detailed information:
   (A)   Height of the sign above finished grade;
   (B)   Surface of the sign (material, color and dimensions);
   (C)   Dimensions and display area of the proposed sign;
   (D)   The proposed graphic images and text to be displayed on the sign; and
   (E)   Additional information and detail as the Director of Community
Development deems necessary
and/or pertinent to the application.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.079 NEIGHBORHOOD IDENTIFICATION SIGNS.
   (A)   Applications for neighborhood identification signs shall include the
following additional documents and information:
      (1)   A description of the property interest of the applicant and any
other parties interest to the site where the identification sign will be
located;
      (2)   Evidence, satisfactory to the Township Attorney, of the right to
construct the identification sign on the site;
      (3)   Existing or proposed sign and landscape easement(s) for the
identification sign; and
      (4)   Existing or proposed neighborhood identification sign construction
and maintenance agreement.
   (B)   Applications for neighborhood identification signs shall be submitted
and reviewed separately from the subdivision or site plan review process.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.080 TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   All information required for the submission of permanent signs shall be
required for the submission of a temporary sign.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014)
§ 153.081 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator or delegate shall have the authority to
approve or deny applications for permanent signs. The zoning department shall
review the application for conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
The Department may refer any application for sign approval to the Sign Board of
Appeals for their review. The application shall be either approved or denied
within seven calendar days, excluding the day the application was received and
township recognized holidays, for the following reasons.
      (1)   Sign applications that conform to all applicable chapter standards
shall be approved.
      (2)   All applications for sign permits that are incomplete or do not
meet the requirements of this chapter shall be denied.
      (3)   All sign applications must be submitted by the owner.
      (4)   An approval of a sign permit may be conditioned upon compliance
with reasonable conditions or limitations regarding the character of the sign,
the surroundings in which it is to be displayed and the purpose of this
chapter.
      (5)   Approved applications for permanent signs shall be reviewed by the
Township Building Department for conformity with all Building Codes in effect
in the township, and if in compliance therewith, the Building Inspector shall
issue the appropriate sign permit.
   (B)   The Department shall cause the applicant to be notified of the
approval or denial via first class mail or other electronic means. The township
shall notify the applicant within seven calendar days, excluding the day the
application was received and township recognized holidays.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.082 PERMIT FEES.
   Permit fees for signs shall be established by resolution of the governing
body of the township. The permit fees are based on the total cost of the sign.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.083 FALSE INFORMATION.
   A person providing false information under this chapter shall be guilty of a
civil infraction.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 153.084 PERMITS ISSUED.
   Applicants meeting the provision of this chapter shall be issued a permit
within 14 days of submitting an approved application.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 153.095 ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Department ("Department") shall appoint personnel to administer
and enforce the terms and conditions of this chapter and all other provisions
relating to signs.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.096 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Department shall issue permits, as required by this chapter. The
Department shall also ensure signs comply with this chapter and any other
applicable law. The Department shall also enforce the requirement that all
signs properly comply with this chapter by procuring a permit. The Department
shall make inspections as may be necessary and shall initiate appropriate
action to enforce compliance with this chapter and other applicable sign laws.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.097 DEPARTMENT POWERS.
   (A)   The Department shall have the power and authority to administer and
enforce this chapter.
   (B)   Included among the powers are the following specific powers.
      (1)   Every sign for which a permit is required shall be subject to the
inspection and approval of the Department. When deemed advisable, a sign may be
inspected at the point of manufacture.
      (2)   (a)   Upon presentation of proper identification to the sign owner
or owner's agent, the Department may enter the sign area for purposes of
inspecting the sign, sign structure, and any fasteners securing the sign to a
building or support.
         (b)   In cases of emergency, where imminent hazards to persons or
property are known to exist and, where the sign owner, or owner's agent, is not
readily available, the Department may enter the sign area for purposes of
inspection or remediation. When on private property, the Department shall
observe rules and regulations concerning safety, internal security and fire
protection.
         (c)   If the Department is denied admission to inspect any sign,
inspection shall be made only under authority of a warrant issued by a court of
proper jurisdiction. When applying for the warrant, the Department shall submit
an affidavit setting forth a belief that a violation of this chapter exists
with respect to a particular sign, and the reasons for forming this belief. The
affidavit shall designate the place and name of the person believed to own or
possess the sign. If the court finds probable cause exists for the warrant to
inspect the sign, and supporting structures, then a warrant authorizing the
search shall be issued. The warrant shall describe the property with sufficient
certainty to identify the same. This warrant shall constitute authority for the
Department to enter the sign area and to inspect the property.
   (C)   Upon issuance of a stop work order from the Department, work on any
sign that is being conducted in any manner contrary to this chapter shall be
immediately stopped. This notice and order shall be in writing and shall be
given to the owner of the parcel, the sign owner, or to the person performing
the work. The stop work order shall state the conditions under which work may
be resumed. The Police Department shall have authority to enforce a stop work
order.
   (D)   The Department has the authority to revoke any permit authorized by
this chapter if the sign violates this chapter or another law; provided that,
the Department shall offer the sign owner an opportunity to be heard. The
person whose permit is under consideration shall be given at least ten days'
written notice of the time, place and reason for the hearing. The sign owner
and/or person identified in the permit shall be permitted to present relevant
facts and legal argument concerning the pending revocation. Following this
hearing, the Department shall consider the merits of the case and shall present
a written opinion prior to any action. If, however, the Department believes the
health, safety or welfare of the citizens is endangered by any violation of
this chapter, the Department may immediately revoke any sign permits.
   (E)   A sign installed after the effective date of this chapter, and not
conforming to this chapter, shall be removed by the owner. The sign owner shall
not be entitled to compensation for the sign removal and shall reimburse the
Department for any costs incurred in connection with the removal.
   (F)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter shall be guilty of
a civil infraction. Each day on which a violation occurs shall constitute a
separate offense. In addition, the Municipal Attorney is authorized to take all
action, legal, injunctive and equitable, to assure compliance with this
chapter.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIGN BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 153.110 GENERALLY.
   The Township Planning Commission shall constitute the Sign Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.111 APPEALS AUTHORIZED.
   (A)   (1)   Any person allegedly aggrieved by a decision of the Department
or the Administrator, as appointed pursuant to § 153.095, relative to the
placement, area, height and construction of a sign may appeal the decision to
the Township Sign Board of Appeals.
      (2)   The appeal shall be filed with the Township Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   The Sign Board of Appeals shall have power to interpret the provisions
of this chapter in a way as to carry out the intent and purpose of this
chapter. The authority to alter or change this chapter is reserved to the
Township Board.
   (C)   Whenever the strict application of requirements of this chapter may
pose demonstrable hardship or practical difficulty with regard to placement,
area, height and construction of a sign an appeal for variance from the
requirements may be filed with the Zoning Administrator on a form provided for
that purpose.
   (D)   The Sign Board of Appeals shall have the power to interpret the
provisions of this chapter in a way as to carry out the intent and purpose of
this chapter. The authority to alter or change this chapter is reserved to the
Township Board.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee(s) shall then place
the appeal on a regular meeting agenda of the Board of Appeals within 45 days
of filing.
   (F)   Within 60 days of receipt, the Sign Board of Appeals shall render a
final decision in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (G)   Any decision of the Board shall not become final until the expiration
of five township business days from the date of the decision, unless the Board
finds that immediate effect is necessary to preserve a substantial property
right, and so certifies in the record of the decision.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 10-01, passed
7-27-2010; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.112 FEES.
   Any person filing an appeal with the Township Sign Board of Appeals shall
fill out the necessary appeal form provided by the Zoning Administrator and
shall pay a filing fee, as established by resolution of the Township Board.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.113 APPEAL PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her designee(s) shall give notice
of all hearings to all owners of record of real property within 300 feet of the
premises in question; the notice shall be delivered by first class mail
addressed to the respective owners at the address given in the last assessment
roll.
   (B)   All persons appealing shall be required to appear in person or to be
represented by a duly authorized agent.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall prepare an official record for each appeal
and shall base its decision on this record. The official record shall include:
      (1)   The relevant administrative records and administrative orders
issued herein relating to the appeal;
      (2)   The appeal form;
      (3)   The requisite written findings of fact, the conditions attached the
decisions and orders by the Board of Appeals disposing the appeal, signed by
the Chairperson of the Board; and
      (4)   Any other documentation submitted in support or opposition of the
appeal.
   (D)   The appellant shall be prepared to furnish a site drawing, photograph
and any other means of proof to the Sign Board of Appeals to demonstrate that a
hardship or practical difficulty exists.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 06-02, passed 4-18-2006; Ord. 14-08, passed
8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.114 ACTION OF SIGN BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   The Sign Board of Appeals shall have the power to modify or reverse,
wholly or partly, the notice or order, and may grant an extension of time for
the performance of any act required of not more than three additional months,
where the Sign Board of Appeals finds that there is a practical difficulty or
undue hardship resulting from the application of the provisions of this
chapter, and that the extension is in harmony with the general purpose of this
chapter to secure the public health, safety and welfare.
   (B)   The Sign Board of Appeals shall return a decision upon each petition
within 60 days after a request or appeal has been filed, unless a longer time
is agreed upon by the parties concerned; however, the Sign Board of Appeals may
not order action on a petition until its regularly scheduled meeting.
   (C)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members present of the Sign
Board of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse, wholly or partly, or modify any
order, requirement, decision or determination of the Building Official or Code
Enforcement Officer; or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon
which the Sign Board of Appeals required to consider or to effect any variation
the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   After a variance has been denied in whole or in part by the Sign Board
of Appeals, then the petition shall not be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of the last denial; provided however, that, a denied variance may
be reconsidered by the Sign Board of Appeals within the one-year period, when,
in the opinion of the Building Official, or Code Enforcement Officer or Sign
Board of Appeals, newly discovered evidence or changed conditions warrant the
reconsideration.
   (E)   At the hearing, the petitioner shall be given an opportunity to show
cause why the notice or order should be modified or withdrawn, or why the
period of time permitted for compliance should be extended.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.115 STAY.
   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action appealed
from unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Sign Board of Appeals, that
by reason of facts stated in the certificate, imminent harm to persons or
property exists, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed, except by
an order of a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.116 VARIANCES.
   A variance may be allowed by the Sign Board of Appeals in cases only
involving practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships when the evidence in
the official record of the appeal supports all of the following affirmative
findings:
   (A)   The alleged hardships or practical difficulties, or both, are
exceptional and peculiar to the property of the person requesting the variance,
and result from conditions which do not exist generally throughout the
township;
   (B)   The alleged hardships or practical difficulties, or both, which will
result from a failure to grant the variance, include substantially more than
mere inconvenience, or mere inability to attain a higher financial return;
   (C)   (1)   Allowing the variance will result in substantial justice being
done, considering the public benefits intended to be secured by this chapter,
the individual hardships that will be suffered by a failure to grant a
variance, and the rights of others whose property would be affected by the
allowance of the variance, and will not be contrary to the public purpose and
general intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (2)   The above findings of fact shall be made by the Sign Board of
Appeals, which is not empowered to grant a variance without an affirmative
finding of fact in each of the categories above. Every finding of fact shall be
supported in the record of the proceedings of the Board.
   (D)   In the case of an appeal for extension of the useful life of a non-
conforming sign, the Sign Board of Appeals finds that there is significant
useful life remaining in the sign based on recent maintenance and initial
capital costs that has not been amortized by the owner or lessee.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.117 REVIEW BY CIRCUIT COURT.
   Any party aggrieved by a final decision of the Board of Appeals may obtain a
review thereof both on the facts and the law in the County Circuit Court.
(Ord. 03-05, passed 6-17-2003; Ord. 14-08, passed 8-26-2014; Ord. 16-06, passed
12-19-2016)
§ 153.998 SEVERABILITY CLAUSE.
   If any section, clause, paragraph, sentence or phrase of this chapter shall,
for any reason, be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalid
section, clause, paragraph, sentence or phrase is hereby declared to be
severable; and any such invalid or unconstitutional section, clause, paragraph,
sentence or phrase shall in no way affect the remainder of this chapter; and it
is hereby declared to be the intention of the Kochville Township Board that the
remainder of this chapter would have been passed notwithstanding the invalidity
or unconstitutionality of any section, clause, paragraph, sentence or phrase
thereof.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter shall be a civil infraction and shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $250. Any further violation of this
chapter shall be a misdemeanor and, upon conviction thereof, shall be
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than
90 days, or by both.
   (B)   Any violation of, or failure to comply with, this chapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance per se and may be abated by any and all available
means, including without limitation, equitable relief by any court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person violating this chapter shall pay the cost and
expenses, including reasonable attorneys' fees, incurred by the township
abating the nuisance.
(Ord. 16-06, passed 12-19-2016)
CHAPTER 154: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
Downtown Development Authority
   
154.01   Definitions
   
154.02   Board membership, qualifications and the like
   
154.03   Meetings; special meetings
   
154.04   Freedom of Information Act; expenses and financial records
   
154.05   Powers
   
154.06   Condemnation; transfer of property
   
154.07   Finance activities
   
154.08   Ad valorem tax
   
154.09   Revenue bonds
   
154.10   Tax increment financing plan
   
154.11   Operation under tax increment financing plan
   
154.12   General obligation bonds
   
154.13   Development plan preparation contents
   
154.14   Development Area Citizens Council
   
154.15   Approval of development plan or tax increment financing plan
   
154.16   Proposed boundary area of the Authority
   
154.17   Historical facility, building or structural; preservation
   
154.18   Budget
   
154.19   Dissolution of Authority upon completion of purposes; title of
property
   
154.20   Effective date
Development and Tax Increment Financing Plan
   
154.35   Definitions
   
154.36   Findings
   
154.37   Development plan
   
154.38   Tax increment financing plan
   
154.39   Exhibits
   
154.40   Effective date
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 154.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORITY. A Downtown Development Authority created pursuant to this
subchapter.
   BOARD. The Downtown Development Authority Board of Directors.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. An area of the township zoned and/or used principally for
business.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The supervisor of the Township of Kochville.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. The area to which a development plan is applicable.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN. The information and those requirements for development as
set forth in §
154.13.
   DEVELOPMENT PROGRAM. The implementation of the development plan.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. An area in a business district which is specifically
designated by this chapter of the township and outlined herein.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Township Board of the Township of Kochville.
   OPERATIONS. Office maintenance, including salaries and expenses of
employees, office supplies, consultation fees, design costs and other expenses
incurred in the daily management of the Authority and the planning of its
activities.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. A street, plaza, pedestrian mall and any improvements
thereto including street furniture and beautification, parks, parking
facilities, recreational facilities, right-of-way, structure, waterway, bridge,
lake, pond, canal, utility line or pipe, building and access routes to any of
the foregoing, designed and dedicated to use by the public generally, or used
by public agency.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989; Ord. 06-08, passed 5-16-2006)
§ 154.02 BOARD MEMBERSHIP, QUALIFICATIONS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the chief executive officer of the township and not less than
eight, nor more than 12, members.
   (B)   All members shall be appointed by the chief executive officer, subject
to approval by the governing body.
   (C)   A majority of the members appointed shall be persons having an
interest in property located in the downtown district.
   (D)   At least one of the members shall be a resident or business operator
of the downtown district.
   (E)   Members should be appointed on staggered terms with an equal number
appointed for one year, two years, three years and four years. Members shall
hold office until the members successor is appointed. Thereafter, each member
shall serve for a term of four years.
   (F)   A vacancy shall be filled by an appointment made by the chief
executive officer for the unexpired term only. All members of the Board shall
serve without compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary
expenses as provided for by the applicable provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986, as it presently exists or may hereafter be amended.
   (G)   The Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the Board.
   (H)   Before assuming the duties of office, a member shall qualify by taking
and subscribing to the constitutional oath of office.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989; Ord. 93-5-DDA, passed 8-16-1993; Ord. 02-03-
DDA, passed 3-19-2002)
§ 154.03 MEETINGS; SPECIAL MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Board shall perform and conduct all business public meetings held
in compliance with Pub. Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 to 15.275,
which is also known as the Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt any rules necessary governing its procedure and
the holding of regular meetings subject to the approval of the governing body.
   (C)   Special meetings may be held when called in the manner provided for in
the rules of the Board, as long as the meetings comply with the Open Meetings
Act.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.04 FREEDOM OF INFORMATION ACT; EXPENSES AND FINANCIAL RECORDS.
   (A)   All writings, items of records prepared, owned or used, in the
possession of or retained by the Board in the performance of official function
shall be made available to the public in compliance with the Freedom of
Information Act, Pub. Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246.
   (B)   All expense items of the Authority shall be publicized monthly and the
financial records should always be open to the public.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.05 POWERS.
   The Board may:
   (A)   Prepare an analysis of economic changes taking place in the downtown
district;
   (B)   Study and analyze the impact of metropolitan growth of the downtown
district;
   (C)   Plan and propose construction, renovation, repair, remodeling,
rehabilitation, restoration, preservation or reconstruction of public
facilities, in existing building(s) or multi-family dwelling units which may be
necessary or appropriate to the execution of a plan which, in the opinion of
the Board, aids in economic growth of the downtown district;
   (D)   Develop a long-range plan, in cooperation with the agency which is
chiefly responsible for planning in the municipality, design to halt the
deterioration of property value of downtown district and to promote the
economic growth of the downtown district, take the steps as may be necessary to
persuade property owners to implement the plans to the fullest extent possible;
   (E)   Implement any plan and/or development of the downtown district
necessary to achieve the purposes of this chapter, in accordance with the
powers of authority granted by this chapter;
   (F)   Make and enter into contracts necessary and incidental to the exercise
of its powers in performance of its duties;
   (G)   Acquire by purchase or otherwise, on terms and conditions and in a
manner the Authority deems proper to own, convey or otherwise dispose of, or
lease as lessor or lessee, land and other property, real or personal, or rights
or interests therein, which the Authority determines reasonably necessary to
achieve the purposes of this chapter, and to grant or acquire, license,
easements and options with respect thereto;
   (H)   Improve land and construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore and
preserve, equip, improve, maintain, repair and operate any building, including
multi-family dwellings, any necessary or desirable appurtenances thereto,
within the downtown district for the use, in whole or in part, of any public or
private person or corporation, or a combination thereof;
   (I)   Fix, charge and collect fees, rents and charges for the use of any
building or property under its control or any part thereof, or facility
therein, and pledge the fees, rents and charges for the payment of revenue
bonds issued by the Authority;
   (J)   Lease any building or property under its control or any part thereof;
   (K)   Accept grants and/or donations of property, labor or other things of
value from a public or private source;
   (L)   Acquire and construct public facilities;
   (M)   Retain legal counsel to advise the Board in the proper performance of
its duties; and
   (N)   Employ any other person thereof deemed necessary by the Board,
including a Director. No member of the Board or Township Board is eligible to
hold the position of Director. The Director shall take and subscribe to the
constitutional oath and furnish bond as required by Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989; Ord. 06-08, passed 5-16-2006)
§ 154.06 CONDEMNATION; TRANSFER OF PROPERTY.
   The township may take private property under Pub. Act 149 of 1911, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 213.21 et seq., for the purpose of transferring to
the Authority, and may transfer to the Authority for the use an improved
development, on terms and conditions it deems appropriate, and the taking,
transferring and use should be considered necessary for public purposes for the
benefit of the public.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.07 FINANCE ACTIVITIES.
   (A)   The activities of the Authority shall be financed from one or more of
the following sources:
      (1)   Donations to the Authority for the performance of its functions;
      (2)   Proceeds of a tax imposed pursuant to §
154.08;
      (3)   Moneys borrowed and to be repaid as authorized by §
154.09;
      (4)   Revenues from any property, building or facility owned, leased,
licensed or operated by the Authority or under its control, subject to the
limitations imposed upon the Authority by trusts or other agreements;
      (5)   Proceeds of a tax increment financing plan established under §§
154.10 through
154.12; and
      (6)   Moneys obtained from other sources approved by the Township Board.
   (B)   Moneys received by the Authority and not covered under division (A)
above shall immediately be deposited to the credit of the Authority, subject to
disbursement pursuant to Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1651 through 125.1680. Except as provided by this chapter, the township
shall not obligate itself, nor shall it ever be obligated to pay any sums from
public funds, other than moneys received by the township pursuant to this
section, for or on account of the activities of the Authority.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.08 AD VALOREM TAX.
   (A)   The Authority with the approval of the governing body may levy an ad
valorem tax on the real and tangible personal property not exempt by law and as
finally equalized in the downtown district. The tax shall be collected by the
township. The township shall collect the tax at the same time and in the same
manner as it collects other ad valorem taxes. The tax shall be paid to the
Township Treasurer and credited to the General Fund of the Authority for
purposes of financing only the operations of the Authority.
   (B)   The township may at the request of the Authority borrow money and
issue its notes therefor pursuant to Pub. Act 202 of 1943, as amended in
anticipation of collection of the ad valorem tax authorized in this section.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.09 REVENUE BONDS.
   The Authority may borrow money and issue its negotiable revenue bonds
therefor pursuant to Pub. Act 94 of 1933, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 141.01
et seq. Revenue bonds issued by the Authority shall not, except as hereinafter
provided, be deemed a debt of the township or of the state.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.10 TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section and §§
154.11 and
154.12, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE. The amount in any one year by which the current
assessed value of the project area, including the assessed value of property
for which specific local taxes are paid in lieu of property taxes, as
determined herein, exceeds the initial assessed value. The method for
calculating captured assessed value shall comply with the method prescribed by
the State Tax Commission.
      INITIAL ASSESSED VALUE. The assessed value, as equalized, of all the
taxable property within the boundaries of the development area at the time the
ordinance establishing the tax increment financing plan is approved, as shown
by the most recent assessment roll of the township for which equalization has
been completed at the time the resolution is adopted. Property exempt from
taxation at the time of the determination of the initial assessed value shall
be included as zero. For the purpose of determining INITIAL ASSESSED VALUE,
property for which a specific local tax is paid in lieu of a property tax shall
not be considered to be property which is exempt from taxation. The INITIAL
ASSESSED VALUE of property for which a specific local tax was paid in lieu of a
property tax shall be determined as provided in division (C) below.
      SPECIFIC LOCAL TAX. A tax levied under Pub. Act 198 of 1974, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 207.551 et seq., the Commercial Redevelopment Act, Pub. Act 255 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 207.651 to 207.668, and Pub. Act 189 of 1953, being
M.C.L.A. §§SPECIFIC LOCAL TAX shall be the quotient of the specific local tax
paid divided by the ad valorem millage rate.
   (B)   When the Authority determines that it is necessary for the achievement
of the purposes of this chapter, the Authority shall prepare and submit a tax
increment financing plan to the governing body. The plan shall include a
development plan, as provided in §
154.13, a detailed explanation of the tax increment procedure, the maximum
amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred, and the duration of the
development program, and shall be in compliance with §
154.11. The tax increment financing plan shall contain a statement of the
estimated impact of tax increment financing on the assessed values of all
taxing jurisdictions in which the development area is located. The tax
increment financing plan may provide for the use of part or all of the captured
assessed value, but the portion intended to be used by the Authority shall be
clearly stated in the tax increment financing plan. The Authority or governing
body may exclude from captured assessed value growth in property value
resulting solely from inflation. The tax increment financing plan shall set
forth the method for excluding growth on property value resulting solely from
inflation. The percentage of taxes levied for school operating purposes that is
captured and used by the tax increment financing plan shall not be greater than
the tax increment financing plan's percentage capture and use of taxes levied
by the county or the township for operating purposes. For purposes of the
previous sentence, taxes levied by the county for operating purposes include
only millage for county purposes under the Property Tax Limitation Act, Pub.
Act 62 of 1933, being M.C.L.A. §§ 211.201 to 211.217a.
   (C)   Approval of the tax increment financing plan shall be pursuant to the
notice, hearing and disclosure provisions of §
154.15. If the development plan is part of the tax increment financing plan,
only one hearing and approval procedure is required for the two plans together.
   (D)   Before the public hearing on the tax increment financing plan, the
governing body shall provide a reasonable opportunity to the members of the
County Board of Commissioners and to the members of the Kochville School
District and to the members of the County Intermediate School District and to
the members of the Delta College Board of Control to meet with the governing
body. The Authority shall fully inform members of these Boards of the fiscal
and economic implications of the proposed development area. The members of
these Boards may present their recommendations at the public hearing on the tax
increment financing plan. The Authority may enter into agreements with any of
these boards and the governing body to share a portion of the captured assessed
value of the downtown district.
   (E)   The tax increment financing plan may be modified if the modification
is approved by the governing body upon notice and after public hearings and
agreements as are required for approval of the original development plan.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.11 OPERATION UNDER TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   The amount of tax increment to be transmitted to the Authority by the
Township and County Treasurers shall be that portion of the tax levy of all
taxing bodies paid each year on real and personal property in the project area
on the captured assessed value. For the purpose of this section, that portion
of a specific local tax that is attributable to the captured assessed value of
the facility shall be included as a part of the tax increment to be transmitted
to the Authority.
   (B)   The Authority shall expend the tax increments received for the
development program only pursuant to the tax increment financing plan. Surplus
funds shall revert proportionately to the respective taxing bodies. These
revenues shall not be used to circumvent existing property tax limitations. The
governing body may abolish the tax increment financing plan when it finds that
the purposes for which it was established are accomplished. However, the tax
increment financing plan shall not be abolished until the principal of, and
interest on, bonds issued pursuant to §
154.12 have been paid or funds sufficient to make, the payment have been
segregated.
   (C)   Annually the Authority shall submit to the governing body and the
State Tax Commission a report on the status of the tax increment financing
account. The report shall include: the amount and source of revenue in the
account; the amount and purpose of expenditures from the account; the amount of
principal and interest on any outstanding bonded indebtedness; the initial
assessed value of the project area; the captured assessed value retained by the
Authority; the tax increments received; and any additional information the
governing body or State Tax Commission considers necessary. The report shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the township.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.12 GENERAL OBLIGATION BONDS.
   (A)   The township may, by resolution of the governing body, authorize,
issue and sell general obligation bonds it deems appropriate and necessary,
subject to the limitations set forth in this section, to finance the
development program of the tax increment financing plan and shall pledge its
full faith and credit for the payment of the bonds.
   (B)   The bonds shall mature in not more than 30 years and shall be subject
to Pub. Act 202 of 1943, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 131.1 to 138.2.
      (1)   Before the township may authorize the borrowing, the Authority
shall submit an estimate of the anticipated tax increment revenue to be
available for payment of principal and interest on bonds to the governing body.
      (2)   This estimate shall be approved by the governing body resolution
adopted by a majority vote of the members of the governing body, and in the
resolution authorizing the bonds and when approved by the State Municipal
Commission shall be conclusive for purposes of this section.
      (3)   The township may not pledge for annual debt service requirements in
any one year in excess of 80% of the estimated tax increment revenue to be
received from the development area for that year, and the total aggregate
amount of borrowing shall not exceed an amount which the 80% of the estimated
tax increment will service as to annual principal and interest requirements.
      (4)   The bonds issued under this section shall be considered to be a
single series for the purposes of Pub. Act 202 of 1943, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 131.1 to 138.2.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.13 DEVELOPMENT PLAN PREPARATION CONTENTS.
   When the Authority decides to finance a project in the downtown district by
use of revenue bonds as authorized in §
154.09 or tax increment financing as authorized in §§
154.10,
154.11 and
154.12, and shall prepare a development plan which shall contain:
   (A)   The designation boundaries of the development area in relation to
highways, streets, streams or otherwise;
   (B)   The location and extent of existing streets and other public
facilities in the development area and shall designate the location, character
and extent of the categories of public and private land uses then existing and
proposed for the development area, including residential, recreational,
commercial, industrial, educational and other uses and shall include a legal
description of the development area;
   (C)   A description of existing improvements in the development area to be
demolished, repaired or altered, a description of any repairs or alterations
and an estimate of the time required for completion;
   (D)   The location, extent and character, and estimated costs of
improvements including rehabilitation contemplated for the development area and
an estimate of the time required for completion;
   (E)   A statement of the construction or stages of construction planned, and
the estimated time of completion of each stage;
   (F)   A description of any parts of the development area to be left as open
space and the use contemplated for this space;
   (G)   A description of any portions of the development area which the
Authority desires to sell, donate, exchange or lease to or from the township
and the proposed terms;
   (H)   A description of desired zoning changes and changes in streets, street
levels, intersection and utilities;
   (I)   An estimate of the cost of development, a statement of the proposed
method of financing of the development and the ability of the Authority to
arrange the financing;
   (J)   Designation of the person or persons, natural or corporate, to whom
all or portion of the development is to be leased, sold or conveyed in any
manner and for whose benefit the project is being undertaken if that
information is available to the Authority;
   (K)   The procedures for bidding for the leasing, purchasing or conveying in
any manner of all or a portion of the development upon its completion, if there
is no express or implied agreement between the Authority and persons, natural
or corporate, that all or a portion of the development will be leased, sold or
conveyed in any manner to those persons;
   (L)   Estimates of the number of persons residing in the development area,
and the number of families and individuals to be displaced. If occupied
residences are designated for acquisition and clearance by the Authority, a
development plan should include a survey of the families and individuals to be
displaced, including their income and racial composition, a statistical
description of the housing supply in the community, including the number of
private and public units in existence or under construction, the condition of
those in existence, the number of owner-occupied and renter-occupied units, the
annual rate of turnover of the various types of housing and the range of rents
and sale prices, an estimate of the total demand for housing in the community
and the estimated capacity of private and public housing available to displaced
families and individuals;
   (M)   A plan for establishing priority for the relocation of persons
displaced by the development in any new housing in the development area;
   (N)   Provision for the costs of relocating persons displaced by the
development and financial assistance and reimbursement of expenses, including
litigation expenses incident to the transfer of title, in accordance with the
standards and provisions of the Federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real
Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970, being Pub. Law No. 91-646, 42 U.S.C.
§§ 4601 et seq.;
   (O)   A plan for compliance with Pub. Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
213.321 to 213.332; and
   (P)   Other material which the Authority, Township Planning Commission or
governing body deems pertinent.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.14 DEVELOPMENT AREA CITIZENS COUNCIL.
   (A)   If a proposed development area has residing within it 100 or more
residents, a Development Area Citizens Council shall be established as required
by § 21 of Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being the Downtown Development
Authority Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680.
   (B)   Where a Development Area Citizens Council has been established, the
Authority and Development Area Citizens Council shall operate in accordance
with the provisions of §§ 21 to 27 of Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.15 APPROVAL OF DEVELOPMENT PLAN OR TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   The governing body shall only adopt any ordinance approving a
development plan or tax increment financing plan in accordance with the
notification, publication, public hearing, and record requirements specified by
§ 18 of Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through
125.1680, the Downtown Development Authority Act.
   (B)   After a public hearing on the development plan or tax increment
financing plan, the governing body shall determine whether the development plan
or tax increment financing plan constitutes a public purpose.
   (C)   If the governing body determines that a development plan or tax
increment financing plan constitutes a public purpose, it shall then approve or
reject the plan, or approve it with modification, by ordinance, based on the
considerations described in § 19 of Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, the Downtown Development Authority Act.
   (D)   Amendments to an approved development plan or tax increment financing
plan must be submitted by the Authority to the governing body for approval or
rejection.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.16 PROPOSED BOUNDARY AREA OF THE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   Downtown Development Authority expansion. Pursuant to the provisions
of, and under the authority of, Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1680, there is hereby created an expanded area
to the existing Downtown Development Authority district created hereby.
   (B)   Boundaries.
      (1)   Boundary area of the original Downtown Development Authority
district and development area #2; original downtown development authority
district. Point of beginning - Southwest corner of Section 35, Kochville
Township, Saginaw County, Michigan, thence northerly along west line of Section
35, to the West half corner of Section 35, thence Easterly along east and west
half line of Section 35 to the east line of Section 35, thence continue
easterly along the east and west half line of Section 36 to the centerline of
Highway 1-675, thence southwesterly along the centerline of Highway 1-675 to
the west line of Section 36, thence continue southwesterly along the centerline
of Highway 1-675 to the south line of Section 35, thence westerly along the
south line of Section 35 to the point of beginning.
      (2)   Downtown Develop Authority expanded area. See "Exhibit B", attached
to the ordinance codified herein and incorporated herein by reference.
   (C)   Map of the district. A map showing the existing original district and
the expanded area is attached as "Exhibit A" and incorporated by reference
herein.
   (D)   Expanded area not subject to two-mill levy until public hearing is
held.
      (1)   On 8-22-2003, the Township Downtown Development Authority Board
adopted Township Res. 03-20 (DDA), which requested the Township Board to
conduct a public hearing with regard to the Downtown Development Authority
being allowed to levy two-mill on all real property located within the
boundaries of the Downtown Development Authority District as allowed pursuant
to M.C.L.A. § 125.1662 for a period of three years.
      (2)   On 9-16-2003, the Township Board held a public hearing to discuss
imposing a two-mill levy in the Downtown Development Authority district as
allowed pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 125.1662. As a result of the comments expressed
at the public hearing, the Township Board passed Res. 03-21 (DDA) during its
regular meeting, which imposed a levy of ad valorem tax on the real property,
not exempt by law, located in the Downtown Development Authority district that
was in effect on 9-16-2003, for a period of three years.
      (3)   To ensure that every citizen, taxpayer and business owner in the
township is treated equally and to ensure that the township affords each
citizen, taxpayer and business owner the same procedural steps before imposing
a millage, the township will not impose any millage in the expanded area, as
defined by this subchapter, until the Township Board has held a public hearing
to allow the citizens, taxpayers and business owners of the township an
opportunity to express any concerns and comments with regard to the millage.
   (E)   Appeal of property designation. The Township Board of Review is the
sole remedy for any person whose property is currently being assessed the 2-
mill levy, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 125.1662, and who believes his or her land to
be exempt pursuant hereto.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989; Ord. 04-10-DDA, passed 6-15-2004; Ord. 06-03
(DDA), passed 2-21-2006)
§ 154.17 HISTORICAL FACILITY, BUILDING OR STRUCTURE; PRESERVATION.
   (A)   The public facility, building or structure which is determined by the
governing body to have significant historical interest shall be preserved in a
manner as deemed necessary by the governing body in accordance with laws
relative to the preservation of historical sites.
   (B)   The Authority shall refer all proposed changes to the exterior sites
listed on the State Register of Historical Sites in the National Register of
Historical Places to the applicable Historic District Commission created under
Pub. Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 et seq. or the Secretary of
State for review.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.18 BUDGET.
   (A)   The Director or Chairperson of the Authority shall prepare and submit
for the approval of the Board a budget for the operation of the Authority for
the ensuing fiscal year. The Budget shall be prepared in the manner and contain
information required of any municipal department.
   (B)   Before the budget may be adopted by the Board, it shall be approved by
the governing body. Funds of the township shall not be included in the budget
of the Authority, except those funds authorized by the governing body.
   (C)   The governing body may assess a reasonable pro-rata share of funds for
the costs of handling and auditing funds against the funds of the Authority,
other than those committed, which costs shall be paid annually by the Board
pursuant to an appropriate item in its budget.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.19 DISSOLUTION OF AUTHORITY UPON COMPLETION OF PURPOSES; TITLE OF
PROPERTY.
   (A)   The Authority shall be dissolved by ordinance of the governing body
after it has completed the purposes for which it was organized.
   (B)   The property and assets of Authority remaining after the dissolution
of the Authority shall belong to the township.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
§ 154.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter will become effective immediately upon its adoption and
publication as required by law in a paper of general circulation in the
township.
(Ord. 89-5 DDA, passed 4-3-1989)
DEVELOPMENT AND TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN
§ 154.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Downtown Development Authority Act, Pub. Act 197 of 1975, as
amended, effective 8-13-1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 et seq.
   AUTHORITY. The Township Downtown Development Authority created pursuant to
§§
154.01 through
154.20, as amended.
   AUTHORITY ORDINANCE. The ordinance creating the Township Downtown
Development Authority, being §§
154.01 through
154.20, as amended.
   BOARD. The Downtown Development Authority Board of Directors.
   DEVELOPMENT AREA. The area described in Exhibit A attached to the ordinance
codified herein, as reflected by the map attached to the ordinance codified
herein as identified as Map 1 to which this chapter applies.
   DEVELOPMENT PLAN or PLAN. The information set forth in §
154.37, identified as the township's DDA development plan and tax increment
financing plan as amended or modified in the future by resolution of the
governing body and attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and
is incorporated by reference hereto.
   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY DISTRICT. The entire Downtown Development
Authority District, as defined by §§
154.01 through
154.20, including all amendments currently in effect and adopted in the future.
   EXPANDED DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY DISTRICT. The parcels of property
identified herein. This term does not include the Original Downtown Development
Authority District, as hereinafter defined.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Kochville Township Board which has legislative powers.
   ORDINANCE 89-6(DDA). Kochville Township Ord. 89-6(DDA), as amended by Ords.
93-4(DDA), 02-02(DDA), 06-05(DDA), and 06-09(DDA), and any future amendments to
those ordinances. This subchapter.
   ORIGINAL DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY DISTRICT. The Downtown Development
Authority District as originally established in §
154.16, excluding any amendments.
   PUBLIC FACILITY. A street, plaza, pedestrian mall, and any improvements
thereto including street furniture and beautification, parks, parking
facilities, recreational facilities, right-of-way, structure, waterway, bridge,
lake, pond, canal, utility line or pipe, building and access routes to any of
the foregoing, designed and dedicated to use by the public generally, or used
by public agency.
   TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN. The information set forth in §
154.38 and the township’s DDA development plan and tax increment financing plan
as amended or modified in the future by ordinance of the governing body and
attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and is incorporated by
reference hereto.
   TOWNSHIP. Kochville Township, Saginaw County, Michigan.
(Ord. 89-6DDA, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 06-09 (DDA), passed 7-21-2006; Ord. 14-10,
passed 12-10-2014)
§ 154.36 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The governing body, after the original public hearing in 1989 as
required by § 18 of the Act, determined that the development plan and tax
increment financing plan would:
      (1)   Alleviate traffic congestion along Davis Road;
      (2)   Serve to reduce traffic accidents at the intersection of Davis and
Tittabawassee Roads;
      (3)   Assist in the development of the development area; and
      (4)   Arrest the deterioration of property values in the development area
and constitutes a public purpose.
   (B)   The governing body, after a public hearing held on 7-21-2006, as
required by § 18 of the Act, approved this amendment to the development plan
and tax increment financing plan. This amendment identified as the township's
DDA development plan and tax increment financing plan as amended or modified in
the future by resolution of the governing body and attached to the ordinance
codified herein as Exhibit B and is incorporated by reference hereto,
constitutes a public purpose, and would:
      (1)   Beautify the downtown development authority district, including,
but not limited to, flags, banners, maintenance, street lighting, benches,
landscaping, art, clock tower, courtyards, replace or install mailboxes and the
like;
      (2)   Improve, install, re-align, extend, construct or update roadways
and drive accesses, including traffic signals, the purchase of right-of-way and
other safety related features such as stamped crosswalks, to alleviate traffic
congestion and promote pedestrian safety within the downtown development
authority district;
      (3)   Improve, install, re-align, extend, construct or update current
utilities in the downtown development authority district;
      (4)   Improve, install or update multi-use pathways and sidewalks located
in the downtown development authority district; and
      (5)   Provide for the safety of individuals, business owners and
businesses in the DDA district by providing law enforcement protection, fire
protection and any other services that are public safety in nature.
   (C)   The development plan and tax increment financing plan and the
amendments thereto are hereby approved based on the following considerations:
      (1)   The development plan meets the requirements set forth in § 17(2) of
the Act;
      (2)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and
the Authority has the ability to arrange the financing;
      (3)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the
purposes of the Act;
      (4)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan
of the township;
      (5)   Public services, including, but not limited to, fire and police
protection and utilities, are sufficient to service the development area;
however, any increase in public services will only enhance the downtown
development authority district and assist the township with conforming to the
purpose of the Act; and
      (6)   Changes in zoning, street levels, intersections and utilities are
stated herein, identified as the township's DDA development plan and tax
increment financing plan as amended or modified in the future by resolution of
the governing body and attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B
and is incorporated by reference hereto.
(Ord. 89-6DDA, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 06-09 (DDA), passed 7-21-2006)
§ 154.37 DEVELOPMENT PLAN.
   (A)   Boundaries of the development area in relation to highways, streets,
streams or otherwise. The boundaries of the development area are the same as
the district boundaries of the Downtown Development Authority, as previously
adopted by §§
154.01 through
154.20, as amended. For a map of the boundaries, see Map 1 attached to the
ordinance codified herein.
   (B)   The location and extent of existing streets and other public
facilities and present and future public and private uses within the
development area and a legal description of the development area. The
development plan, as amended proposes the change of the designation of land
uses as those stated herein of the township's DDA development plan and tax
increment financing plan as amended or modified in the future by resolution of
the governing body and attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B
and is incorporated by reference hereto.
   (C)   A description of existing improvements to be demolished, repaired or
altered in the development area, as amended and an estimate of the time for
completion.
      (1)   Finish realignment and reconstruction Davis Road. Estimated time to
complete: 50 years from March 31, 2014; and
      (2)   Any existing improvement to be demolished, repaired or altered in
the development area and the estimated time for completion, as identified
herein, as amended or modified in the future by resolution of the governing
body and attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and is
incorporated by reference hereto.
   (D)   Location, extent, character and estimated costs of improvements
contemplated for completion. The following is proposed:
      (1)   Land use and traffic study of development area with a particular
emphasis on the need for improved traffic circulation within the development
area. Estimated time to complete: 50 years from March 31, 2014; estimated cost:
cannot be determined at this time;
      (2)   Negotiation and acquisition of easements sufficient to make road
improvements as indicated by (1) above. Estimated time to complete: 50 years
from March 31, 2014; estimated cost: cannot be determined at this time;
      (3)   Implementation of additional road system and traffic improvements
within the district and maintain such additional roads and traffic
improvements. Estimated time to complete: 50 years from March 31, 2014;
estimated cost: cannot be determined at this time. Costs of and time to
complete other public improvements will be estimated as they are contemplated;
      (4)   Construction, repairing, replacing and maintaining and/or improving
public utilities within the district or as authorized by the Act, including,
but not limited to:
         (a)   Improving lighting and landscaping;
         (b)   Constructing streetscapes;
         (c)   Constructing multi-use paths;
         (d)   Constructing sidewalks; and
         (e)   Creating a public park. Estimated time to complete: 50 years
from March 31, 2014; estimated cost: cannot be determined as this time.
      (5)   The purchase of or the aiding or assisting of “distressed
properties” within the development area. For purposes of this plan, DISTRESSED
PROPERTIES shall mean parcels of land which are in jeopardy of being sold for
proposed development that is of a lesser character and quality than that which
is desired for the development area, and existing buildings which are being
utilized or which are proposed to be utilized for purposes less desirable than
their initially approved purpose. Costs of the purchase or the aiding or
assisting of distressed properties and time to complete the projects will be
estimated as the projects are contemplated;
      (6)   The repair or replacement of public utilities or improvements which
are inadequate or which are causing distress on parcels within the development
area. Costs of the projects and time to complete the projects will be estimated
as the projects are contemplated; and
      (7)   The locations, extent, character and estimated costs of additional
improvements contemplated for the development area and estimated time for
completion as indicated in Exhibit C.
   (E)   Stages of construction planned and estimated time to complete each
stage. The stages of construction planned and the estimated time to complete
each stage is indicated herein, as amended or modified in the future by
resolution of the governing body and attached to the ordinance codified herein
as Exhibit B and is incorporated by reference hereto.
   (F)   Description of any parts of development area to be left as open space
and uses contemplated for the space. the development plan contemplates the
designation of certain area(s) within the development area as “pocket parks”.
At this time, the exact locations and/or size(s) of the park(s) cannot be
determined. In addition, certain areas within the development area identified
herein, as amended or modified in the future by resolution of the governing
body and attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and is
incorporated by reference hereto, are identified as open space and discusses
the contemplated use for the open space identified.
   (G)   Description of any portions of the development area which the
Authority desires to sell, donate, exchange or lease to or from the township
and the proposed terms. At this time, it is contemplated that the Authority
will sell, donate, exchange or lease the “pocket park(s)” and other open space
as identified herein, as amended or modified in the future by resolution of the
governing body and attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and
is incorporated by reference hereto, to the township under terms and conditions
which have not yet been determined.
   (H)   Description of desired zoning changes and changes in streets, street
levels, intersections and utilities.
      (1)   Desired zoning changes. Within the DDA expansion area, the DDA
desires that, as development occurs, zoning be changed in accordance with the
township’s master plan.
      (2)   Desired changes in streets.
         (a)   The following desired street changes are included in the
development plan, but are subject to Township Board’s approval: Tharldson Drive
will be defined through the Bay Plaza Development. Davis Road will be improved
from Hampton Place to the Consumers Energy easement. Kochville Road will be
improved west of Bay Road.
         (b)   A number of streets will be added in the DDA expansion area
through the course of this development plan, if approved by the Township Board.
Fashion Square Boulevard will be extended to Pierce Road. Trautner Drive will
be extended to the west for approximately one mile. A through route for Kabobel
Drive will be extended to the west. A north/south connector road will be
developed just west of Kokokmo Drive to connect Tittabawassee Road to the W.
Trautner Drive extension. A north-south road will be connected to Bueker Drive
and extend to Liberty Road. Liberty Road will be extended to the west to
connect to the proposed north/south road. Bay Park Drive will be re-aligned and
extended to the west to connect to the proposed north/south road. Loeffler Lane
will be extended to the west to connect to the proposed north/south road.
Ashley Drive will be extended to the west to connect to the proposed north/
south road. Beattie Drive will be extended to the east to the proposed Fashion
Square Boulevard extension. As development expands, additional access roads
will be constructed in the mixed-use area, north of Loeffler Lane. Bus turn-
outs will be added along M-84. Any other street will be added in the DDA
district as deemed necessary by the DDA Board.
      (3)   Desired changes in street levels or intersections. As the roads
described above are added to the development district, several new
intersections will be created. Stop signs, traffic lights and other appropriate
traffic control measures will be added as needed.
      (4)   Desired changes in utilities. Utilities along Tittabawassee Road
will be relocated. Utilities on Bay Road will be buried. Water and sanitary
sewer will be added on the Fashion Square Boulevard Extension. Water and sewer
will be extended to the west end of the DDA District along Bueker Drive. Water
and sewer will be extended along the proposed north/south road that connects
Bueker Drive to Liberty Road. Utility lines will be buried as deemed necessary
by the DDA Board. Infrastructure improvements such as water, sewer storm,
sanitary sewer will be added or modified as deemed necessary by the DDA Board.
Any new construction or any existing structure that is being reconstructed or
modified where the cost of reconstruction or modification exceeds 50% of the
taxable value that is located in the DDA district shall bury all utilities
(electric, phone, gas, cable, water, sewer and the like) located on the
property.
   (I)   Estimate of the cost of the development and a statement of the
proposed method of financing the development and the ability of the Authority
to arrange the financing. At this time, the Authority’s best estimate of the
cost of the development set forth above is $60,265,000, plus the new amounts
established herein, as amended or modified in the future by ordinance of the
governing body and attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and
is incorporated by reference hereto. The moneys currently on deposit with the
Authority are not sufficient to pay for the development. The Authority intends
to apply for grants from public and/or private sources and to accept in-kind
donations as they become available, to supplement the tax increment revenues
available to finance the development set forth above. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, the Authority will, in its discretion, with the approval of the
governing body, levy an ad valorem tax pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 125.1662, not to
exceed two mills on real and tangible personal property not exempt by law
located within the development area. The Authority believes that as it begins
work on the development plan set forth that tax values will increase and that
the aforesaid millage together with the aforesaid grants and in-kind donations
will supplement the tax increment financing which in turn will make financing
possible. The Authority may also issue revenue bonds or utilize any other legal
method of financing to pay for all or a part of the development set forth
above.
   (J)   The procedures for bidding for the leasing, purchasing or conveying in
any manner of all or a portion of the development upon its completion, if there
is no express or implied agreement between the authority and persons, natural
or corporate, that all or a portion of the development will be leased, sold, or
conveyed in any manner to those persons: does not apply at this time.
      (1)   At this time, all bidding for the leasing, purchasing or conveying
in any manner of all or a portion of the development upon its completion, if
there is no express or implied agreement between the Authority and person,
natural or corporate, that all or a portion of the development will be leased,
sold or conveyed in any manner to those persons shall be approved by the DDA
Board and the Township Board.
      (2)   If, in the future, the DDA Board desires to, the DDA Board shall
develop procedures for bidding. Any procedures established by the DDA Board
shall include language that the Township Board shall have the authority to
approve or deny the lease, sell or conveyance.
   (K)   Designation of the person or persons, natural or corporate, to whom
all or a portion of the development is to be leased, sold or conveyed in any
manner and for whose benefit the project is being undertaken if that
information is available to the Authority.
      (1)   At this time, there will be no person or persons, natural or
corporate, to whom all or any portion of the development is to be leased, sold
or conveyed in any manner.
      (2)   The DDA Board reserves the right to lease, sell or convey property
to person or persons, or corporation that is deemed to be in the best interest
of the DDA district or that promotes economic growth and development. However,
the DDA shall not lease, sell or convey property to any organization or
corporation that is considered to be a tax exempt or non-profit organization or
corporation, unless approved by the Township Board.
      (3)   To ensure conformity with the master plan, zoning, Cardinal Square
requirements and other township regulations, the DDA shall not lease, sell or
convey property to person or persons, or corporations without the approval of
the Township Board.
   (L)   Estimates of number of persons residing in the development area and
number of families and individuals to be displaced. The estimated number of
persons residing in the development area are stated herein, as amended or
modified in the future by resolution of the governing body and attached to the
ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and is incorporated by reference hereto.
   (M)   Plan for establishing priority for the relocation of persons displaced
by the development in any new housing in the development area. The development
plan does not contemplate the displacement of any persons by the development.
Therefore, a plan for establishing priority is not being established at this
time.
   (N)   Provision for costs of relocating persons displaced by the development
and financial assistance and reimbursement of expenses in accordance with the
standards and provisions of the Federal Uniform Relocation Assistance and Real
Property Acquisition Policies Act of 1970. For the reasons stated in division
(L) above, no provision for costs of relocating persons displaced by the
development and/or for financial assistance and reimbursement of expenses has
been made.
   (O)   A plan for compliance with Pub. Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
213.321 to 213.332. For the reasons stated in division (L) above, no provision
has been made for relocation assistance advisory services for displaced
persons.
   (P)   Empowerment to use funds. The development plan contemplates that the
Authority shall be empowered to use funds received by it from whatever source,
including, but not limited to, the tax increment financing plan specifically
to:
      (1)   Administer the Authority including the hiring of staff, legal
counsel, certified public accountants and other professional assistance, as
deemed necessary and appropriate by the Authority in accordance with the tax
increment financing plan for the development area;
      (2)   Hire appropriate consultants, designers, engineers, legal counsel
and the like for the purpose of implementing the development plan;
      (3)   Reimburse other units of local government for services performed in
the furtherance of the development plan on an actual cost basis, including the
cost of overhead;
      (4)   Fund the implementation and construction of the projects and
services identified in the development plan; and
      (5)   Provide for the safety of individuals, business owners and
businesses in the DDA district by providing law enforcement protection, fire
protection and any other services that are public safety in nature.
(Ord. 89-6DDA, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 93-4-DDA, passed 8-16-1993; Ord. 02-02-
DDA, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 06-05 (DDA), passed 2-21-2006; Ord. 06-09 (DDA),
passed 7-21-2006; Ord. 09-03 (DDA), passed 9-15-2009; Ord. 14-10, passed 12-10-
2014)
§ 154.38 TAX INCREMENT FINANCING PLAN.
   (A)   Development plan. The development plan for the development area,
prepared in accordance with § 17 of the Act, is set forth in §
154.36.
   (B)   Detailed explanation of the tax increment procedure.
      (1)   Tax increment is a procedure which allows newly created value
within the development area to be captured by the Downtown Development
Authority, rather than by other units of government which normally receive
property tax revenues. It is not a raise in tax rates. It does not reduce the
amount of revenue available to other units of government, but it does restrict
the increase in revenue that those units of government might receive if
property values in the development area increase. At a time as the purposes of
the tax increment financing plan are accomplished, the tax increment financing
plan may be abolished by the governing body; except that, the tax increment
financing plan may not be abolished until the principal of, and interest on,
any bonds issued pursuant to § 16 of the Act have been paid of funds sufficient
to make the payments have been segregated. At a time as the tax increment
financing plan is abolished, the tax increment revenues which have been
captured by the Authority pursuant to this tax increment financing plan will
revert proportionately to all taxing jurisdictions with property in the
development area.
      (2)   The tax increment financing procedure as outlined in the Act
requires the adoption by the township, by ordinance, of a development plan and
a tax increment financing plan. Following the adoption of that ordinance, the
Township and County Treasurers are required by law to transmit to the Authority
that portion of the tax levy of all taxing bodies paid each year on the
"captured assessed value" of all eligible real property located in the
development area. The amounts so transmitted are hereinafter referred to as
"tax increment revenue". The CAPTURED ASSESSED VALUE is defined as the amount
in any year by which the current assessed value as equalized, of all eligible
real property in the development area (including the assessed value that
appears on the tax roll under Pub. Act 198 of 1974, as amended, Pub. Act 255 of
1978, as amended, Pub. Act 224 of 1985, or Pub. Act 438 of 1976, as amended)
exceeds the assessed value, as equalized, of all eligible real property in the
development area as determined on the assessment roll of the township then in
effect on the date of the approval of the ordinance. The assessed value as of
12-31-1987 of all real property in the development area ("initial assessed
value") $337,985.85. While the act permits the Authority to capture that
portion of the tax levy of all taxing bodies paid each year on the captured
assessed value of all eligible personal property located in the development
area, this tax increment financing plan specifically excludes the capture of
personal property taxes.
         (a)   Preparation of base year assessment roll.
            1.   Within 60 days of the effective date of the ordinance adopting
the tax increment financing plan, the Township Assessor shall prepare the
initial amended base year assessment roll for the addition to the development
area. The initial base year assessment roll shall list each taxing jurisdiction
in which the development area is located, the initial assessed value of the
development area on the effective date of this chapter and the amount of tax
revenue derived by each taxing jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on the
property in the development area.
            2.   The Township Assessor shall transmit copies of the initial
base year assessment roll to the Township Treasurer, County Treasurer, the
Authority and each taxing jurisdiction, together with a notice that the
assessment roll has been prepared in accordance with this tax increment
financing plan, and the development plan, approved by this chapter.
         (b)   Preparation of annual base year assessment roll. Each year,
within 15 days following the final equalization of property in the development
area, the Assessor shall prepare an updated base year assessment roll. The
updated base year assessment roll shall show the information required in the
initial base year assessment roll and, in addition, the captured assessed value
for that year. Copies of the annual base year assessment roll shall be
transmitted by the Assessor to the same persons as the initial base year
assessment roll, together with a notice that it has been prepared in accordance
with this tax increment financing plan and the development plan.
         (c)   Establishment of project fund; approval of depository. The
Treasurer of the Authority shall establish a separate fund which shall be kept
in a separate depository bank account or accounts in a bank or banks approved
by the Director of Finance of the Township, to be designated Authority Fund.
All moneys in that fund and earnings thereon shall be used only in accordance
with this tax increment financing plan and the development plan.
         (d)   Payment of tax increment to Downtown Development Authority. The
Township and County Treasurers shall, as ad valorem taxes are collected on the
property in the development area, pay that proportion of the taxes, except tor
penalties and collection fees, that the captured assessed value bears to the
initial assessed value to the Treasurer of the Authority for deposit in the
project fund excluding millage specifically levied for the payment of principal
and interest approved by electors or obligations pledging the unlimited taxing
power of the particular local governmental authority. The payments shall be
made on the date or dates on which the Township and County Treasurers are
required to remit taxes to each of the taxing jurisdictions.
   (C)   Bonded indebtedness.
      (1)   The maximum amount of bonded indebtedness to be incurred by the DDA
and/or the township for all bond issues, for projects listed in the development
plan, or loans, including payments of capitalized interest, principal and
required reserve shall be $8.2 million. This $8.2 million limitation only
applies to bonds issued solely in the name of the DDA and bonds issued jointly
with the township or any other governmental unit or agency may exceed this
limitation if allowed by the financial advisor and bond counsel. Actual bonded
indebtedness to be incurred will be limited by the amount of revenues
anticipated to be received each year that will be available for servicing the
debt load. The bonded indebtedness proceeds will be sufficient to pay the
estimated costs of the development, plus any associated costs of accompanying
professional services prior to March 31, 2064. The township must approve any
bonds or indebtedness, which pledge the full faith and credit for the township.
The Township Board may deny approval of loans or bonding for the projects in
the township’s name without any legal recourse by the DDA.
      (2)   Because a project is listed in the development plan shall not
guarantee that the project will be implemented.
   (D)   Duration of the program. The development/tax increment financing plan
as amended by this chapter shall expire at the end of DDA fiscal year 2064. The
Township Board may amend or modify the duration of the program in time in the
future as allowed by law. As future development activities are within all or
part of the development district are needed or identified, are feasible and
meet the eligibility requirements of the Act, this term may be extended by an
amendment to this code and an amendment to the township’s DDA development plan
and tax increment financing plan as amended or modified in the future by
ordinance of the governing body and attached to the ordinance codified herein
as Exhibit B and is incorporated by reference hereto.
   (E)   Statutory compliance. This tax increment financing plan shall be
administered in compliance with § 15 of the Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.665. The
section includes, among others, requirements that:
      (1)   The Authority shall expend the tax increments funds received for
the development plan only pursuant to this tax increment financing plan, and
surplus funds shall revert proportionately to the respective taxing bodies;
      (2)   The tax increments received by the Authority shall not be used to
circumvent existing property tax limitations;
      (3)   The governing body may abolish this tax increment financing plan
when it finds that the purposes for which it was established have been
accomplished; provided that, the tax increment financing plan may not be
abolished until the principal of, and interest on, bonds, if any, issued
pursuant to § 16 of the Act have been paid or funds sufficient to make payment
have been segregated; and
      (4)   Annually, the Authority shall submit to the governing body a report
on the status of the tax increment financing account which report shall include
the information required by § 15(3) of the Act and shall be published in
accordance with the requirements of that section.
   (F)   Estimated impact on the assessed values of all taxing jurisdictions in
which the development area is located. The assessed value in the original
downtown development authority district is $9,972,450. The assessed value in
the expanded downtown development authority district is $54,919,752. The tax
increment financing plan will not reduce the assessed valuations of any of the
taxing jurisdictions, as it captures only taxes on newly created property
values. Inasmuch as the development plan is intended to provide for the orderly
development of the development area, which should benefit areas not included
within the development area as well, the long term impact on assessed
valuations should be to arrest current deterioration of property within the
area and preserve, if not increase the values of property both within and
adjoining the development area. Consequently, the long term impact is to
benefit the affected taxing jurisdictions.
   (G)   Portion of captured assessed value to be used.
      (1)   The estimated cost of the activities enumerated in the various
development stages contemplated by the development plan is established herein,
as amended or modified in the future by resolution of the governing body and
attached to the ordinance codified herein as Exhibit B and is incorporated by
reference hereto.
      (2)   The tax increment revenues generated by the development area
pursuant to the development plan, as it now exists or is hereafter amended,
will be used to pay for all or a portion of these activities which include:
         (a)   Payment of administrative and operating costs of the Authority
and township for the development area, including planning and promotion, to the
extent provided in the annual budget approved by the township;
         (b)   Payment, to the extent deemed desirable or necessary by the
Authority as determined by its inclusion in its annual budget, of the costs of
any studies contemplated by the development plan;
         (c)   Payment, to the extent deemed desirable or necessary by the
Authority as determined by its inclusion in its annual budget, of the costs of
any of the public improvements contemplated by the development plan to the
extent those improvements are not financed by the participation of the federal
and state governments, private grants, and/or in-kind donations;
         (d)   Payment, to the extent deemed desirable or necessary by the
Authority as determined by its inclusion in its annual budget, of the costs of
any of additional improvements, public or otherwise and including assistance to
“distressed properties” in the development area deemed desirable by the
authority, as contemplated by the development plan in furtherance of the
development plan on an actual cost basis, including overhead;
         (e)   Reimburse other units of government for services performed in
the furtherance of the development plan on an actual cost basis, including the
cost of overhead;
         (f)   Reimbursement of the township for funds advanced to acquire
property, clear land, make preliminary plans and construct improvements
necessary for the development of the development area in accordance with the
development plan;
         (g)   Payment, to the extent deemed desirable or necessary by the
Authority as determined by its inclusion in its annual budget, of the costs of
hiring staff, legal counsel, certified public accountants and other
professional assistance, as deemed necessary and appropriate by the authority
in accordance with the tax increment financing plan for the development area;
         (h)   Payment, to the extent deemed desirable or necessary by the
Authority as determined by its inclusion in its annual budget, of the costs of
hiring appropriate consultants, engineers, legal counsel and the like for the
purpose of implementing the development plan; and
         (i)   Provide for the safety of individuals, business owners, and
businesses in the DDA District by providing law enforcement protection, fire
protection and any other services that are public safety in nature.
      (3)   The tax increment financing plan contemplates the use of the entire
captured assessed value by the Authority.
(Ord. 89-6DDA, passed 5-1-1989; Ord. 93-4-DDA, passed 8-16-1993; Ord. 02-02-
DDA, passed 5-21-2002; Ord. 06-09 (DDA), passed 7-21-2006; Ord. 09-03 (DDA),
passed 9-15-2009; Ord. 14-10, passed 12-10-2014)
§ 154.39 EXHIBITS.
   The following exhibits that are attached to the ordinance codified herein
and incorporated by reference:
   (A)   Exhibit A: Legal Description of Development Area;
   (B)   Exhibit B: The Kochville Township DDA Development Plan and Tax
Increment Financing Plan;
   (C)   Exhibit C;
   (D)   Map 1: DDA Area;
   (E)   Map 2: Kochville Township Existing Land Use by Tax Classification DDA
Areas;
   (F)   Map 3: Kochville Township Future Land Use DDA Areas;
   (G)   Kochville Township Sub-Area Plan #1; and
   (H)   Kochville Township Sub-Area Plan #2.
(Ord. 06-09 (DDA), passed 7-21-2006; Ord. 09-03 (DDA), passed 9-15-2009; Ord.
14-10, passed 12-10-2014)
§ 154.40 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter will become effective immediately upon its adoption and
publication as required by law in a paper of general circulation in the
township.
(Ord. 89-6DDA, passed 5-1-1989)
CHAPTER 155: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Purpose and intent
   
155.003   Accessory buildings
   
155.004   Public sanitary sewer connection
   
155.005   Definitions
Supplementary Use Regulations
   
155.020   Granting permits
   
155.021   Temporary use permits
   
155.022   Prior building permits
   
155.023   Access to a street
   
155.024   Rear dwelling prohibited
   
155.025   Lots along railroad rights-of-way or property
   
155.026   Use of structure for temporary dwelling
   
155.027   Manufactured home dwellings
   
155.028   Attached housing residential development standards
   
155.029   One dwelling per lot
   
155.030   Fences, walls and screens
   
155.031   Inoperative or dismantled cars, trucks or buses
   
155.032   Automobile sales, new and used
   
155.033   Space used once
   
155.034   Use exceptions
   
155.035   Storage of recreational equipment
   
155.036   Heavy vehicles and equipment
   
155.037   Dangerous animals
   
155.038   Storm water management
   
155.039   Garage sales
   
155.040   Storage containers as storage buildings prohibited
   
155.041   Ponds
Supplementary Yard Regulations
   
155.050   Permitted yard encroachments
   
155.051   Yard exceptions
Supplementary Height Regulations
   
155.065   Permitted exceptions for structural appurtenances
Parking Requirements
   
155.080   Purpose and intent
   
155.081   Off-street parking and loading requirements
   
155.082   Off-street parking requirements
   
155.083   Authority to exceed parking maximum
   
155.084   Existing parking exceeding maximum allowed
   
155.085   Shared use of parking
   
155.086   Parking area and circulation design requirements
   
155.087   Landscaping
   
155.088   Internal walkways
   
155.089   Lighting
Districts
   
155.100   Division of township
   
155.101   Official zoning map
   
155.102   Interpretation of boundaries
   
155.103   Scope of regulations
   
155.104   District boundary exceptions
   
155.105   Approval of plats
   
155.106   Zoning of plats
CG-1 Conservation-Greenbelt (Open Land and Floodways)
   
155.120   Purpose and intent
   
155.121   Uses permitted by right
   
155.122   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.123   Dimensional requirements
A-1 General Agriculture (Food and Fiber, as well as Related Activities)
   
155.135   Purpose and intent
   
155.136   Uses permitted by right
   
155.137   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.138   Dimensional requirements
R-1A Residential (Low Density Transitional)
   
155.150   Purpose and intent
   
155.151   Uses permitted by right
   
155.152   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.153   Dimensional requirements
R-1 Residential (One Family-Low Density)
   
155.165   Purpose and intent
   
155.166   Uses permitted by right
   
155.167   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.168   Dimensional requirements
R-2 Residential (Two Family-Medium Density)
   
155.180   Purpose and intent
   
155.181   Uses permitted by right
   
155.182   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.183   Dimensional requirements
R-3 Residential (Multiple Family-Intensive)
   
155.195   Purpose and intent
   
155.196   Uses permitted by right
   
155.197   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.198   Dimensional requirements
MU-1 Mixed Use District
   
155.210   Repeal of district
   
155.211   Effect upon existing property which is currently zoned as MU-1
   
155.212   Effect on other provisions of chapter
B-1 Commercial (Neighborhood Business)
   
155.230   Purpose and intent
   
155.231   Uses permitted by right
   
155.232   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.233   Dimensional requirements
B-2 Commercial (Community and Regional Retail)
   
155.245   Purpose and intent
   
155.246   Uses permitted by right
   
155.247   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.248   Dimensional requirements
B-3 Commercial (General Intensive Business)
   
155.260   Purpose and intent
   
155.261   Uses permitted by right
   
155.262   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.263   Dimensional requirements
M-1 Industrial (Limited Manufacturing)
   
155.275   Purpose and intent
   
155.276   Uses permitted by right
   
155.277   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.278   General use requirements
   
155.279   Dimensional requirements
M-2 Industrial (Heavy Manufacturing)
   
155.290   Purpose and intent
   
155.291   Uses permitted by right
   
155.292   Uses permitted by special use permit
   
155.293   General use requirements
   
155.294   Dimensional requirements
Special Uses (Special Use Permit Requirements)
   
155.305   Intent and purpose
   
155.306   Permit procedures
   
155.307   Permit standards
   
155.308   Facilities/institutional uses
   
155.309   Golf courses, golf academies, shooting clubs, shooting ranges and
country clubs
   
155.310   Manufactured housing development
   
155.311   Planned residential unit development
   
155.312   Planned neighborhood shopping centers
   
155.313   Planned unit development
   
155.314   Day nursery
   
155.315   Funeral homes and mortuaries
   
155.316   Public utilities and service installations
   
155.317   Automobile service station
   
155.318   Wireless communication
   
155.319   Miscellaneous special uses
Site Plan Review and Design Guidelines
   
155.330   Purpose and intent
   
155.331   Site plan review
   
155.332   Design guidelines
   
155.333   Fundamental design guidelines
   
155.334   Administration of the design guidelines
   
155.335   Storm water management design guidelines
Town and Gown Overlay Districts
   
155.340   Introduction
   
155.341   Purpose and intent
   
155.342   Principles and standards applicable to both overlay districts
   
155.343   Standards for the Town Overlay District
   
155.344   Standards for the Gown Overlay District
   
155.345   Town and Gown Administrator
Tittabawassee Road Corridor Overlay District
   
155.350   Purpose and intent
   
155.351   Arterial street access driveway regulations
Bay Road Corridor Overlay District
   
155.365   Purpose and intent
   
155.366   Applicability
   
155.367   M-84 access management plan map
   
155.368   Permanent access for underdeveloped parcels or existing development
   
155.369   Application review, approval and coordination process
   
155.370   Service drives
   
155.371   Standard for construction
   
155.372   Temporary access permits
   
155.373   Non-conforming driveways
   
155.374   Variances
Administration
   
155.385   General administration
   
155.385.01   Zoning permits
   
155.386   Enforcement
   
155.387   Amendment
   
155.388   Zoning Board of Appeals
   
155.389   Conflicts with other laws
   
155.390   Repeal
   
155.391   Effective date
Conservation Development
   
155.405   Purpose and intent
   
155.406   Applicability
   
155.407   Principal permitted uses
   
155.408   Accessory uses
   
155.409   Conditional uses
   
155.410   Prohibited uses
   
155.411   Approval process
   
155.412   Density and dimensional standards
   
155.413   Design standards for open space development
   
155.414   Design standards for common open space
   
155.415   Landscaping
   
155.416   Ownership and maintenance of common facilities and open space
   
155.417   Sewage and water supply facilities
Non-Conforming Uses
   
155.430   Intent
   
155.431   Authority to continue
   
155.432   Reconstruction and restoration
   
155.433   Improvement
   
155.434   Changing uses
   
155.435   Prior construction approval
   
155.436   Non-conforming lots
   
155.437   Elimination of non-conforming uses
Wind Energy
   
155.450   Purpose and intent
   
155.451   Definitions
   
155.452   Accessory uses
   
155.453   Applicability
   
155.454   Site plan review required
   
155.455   Information to be submitted
   
155.456   Wind turbine/tower height
   
155.457   Application standards
   
155.458   Inspections
   
155.459   Decommissioning
   
155.460   Applicable construction codes, standards; state and federal
regulations
Medical Marihuana
   
155.470   Title
   
155.471   Intent
   
155.472   Purpose; location of activities
   
155.473   Definitions
   
155.474   Location
   
155.475   Light and ventilation
   
155.476   Permits and registration
   
155.477   Commercial medical marihuana facilities prohibited
   
155.478   Compliance with state law
   
155.479   Violations a nuisance
   
155.480   Severability
   
155.481   Effective date
 
   
155.999   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission: established, duties, see §
31.01
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the "Kochville Township Zoning Ordinance".
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.002 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the general purpose of this chapter to promote the public safety,
health, morals, convenience and general welfare, and further to:
   (A)   Guide the use and development of the community's lands and natural
resources in accordance with their character, adaptability and suitability for
particular uses as identified in a basic plan of land use and population
density;
   (B)   Protect the character of the community and enhance the social and
economic stability of the township and individual zone districts as herein set
forth;
   (C)   Lessen congestion on the streets and highways and facilitate safe and
convenient access appropriate to various uses of land and building throughout
the community;
   (D)   Form a stable guide for public action to facilitate the adequate
provision of sewerage and drainage, water supply distribution and educational,
recreational and other public services;
   (E)   Conserve life, property and natural resources, and the expenditure of
funds for public facilities and services by establishing herein standards to
guide physical development and to provide for enforcement of the standards; and
   (F)   Adopt provisions for each designated zoning district which shall
control the use of land and property; the use, size and location of buildings;
the minimum yard, courts and other open spaces; and the maximum number of
families to be housed in buildings or structures.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.003 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS.
   (A)   Required yards.
      (1)   Front yard. No accessory building (attached or detached) shall
project into any front yard.
      (2)   Rear yard. No accessory building, including attached or detached
garages shall be closer than five feet to the rear lot line.
      (3)   Side yard. No accessory building, including garages, shall be
erected closer to any side lot line than the permitted distance within that
district for principal buildings except if accessory to a single-family
residence. In cases where an accessory building is located ten feet or more
from the rear of the principal single-family residential building, then the
accessory building shall be no closer than eight feet from the side lot line.
      (4)   Corner lot. No accessory building shall be closer to the side lot
line than the side yard setbacks of the principal building on the lot. Where
the rear line of a corner lot coincides with the sideline of an adjoining lot
in a residential district, an accessory building shall not be closer than eight
feet to common lot line.
   (B)   Garage entrance. In no case shall the entrance to a garage be less
than 25 feet from a street right-of-way line.
   (C)   Detached accessory buildings. In any R or B district, detached
accessory buildings shall comply with the following regulations:
      (1)   They shall not be used in any part for dwelling purposes;
      (2)   They shall not be more than one story or 20 feet in building
height; and
      (3)   They shall not occupy more than 30% of the required rear yard area.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.004 PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER CONNECTION.
   When a public sewer is available or becomes available in the street,
connection to the public sewer system shall be made within 180 days.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Rules applying to the text.
      (1)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense, and the
singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
      (2)   The word "person" includes a corporation or firm as well as an
individual.
      (3)   The word "structure" includes the word "building".
      (4)   The word "lot" includes the word "plot", "tract" or "parcel".
      (5)   The term "shall" is always mandatory and not discretionary; the
word "may" is discretionary.
      (6)   The word "used" or "occupied" as applied to any land or structure
shall be construed to include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be
used or occupied".
      (7)   The term "he" shall be read as "he or she".
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this chapter, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ABUT. To physically touch or border upon; to share a common property
line.
      ACCELERATION LANE. A lane that permits integration and merging of slower
moving vehicles into the main vehicular stream.
      ACCESSORY USE (includes accessory building). An accessory use includes a
building or structure and is clearly used incidental to, customarily found in
connection with, and located on the same lot as the principal use to which it
is related. Campers, camping trailers, recreational vehicles whether used for
dwelling purposes or for storage and shipping containers or other such similar
items are not considered a permitted accessory use. Exception: This section
shall not apply to parcels under development with active building permits or to
a principal commercial use related to an outdoor seasonal sale for which a
temporary use or structure permit has been granted and is in effect.
      ADJACENT. A lot or parcel of land, which shares all or part of a common
lot line with another parcel of land.
      ADULT ARCADE. The definition of an ADULT ARCADE as defined in the
Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified as
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE. The definition of an ADULT
BOOKSTORE or ADULT VIDEO STORE as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually
Oriented Business Ordinance as codified as
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT BODY PAINTING STUDIO. The definition of an ADULT BODY PAINTING
STUDIO as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT CABARET.  The definition of an ADULT CABARET as defined in the
Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT CAR WASH. The definition of an ADULT CAR WASH as defined in the
Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT. The definition of an ADULT
COMPANIONSHIP ESTABLISHMENT as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually
Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT ENTERTAINMENT FACILITY.  The definition of an ADULT ENTERTAINMENT
FACILITY as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT ESTABLISHMENT. The definition of an ADULT ESTABLISHMENT as defined
in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH/SPORT CLUB.  The definition of an ADULT
MASSAGE PARLOR, HEALTH/SPORT CLUB as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually
Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT MINI-MOTION PICTURE THEATER. The definition of an ADULT MINI-MOTION
PICTURE THEATER as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT MOTION-PICTURE THEATER.  The definition of an ADULT MOTION-PICTURE
THEATER as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS.  The definition of an ADULT NOVELTY BUSINESS as
defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as
codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT MOTEL.  The definition of an ADULT MOTEL as defined in the
Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      ADULT SAUNA/STEAM ROOM/BATHHOUSE.  The definition of an ADULT SAUNA/STEAM
ROOM/BATHHOUSE as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      AGRICULTURAL RETAIL FACILITY OR AREA. A booth or stand located on a farm
from which produce and farm products are sold to the general public.
      ALLEY. Any dedicated private or public way other than a street which
provides only a secondary means of access to abutting property and is not
intended for general traffic circulation.
      ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction or type
of occupancy, or in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders.
      ANIMAL PROTECTION SHELTER. A facility operated by a person, humane
society, society for the prevention of cruelty to animals, or any other
nonprofit organization for the care of homeless animals (dogs, cats, rabbits,
ferrets, hedgehogs, sugar gliders, or any other non-rodent, non-livestock
mammals). (See M.C.L.A. Ch. 287)
      APARTMENT. See MULTIPLE-FAMILY.
      APIARIES. A place where bees are kept for the production of honey or for
the pollination of plants.
      ASSEMBLY BUILDING. A building for the primary purpose of group gatherings
of 50 people or more for any purpose.
      ASSISTED LIVING. A residential development designed to assist those that
can live on their own with the assistance of staff.
      AUTOMOBILE SALES. An establishment engaged in the sale, rental or leasing
of new or used automobiles, vans or pickup trucks.
      AUTOMOTIVE SHOW ROOM AND SALES. An establishment/dealership used to
display both new and used vehicles for the purpose of selling them at the
retail level.
      AUTOMOTIVE/VEHICLE CAR WASH. An establishment together with the necessary
mechanical equipment used for washing vehicles, boats, trailers and the like.
      AUTOMOTIVE/VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP. An establishment being housed in a
building, or a portion thereof, together with the necessary equipment used for
the general repair of vehicles, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or reconditioning
of motor vehicles, collision service and painting or undercoating of
automobiles.
      AUTOMOTIVE/VEHICLE SERVICE STATION. An establishment together with the
necessary equipment used for the direct retail sale of gasoline or any other
engine fuel, kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease and including the
sale of minor accessories and the servicing of any minor repair of vehicles.
This definition includes oil change and tire sales stores.
      AVIARIES. A house, large cage or enclosure for keeping and rearing of
four or more birds in confinement, except for chickens, turkeys, peacocks,
ostriches, emus, rheas or similar domesticated birds normally raised for
consumption, but does not include young birds under six months of age.
      BANK. See FINANCIAL BUSINESS.
      BAR. See TAVERN.
      BASE AREA. The area, which is the length times the width, in square feet
as of the effective date of this chapter.
      BASEMENT. A story having part, but not more than one-half, of its height
above finished grade. A BASEMENT shall be counted as a story for the purpose of
height measurement if the vertical distance between the ceiling and the average
level of the adjoining ground is more than five feet or if used for business or
dwelling purposes.
      BEAUTY SALON. See PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS.
      BERM. An earthen buffer that obscures sight, traffic and sound.
      BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE. A structural, vegetative or managerial practice
that is designed to treat, prevent or reduce degradation of water quality due
to storm water runoff and to reduce the amount of storm water runoff. Also
referred to as BMP.
      BCRC. Bay County Road Commission
      BMP. See BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICE.
      BOARDING AND ROOMING HOUSES. A dwelling used for the business of
furnishing accommodations to more to more than two persons or lodgers than
allowed under the definition of "family".
      BODY SHOP. See AUTOMOTIVE/VEHICLE REPAIR SHOP.
      BOOTH.  The definition of a BOOTH as defined in the Kochville Township
Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      BUFFER. Open green space, landscaped areas, fences, walls, berms or any
combination thereof used to physically separate, or screen one use or property
from another so as to visually shield or block noise, lights or other
nuisances.
      BUFFER STRIP. A vegetated area that treats sheet flow and/or interflow by
removing sediment and other pollutants. The area may be grass-covered, forested
or of mixed vegetative cover, depending on the amount of pollutants to be
removed and the size of the BUFFER STRIP.
      BUILDING. Any structure erected on site, a manufactured home or
structure, above or below ground, supported by columns or by walls and intended
or designed for the shelter, housing or enclosure of persons, animals or
property.
      BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line that coincides with the face of the
building nearest the front line of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and
enclosed porches but does not include steps. The line shall be parallel to the
front lot line and measured as a straight line between the intersecting points
with the side yard.
      BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the mean
elevation of the finished grade line of the ground about the front of the
building to the highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line of
mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip and gambrel roofs.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1363.jpg]
 
      BUILDING INSPECTOR. Issues permits, collects fees, inspects sites, issues
enforcement actions.
      BUILDING LINES. A line defining the minimum front, side or rear yard
requirements outside of which no building or structure may be located.
      BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or
principal use of the lot on which it is located.
      BULK STATION. A place where crude petroleum, gasoline, naphtha, benzene,
benzol, kerosene or any other liquid (except such as will stand a test of
150°F, closed cup tester) are stored for wholesale purposes only.
      BUSINESS. Any trade, occupation, profession, work, commerce or other
activity owned or operated for profit.
      CAMP. A place in the country that offers simple group accommodations and
organized recreation; a place where tents, campers, recreational vehicles or
other temporary shelters are set up.
      CARDINAL SQUARE. An area of Kochville Township and Saginaw Township
roughly defined from Freeland Road to McCarty Road and from Mackinaw Road to
Davis Road. This area shall have a unique identify and certain design elements
must be met.
      CELLAR. See BASEMENT.
      CEMETERY. Property used for interring of the dead.
      CHARITABLE ORGANIZATION. Organizations that have current federal tax
exemption status.
      CLINIC. An establishment where patients who are not lodged overnight are
admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians, dentists or
similar professionals.
      CLUBS. An organization catering exclusively to members and their guests,
or premises and buildings for recreational, artistic, political, or social
purposes, which are not conducted primarily for gain and which do not provide
merchandise, vending, or commercial activities or that relate in any way to a
sexually orientated business; except as required incidentally for the
membership and purpose of such club.
      COMMERCIAL SCHOOL. Any institution which offers instruction in a
commercial institution.
      COMMON LAND. A parcel or parcels of land, together with the improvements
thereon, the use, maintenance and enjoyment of which are intended to be shared
by the owners and occupants of the individual building units in a planned
development.
      CONDOMINIUM ACT. Pub. Act 59 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
559.101 et seq.
      CONDOMINIUM, EXPANDABLE. A condominium project to which additional land
may be added pursuant to express provisions in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
      CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. See SUBDIVISION, as defined in this chapter.
      CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. The site, survey and utility plans, floor
plans and sections, showing the existing and proposed structures and
improvements.
      CONDOMINIUM UNIT. A portion of a building, or group of buildings,
designed for separate ownership. Common areas and facilities are owned by all
the owners on a proportional, undivided basis. A CONDOMINIUM is differentiated
from other dwellings types based on ownership and as such is not regulated as a
dwelling unit type.
      CONFORMANCE TO ESTABLISHED SETBACKS. Required front yard setbacks shall
conform to existing setbacks as established by existing uses in any district.
      CONSOLIDATING MASTER DEED. The final amended master deed for a
contractible condominium project, and expandable condominium project, or a
condominium project containing convertible land or convertible space, which
final amended master deed fully describes the condominium project as completed.
      CONTIGUOUS. In contact with.
      CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any portion of
the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn pursuant to the express
provision in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and
the Condominium Act.
      CONTRACTOR, GENERAL. General contractors and builders engaged in the
construction or maintenance of buildings and grounds, excluding landscape and
heavy construction contractors.
      CONTRACTOR, HEAVY. A person or firm engaged in the mechanical removal or
movement of earth material, or contractors engaged in activities such as paving
and utility construction.
      CONTRACTOR, LANDSCAPE. Landscaping includes businesses principally
engaged in lawn mowing, yard maintenance, decorative and functional alteration,
planting and maintenance of the grounds. LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR includes
businesses that apply fertilizers, pesticides and other treatments for plants,
trees, grass, irrigation and drainage facilities. This definition also includes
tree services and commercial plant maintenance services. A LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR
shall not store grass clippings or other compostable material.
      CONTRACTOR, STORAGE YARD. An enclosed portion of the lot or parcel on
which a construction contractor maintains materials necessary for its principal
use or business operation. STORAGE YARDS are characterized by the lack of a
principal structure associated with the business for which storage is taking
place, located on the parcel with the storage activity. This area may be used
to store and maintain construction equipment materials customarily used in the
trade carried on by the contractor.
      CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A building wherein infirm or incapacitated
persons are furnished shelter, care, food, lodging and needed attention for a
compensation.
      CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail operation selling a variety of items, which
are primarily grocery products. They include items that may be required by
neighborhood residents on a day to day basis. Non-grocery items frequently sold
in this kind of establishment include newspapers, magazines, seasonal needs and
the like.
      CONVERSION CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project containing condominium
units some or all of which were occupied before the establishment of the
condominium project.
      CONVERTIBLE AREA. A unit or portion of the common elements of the
condominium project referred to in the condominium documents within which
additional condominium units or general or limited common elements may be
created pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act.
      CORRECTIONAL INSTITUTION. A place where individuals are physically
confined or interned and usually deprived of a range of personal freedom. The
places may include prison, jail, reformatory, detention center, work farm,
halfway house or residential community program center.
      COVERAGE, LOT. The percent of the plot or lot covered by the building
area.
      CREMATORIUM. A building for cremating the deceased.
      CROPS. A harvestable product, planted, grown and cultivated in the soil.
FIELD CROPS are generally for sale and not consumed on the premises.
      CROSS ACCESS. Vehicular access between two or more contiguous sites,
designed so that the driver does to have to enter a public or private street.
      CUL DE SAC. A street with only one outlet, having sufficient space at the
closed end to provide a vehicular turning area.
      CURB/CURBING. A concrete edging along a street or parking lot.
      CURB, SLOTTED. A concrete edging along a street or parking lot not to
exceed three feet in width. A curb constructed at the edge of a parking area
that allows storm and flood water to enter a landscaped area/swale/sediment
trap that will collect, settle-out and direct the flow of water away from the
parking area.
      DAY NURSERY. A private establishment enrolling children, where tuition,
fees or other forms of compensation for the care of children is charged, and
which is licensed or approved to operate as a child care center.
      DEPTH. The distance from a property line to a structure.
      DEQ. Department of Environmental Quality, an agency dedicated to
conservation and protection of natural resources including fossil fuels,
minerals and ground water.
      DEVELOPMENT. Any human-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, building or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving excavation or drilling operations.
      DISTRICT. Any section within the community for which the regulations
contained within this chapter are the same.
      DNR. Department of Natural Resources, an agency dedicated to outdoor
preservation, conservation and recreation including fishing and hunting.
      DOMESTICATED ANIMAL. An animal that has been housed and fed by a human
owner and has learned to depend on human provision so completely that it has
little ability to survive if returned to a natural habitat. Typically includes
animals like dogs and cats used as pets, and not animals on farms as part of an
agricultural or farming operation.
      DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or
service character is dependent on serving patrons while in the motor vehicle,
or within a building on the same premises and devoted to the same purpose as
the drive-in service. DRIVE-IN is also interpreted to include "fast food"
operations, which serve food in disposable containers, and to include
restaurants with drive-through facilities.
      DRIVE-IN THEATER. A theater designed to render its services to persons
who drive up and remain seated in their cars to watch a movie with a rating of
G, PG, PG-13, R, or NC-17 by the Motion Picture Association of America.
      DRIVEWAY. A private roadway providing access for vehicles to a parking
space or other structure.
      DUMPSTER. A container used to hold trash, garbage, refuse or rubbish
which is designed to be emptied into a garbage collection truck by mechanical
means.
      DWELLING. A building or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by one
family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities, sleeping
facilities and sanitation facilities.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building or portion thereof containing three or
more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE FAMILY. A dwelling or group of dwellings on one lot,
containing separate living units for three or more families, having separate or
joint entrances, and including apartments, group homes, and condominiums.
      DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building containing not more than one dwelling
unit only, designed for residential use.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building containing two dwelling units.
      DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms including a single kitchen in a dwelling
designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes and
sanitation facilities.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance
of underground surface or overhead electrical gas, water and sewage
transmission and collection systems and the equipment and appurtenances
necessary for the systems to furnish an adequate level of public service.
      EXCAVATION. Removal or recovery by any means of soil, rock, minerals,
mineral substances or organic substances, other than vegetation, from water or
land, on or beneath the surface, whether exposed or submerged.
      EXOTIC PET or EXOTIC ANIMAL. An unusual creature kept as a pet, sometimes
for the express purpose of having a pet which is unique. Includes any unique-
or wild-looking pet, such as common domestic animals like the ferret and the
domestic rat. Alligators, wolves and wolf/dog hybrids, wild cat cubs (lions,
tigers, ocelots and the like), snakes, tortoises, spiders, scorpions and rare
birds are among the species typically considered as exotic pets. The term is
also used for a species which is non-indigenous to the owner or prospective
owner's locale.
      FAMILY. A person living alone, or any of the following groups living
together as a single nonprofit housekeeping unit and sharing common living,
sleeping, cooking and eating facilities:
         (a)   Any number of people related by blood, marriage, adoption,
guardianship, or duly-authorized custodial relationship;
         (b)   Four unrelated people;
         (c)   Two unrelated people and any children related to either of them;
or
         (d)   Not more than six persons who are: 1) residing in a State-
Licensed Residential Facility per provisions set forth in the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act (Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended), or 2) "handicapped" as
defined in the Fair Housing Act.
This definition does not include persons currently illegally using or addicted
to a controlled substance. Family does not include any society, club,
fraternity, sorority, association, lodge combine, federation, coterie, or like
organization; any group of individuals whose association is temporary or
seasonal in nature; any group of individuals who are in a group living
arrangement as a result of criminal offenses.
      FARM. A tract of land which is directly devoted to agricultural purposes;
provided further that, FARMS may be considered as including establishments
operated as greenhouses, nurseries, orchards, chicken hatcheries, apiaries; but
establishments keeping or operating facilities for fur-bearing animals, riding
or boarding stables and kennels shall not be considered FARMS hereunder unless
combined with a bona fide farm operation on the same contiguous tract of land
of not less than 20 acres.
      FARM ANIMAL, LARGE. Any four-footed creature as livestock, which, at
maturity, exceeds 100 pounds. This includes, but is not limited to, the
following: cattle, horses, sheep, hogs and goats.
      FARM ANIMAL, SMALL. All farm animals not included in the "farm animal,
large" definition that are four-footed, foul or non-domestic animals.
      FARMING, GENERAL. The practice of agriculture on a farm, as defined
above.
      FAST FOOD RESTAURANT. See DRIVE-IN.
      FENCE. An artificially constructed barrier of any material or combination
of materials erected to enclose, screen, decorate or separate areas.
      FINANCIAL BUSINESS. All uses listed in this item handle the financial
preparation of all industries.
      FLOOD PLAIN. The area which is inundated by the base flood (or a flood
having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any given year) and carries
and discharges the flood waters of the base flood, as determined by the Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) and as indicated in the flood boundary and
floodway map.
      FOSTER CARE. See HUMAN CARE INSTITUTION.
      FRONTAGE ROAD. A public or private street intended to create lot frontage
away from the main arterial. Generally, the FRONTAGE ROAD is parallel to the
main arterial.
      FUNERAL HOME. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for
burial and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected therewith
before burial or cremation.
      GARAGE SALE. A garage sale, also known as a yard sale, rummage sale, lawn
sale, moving sale, estate sale, is an informal, irregularly scheduled event for
the sale of used goods by private individuals, held entirely on their own
property.
      GOLF ACADEMY. An institution for special instruction and/or training for
the advancement of golf. Possibly inclusive of a driving range, an
instructional area and a chipping area and green area.
      GOLF COURSE. A tract of land laid out for at least three holes for
playing the game of golf and improved with tees, greens, fairways and hazards.
A GOLF COURSE may include ancillary uses such as a clubhouse, restaurant,
tennis courts, swimming pool, parking lot, driving range and maintenance
buildings, any of which may be rented out for events.
      GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE. See RECREATIONAL USE, COMMERCIAL.
      GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or
other transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and
humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season
plants for subsequent sale or personal use.
      GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from
the centerline of a wall separating two buildings, but not including interior
parking spaces, loading spaces, loading space for motor vehicles or any space
where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet. For the purposes of
calculating parking and loading requirements, the GROSS FLOOR AREA is the floor
area used for service to the public. It shall not include floor area used
solely for storage or processing and packaging of merchandise.
      HARD SURFACE. At least four inches of reinforced concrete or two inches
of bituminous surface laid over five inches of compacted crushed stone. PAVED
and HARD SURFACE shall have the same meaning for purposes of this chapter.
      HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Include, but are not limited to, a chemical that is
a combustible liquid, a flammable gas, explosive, flammable, an organic
peroxide, an oxidizer, pyrophoric, unstable reactive or water reactive.
      HEIGHT, MEASUREMENT OF. The height of a building, fence or wall at any
given level is the height above the natural grade of any portion or portions of
a wall or walls along the length of the building. Natural grade level shall be
the mean level of the ground immediately adjoining the portion or portions of
the wall or walls along the total length of the building.
      HOME OCCUPATION. Any business carried on by one or more members of a
family residing on the premises and must comply with the following
requirements:
         (a)   Be operated in its entirety within the principal dwelling or
principal accessory structure;
         (b)   Shall not have a separate entrance;
         (c)   Shall not involve alteration or construction not customarily
found in a principal dwelling or principal accessory structure;
         (d)   Shall not use any mechanical equipment, except that which is
used normally for purely domestic or household purposes;
         (e)   Shall not use more than 25% of the total actual floor area of
the principle dwelling or principle accessory structure; and
         (f)   Not display or create outside the structure any external
evidence of the operation of the home occupation other than allowable signs.
      HORTICULTURE. The cultivation of a garden or orchard.
      HOSPITAL. See INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE.
      HOTEL. See MOTEL.
      IMPERVIOUS SURFACE. Surfaces that do not allow water to infiltrate into
the ground. Examples include buildings, pavement and compacted soils within
grassed or landscaped areas.
      INCINERATOR. An engineered apparatus used to burn waste substances and in
which all the combustion factors, temperature, retention time, turbulence and
combustion air can be controlled.
      INDIVIDUAL STORAGE FACILITY. A structure containing separate storage
spaces of varying sizes, leased or rented on an individual basis.
      INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL. A school for pre-kindergarten through twelfth
grade or any colleges or universities authorized by the state to award degrees.
      INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE. A public or private facility for physical or
mental care. A HUMAN CARE INSTITUTION may include hospitals, convalescent or
nursing homes, homes for the mentally or physically impaired, mental, physical
or substance abuse rehabilitation facilities, day nurseries and the like.
      INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS. A structure or place in which worship,
ceremonies, rituals and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs
are held.
      INSTITUTION, SOCIAL. Any profit or non-profit use or facility in which
activities for pleasure or philanthropy are carried out. The institutions may
include service clubs, scout organizations, hobby clubs and veteran's
organizations.
      JUNK YARD. A licensed open area where waste, used or second hand
materials are bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled
or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber tires and bottles. A JUNK YARD includes wrecking yards dealing
with automotive vehicles, tractors and/or construction equipment, and two or
more inoperative, unlicensed vehicles or pieces of equipment shall be construed
to be a JUNK YARD.
      KENNEL. A facility where dogs, cats or other domestic pets are boarded,
bred or cared for in return for remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of
sale.
      LABORATORIES. A facility for scientific research or the testing of
materials.
      LIVESTOCK. Domesticated animals that may be kept or raised in pens,
houses, pastures or on farms as part of an agricultural or farming operation,
whether for commerce or private use.
      LOADING BERTH OR SPACE. An off-street space at least ten feet wide, 25
feet long and 15 feet high, either within a building or outside on the same
lot; provided, maintained and available for the loading or unloading of goods
or merchandise, and having direct and unobstructed access to a public street or
alley.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied or intended for occupancy by a main
building and accessory buildings thereto, together with the open spaces as are
required under the provisions of this chapter.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of the lot.
      LOT: CORNER, INTERIOR AND THROUGH.
         (a)   CORNER LOT. A lot, which has at least two contiguous sides
abutting upon a street for their full length, and provided the two sides
intersect at an angle of not more than 135 degrees.
         (b)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot.
         (c)   THROUGH LOT. An interior lot having frontage on two streets,
which do not intersect at a point contiguous to the lot.
      LOT LINES. The lines abutting a lot, as defined herein.
         (a)   LOT LINE, FRONT. In the case of an interior lot, that line
separating the lot from the street. In the case of a through lot, that line
separating the lot from either street. In the case of a corner lot, the shorter
street line shall be considered the front lot line.
         (b)   LOT LINE, REAR. Lot line, which is opposite the front lot line.
In the case of a corner lot, the REAR LOT LINE may be opposite either front lot
line, but there shall only be one rear lot line. In the case of a lot with side
lot lines converging at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than 20 feet long, lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
         (c)   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line not a front lot line or not a rear
lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map on file with the County Register of Deeds or in common use by
county and community officials and which actually exits as shown, or any part
of the parcel held in a record ownership separate from that of the remainder
thereof.
      LOT, WIDTH OF. The width measured along the front lot line or street
line.
      MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot or parcel of land within the manufactured
home park designed to accommodate one manufactured home.
      MANUFACTURED HOMES. A structure, transportable in one or more sections,
which is built on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not
include recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
      MANUFACTURING. An operation in which raw materials or partially finished
material is processed. This processing can include stamping, rolling, forging,
plating, heat-treating, forming, molding and assembly.
      MASSAGE. The definition of a MASSAGE as defined in the Kochville Township
Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT.  The definition of a MASSAGE ESTABLISHMENT as
defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as
codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium project
as approved by the Zoning Administrator to which is attached as exhibits and
incorporated by reference, the approved bylaws for the project and the approved
condominium subdivision plan for the project.
      MASTER PLAN. A comprehensive long-range plan intended to guide the growth
and development of a community. The PLAN includes analysis, recommendations and
proposals for the community's population, economy, housing, transportation,
community facilities and future land use.
      MATERIAL. The definition of a MATERIAL as defined in the Kochville
Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      MERCHANDISE.  The definition of a MERCHANDISE as defined in the Kochville
Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      MDOT. Michigan Department of Transportation.
      MINING. The extraction of minerals, including solids, such as coal, ores,
liquids, such as crude petroleum and gases such as natural gases. MINING also
includes quarrying, ground water diversion, soil removal, milling, crashing,
screening, washing and flotation of materials, and any other preparation
customarily done at the mine site or as part of a mining activity. The
following are not considered as MINING OPERATIONS:
         (a)   Excavation approved by a governmental body or competent
jurisdiction in conjunction with the installation or maintenance of publicly
owned or operated utilities, drainage facilities, roads or other publicly owned
or operated improvements, where the excavation is limited to the site of the
public utility or improvement;
         (b)   Excavation of limited scope and duration and which is undertaken
for the immediate use and development of the land excavated, pursuant to a
valid building permit issued from the township, such as for purposes of
building construction, septic tanks or swimming pools; and
         (c)   Excavation in conjunction with farming operations conducted in
accordance with generally accepted agricultural practices, including
agricultural drainage work incidental to farming operations and irrigation or
stock watering ponds.
      MINI-STORAGE. See INDIVIDUAL STORAGE FACILITY.
      MINOR.  The definition of a MINOR as defined in the Kochville Township
Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      MORGUE. A place where the bodies of deceased persons are temporarily kept
pending identification or release for burial or autopsy, and in which no
medical procedures occur. A MORGUE is not to be considered synonymous with the
definition of a MORTUARY.
      MORTUARY. See FUNERAL HOME.
      MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in
connecting units, where individual spaces are offered for occupancy as
temporary accommodations on a day-to-day basis, with separate bathroom and
toilet facilities. The term MOTEL shall include buildings designed as “auto
courts”, “tourist courts”, “motor hotels”, and similar uses which are designed
as integrated units of individual rooms under common ownership. A MOTEL is not
considered an “Adult Motel” unless it meets the definition of an “Adult Motel”
as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as
codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code.
      MULTIPLE-FAMILY. An building, or portion thereof, which is designed,
built, rented, leased, let or hired out to be occupied as the residence of
three or more families.
      NATIVE PLANT. A plant species that has naturally evolved in a certain
area over thousands of years under certain soil, hydrologic and other site
conditions. Where NATIVE PLANT is used in the text, this means a straight
species, not a cultivar of a species.
      NATURAL FEATURE. A watercourse, including a lake, pond, river, stream or
creek.
      NEW CONSTRUCTION. A structure for which the "start of construction"
commenced on or after the effective date of this chapter.
      NON-CONFORMITY. Any use of land or building, any parcel of land, or any
building or other structure which does not comply with all of the district
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located. Private roads
existing at the time of adoption of this chapter are legal non-conforming uses
of land.
      NOVELTY. The definition of a NOVELTY as defined in the Kochville Township
Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      NUDE MODEL STUDIO.  The definition of a NUDE MODEL STUDIO as defined in
the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      NURSERY. Land or greenhouses used to raise flowers, shrubs, trees and
plants for sale.
      OFFICE. A place of business in which professional services are rendered
or management activities of an enterprise are carried out. All such activities
take place inside a building. OFFICE activities include, but are not limited
to, law, medicine, dentistry, accounting or computer consulting, bookkeeping,
tax preparation, insurance, securities brokerage, executive or managerial
functions for any type of enterprise, workshop or studio for a graphic artist
or photographer, studio for broadcast media, all aspects of a newspaper or
publishing business except actual printing, binding or distribution centers,
and a base of operation for salespeople which does not include storage or
display of merchandise.
      OPAQUE. Not pervious to light.
      OPEN SPACE. Any unoccupied space open to the sky on the same lot with a
building. See COURTS.
      OUTDOOR COMMERCIAL RECREATION. An area or structure that offers
commercial entertainment or recreation where any portion of the activity takes
place outside. This includes, but is not limited to, a golf driving ranges,
batting cages, riding arenas and corrals, racquet sports, miniature golf, paint
ball, go-kart track, archery range or similar activities. This use may include
associated accessory eating and drinking areas, retail sales areas and staff
offices.
      PARCEL. A parcel is a continuous piece of land under uniform ownership,
which is occupied or intended for occupancy by principal building or use and
any accessory structures or uses thereto. Every PARCEL shall abut upon and have
permanent access to a public street. Also LOT.
      PARKING SPACE. An off-street space of at least 162 square feet exclusive
of necessary driveways, aisles or maneuvering areas suitable to accommodate one
motor vehicle and having direct unobstructed access to a street or alley.
      PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS. A business that primarily serves needs of
individual people or families, including, but not limited to, hair or skin
care, grooming, dry cleaning, tanning, health clubs, spas or tailoring, shoe
repair and repair of small appliances, watches or jewelry.
      PET GROOMING ESTABLISHMENT. Personal service establishment that, for a
fee, trims, cleans or curries domestic pets such as dogs or cats and which may
sell pet supplies as an incidental use. This term does not include
establishments which board pets.
      PLACE OF WORSHIP. The definition of a Place of Worship as defined in the
Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      PLANNED COMMERCIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT. A self-contained development in
which zoning regulations apply to the entire project rather than to separate
lots.
      PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of land which allows
through a planned reduction, or averaging, of the individual lot area
requirements for each zoning district providing the overall density
requirements for each district remains the same for each single-family dwelling
unit. The averaging or reduction of lot area requirements shall only be
permitted when a land owner or group of owners acting jointly, can plan and
develop a tract of land as one complex land use unit rather than an aggregation
of individual buildings located on separate unrelated lots.
      PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. Is a self contained development, usually with a
mixture of housing types in which subdivision and zoning regulations apply to
the entire project rather than to separate lots. A PUD may also include mixed
uses and can apply to commercial or office development.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The officially designated body of the township
enabled under Pub. Act 33 of 2008 with all the duties and powers described
therein. By extension, PLANNING COMMISSION is construed to include the Township
Zoning Board prior to the effective date of Township Board action reorganizing
the Zoning Board into a Planning Commission under provisions of Pub. Act 33 of
2008.
      POND. An artificially or naturally confined body of still water,
excluding swimming pools.
      PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
      PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exist.
      PRIVATE ROADS. Roads approved and constructed in accordance with §§
91.01 through
91.16 of this code of ordinances.
      PRIVATE STREET. Streets approved and constructed in accordance with §§
91.01 through
91.16 of this code of ordinances.
      PUBLIC BUILDING. Those buildings that are open to the public during
normal business hours including:
         (a)   Any building which provides facilities or shelter for public
assembly or which is used for educational, office or institutional purposes;
         (b)   Any inn, hotel, motel, sports arena, supermarket, transportation
terminal, retail store, restaurant or other commercial establishment, which
provides services or retail merchandise;
         (c)   Any general office space and any portion of an industrial
facility used primarily as office space;
         (d)   Any building owned by a state or political subdivision thereof,
including libraries, museums, schools, hospitals, auditoriums, sport arenas and
university buildings; and
         (e)   Any public or private non-profit school or hospital.
      PUBLIC LIBRARY.  The definition of a PUBLIC LIBRARY as defined in the
Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      PUBLIC PARK. The definition of a PUBLIC PARK as defined in the Kochville
Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      PUBLIC STREET.
         (a)   Any vehicular way which:
            1.   Is an existing state, county or municipal roadway;
            2.   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law; or
            3.   Is approved by other official action; and includes the land
between the street or right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved.
         (b)   A public thoroughfare, which affords the principal means of
access to abutting property.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or
board fully authorized to furnish to the public electricity, gas, steam,
telephone, telegraph, transportation or water services. Wireless communication
facilities are not considered PUBLIC UTILITIES.
      QUARRIES. A place where building stone, marble or slate is excavated.
      RACE TRACKS. A course prepared for horse, dog racing or cars.
      RECREATIONAL USE, COMMERCIAL. For profit establishments providing
recreational activities for a fee. In general, these activities are
participatory in nature. COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL FACILITIES include such uses
as bowling alleys, roller rinks, race tracks, arcades, indoor driving ranges,
miniature or putt-putt golf and the like.
      RECREATION VEHICLE. A vehicular, portable structure designed as a
temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation uses.
      RECREATIONAL USE, PRIVATE. A recreational use carried out entirely on
private land for the property owner and his or her guests' pleasure. PRIVATE
RECREATIONAL USES are not open to the public or admissible by a fee. Examples
of this are Putt Putt golf, go-karts and similar uses.
      RECREATIONAL VEHICLE, EQUIPMENT. A vehicular type portable structure
without permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled or driven. It may be
used for temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping and travel
use. These vehicles include, but are not limited to, campers, travel trailers,
truck campers or motor homes. Other vehicles/equipment also included in this
definition are trailers of any kind, personal watercraft, off-road vehicles of
any kind, snowmobiles and similar vehicles/equipment that may propel a person
or is used to transport the vehicles. All described vehicles and/or equipment
must have a valid and current license, issued by a state in prominent display
to be considered licensed.
      RESTAURANT. An establishment where food and drink are prepared, served
and consumed primarily within the principal buildings.
      RESTAURANT WITH ENTERTAINMENT. Any restaurant, as defined above, with
live presentations of any kind.
      RETAIL. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of the goods.
      RETAIL, FOOD. Any fixed or mobile place or facility at or in which food
or drink is offered or prepared for retail sale or for service with or without
charge on or at the premises or elsewhere.
      RIGHT-OF-WAY. A street, alley or other thoroughfare or easement
permanently established for passage of persons or vehicles.
      ROAD. See STREET.
      ROADSIDE STAND. A structure for the display of agricultural products,
with no space for customers within the structure itself.
      ROW HOUSE. Identical houses joined along sides by common walls.
      SALES AREA. Defined as the floor area within the inside perimeter of the
exterior walls of the commercial establishment, exclusive of vent shafts and
courts, storage, stock, office and shipping areas, without deduction for
corridors, display fixtures, stairways, public restrooms, closets, the
thickness of interior walls, columns or other features.
      SAND/GRAVEL PIT. An area primarily engaged in operating and dredging sand
and gravel; washing, screening or otherwise preparing sand and gravel.
      SANITARY LANDFILL. A tract of land developed, designed and operated to
accommodate general types of solid waste including, but not limited to,
garbage, rubbish, soils and concrete, but excluding hazardous waste.
      SCHOOL. The definition of a SCHOOL as defined in the Kochville Township
Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      SCRC. Saginaw County Road Commission.
      S.E.V. The state equalized valuation of the property in question. This is
presumed to be 50% of the property's true cash value.
      SEASONAL USE. See TEMPORARY BUILDING USE and TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USE.
      SERVICE AREA. Anywhere fuel is dispensed or any service of the business
is performed.
      SERVICE BUSINESS. An enterprise, which deals in the performance of work
for hire. No outdoor activity takes place on the premises. All work is
performed either at the customer's place of business or residence or within the
building occupied by the SERVICE BUSINESS. See also FINANCIAL BUSINESS,
PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS.
      SERVICE DRIVE. A private drive intended to provide access between and
among private properties.
      SERVICE INSTALLATIONS AND PUBLIC UTILITIES. This includes transformers
and pump stations and meters and those aspects of electric, telephone, water
and sewer tanks, cable television, gas and other similar services that provide
direct service to the ultimate consumer and shall  include warehousing, storage
yards and similar industrially oriented facilities of utility companies.
Certain utilities and services shall be exempt, for the purposes of this
chapter, from this definition and the requirements hereof. These include:
traffic signals, fire hydrants, telephone booths and pedestals, mailboxes;
wires, poles, pipes and meters and similar facilities which provide service
connections between primary distribution lines or mains and individual
residential, commercial or industrial customers; railroad tracks, signals,
bridges and other similar facilities and equipment located on a railroad right-
of-way.
      SETBACK. A FRONT SETBACK is measured from the edge of the right-of-way of
any abutting roadway. A REAR SETBACK is measured from the rear property line. A
SIDE SETBACK is measured from any other abutting property line. Corner lots
shall require two FRONT SETBACKS, but only one rear setback.
      SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER. The definition of a SEXUAL ENCOUNTER CENTER as
defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as
codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS.  The definition of a SEXUALLY ORIENTED
BUSINESS as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      SHOOTING CLUB. A private association of people who hunt for sport on a
parcel of land using firearms such as, though not limited to, shotguns and
rifles.
      SHOOTING RANGE. As defined by Pub. Act 269 of 1989, being M.C.L.A. §§
691.1541 to 691.1544.
      SIGN. Please refer to
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
      SITE, AREA. The total area within the property lines excluding street
right-of-ways.
      SITE CONDOMINIUM. The portion of a condominium subdivision designed and
intended for occupancy and use by the unit owner consistent with the provisions
of the master deed. A condominium unit is not a lot or a parcel as those terms
are used in this chapter.
      SOIL or SOILS. Peat, gravel, sand, clay, subsoil, topsoil, earth or other
soils.
      SPECIAL ACTIVITIES. Activities of a one-time or annual nature including
but not limited to, auto rallies, concerts, auto shows, revival meetings,
carnivals, haunted houses, etc. SPECIAL ACTIVITIES do not include any
activities as defined in
Chapter 114, Sexually Oriented Businesses, even if onetime or annual in nature.
      SPECIAL USE. The term applied to a use, which may be permitted by the
application for and issuance of a special use permit by the Planning
Commission. Special procedures and requirements, as outlined in cited sections,
must be complied with prior to issuance of the permit.
      SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS. The definition of SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS
as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business Ordinance as
codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. The definition of SPECIFIED SEXUAL
ACTIVITIES as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. An accessory building in which horses are kept for
private use and not for hire.
      STACKING LANE. An area for temporary queuing of motor vehicles.
      STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A private residence licensed by the
state to receive not more than six aged, emotionally disturbed, developmentally
disabled or physically handicapped adults who require ongoing supervision, but
not continuing nursing care. Note that the licensee must be a member of the
household and an occupant of the residence. Note also that none of the
following may be construed to be a STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: a
nursing home, home for the aged, or hospital, as defined by Pub. Act 368 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.; a hospital for the mentally ill, as
defined by Pub. Act 258 of 1974, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1100 et seq.; a county
infirmary, as defined by Pub. Act 280 of 1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 400.1 et seq.;
a child caring institution, children's camp, foster family home or group home,
as defined by Pub. Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 through 722.128;
a veterans' facility, as defined by Pub. Act 152 of 1885, being M.C.L.A. §§
36.1 to 36.12; nor an alcohol or substance abuse rehabilitation center, a
residential facility for persons released from or assigned to adult
correctional institutions, a maternity home, a hotel or a rooming house, nor a
residential facility licensed by the state to care for four or fewer minors.
      STATE OF NUDITY OR PUBLIC NUDITY.  The definition of a STATE OF NUDITY OR
PUBLIC NUDITY as defined in the Kochville Township Sexually Oriented Business
Ordinance as codified in
Chapter 114 of this Code, is hereby adopted by reference hereto and
incorporated herein.
      STORY, HALF. A space under a sloping roof which has the line of
intersection of roof decking and wall face not more than five feet above the
top floor level and in which space not more than two-thirds of the floor area
is finished off for use. A HALF-STORY containing independent apartments or
living quarters shall be counted as a full story.
      STORY, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the top surface of one floor
to the top surface of the next floor above. The HEIGHT of the top-most story is
the distance from the top surface of the floor to the top surface of the
ceiling joists.
      STREET. A public or private thoroughfare, which affords the principal
means of access to abutting property.
      STREET FUNCTION CLASSIFICATION. Functional classification is the process
by which streets and highways are grouped into classes, or systems, according
to the character of service they are intended to provide. Three basis groups
include: arterials for primary mobility; collectors for both mobility and land
access, and locals for primary land access.
         (a)   COLLECTOR. A public or private collector system provides both
land access service and for local traffic movements within residential
neighborhoods, commercial areas and industrial areas.
         (b)   LOCAL. A public or private vehicular right-of-way that serves as
direct land access to higher systems.
         (c)   MINOR ARTERIAL. Interconnects with and augments the principal
arterial system and provides service to trips of moderate length at a somewhat
lower level of travel mobility.
         (d)   PRINCIPAL ARTERIAL. Serves the major centers of activity of the
region and carries the highest traffic volume.
      STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
      SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
         (a)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the
cost of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure
either:
            1.   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
            2.   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored,
before the damage occurred.
         (b)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affect the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
            1.   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local Health, Sanitary or Safety Code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
            2.   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register
of Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
      SUBSTANTIAL PROPERTY RIGHT. A veritable right to specific material
property.
      SWALE. An open drainage channel or depression, explicitly designed to
detain and promote the filtration of storm water runoff into an underlying soil
media.
      SWIMMING POOL. An artificially contained body of water for the purpose of
swimming excluding hot tubs. A SWIMMING POOL is greater than two feet deep at
any point.
      TAPER. A traffic lane, varying in length, used to move traffic out of or
in to its normal path.
      TATTOO AND PIERCING PARLOR. An establishment whose principle business
activity, either in terms of operation or as conveyed to the public, is the
practice of one or more of the following:
         (a)   Placing designs, letters, figures, symbols or other marks upon
or under the skin of any person, using ink or other substances that result in
the permanent coloration of the skin by means of the use of needles or other
instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin; and/or
         (b)   Creation of an opening in the body of a person for the purpose
of inserting jewelry or other decoration.
      TAVERN. An establishment used primarily for the serving of alcoholic
beverages by the drink to the general public and where food or packaged
alcoholic beverages may be served or sold only as accessory to the primary use.
      TEMPORARY BUILDING USE. A use in a temporary or permanent structure,
established for a fixed period of time with the intent to discontinue the use
upon the expiration of the time period granted in the special use permit.
      TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USE. A use carried out in an open area or uncovered or
temporary structure, which is disbanded when the designated time period,
activity or use for which the temporary structure was erected, has ceased.
      TOWNHOUSE. Single-family attached unit in structures housing three or
more dwelling units, contiguous to each other only by the sharing of one common
bearing wall; such structures are to be of the townhouse type as contrasted to
multiple-family dwelling apartment structures. No single structure shall
contain in excess of eight dwelling units and each dwelling unit shall have
separate and individual front and rear entrances.
      TRUCK GARDEN. A farm where vegetables are grown for market.
      USE. The employment or occupation of a building structure or land for
service, benefit or enjoyment.
      VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter
granted when strict enforcement thereof would cause undue hardship owing to
circumstances unique to the specific property on which the modification is
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      VARIANCE (ACCESS MANAGEMENT). An adjustment in the application of the
specific regulations of the access management ordinance to a particular piece
of property, which property, because of special circumstances applicable to it,
is deprived of privileges commonly enjoyed by other properties in the same
vicinity and zone and which adjustment remedies the disparity in privileges.
      VEHICLE. Any mode of transportation that transports people or objects and
requires a license, license plate or registration.
      WATERCOURSE. Any natural or artificial watercourse, stream, channel,
creek, ditch, canal, conduit, culvert, drain, waterway, gully, ravine or wash
in which water flows in a definite direction or course, either continuously or
intermittently, and which has a definite channel, bed and banks, and shall
include any area adjacent tracts subject to inundation by reason of overflow of
flood water.
      WETLAND. Land characterized by the presence of water at a frequency and
duration sufficient to support and that under normal circumstances does
support, wetland vegetation or aquatic life, and is commonly referred to as a
BOG, SWAMP or MARSH.
      WHOLESALE, JOBBING, AND DISTRIBUTING.  The sale of goods or merchandise
to retailers, to industrial, commercial, institutional, or other professional
business users, or to other wholesalers, and related subordinated services.
Wholesalers frequently physically assemble or sort and grade goods in large
lots, break bulk, repack and redistribute in smaller lots.
      WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. A radio, telephone, cellular telephone
or television relay structure of skeleton framework, or monopole attached
directly to the ground or to another structure, used for the transmission of
reception of radio, telephone, cellular telephone, television, microwave or any
other form of telecommunications signals.
      YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, unobstructed from
the ground upward, except as otherwise provided herein. The measurement of a
YARD shall be construed as the minimum horizontal distance between the lot line
and the building line.
         (a)   YARD, FRONT. A yard extending across the front of a lot between
the side lot lines and measured between the front line of the lot and nearest
point of the main building or land use.
         (b)   YARD, REAR. An open space on the same lot with a main building,
unoccupied, except as herein permitted, extending the full width of the lot and
situated between the rear line of the lot and rear line of the building
projected to the side lines of the lot. The depth of the REAR YARD shall be
measured between the rear line of the lot, or the centerline of the alley, if
there is an alley, and the rear line of the building.
         (c)   YARD, SIDE. An open, unoccupied space on the same lot with the
building, situated between the building and the side line of the lot and
extending from the front yard to the rear yard. Any lot line not a front line
or a rear line shall be deemed as a side line.
      YARD REQUIRED, HOW MEASURED. Required yard depth or width shall be
measured in a horizontal plane and at right angels from the lot line in
question or an extension thereof.
      ZERO LOT LINE. The duplex building must be constructed so that each unit
will occupy approximately one-half of the original lot. Each unit must have its
own driveway and garage on its portion of the original lot. The division line
must be through the common wall of the duplex building. An owner's agreement,
detailing all items of common concern, must be recorded in the office of the
Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 14-03, passed 4-22-2014;
Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016; Ord. 21-05, passed 7-19-2021)
SUPPLEMENTARY USE REGULATIONS
§ 155.020 GRANTING PERMITS.
   The Zoning Administrator, or his or her designee, shall have the power to
grant permits authorizing temporary permits for permanent business within the
township for the uses listed in §
155.021.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.021 TEMPORARY USE PERMITS.
   A temporary use permit is required for limited term activities or events,
which occur on commercial property within the township that may potentially
create off-site impacts to surrounding properties in which it will occur. This
includes outdoor sales, tent sales, and sidewalk sales, fireworks sales,
seasonal sales for plants, produce, firewood or Christmas trees. Special events
for gatherings of people, where under a tent or not or confined within any type
of physical barrier, food or beverage is served, is also is considered a
temporary use requiring a temporary use permit. Township Board approval is
required where a special event has entertainment in addition to food or
beverage and applications for such events shall be submitted 30 days in advance
of the planned event. A temporary use permit is not required for religious
institutions, residential uses, agricultural uses, or special events occurring
at township parks, such as sporting events or other approved events sanctioned
by the township.
   (A)   Zoning districts where permitted. Temporary use permits for outdoor
sales, tent sales, sidewalk sales or seasonal sales of plants,, produce,
firewood or Christmas trees, shall be permitted only in the B-l, B-2, and B-
3 zoning districts.
   (B)   Application; fee; submission of site plan.
      (1)   Every person, firm or corporation desiring to obtain a temporary
permit as required by this chapter shall file a written application with the
Zoning Administrator on a form approved by the township, together with an
application fee as hereafter provided by resolution of the Township Board.
      (2)   The application for a temporary use permit shall be accompanied by
a site plan, drawn to scale, showing the following:
         (a)   The shape, location and dimensions of the lot, including the
location of buildings on the lot, off-street parking layout, the location of
any designated fire lanes and areas for the outdoor sales. An aerial photo may
also be used in lieu of a drawn site plan where all details above are included.
         (b)   Materials to be utilized including structures to be erected,
including tents, tables, stands, display racks, stages, barriers, traffic
control measures; and
         (c)   Loss of off-street parking, anticipated number of people for
special events.
   (C)   Time limitations.
      (1)   A temporary permit for a tent or sidewalk sale shall, by its terms,
be effective for no longer than 14 days. No more than three temporary permits
for tent sales or sidewalk sales shall be issued for a given location within a
single calendar year. Temporary permits for tent sales or sidewalk sales shall
not be issued for any given location for consecutive time periods.
      (2)   A temporary permit for the sale of Christmas trees shall by its
terms be effective for no longer than 30 days. No more than one temporary
permit for the sale of Christmas trees shall be issued for any given location
within a single calendar year.
      (3)   A temporary permit for outdoor sales, including, but not limited
to, the sale of plants, produce or for the sale of firewood, shall, by its
terms, be effective for no longer than one six-month period. No more than two
temporary permits for sale of plants, produce or for the sale of firewood shall
be issued for any given location within a 12-month period. A temporary permit
is effective beginning April 1 and ends on September 30. A temporary permit is
also effective beginning October 1 and ends on March 31. A temporary permit can
be renewed for another consecutive six-month period. Permits sought between
April 1 and September 30 shall expire on September 30 of that same year and
permits sought after October 1, but before March 31 shall expire on March 31 of
that same year.
   (D)   Regulations.
      (1)   A temporary permit shall only be granted if the Zoning
Administrator or his or her designee determines that the proposed use,
including the erection of any temporary building or structure, will:
         (a)   Provide adequate light and ventilation in the areas of outdoor
sales;
         (b)   Provide adequate automobile and pedestrian traffic flow without
congestion;
         (c)   Provide adequate off-street parking which will not displace
required off-street parking for the indoor sales;
         (d)   Provide adequate lot access for fire protection purposes;
         (e)   Not adversely affect the stability and integrity of the zoning
plan prescribed by this chapter or otherwise interfere with the protection of
public health, safety and general welfare;
         (f)   Not be incompatible with or otherwise adversely affect the
physical character of the community and in particular the surrounding area
within a distance of 1,000 feet; and
         (g)   Provides space for sidewalk or tent sales adjacent to the
primary structure on the premises.
      (2)   When the proposed temporary use is to be conducted on an otherwise
vacant or unused lot, the use shall comply with all applicable zoning
regulations for the district in which the temporary special use is to be
located, including all requirements pertaining to lot size, height, setback,
open space ratio, maximum percentage of covered lot area and off-street
parking.
      (3)   No temporary use shall be permitted if it reduces the parking by
greater than 25%.
      (4)   All temporary buildings and structures shall be constructed, used,
occupied and maintained so as to be in compliance with the provisions of the
State Construction Code, the adopted International Fire Code, and all
applicable ordinances of the township.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 17-05,
passed 6-19-2017) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.022 PRIOR BUILDING PERMITS.
   Any building permit issued prior to the effective date of this chapter shall
be valid, even though not conforming to the provisions of this chapter;
provided that, construction is commenced within 90 days after the date of
permit issuance and that the entire building shall be completed according to
the plans filed with the permit application within one year after the issuance
of the building permit.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.023 ACCESS TO A STREET.
   Any lot of record, created after the effective date of this chapter, shall
have frontage on a street, except as may be approved as a planned unit
development in accordance with the provision of this chapter or the Plat Act of
1967, as amended.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.024 REAR DWELLING PROHIBITED.
   No accessory building in the rear of and on the same lot with a principal
building shall be used for residential purposes, except for watchpersons,
caretakers and domestic employees whose employment functions are related to the
function of the principal building; provided that, all other requirements of
this chapter are satisfied.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.025 LOTS ALONG RAILROAD RIGHTS-OF-WAY OR PROPERTY.
   Any lot created or recorded that is adjacent to or along a railroad right-
of-way shall not be used for any residential purpose unless it has a depth of
at least 250 feet. In no case, on a lot created, transferred or recorded after
the adoption of this chapter shall any dwelling unit be closer than 125 feet
from the railroad right-of-way.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.026 USE OF STRUCTURE FOR TEMPORARY DWELLING.
   No structure shall be used for dwelling purposes that do not meet the
minimum standards as defined in this chapter, and the requirements of the
Building Code. No temporary structure whether of a fixed or portable
construction shall be erected for any length of time unless authorized by the
issuance by the Building Inspector of a temporary permit.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.027 MANUFACTURED HOME DWELLINGS.
   No person or entity shall use, occupy or permit the use or occupation of a
manufactured home as a dwelling within the township, not designated as a
manufactured home park, unless:
   (A)   A permit for the placement of a manufactured home has been obtained
from the township official authorized by the Township Board to issue the same;
   (B)   The placement of a manufactured home, and the premises upon which it
shall be located shall meet all requirements of this chapter relative to uses,
size of premises, floor area, set back, side lot and rear lot requirements
specified for the particular zoning district in which the manufactured home is
located. Further, a manufactured home occupied as a dwelling, shall have a
minimum width across any front, side or rear elevation of 14 feet. Where a
manufactured home dwelling is required by law to comply with any federal or
state standards or regulations for construction and where the standards or
regulations for construction are different than those imposed under the
Township Building Code, then, and in that event, the federal or state standard
or regulation shall apply;
   (C)   A manufactured home shall be firmly attached to a permanent foundation
constructed on the site in accordance with the Township Building Code and shall
have a wall of the same perimeter dimensions of the dwelling and constructed of
the materials and type as required in the Township Building Code for other
single-family dwellings. The manufactured home dwelling shall be installed
pursuant to the manufacturer's set-up instructions and shall be secured to the
premises by an anchoring system or device complying with the rules and
regulations of the State Mobile Home Commission, and shall have a perimeter
wall as required above. The manufactured home shall be so placed and situated
that the wheels shall be removed and the underside or chassis of the
manufactured home shall be completely enclosed and connected to the foundation
so that the towing mechanism, undercarriage or chassis are not exposed to view;
   (D)   A manufactured home shall meet or exceed all requirements imposed by
the United States Department of Housing and Urban Development mobile home
construction and safety standards;
   (E)   A manufactured home shall contain no additions or rooms or other areas
that are not constructed with similar quality workmanship as the original
structure, including permanent attachment to the principal structure and
construction of a foundation as required herein;
   (F)   A manufactured home shall be aesthetically compatible in design and
appearance with other residences in the vicinity, with either a roof overhang
of not less than six inches on all sides, or alternatively with window sills or
roof drainage systems concentrating roof drainage at collection points along
the sides of the dwelling; shall have not less than two exterior doors with the
second one being in either the rear or side of the mobile home dwelling; shall
have steps connected to the exterior door areas or to porches connected to the
door areas where a difference in elevation requires the same; and
   (G)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in the
first instance by the Township Zoning Administrator upon review of the plans
submitted for a particular manufactured home, subject to appeal by an aggrieved
party to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Any determination of compatibility shall
be based upon the standards set forth herein, as well as the character, design
and appearance of one or more residential dwellings located outside a
manufactured home park within 2,000 feet of the subject manufactured home where
the area is developed with dwellings to the extent of not less than 20% of the
lots situated within the area; or, where the area is not developed, by the
character, design and appearance of one or more residential dwellings located
outside of mobile home parks throughout the township. This shall not be
construed to prohibit innovative design concepts involving such matters as
solar energy, view, unique land contour or relief from the common or standard
designed home.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.028 ATTACHED HOUSING RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   The following site development standards shall apply to attached housing
developments, including two-family dwellings, townhome development, and
multiple-family dwellings, in all zoning districts in which they are uses
permitted by right or by special use permit:
   (A)   Building length.
      (1)   Attached housing buildings shall not exceed 150 feet in overall
length, measured along the front line of connecting units, inclusive of any
architectural features which are attached to or connect the parts of the
building together (see illustration), except that the Planning Commission may
approve longer building lengths where the design incorporates attached garages
that are off-set from the front facade of a structure and provide a unique
style of architectural design.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1659.png]
      (2)   Horizontal facades longer than 36 feet shall be articulated into
smaller units of the residential scale. At least two of the following methods
shall be included (see illustration):
         (a)   Distinctive roof and wall forms or elements.
         (b)   Changes in materials or patterns.
         (c)   Windows (shape, pattern, trims and/or details).
         (d)   Color differentiation.
         (e)   Recesses, offsets, cantilevers.
         (f)    Arc hite ctur al feat ures (bay or bow win dow s, chimneys,
lower roofs and awnings).
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1661.png]
      (3)   Buildings shall include modulation along the building facades.
Special attention shall be given to building faces viewed from the street. Flat
blank walls are discouraged.
   (B)   Building spacing. The minimum distance between any two buildings shall
be based on the following tables:
 
Relationship Between Buildings Minimum Distance Between Buildings
Front to Front                 70 ft.
Front to Rear                  70 ft.
Rear to Rear                   70 ft.
Side to Side                   30 ft.
Front to Side                  50 ft.
Rear to Side                   50 ft.
 
   (C)   Street address. The address of each dwelling unit must be clearly
posted so that the unit can be readily identified from the roadway or adjacent
parking area.
   (D)   Access and circulation. Multiple family developments shall comply with
the following requirements for access and circulation (see illustration):
      (1)   Access to roads. Developments in the R-2, R-3, B-l and B-
2 districts shall have direct access to a collector road or major thoroughfare;
however, alternate means of access may be permitted by the Planning Commission
upon finding that, due to special circumstances, substantial improvements in
traffic safety could be achieved by reducing the number of driveways.
Furthermore, an alternate means of access shall be permitted only if one or
more of the following conditions exists:
         (a)   The property directly across the street from the development
under consideration is zoned for multiple family or non-residential use;
         (b)   The property directly across the street is developed with
permanent uses other than single family residences; or
         (c)   The proposed development is in an area which, based on study by
the Planning Commission, will eventually be used for purposes other than single
family use.
      (2)   Emergency access. All dwelling units, including those under
construction, shall be readily accessible by fire and emergency vehicles from a
paved public street, paved private access road, or other approved paved area.
Private roads or driveways dedicated as fire lanes shall be posted with signs
indicating "Fire Lane, No Parking." To facilitate emergency vehicle access, the
following guidelines shall be complied with:
         (a)   All roadways shall be paved and bi-directional, allowing for
both ingress and egress. A boulevard may be utilized to provide bi-directional
traffic movement, provided that the median strip is a minimum of 25 feet in
width, and the width of each paved moving lane in each direction is at least 15
feet.
         (b)   Streets with no outlet shall be terminated with an approved
method as determined by the Fire Department, a cul-de-sac, designed in
accordance with standards established and periodically updated by the Township
Engineer and kept on file in the Community Development Building Department.
Such streets with no outlet shall not exceed 150 feet without Fire Department
approval.
         (c)   Gatehouses and/or barricades at entrances to private roadways
shall be designed so as not to impede fire and emergency vehicle access and
must comply with the International Fire Code adopted at the time of site plan
submittal.
      (3)   Street dimensions. On-site streets and drives shall comply with the
standards in §
155.086, Parking Area and Circulation Design Requirements.
   (E)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be provided within the development, located
no less than five feet from and parallel to access drives. Such sidewalks shall
provide convenient access to community buildings and between parking areas and
dwelling units. Bicycle paths shall be provided along the collector road or
thoroughfare on which the development fronts.
   (F)   Parking. In addition to the requirements set forth in §§
155.080 to
155.089, attached housing developments shall comply with the following
requirements:
      (1)   Location. Required parking shall be located in parking lots or
individual driveways, and not in streets or access drives. Parking lots and
access drives shall not be located closer than 25 feet to a wall of any
residential structure which contains windows or doors, nor closer than ten feet
to a wall of any residential structure which does not contain openings.
      (2)   Distance from dwelling units. Parking shall be located within 150
feet of the dwelling units the parking is intended to serve, measured along the
sidewalk leading to the parking lot.
      (3)   Parking for community buildings. Parking shall be provided for
community buildings as specified in §
155.082, Off-Street Parking Requirements.
   (G)   Lighting. All parking areas, building entrances, sidewalks, and ramps
shall be illuminated to ensure the security of property and the safety of
persons using such areas, in accordance with the requirements set forth in §
155.089, Lighting.
   (H)   Landscaping. Multiple family developments shall be landscaped in
accordance with §
155.087, Landscaping.
   (I)   Open space. Open space shall be provided in any multiple family
development containing eight or more units. The open space shall comply with
the following requirements:
      (1)   Size. Total open space required shall be based on the number and
size of units, as indicated in the following chart, provided that each
development shall contain a minimum of 10,000 square feet of open space.
 
Type of Unit       Open Space Required per Unit
Efficiency unit    170 sq. ft. per unit
1 bedroom unit     250 sq. ft. per unit
2 bedrooms or more 350 sq. ft. per unit
 
      (2)   Location. Open space shall be located conveniently in relation to
the majority of dwelling units intended to be served. Swamp areas, marshy
areas, and similar limited-use areas shall not be included in the required open
space.
      (3)   Use of open space. Uses permitted within the required open space
include picnic and sitting areas, playground and park space, play equipment,
tennis courts, shuffleboard courts, and similar outdoor recreation facilities.
      (4)   Phasing. Open space improvements shall be completed in proportion
to the number of units constructed in each phase.
   (J)   Garages. Garages shall be permitted for each unit, in accordance with
the provisions for accessory buildings in §
155.003, Accessory Buildings.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.029 ONE DWELLING PER LOT.
   Only one single-family detached dwelling will be allowed to be erected on a
lot, except a residential site condominium.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.030 FENCES, WALLS AND SCREENS.
   (A)   No fence, wall or structural screen in a residential area shall have
barbed wire, electrified components or otherwise be intended to cause harm in
preventing entry to the property. No fence, wall or structural screen other
than plant materials shall be erected on any residential property greater than
six feet in height. No fence, wall or hedge planting shall exceed a height of
three feet within any residential front yard. On a corner lot or parcel, no
fence planting shall be allowed, except as may be permitted by the Zoning
Administrator. The Zoning Administrator will determine the fence or planting
does not interfere with vehicular or pedestrian traffic visibility. The fence
shall be constructed in a way that the more attractive side is exposed to
neighboring properties.
   (B)   The Planning Commission, as part of the site plan review, will
determine the type and location of fencing for public utility buildings or
facilities and industrial or commercial zoned sites.
   (C)   Barbed wire and fences with electric current may be permitted when
used in conjunction with an agricultural operation; provided, the fencing is
not used as a property boundary fence.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-01,
passed 1-22-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.031 INOPERATIVE OR DISMANTLED CARS, TRUCKS OR BUSES.
   The storage of dismantled, wrecked and/or unlicensed vehicles within any
district is expressly prohibited unless contained within a licensed junk yard
or an enclosed structure or provided storage does not exceed one week.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.032 AUTOMOBILE SALES, NEW AND USED.
   (A)   The sale of vehicles is prohibited in off-street parking areas other
than the sale of the property owner's own vehicle. This means parking lots may
not be used to display vehicles, boats or other items for sale. Emergency
service required to start vehicles, however, is permitted. Furthermore, the
buying, selling, brokering, leasing, negotiating a lease or dealing in five or
more vehicles in a 12-month period requires a dealer's license from the state.
State law requires the application for a dealer's license to include written
verification from the Zoning Administrator that the business meets all township
zoning and municipal requirements. The Secretary of State may deny the
application for a dealer's license, refuse to issue or may suspend or revoke a
license already issued, if it finds the applicant or licensee is not in
compliance with all applicable zoning and municipal requirements in the
township. Self-certification is not permitted.
   (B)   The following dealer's license classes must receive appropriate
approvals from the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Class A - New Vehicle Dealer;
      (2)   Class B - Used Vehicle Dealer;
      (3)   Class C - Used Vehicle Parts Dealer;
      (4)   Class D - Broker;
      (5)   Class E - Distressed Vehicle Transporter;
      (6)   Class F - Vehicle Scrap Metal Processor;
      (7)   Class G - Vehicle Salvage Pool Operator;
      (8)   Class R - Automotive Recycler; and
      (9)   Class W - Wholesaler.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.033 SPACE USED ONCE.
   Any yard or other open space provided about any building or structure for
the purpose of complying with the provisions of this chapter shall not be used
as a yard or other required open space for another building or structure
existing or intended to exist at the same time as the building or structure.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.034 USE EXCEPTIONS.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the following
accessory or incidental uses:
   (A)   Customary refreshment and service uses and buildings in any public
park or recreational area incidental to the recreational use of the area;
   (B)   Garden, garden ornaments and usual landscape features within required
yard space;
   (C)   Fences within required yard space;
   (D)   Retaining walls and public playground;
   (E)   Off-street parking for motor vehicles; and/or
   (F)   Use of a premise as a voting place in connection with local, state or
national elections.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.035 STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   Storage of recreational equipment including travel trailers, campers,
boats and similar recreational equipment is prohibited within the required
front yard area of any A or R district, except as follows: where adequate
ingress and egress is not available because of a permanent difficulty to the
side or rear yard set-back area, as determined by the Zoning Administrator,
then parking or storage would be allowed in the side yard area extending beyond
the front building line, however, not within 20 feet of the road right-of-way.
The maximum number of recreational vehicles allowed in this area is limited to
two.
   (B)   Recreational vehicles must be parked on an approved surface limited to
asphalt, concrete, limestone aggregate or permeable pavers. In required rear
and side yard areas, up to one of each type, or in the case of snowmobiles or
similar vehicles, up to four on a trailer may be stored or parked; provided
that, there is adequate ingress and egress available or potentially available
on either a public or private right-of-way.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.036 HEAVY VEHICLES AND EQUIPMENT.
   Storage of excavation, landscaping and other commercial equipment, including
trucks in excess of one-ton rated capacity is prohibited within any R, B-1 or
B-2 district.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-03,
passed 9-16-2008) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.037 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   The keeping of animals or reptiles considered dangerous in their normal
habitat is prohibited. This would include, but is not limited to, tigers,
lions, cheetahs, cobras and alligators and also unfenced or untethered "attack"
dogs.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.038 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   All structures and uses of land or buildings requiring site plan
review by the Township Planning Commission are subject to review under the
requirements of the storm water management design guidelines, described herein.
The intent of the guidelines is to encourage the use of structural, vegetative
or managerial practices, commonly referred to as best management practices
(BMPs), designed to treat, prevent or reduce degradation of water quality due
to storm water runoff.
   (B)   (1)   Site design in terms of storm water management must comply with
the federal, state and local guidelines related to Phase II of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) storm water regulations.
      (2)   In the county, there are 12 communities affected by the NPDES
program, including the township.
      (3)   The NPDES program in the state required these communities to obtain
a NPDES permit to discharge storm water into waters of the state and to develop
plans and procedures to keep the storm water clean.
      (4)   They formed the Saginaw Area Storm Water Authority (SASWA) in order
to organize their efforts to obtain the storm water discharge permits.
   (C)   Because storm water discharge from developments must be cleaned to the
maximum extent practicable, projects subject to storm water management design
review shall be designed, constructed and maintained using BMPs to prevent
flooding, protect water quality and contribute to the aesthetic values of the
project.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.039 GARAGE SALES.
   Yard, rummage, garage and similar sales providing:
   (A)   The sale is temporary, shall not continue for a period exceeding two
consecutive weekends (being six days total unless written permission has been
received by the Zoning Administrator) from the date of commencement and may not
commence again for at least 30 days from the last date of a prior sale at that
location with no more than three such sales per year.
   (B)   No items available during sales may be openly displayed when sales are
not in progress.
   (C)   The sale shall not be intended for more than incidental income and
shall not be intended to operate as a commercial venture providing regular
income.
(Ord. 14-04, passed 4-22-2014)
§ 155.040 STORAGE CONTAINERS AS STORAGE BUILDINGS PROHIBITED.
   It is the intent of this section to limit the placement and use of any
shipping container as an accessory building, storage building, on any parcels
located in any zoning district in Kochville Township except as provided for
herein. This limitation is to protect the public health and safety and the
aesthetic quality of Kochville Township.
   (A)   Shipping containers, storage containers, used as storage buildings
sited on any parcels located in any zoning district in Kochville Township is
prohibited except as specifically approved and under an active permit issued as
a temporary use. Requests for a temporary use permits for a temporary storage
container or containers will be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator and the
Fire Department Inspector to determine compliance with other codes or
ordinances; the submitted site plan and to determine that adequate space exists
and that placement does not impact vehicular traffic. Storage containers, at
the option of the zoning administrator, may require temporary screening and
containment.
   (B)   No permit for a storage container shall be valid longer than 90 days
in any calendar year.
   (C)   The allowable number of storage containers may be limited by the
zoning administrator based on demonstrated need, aesthetic impact on the
property, and Fire Department access.
   (D)   Storage containers that are placed on construction sites with an
active building permit or placed in advance of a project where a building
permit is to be issued are not regulated by this section with the exception of
location and impact on vehicular traffic.
(Ord. 19-02, passed 6-17-2019)
§ 155.041 PONDS.
   Any soil excavation for the purpose of constructing a pond shall be
permitted in any district subject to the following standards upon issuance of a
zoning permit:
   (A)   The term POND as used in this section is defined as any soil
excavation, digging, or grading resulting in substantial accumulation or
ponding of surface water or pumped water. Ponds of 200 square feet or more will
require a zoning permit. Small backyard waterfalls and liner ponds less than
200 square feet are not regulated by this section. Where the pond disturbs a
portion of a property that exceeds one acre, a soil erosion permit shall be
required from the Saginaw County Dept of Public Works. Where a pond exceeds
five acres, a permit from the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes,
and Energy (EGLE), will also be required.
      (1)   A permit from the EGLE is required (under Part 301, Inland Lakes
and Streams, and Part 303, Wetlands Protection, of the Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, as amended, prior to construction of
a pond if the pond will be:
         (a)   Within 500 feet of a lake or stream, or connected to a lake or
stream;
         (b)   Within a regulated wetland;
         (c)   Within the 100-year floodplain of a river or stream;
         (d)   Five surface acres or more in size.
      (2)   Where any of the above conditions exist, no permit for a pond will
be issued without EGLE approval and the submission of a copy of the permit to
the Kochville Community Development Department.
   (B)   Location of ponds. 
      (1)   No pond is to be located any closer than as provided below.
 
From any property line                                           10 feet
From any septic field                                            75 feet
From a water supply well                                         50 feet
From a road ditch or county drain or underground drainage system 50 feet
 
      (2)   The zoning administrator shall require a site plan that accurately
shows the location (by dimensions) of the pond including the required isolation
distances as provided in this section. No pond shall be located in an area
reserved for the replacement of a septic field.
   (C)   The pond shall not have a steeper slope than one to three on all sides
for the first six feet from the bank. Ponds shall not exceed 25 feet in total
depth and shall not encompass more than 15% of the rear yard surface area.
   (D)   Construction of a pond shall not cause an increase in runoff or
drainage to abutting properties beyond which may have occurred prior to its
construction. The zoning administrator shall require that any plan submitted
for ponds show an adequate method of preventing overflow or water onto adjacent
properties. To accomplish this purpose, the zoning administrator may require a
spillway leading to any approved drainage way or grassed berm along one or more
sides of the pond or both.
   (E)   There shall be a distance of not less than 30 feet between the outside
edge of the pond and any building.
   (F)   Construction of a permitted pond shall be completed within six months
of the date of the issuance of a permit. Extensions may be granted for just
cause. All areas disturbed during construction of the pond shall be seeded and
maintained in good condition to prevent erosion.
   (G)   Dangerous conditions. The property owner shall take every precaution
to ensure the safety of the public. Where conditions, during construction, may
be deemed to pose a hazard to people and animals, the zoning administrator may
require the installation of temporary barriers until the pond water is filled
to an acceptable level where a person or animal could exit the pond without
being trapped.
   (H)   Appropriate lifesaving equipment such as ring buoys shall be placed
near the pond and be easily seen and accessible for use during an emergency.
Appropriate warning signs shall be provided and maintained.
(Ord. 20-01, passed 2-24-2020)
SUPPLEMENTARY YARD REGULATIONS
§ 155.050 PERMITTED YARD ENCROACHMENTS.
   (A)   Paved terraces, patios and uncovered porches shall not be subject to
yard requirements; provided:
      (1)   The paved area is unroofed and without walls or other forms of
solid continuous enclosure that link the paved area to the principal building;
      (2)   The highest finished elevation of the paved area is not over two
feet above the average surrounding finished grade area; and
      (3)   No portion of any paved area is closer than five feet from any lot
line, nor projects into any front yard setback area. The paved areas may have
non-continuous windbreaks or walls not over six feet high and not enclosing
more than one-half the perimeter of the paved area.
   (B)   Unenclosed porches, roofed or unroofed, may project into a required
side or rear yard area a distance not to exceed eight feet; provided:
      (1)   The porch is unenclosed and no higher than one story and is erected
on supporting piers; and
      (2)   The porch shall not be closer than eight feet to any side or rear
lot line.
   (C)   Enclosed porches shall be considered an integral part of the building
and shall be subject to all yard and area dimensional requirements established
for principal buildings.
   (D)   Special structural elements such as cornices, sills, chimneys, gutters
and similar structural features may project into any yard up to a maximum of
two and one-half feet.
   (E)   Fire escapes, outside stairways and balconies, if of open
construction, may project into yard areas up to a maximum of five feet.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.051 YARD EXCEPTIONS.
   In cases where less than the full required future right-of-way width of a
street has been deeded or dedicated, the building setback on any properties
abutting thereon which have not provided for sufficient street area by deed or
dedication shall be measured from the future required right-of-way line. The
required setback shall be determined by the Township Planning Commission.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
SUPPLEMENTARY HEIGHT REGULATIONS
§ 155.065 PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS FOR STRUCTURAL APPURTENANCES.
   (A)   The following kinds of structural appurtenances shall be permitted to
exceed the height limitations for authorized uses:
      (1)   Church steeples, belfries, cupolas, domes, ornamental towers and
flag poles; provided that, the structural elements do not exceed 20% of the
gross roof area; and
      (2)   Appurtenances to mechanical or structural functions, such as
chimneys and smoke stacks, water tanks, elevator and stairwell penthouses,
ventilators, radio or television towers, aerials and fire and base towers;
provided, the total height of the structure or the building and appurtenances
be 175 feet or less from the ground.
   (B)   The permitted exceptions shall not be for human occupancy or dwelling.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
PARKING REQUIREMENTS
§ 155.080 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this chapter that parking and loading areas
be provided and adequately maintained in every zoning district for the purposes
of promoting safe and efficient storage of motor vehicles; to avoid unnecessary
congestion and interference with public use of streets; and to provide for
sound and stable environmental conditions the prevention of future blighted
areas and to promote the ease of access to businesses.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.081 OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In all zoning districts, off-street parking and loading requirements
shall be provided in amounts not less than those specified for the various
districts.
   (B)   Requirements for a use not mentioned shall be the same for that use
which is most similar to the use not listed.
   (C)   Additional parking shall be provided and maintained in proper ratio to
any increase in floor area or building use capacity.
   (D)   For the purposes of determining off-street parking and loading
requirements, the following provisions shall apply.
      (1)   In mercantile establishments, GROSS FLOOR AREA shall mean the floor
area used for service to the public. It shall not include floor area used for
storage or the processing and packaging of merchandise where it is carried on
in a room in which service to the public is not involved.
      (2)   In hospitals, bassinets shall not be counted as beds.
      (3)   Where benches, pews or other similar seating facilities are used as
seats, each 20 inches of the seating facilities shall be counted as one seat.
      (4)   The landscaping must be maintained and kept alive.
   (E)   In the case of mixed uses in the same building, the total requirements
of off-street parking and loading shall be the sum of the requirements for the
separate individual uses computed separately.
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to use any of the off-street parking or loading
areas established to meet the requirements of this chapter for any purpose
other than the parking of licensed vehicles or the loading or unloading of
necessary service trucks.
   (G)   Parking and loading is not allowed in the required front yard setback,
or in the case of a corner lot, in the required setback for the side street.
Off-street parking shall be no closer to any principal building than five feet.
Curbs shall be installed to prevent yard encroachment. A vehicle for sale can
be parked in the front yard, but not in the right-of-way. However, the grass
must be maintained around the vehicle. The vehicle may not be parked for sale
more than 30 consecutive days in a year. Any vehicle parked for sale must be
privately owned and a non-business/commercial vehicle and owned by the property
owner. A permit is required from the township and only two permits per address
are allowed in a calendar year.
   (H)   The length of the pedestrian walkway between the entrance of a
commercial use and the off-street parking area shall be a minimum of eight
feet. In the case of an access driveway or lane between the pedestrian walkway
and the off-street parking area, the length of the pedestrian walkway shall be
a minimum of 16 feet between the building and the traffic lane. The widths of
these walkways should correspond aesthetically to the length and meet the
approval of the Zoning Administrator or his or her delegate.
   (I)   Parking and loading areas may be extended to the property line, except
as herein above specified by division (F) above and as specified under §
155.083.
   (J)   The provisions of this subchapter shall further be subject to the
provisions of the Tittabawassee Road Control Regulations set forth in §§
155.350 and
155.351 and Bay Road Control Regulations set forth in §§
155.365 through
155.374.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-03,
passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.082 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The suggested minimum and maximum number of off-street parking areas by type
of use shall be determined in accordance with the following schedule:
Use Parking Spaces Suggested Maximum Parking Spaces
Use                       Parking Spaces Suggested   Maximum Parking Spaces
RESIDENTIAL
Manufactured home parks   2 for each manufactured    2 for each manufactured
                          home unit                  home unit
Residential, multiple-    2 for each dwelling unit   2 for each dwelling unit
family
Residential, one-family   1 for each dwelling unit   N/A
and two family
INSTITUTIONAL
Assembly halls, without
fixed seats, for
commercial recreation
including dance halls,    1 space for each 100 feet  1 space for each 50 square
pool or billiard parlors, of gross floor area used   feet of gross floor area
skating rinks and         for permitted use          used for permitted use
exhibition halls or
buildings for similar
assembly uses
                          1 for each employee during
                          busiest shift. In          1 for each employee during
                          addition, adequate waiting busiest shift. In
                          space for autos shall be   addition, adequate waiting
Auto wash                 provided on the premises   space for autos shall be
                          to accommodate 25% of the  provided on the premises
                          hourly rate of capacity,   to accommodate 50% of the
                          plus 1 space for each      hourly rate of capacity
                          vacuuming space
                          2 for each lubrication     2 for each lubrication
Automobile service        stall, rack or pit; and 1  stall, rack or pit and 1
establishments            for each service bay or    for each service bay or
                          fueling station            fueling station
                          2 spaces for each of the   2 spaces for each of the
Beauty parlor or barber   first 2 beauty or barber   first 2 beauty or barber
shop                      chairs and 1-1/2 spaces    chairs and 2 for each
                          for each additional chair  additional chair
                          3 for each 1 bowling lane, 4 for each 1 bowling lane,
Bowling alleys            plus add 1 space for each  plus add 1 space for each
                          employee on a maximum      employee on a maximum
                          shift                      shift
Business offices or
professional offices,     1 for each 600 square feet 1 for each 300 square feet
except as indicated in    of gross floor area        of gross floor area
the following item
Drive-in restaurants or
similar drive-in uses for 1 for each 50 square feet  1 for each 25 square feet
the sale of beverages,    of gross floor area        of gross floor area
food or refreshment
                          1 for each 1 teacher and   1 for each 1 teacher and
                          administrator, in addition administrator, in addition
Elementary and junior     to the requirements of the to the requirements of the
high schools              auditorium. If there is no auditorium. If there is no
                          auditorium, an additional  auditorium, an additional
                          1 space for each 30        1 space for each 20
                          students                   students
Establishments for sale   1 for each 100 square feet 1 for each 50 square feet
and consumption on the    of gross floor area,       of gross floor area,
premises of beverages,    except as otherwise        except as otherwise
food or refreshments      specified herein           specified herein
Financial institutions    1 for each 400 square feet 1 for each 225 square feet
                          of gross floor area        of gross floor area
                          1 for each 800 square feet 1 for each 600 square feet
Furniture and appliances, of gross floor area used   of gross floor area used
household equipment,      in processing; 1           in processing, 1
repair shops showrooms    additional space shall be  additional space shall be
and other similar uses    provided for each person   provided for each person
                          employed therein on        employed therein on
                          maximum working shift      maximum working shift
Golf courses open to the  6 for each 1 golf hole and 6 for each 1 golf hole and
general public, except    1 for each 1 employee on   1 for each 1 employee on
miniature or "par-3"      largest shift              largest shift
courses
Homes for the aged,       1 space for each 4 beds,   1 space for every 2 beds,
convalescent homes and    plus 1 space for each      plus 1 space for each
foster care homes         employee including nurses  employee including nurses
                          on maximum shift           on maximum shift
                          1 for each 3 non-          1 per non-ambulatory bed,
                          ambulatory patient beds,   plus 1 space for each
                          plus 1 space for each      staff or visiting doctor,
Hospitals                 staff or visiting doctor,  plus 1 space for each
                          plus 1 space for each      employee, including nurses
                          employee, including nurses on maximum working shift
                          on maximum working shift
Laundromats and coin-     1 for each 2 washing       1-1/2 for each 2 washing
operated dry cleaners     machines                   machines
                          1 for each 600 square feet 1 for each 600 square feet
Libraries, museums and    of gross floor area, plus  of gross floor area, plus
post office buildings     1 space for each employee  1 space for each employee
                          employed therein           employed therein
Lodge halls, meeting
halls and community       1 for each 4 persons of    1 for each 3 persons of
centers or buildings of   legal capacity as          legal capacity as
similar use without fixed established                established
seats
Miniature or "par-3" golf 2 for each 1 hole, plus 1  3 for each 1 hole, plus 1
courses                   for each employee          for each employee
                          1 for each 50 square feet  1 for each 40 square feet
Mortuary establishment    of parlor or chapel space, of gross floor area, plus
                          plus 1 for each employee   1 for each employee on
                          on maximum working shift   maximum working shift
                          1 for each 1 occupancy     1 for each 1 occupancy
                          unit, plus 1 for each      unit, plus 1 for each
                          employees on maximum       employees on maximum
Motel, hotel or other     working shift, plus extra  working shift, plus extra
commercial lodging        spaces for any assembly    spaces for any assembly
establishments            rooms, ballrooms or        rooms, ballrooms or
                          meeting rooms where the    meeting rooms where the
                          capacity of the areas      capacity of the areas
                          exceeds the number of beds exceeds the number of beds
                          in the building            in the building
Places of worship         1 for each 5 fixed seats   1 for each 5 fixed seats
Pre-school child care     1 for each employee and 1  1 for each employee and 1
(day nurseries)           for every 6 preschoolers   for every 6 preschoolers
Private golf clubs,
swimming pool clubs,      1 for each 2 member        1 for each 2 member
tennis clubs or other     families or individuals    families or individuals
similar uses
                          1 for each 20 square feet  1 for each 20 square feet
                          of gross floor area in     of gross floor area in
Professional offices of   waiting rooms, and 2 for   waiting rooms, and 2 for
doctors, dentists or      each examining room or     each examining room or
similar professions       dental chair, plus 1 for   dental chair, plus 1 for
                          each employee at a maximum each employee at a maximum
                          shift                      shift
                          1 for each 300 square feet 1 for each 250 square feet
Public office building    of gross floor area, plus  of gross floor area, plus
not elsewhere specified   1 space for each employee  1 space for each employee
                          employed therein           employed therein
Retail stores less than   1 for each 300 square feet 1 for each 250 square feet
5,000 square feet of      of gross floor area, plus  of gross floor area, plus
gross floor space, as     1 for each employee on     1 for each employee on
otherwise specified       maximum working shift      maximum working shift
herein
Retail stores more than   1 for each 250 square feet 1 for each 225 square feet
5,000 square feet of      of gross floor area, plus  of gross floor area, plus
gross floor space, as     1 for each employee on     1 for each employee on
otherwise specified       maximum working shift      maximum working shift
herein
                          1 for each 1 teacher and   1 for each 1 teacher and
                          administrator and 1 for    administrator and 1 for
Senior high schools and   each 10 students, in       each 5 students, in
colleges                  addition to the            addition to the
                          requirements of the        requirements of the
                          auditorium                 auditorium
Stadium, sports arena or  1 for each 3 seats or 6    1 for each 3 seats or 6
similar place or outdoor  feet of benches and 1 for  feet of benches and 1 for
assembly                  each employee on a maximum each employee on a maximum
                          work shift                 work shift
                          1 for each 4 seats, plus 1 1-1/2 for each 4 seats,
Theaters and auditoriums  for each employee on       plus 1 for each employee
                          maximum working shift      on maximum working shift
INDUSTRIAL
Industrial or research    5 visitor spaces, plus 1   5 visitor spaces, plus 1
establishments            for each employee on       for each employee on
                          maximum working shift      maximum working shift
                          5 visitor parking spaces,  5 visitor parking spaces,
Wholesale establishments  plus 1 for each employee   plus 1 for each employee
                          in the largest working     in the largest working
                          shift                      shift
 
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 12-001,
passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.083 AUTHORITY TO EXCEED PARKING MAXIMUM.
   The Zoning Administrator may require the installation of more than the
maximum number of parking stalls, for other than office uses, if the Zoning
Administrator determines that:
   (A)   Additional parking is necessary to meet the parking demand for a
specified use;
   (B)   Cooperative use of parking is not available or adequate to meet
demand; and
   (C)   Any required transportation management program will remain effective.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.084 EXISTING PARKING EXCEEDING MAXIMUM ALLOWED.
   (A)   Spaces serving another use. Parking spaces in excess of the maximum
number allowed which serve a use located on another property through a
cooperative parking agreement or other document may remain so as long as the
written, recorded obligation to supply that parking remains effective.
   (B)   General. Any other parking spaces in excess of the maximum number
allowed may remain until there is a substantial remodel of the structure or
change in use or business use for which the parking is provided. At the time of
a substantial remodel or change in use, the number of parking stalls must
conform to the requirements of this section and the design of all new or
modified parking and circulation areas must conform to the requirements of this
section.
   (C)   Exception. If a substantial remodel results in a total gross floor
area for the entire development of 10,000 square feet or less, parking spaces
in excess of the maximum allowed may remain in reserve, if it is land-banked
and properly landscaped, subject to the approval of the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.085 SHARED USE OF PARKING.
   (A)   General. The Zoning Administrator may approve shared use of parking
facilities located on separate properties if:
      (1)   A convenient pedestrian connection between the properties exists;
      (2)   The properties are within 500 feet and shall be contiguous; and
      (3)   The availability of parking or all affected properties is indicated
by directional signs as permitted by
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Number of spaces required. Where the uses to be served by shared
parking do not overlap their hours of operation, the property owner or owners
shall provide parking stalls equal to the greater of the applicable individual
parking requirements.
   (C)   Overlapping hours. Where the uses to be served by shared parking have
overlapping hours of operation, the property owner or owners shall provide
parking stalls equal to the total of the individual parking requirements. If
the following criteria are met, that total is reduced by 10%:
      (1)   The parking areas share a property line;
      (2)   A vehicular connection between the lots exists;
      (3)   A convenient, visible pedestrian connection between the lots
exists; and
      (4)   The availability of parking for all affected properties is
indicated by directional signs, as permitted by
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   Documentation required. Prior to establishing shared use of parking,
the property owner or owners shall file with the township a written agreement
approved by the Zoning Administrator providing for the shared parking use. The
agreement shall be recorded on the title records of each affected property.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.086 PARKING AREA AND CIRCULATION DESIGN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Surface material. Off-street parking, loading and circulation areas
for all uses shall be surfaced with a material that shall provide a durable,
smooth and dustless surface; and shall be graded and provided with adequate
drainage to dispose of all collected surface water; and if surfaced with
concrete or asphalt, shall conform to the following, with either:
      (1)   Six inches of portland cement concrete;
      (2)   Two inches of asphalt surface laid over a base of crushed stone
with a compacted thickness of six inches;
      (3)   Paving with permeable, interlocking concrete pavement system, as
approved by the Township Zoning Administrator;
      (4)   Except that for the following, parking spaces, strips or aprons can
be asphalt, concrete or six of stone mix or gravel, which must be maintained
and clearly defined:
         (a)   Single-family dwellings; and
         (b)   Accessory uses customarily associated with farming, including
roadside stands and private stables and the like.
      (5)   All parking lots must be curbed. In certain cases, a slotted curb
design may be permitted in order to direct runoff away from parking areas into
adjacent landscaped infiltration areas.
   (B)   Accessible parking. The number, layout and design of accessible
parking spaces shall comply with the requirements of the State Building Code.
   (C)   Marking required.
      (1)   The property owner shall delineate car stalls, directional arrows
and crosswalks within parking areas using paint or other methods approved by
the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Any time restriping is done in a parking lot; the spaces shall be
delineated by double striping. Where a parking lot has less than 25 spaces, a
waiver from the required double striping may be given by the Zoning
Administrator where the applicant can demonstrate the need for the number of
existing spaces and shared parking is not available; or additional parking is
necessary to meet the parking demand for a specified use.
      (3)   In addition, when a site is redeveloped, repaired, or improved, the
lot shall be restriped to conform to the parking stall and isle requirements
described below, except that repairs in access isles and in parking lots where
less than 25% of the parking stalls are affected would not require double
striping.
   (D)   Parking stalls and aisle requirements. Off-street parking shall be
designed in conformance with these standards (also see the following
illustrations).
      (1)   Each parking space shall be a minimum of ten feet wide and 18 feet
in length.
      (2)   Aisle requirements are as follows:
 
Angle of Parking           One-Way Aisle Two-Way Aisle
0 degrees (parallel)       12 ft.        24 ft.
30 degrees                 12 ft.        24 ft.
45 degrees                 13 ft.        24 ft.
60 degrees                 18 ft.        24 ft.
90 degrees (perpendicular) 24 ft.        24 ft.
 
      (3)   All parking spaces shall be delineated by double striping along the
sides (see illustration below).
      (4)   Angled parking is strongly encouraged. Where a site can demonstrate
the need for 90-degree parking, it shall be considered by the Zoning
Administrator for applicability.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1369.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1367.jpg]
 
   (E)   Driveways.
      (1)   Entrances and exits. Adequate ingress and egress to the parking
areas by means of clearly marked and limited drives shall be provided. Drives
for ingress and egress to parking areas shall not be less than 22 feet in
width. Further, these entrances shall be at least 25 feet from any adjacent lot
or parcel. These requirements for off-street parking shall not be applicable to
one- and two-family residential lots.
      (2)   Combined driveway. The owners of adjoining properties shall provide
combined driveways wherever practical. In conjunction with approval of a
development, the township may require a property owner to provide an access and
circulation easement to an abutting owner where joint access is reasonable to
serve future development.
      (3)   Management plans. All projects located along M-84 and Tittabawassee
Road must also meet the adopted access management plans.
      (4)   Driveway dimensions. Internal circulation driveways that do not
provide direct access to parking stalls must be a minimum of 20 feet wide for
two-way traffic and five feet wide for one-way traffic unless otherwise
specified by the Zoning Administrator or by the Fire Marshal.
   (F)   Loading space. A property owner shall provide an off-street loading
space that can access a street. The number and size of loading spaces must be
equal to the maximum number and size of vehicles that would be simultaneously
loaded or unloaded in connection with the business conducted on the property.
      (1)   Standard requirement. Each loading space must be a minimum of ten
feet wide and 55 feet long. Where a loading space is adjacent to an arterial,
the property owner shall provide an additional 40 feet maneuvering length.
      (2)   Reduction. The Zoning Administrator may reduce required stall
length and maneuvering length if the property owner demonstrates that known
delivery vehicles can park and maneuver within the proposed loading and
maneuvering spaces so that no part of a vehicle using or maneuvering into the
loading space projects into a public right-of-way, access easement or private
road.
      (3)   Waiver. If the property owner demonstrates that the development has
and will have no loading needs, the Zoning Administrator may waive the
requirements of divisions (F)(1) through (F)(3) herein.
   (G)   Drive-through facility stacking lanes. A property owner proposing a
drive-through facility shall provide seven stacking spaces for each drive-
though station in addition to the parking required by this section. Each lane
of stacking space must be at least nine feet wide and must be delineated with
pavement markings. Each stacking space must be at least 12 feet long; however,
individual spaces within the lane may not be delineated with pavement markings.
Stacking lanes may not be located within required driveway, internal
circulation drive or parking aisle widths.
   (H)   Grade separation protection. Where a parking area, service yard or
other vehicle area slopes or has a drop-off grade separation, the property
owner shall install a wall, railing or other barrier which will prevent a slow-
moving or driverless vehicle from escaping the area and which will prevent
pedestrians from walking over drop-off edges.
   (I)   Lots adjoining residential districts. Off-street parking on lots
adjoining or within a residential district shall in addition conform with the
following requirements.
      (1)   Non-commercial vehicles may be parked in any part of the required
side or rear yard, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be so
located and arranged as to direct light away from the adjoining premises.
      (3)   Where the required parking area of three spaces or more is within
40 feet of an adjoining residential district or lot, the parking area shall be
no closer to any side or rear property line than ten feet and within the ten-
foot strip, either of the following shall be established:
         (a)   A planting strip ten feet in width approved by the Zoning
Administrator. The planting strip shall not be less than five feet in height
and shall consist of a sufficiently dense plant material to screen the parking
and shall be adequately maintained;
         (b)   A solid masonry wall or uniformly treated wood fence not less
than five feet in height or greater than eight feet in height; and/or
         (c)   The wall or planting strip shall be of a length as the width or
length of the parking area.
   (J)   Solid waste collection facilities. The following rules are intended to
prevent unhealthful or unsightly conditions regarding solid waste handling
facilities. These rules apply to any solid waste container large enough to
require a mechanical device to empty it.
      (1)   Enclosure. Each container must be located in an enclosure which is
screened on at least three sides by a masonry wall at least one and one-half
feet higher than the container or containers. The enclosure shall further have
an opaque gate which shall remained closed when not in use. The enclosure
itself shall provide for an entrance for access by employees, separate of the
gate itself.
      (2)   Paving. The enclosure and an approach area for trucks shall be
paved with reinforced concrete not less than nine inches thick.
      (3)   Location. The enclosure and container shall be so situated that
trucks collecting waste from the container shall not conflict with the orderly
flow of traffic onto or through the parcel or any parking spaces thereon. The
enclosure or container shall be located so that trucks collecting waste will
not block any portion of a public street or alley.
      (4)   Failure. Failure to provide and/or maintain the facility and
adequately control the trash and debris typically associated with a facility
will be deemed a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 12-001,
passed 2-21-2012; Ord. 17-05, passed 6-19-2017) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.087 LANDSCAPING.
   Landscaping is intended to provide visual separation of uses from streets
and visual separation of compatible uses so as to soften the appearance of
street, parking areas and building elevations.
   (A)   Required amount.
      (1)   If the parking area contains no more than 50 parking spaces, at
least 25 square feet of landscape development for each parking space must be
provided as described in division (B) below for each parking stall proposed.
      (2)   If the parking area contains more than 99 parking spaces, at least
50 square feet of landscape development for each parking space must be provided
as described in division (B) below for each parking stall proposed.
      (3)   If the parking area contains more than 50, but less than 100
parking spaces, the Building and Zoning Administrator shall determine the
required amount of landscaping by interpolating between 25 and 50 square feet
for each parking space proposed. The area must be landscaped as described in
division (B) below.
      (4)   All landscaping must be maintained and kept alive.
      (5)   Additional landscaping is required for developments in the Cardinal
Square area, per the design guidelines stated in §
155.333.
   (B)   Design. Each area of landscaping must be at least 100 square feet of
area in size and must be at least four feet in any direction. The area must
contain at least one tree at least six feet in height. A minimum size of one
and one-half inches in caliper must be met if it is deciduous. The remaining
ground area must be landscaped with plant materials, grass, decorative mulch or
unit pavers, as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   A landscaped area must be placed at the interior end of each
parking row in a multiple lane parking area. This area must be at least four
feet wide and must extend the length of the adjacent parking stall.
      (2)   Plantings used to buffer a parking area, access or site development
other than a building, may use any of the following alternative unless
otherwise noted.
         (a)   Shrubs, a minimum of three and one-half feet in height, and
living ground cover must be planted so that the ground will be covered within
three years.
         (b)   Earth-mounding, an average of three and one-half feet in height,
planted with shrubs or living ground cover so that the ground will be covered
within three years.
         (c)   A combination of earth-mounding and shrubs to produce a visual
barrier at least three and one-half feet in height.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.088 INTERNAL WALKWAYS.
   (A)   When required. The property owner shall install internal walkways in
each new development or substantial remodel of existing development in the
commercial districts.
   (B)   Location. The property owner shall provide internal walkways around
the building to the extent necessary to assure safe access to the building for
parking areas, adjacent properties and public sidewalks or street right-of-ways
and to assure consistency. All required internal walkways must be located and
constructed as an integrated part of existing sidewalks and pedestrian trails
and must coordinate with the township's plans for pedestrian circulation,
including, but not limited to, the master plan, formed or local corridor plans
and approved capital improvement projects.
   (C)   Design criteria. Except as otherwise specified, internal walkways
provided pursuant to this section must be designed and installed in conformance
with the following.
      (1)   Surface materials. Internal walkways must be paved with hard-
surfaced material such as concrete, asphalt, stone, brick, tile and the like.
Only non-skid paving may be used in walkway construction.
      (2)   Walkway marking. Internal walkways must be curbed and raised at
least six inches above the parking lot grade, except where they cross driveways
or aisles or where necessary to meet handicap requirements. Alternatively, the
Building and Zoning Administrator may approve walkways delineated by
distinctive paving material or marking when adequate pedestrian safety is
provided.
      (3)   Width. Internal walkways must be a minimum of four feet wide,
exclusive of parked car overhangs. Where necessary to ensure four feet of
unobstructed walkway, wheel stops are required.
      (4)   Lighting. Night lighting must be provided where stairs, curbs,
ramps or abrupt changes in walk direction occur.
      (5)   Markings. Where pedestrian walks cross parking areas or automobile
circulation lanes, the pedestrian walk must be defined by use of a contrasting
material or marking, including, but not limited to, white concrete in an
asphalt area, visually obvious paint stripes or other clearly defined pattern.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.089 LIGHTING.
   (A)   Parking area and other exterior on-site lighting fixtures shall be a
decorative style fixture, have a height not to exceed 30 feet and designed such
that there will be no light trespass beyond property lines. The height and
design engineering must be verified, at the applicant's expense, by the
Township Engineer.
   (B)   The lighting shall be so arranged so that it is deflected away from
adjacent residential districts and adjacent streets.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
DISTRICTS
§ 155.100 DIVISION OF THE TOWNSHIP.
   For the purposes of this chapter the community, excepting streets and
alleys, is divided into the following Zone Districts:
A-1  General Agricultural (Food and Fiber, as Well as Related Activities
     Production)
B-1  Commercial (Neighborhood Business)
B-2  Commercial (Community and Regional Retail)
B-3  Commercial (General Intensive Business)
CG-1 Conservation-Greenbelt (Open Lands and Floodways)
M-1  Industrial (Limited Manufacturing)
M-2  Industrial (Heavy Manufacturing)
R-1  Residential (One Family-Low Density)
R-1A Residential (Low Density Transitional)
R-2  Residential (Two Family-Medium Density)
R-3  Residential (Multiple Family-Intensive)
 
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-03,
passed 9-16-2008)
§ 155.101 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   The boundaries of these districts are hereby defined and established as
shown on a map entitled "Zoning District Map", which accompanies this chapter
and which map, with all explanatory matter thereon, is hereby made a part of
this chapter. The official zoning map shall be kept and maintained by the
Township Clerk.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.102 INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
districts indicated on the official zoning map, the following rules shall
apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following the streets or
highways shall be construed to be the boundaries.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following township boundary
lines or following lot lines shall be construed as following the lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated as approximately parallel to the centerlines of
streets or highways shall be construed as being parallel thereto and at a
distance therefrom as indicated by given distance or scaled dimension.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.103 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
moved, constructed or altered, and no new use or change in use shall be made
unless in conformity with the provisions of this chapter and with the
regulations specified for the district in which it is located.
   (B)   The regulations applying to the district include specific limitations
on the use of land and structure, height and bulk of structures, density of
population, lot area, yard dimensions and area of lot that can be covered by
each structure.
   (C)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to classify a use
which is not specifically mentioned with a comparable permitted or prohibited
use for the purpose of clarifying the use regulations in any district.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.104 DISTRICT BOUNDARY EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Where a district boundary line, as established by this chapter, when
adopted or subsequently amended, divides a lot in single and separate
ownership, a use permitted in the less restricted portion of the lot may be
extended to the entire lot, subject to the following conditions.
      (1)   One-half or more of the area of the lot shall be in the less
restrictive district.
      (2)   Any part of a less restricted use extended beyond a district
boundary under the terms of this section shall be housed entirely within an
enclosed building and the building shall conform to any applicable yard and
area requirements in the more restrictive district.
   (B)   Restrictiveness by district proceeding from most restrictive to least
restrictive is herein established as follows: CG-1, A-1, R-1A, R-1, R-2, R-3,
B-1, B-2, B-3, M-1 and M-2.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-03,
passed 9-16-2008)
§ 155.105 APPROVAL OF PLATS.
   No proposed plat of a new or redesigned subdivision shall hereinafter be
approved by either the local governing body or its agents unless the lots
within the plat equal or exceed the minimum size and width requirements of this
chapter and all other applicable codes or ordinances.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.106 ZONING OF PLATS.
   All plats shall be subject to the provisions of the district within which
they are located pertinent to allowed uses, and further required zoning
district change which may be necessary to accommodate proposed use or uses
shall be made according to amendment procedures prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
CG-1 CONSERVATION-GREENBELT (OPEN LAND AND FLOODWAYS)
§ 155.120 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended to preserve open land areas, natural
features, wildlife areas and scenic landscape.
   (B)   In addition, provisions are included which are applicable to protect
flood plain areas and promote the public health, welfare and safety by
prohibiting use of land within floodways which may result in the loss of life
or property.
   (C)   The basic purposes as recognized are to preserve natural resources and
assets and protect persons and property from the hazards of floods and from
resulting cost to the community.
   (D)   Open space recreation uses are also permitted as appropriate to
greenbelt area preservation and use.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.121 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal permitted uses by right within a CG-
1 district subject to the cited conditions imposed for each use as well as the
restrictions of dimensional requirements of §
155.123. Also subject to DNR and DEQ approval.
   (A)   General farming and forestry, including field crop and fruit farming,
truck gardening, horticulture, aviaries, hatcheries, apiaries, greenhouses,
tree nurseries and similar agricultural enterprises;
   (B)   Specialized farming, including the raising and keeping of small
animals and livestock. A minimum of five acres is required for the raising and
keeping livestock such as, but not limited to, horses, cows, pigs, sheep and
goats. Up to two animals may be kept on five acres and one additional animal
may be kept for each additional two acres up to a maximum of ten acres. This
division (B) should not be construed to limit operations on larger parcels;
   (C)   Public and private conservation areas and structures for the
conservation of water, soil, open space, forest or wildlife resources;
   (D)   Single-family dwelling structures;
   (E)   State licensed residential facilities which provide resident service
for six or fewer persons, such as family day care homes, adult foster care
family homes, foster family homes, or foster family group homes, subject to the
regulations in Section 206(3) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended;
   (F)   Conservation development, in accordance with standards in §§
155.405 through
155.417;
   (G)   Open space residential development, as outlined by the Zoning Enabling
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3506, subject to the requirements in §
155.416;
   (H)   Golf courses, country clubs, subject to the uses, prohibitions, site
location principles and development requirements set out under §
155.309;
   (I)   Golf driving ranges, subject to the site-development requirements set
out under §
155.309; and
   (J)   Customary accessory uses to any of the permitted uses in the CG-
1 district.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.122 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and structures may be permitted in the CG-
1 district by the application for an issuance of a special use permit when all
the procedural requirements specified in §§
155.309 through
155.319 together with all applicable restrictions and standards as cited in
this chapter and §§
155.330 through
155.335 are met. Also subject to DNR and DEQ approval:
   (A)   Special open space uses, such as campgrounds, expositions, day camps,
as well as nature centers and other similar uses;
   (B)   Airport landing strips;
   (C)   Camps;
   (D)   Production of fur-bearing animals for profit;
   (E)   Kennels (meeting the requirements of §
155.319);
   (F)   Wireless communication facilities; and
   (G)   Shooting clubs and shooting ranges (subject to the uses, prohibitions,
site location principles, and development requirements set out under §
155.309).
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.123 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   Each lot shall contain a minimum of five acres.
      (2)   Each lot shall be a minimum of 330 feet in width.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 60 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have no less than 20-foot side yards.
      (3)   Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of 40 feet.
      (4)   In the case of a corner lot, the side yard on the street side shall
not be less than 60 feet and the remaining side yard shall be 20 feet.
   (C)   Maximum building height. The maximum building height shall be three
stories or 35 feet.
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage. Thirty-five percent.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
A-1 GENERAL AGRICULTURE (FOOD AND FIBER, AS WELL AS RELATED ACTIVITIES)
§ 155.135 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the intent of the regulations for this district to promote the
maintenance of farm and open space areas, while at the same time provide for
special uses of a non-farm nature, which will not detract from the basic
objectives of this district. The purpose of these regulations are to control
the development of non-farm uses of land within areas of the township devoted
primarily to open space, woodlands and farmland.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.136 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   Following are the principal permitted uses by right within the A-l district:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling structures;
   (B)   State licensed residential facilities which provide resident service
for six or fewer persons, such as family day care homes, adult foster care
family homes, foster family homes, or foster family group homes, subject to the
regulations in Section 206(3) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended.
   (C)   Conservation development, in accordance with standards in §
155.405 through §
155.417;
   (D)   Open space residential development, as outlined by the Zoning Enabling
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3506, subject to the requirements in §
155.416;
   (E)   General farming and forestry including field crop and fruit farming,
truck gardening, horticulture, aviaries, hatcheries, apiaries, greenhouses,
tree nurseries and similar agricultural enterprises;
   (F)   Specialized farming including the raising and keeping of small animals
and livestock;
   (G)   A minimum of five acres is required for the raising and keeping
livestock such as, but not limited to, horses, cows, pigs, sheep and goats. Up
to two animals may be kept on five acres and one additional animal may be kept
for each additional two acres up to a maximum of ten acres. This division (G)
should not be construed to limit operations on larger parcels;
   (H)   Public and private conservation areas and structures for the
conservation of water, soil, open space, forest or wildlife resources;
   (I)   Grain and seed elevators and sales; cold storage for cooperative and/
or wholesale agricultural products; and similar enterprises when directly
related to agriculture; and provided, the use does not create harmful or
nuisance conditions for adjacent areas and uses therein;
   (J)   Customary accessory uses to any of the permitted uses listed in the A-
1 district and as defined in the definitions;
   (K)   Cemeteries, public or private, subject to the conditions specified for
R-1 districts;
   (L)   Roadside stands selling products grown by the owner of the property
upon which the stand is located; provided that, the contiguous space for the
parking of customer's vehicles is furnished off the public right-of-way at the
ratio of one parking space for each 15 square feet of roadside stand floor
area; and
   (M)   Private airplane landing strips, subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   A strip shall be for the exclusive private use of the landowner and
shall be situated wholly within the confines of this property;
      (2)   No commercial aviation or other commercial activity of any sort
shall be associated with the existence or functioning of the strip; and
      (3)   Aircraft using a landing strip shall be limited to those owned or
hired by the property owner and used only for personal travel or recreation,
crop-dusting and similar limited activity.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.137 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and structure may be permitted in the A-
1 district by the application for an issuance of a special use permit when all
the procedural requirements specified in this chapter, together with all
applicable standards as cited in §§
155.305 through
155.319 are met:
   (A)   Public parks and recreation areas;
   (B)   Camps;
   (C)   Wireless communication facilities;
   (D)   Sand, clay and gravel pits, or quarries;
   (E)   Agri-business processing and storage facilities used to serve farm
products grown in the vicinity;
   (F)   Golf courses, golf academies or country clubs;
   (G)   Riding stables and livestock auction yards;
   (H)   Places of worship;
   (I)   Special open space uses such as commercial campgrounds, expositions,
day camps, as well as, nature centers and other similar uses;
   (J)   Veterinary hospitals and clinics;
   (K)   Kennels;
   (L)   Pet grooming establishment; and
   (M)   Public utilities and service installations as defined within the
definitions and §
155.316 and the pertinent development requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.138 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   Each lot shall contain a minimum of 43,560 square feet per dwelling
unit.
      (2)   Each lot shall be a minimum of 150 feet in width at the front of
the building.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirement.
      (1)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 60 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a total side yard of at least 35 feet, with a
minimum of 15 feet on one side.
      (3)   Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of 40 feet.
      (4)   In the case of a corner lot, the side yard on the street side shall
not be less than 60 feet and the remaining side yard shall be not less than 15
feet.
   (C)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit. Each dwelling unit shall have a
minimum floor area of 1,100 square feet.
   (D)   Maximum building height.
      (1)   Two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
      (2)   Exceptions (refer to §
155.065).
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage. Thirty percent in A-1 district.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
R-1A RESIDENTIAL (LOW DENSITY TRANSITIONAL)
§ 155.150 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The regulations herein set forth are designed for the purpose of low-density
residential and related uses (for low density) within R-1A districts.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.151 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal permitted uses by right within an R-1A
district:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling structures not to exceed one single-family
dwelling per lot;
   (B)   State licensed residential facilities which provide resident service
for six or fewer persons, such as family day care homes, adult foster care
family homes, foster family homes, or foster family group homes, subject to the
regulations in Section 206(3) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended;
   (C)   Conservation development, in accordance with standards in §§
155.405 through
155.417;
   (D)   Open space residential development, as outlined by the Zoning Enabling
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3506, subject to the requirements in §
155.416;
   (E)   Public parks, public playgrounds, public recreational grounds and
grounds for games and sports, except those carried on as a business;
   (F)   Religious institutions;
   (G)   Single-family dwelling when associated with a religious institution;
   (H)   Customary accessory uses to any of the permitted uses listed in the
district;
   (I)   Customary home occupations; and
   (J)   Customary agricultural operations including general farming, truck
farming, fruit orchards, nursery, greenhouses, roadside stands and described in
§
155.136 and usual farm buildings, but subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   A minimum of five acres is required for the raising and keeping
livestock such as, but not limited to, horses, cows, pigs, sheep, geese,
chickens and goats. Up to two livestock may be kept on five acres and one
additional livestock animal may be kept for each additional two acres up to an
maximum of ten acres. This division (D)(1) should not be construed to limit
operations on larger parcels.
      (2)   No storage of manure or odor or dust-producing materials or use
shall be permitted within 150 feet of any adjoining lot line.
      (3)   Stables and buildings housing farm animals shall not be closer to
any adjoining lot line than 150 feet.
      (4)   No farm buildings shall be located closer than 50 feet to any lot
line.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.152 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the R-1 A
districts by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all the
provisional requirements specified in this chapter together with all applicable
standards cited in §§
155.305 through
155.319 are met:
   (A)   Golf courses (ten acres minimum per hole), golf academies, country
clubs and driving ranges when associated with country clubs or municipal golf
courses;
   (B)   Pet grooming establishment;
   (C)   Institutional uses for human care, educational and social
institutions;
   (D)   Wireless communication facilities;
   (E)   Public utilities and service installations as defined within the
definitions and §
155.316 and the pertinent development requirements contained herein; and
   (F)   Day nurseries.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.153 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   Each lot, when connected to a public sanitary sewer, shall contain
a minimum of 15,000 square feet per dwelling unit with a minimum of 100 feet of
frontage on a street.
      (2)   If not connected to a public sanitary sewer, each lot shall contain
a minimum of 43,560 square feet per dwelling unit with a minimum of 150 feet of
frontage on a street.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 30 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a total side yard of at least 20 feet, with a
minimum of eight feet on one side.
      (3)   Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of 30 feet.
      (4)   In the case of a corner lot, the side yard on the street side shall
not be less than 30 feet and the remaining side yard shall not be less than ten
feet.
   (C)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit. Each dwelling unit shall have a
minimum finished living area of 1,100 square feet of floor area.
   (D)   Maximum building height. Two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage. A maximum of 25% of the lot may be covered by
all buildings.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
R-1 RESIDENTIAL (ONE FAMILY-LOW DENSITY)
§ 155.165 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   This district is intended primarily for single-family residential uses,
together with such uses as schools, churches and recreation uses. The
regulations herein set forth are designed for the purposes of encouraging a
residential environment of compatible low density dwellings located on
individual lots.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.166 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal permitted uses by right within an R-
1 district:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling structures not to exceed one single-family
dwelling per lot;
   (B)   State licensed residential facilities which provide resident service
for six or fewer persons, such as family day care homes, adult foster care
family homes, foster family homes, or foster family group homes, subject to the
regulations in Section 206(3) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended;
   (C)   Conservation development, in accordance with standards in §§
155.405 through
155.417;
   (D)   Open space residential development, as outlined by the Zoning Enabling
Act, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3506, subject to the requirements in §
155.416;
   (E)   Public parks, public playgrounds, public recreational grounds and
grounds for games and sports, except those carried on as a business;
   (F)   Religious institutions;
   (G)   Single-family dwelling when associated with a religious institution;
   (H)   Customary accessory uses to any of the permitted uses listed in the
district; and
   (I)   Customary home occupations.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.167 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the R-
1 districts by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all
the provisional requirements specified in this chapter together with all
applicable standards cited in §§
155.305 through
155.319 are met:
   (A)   Educational institutions;
   (B)   Public utilities and service installations as defined within the
definitions and §
155.316 and the pertinent development requirements contained herein; and
   (C)   Day nurseries.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.168 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   Each lot when connected to a public sanitary sewer shall contain a
minimum of 15,000 square feet per dwelling unit with a minimum of 100 feet of
frontage.
      (2)   When not connected to a public sanitary sewer, each lot shall
contain a minimum of 43,560 square feet with a minimum of 150 feet of frontage.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 30 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a total side yard of at least 20 feet, with a
minimum of eight feet on one side.
      (3)   Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of 30 feet.
      (4)   In the case of a corner lot, the side yard on the street side shall
not be less than 30 feet and the remaining side yard shall not be less than ten
feet.
   (C)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit. Each dwelling unit shall have a
minimum finished living area of 1,100 square feet of floor area.
   (D)   Maximum building height. Two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage. A maximum of 25% of the lot may be covered by
all buildings.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
R-2 RESIDENTIAL (TWO FAMILY-MEDIUM DENSITY)
§ 155.180 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended to provide a sound and stable environment
for various types of residential buildings, including single-family and two-
family. In addition, residentially compatible uses are allowed under specified
conditions
   (B)   It is the expressed purpose of the regulations, as herein set forth,
to promote variety in housing style, design and cost to meet the range of
demand for housing.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.181 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal permitted uses by right within an R-
2 district:
   (A)   Single-family dwelling structures not to exceed one single-family
dwelling per lot;
   (B)   State licensed residential facilities which provide resident service
for six or fewer persons, such as family day care homes, adult foster care
family homes, foster family homes, or foster family group homes, subject to the
regulations in Section 206(3) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended;
   (C)   Conservation development, in accordance with standards in §§
155.405 through
155.417;
   (D)   Public parks, public playgrounds, public recreational grounds and
grounds for games and sports, except those carried on as a business;
   (E)   Religious institutions;
   (F)   Single-family dwelling when associated with a religious institution;
   (G)   Customary accessory uses to any of the permitted uses listed in the
district;
   (H)   Customary home occupations; and
   (I)   Two-family dwellings.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.182 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the R-
2 districts by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all
the provisional requirements specified in this chapter together with all
applicable standards cited in §§
155.305 through
155.317 are met:
   (A)   Institutional uses, including institutions for human care, education,
social, religious institutions and public buildings and service installations;
   (B)   Planned residential unit development;
   (C)   Day nurseries; and
   (D)   Public utilities and service installations as defined within the
definitions and §
155.316 and the pertinent development requirements contained herein.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.183 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   For single-family dwellings, each lot shall contain a minimum lot
area of 11,050 square feet with 100 feet of frontage. When not connected to a
public sanitary sewer, each lot shall contain a minimum of 43,560 square feet
with 150 of frontage on a street.
      (2)   For two-family dwellings, each two unit structure shall have a
minimum lot area of 11,050 square feet with 100 feet of frontage. When not
connected to a public sanitary sewer, each lot shall contain a minimum of
43,560 square feet with 150 of frontage on a street.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 30 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a total side yard of 20 feet with a minimum of
eight feet on one side; provided, there shall be a minimum of 20 feet between
contiguous dwelling structures.
      (3)   Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of 30 feet.
      (4)   In the case of a corner lot, the side yard on the street side shall
not be less than 25 feet and the remaining side yard shall not be less than ten
feet.
   (C)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit. Each dwelling structure shall
have a minimum floor area per dwelling unit in accord with the following
schedule:
 
Structure                              Area per unit
Attached single-family, including two- Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum
family and townhouses                  living area of 1,100 square feet of
                                       floor area per dwelling unit
                                       Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum
Single-family detached                 finished living area of 1,100 square
                                       feet of floor area
 
   (D)   Maximum building height. Two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage. A maximum of 35% of the lot may be covered by
all buildings.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
R-3 RESIDENTIAL (MULTIPLE FAMILY-INTENSIVE)
§ 155.195 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended primarily for multiple-family residential
uses together with certain institutional and other compatible uses under
specified conditions.
   (B)   It is the express purpose of these regulations to provide multiple-
family dwellings, ranging from moderate to higher density character where
adequate public and private services and facilities are available to
accommodate higher population concentrations. The following are minimum
criteria for R-3 development sites.
      (1)   Sites must have access to a principal arterial, minor arterial or
collector street as to avoid adverse traffic impacts in surrounding low-density
residential areas.
      (2)   The site must be served by essential public facilities and
services, such as water and sewer facilities, drainage structures, refuse
disposal, police, fire protection and schools.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.196 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal uses permitted by right within an R-
3 district when they are connected to a public sanitary sewer. Without this
service connection, no development of the land shall be permitted:
   (A)   Conservation development, in accordance with standards in §
155.405 through §
155.417;
   (B)   Public parks, public playgrounds, public recreational grounds and
grounds for games and sports, except those carried on as a business;
   (C)   Religious institutions;
   (D)   Single-family dwelling when associated with a religious institution;
   (E)   Single-family dwelling structures not to exceed one single-family
dwelling per lot;
   (F)   Single-family dwelling structures in the townhome style, not to exceed
a density factor of eight units per acre;
   (G)   State licensed residential facilities which provide resident service
for six or fewer persons, such as family day care homes, adult foster care
family homes, foster family homes, or foster family group homes, subject to the
regulations in Section 206(3) of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended;
   (H)   Customary home occupations;
   (I)   Two-family dwellings.
   (J)   Day nurseries;
   (K)   Housing for religious personnel associated with a religious or
educational institution;
   (L)   Institutional uses, including education, social institutions, public
buildings and service installations; and
   (M)   Customary accessory uses to any permitted use listed above.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.197 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the R-
3 districts by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all
the provisional requirements specified in this chapter together with all
applicable standards cited in §§
155.305 through
155.317 are met:
   (A)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
   (B)   Boarding and rooming houses;
   (C)   Manufactured housing community, in accordance with development
standards in §
155.027;
   (D)   Planned residential unit development;
   (E)   Institutions for human care;
   (F)   Wireless communication facilities; and
   (G)   Multiple-family dwellings, in accordance with development standards in
§ 155.028.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.198 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size.
      (1)   For single-family dwellings: the lot shall contain a minimum of
11,050 square feet.
      (2)   For two-family dwelling structures: the lot shall contain 11,050
square feet.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwelling lot shall contain 43,560 square feet and
shall not exceed a density of eight units per acre.
      (4)   Each lot, unless otherwise cited, shall have a minimum of 75 feet
frontage at the street for single-family, 85 feet frontage at the street for
two-family and 150 feet frontage at the street for multiple-family.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 30 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a total side yard of 20 feet with a minimum of
eight feet on one side.
      (3)   In the case of a corner lot, the side yard on the street side shall
not be less than 25 feet and the remaining side yard shall not be less than ten
feet.
      (4)   Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of 30 feet.
   (C)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit. Each dwelling structure shall
have a minimum floor area per dwelling unit in accord with the following
schedule:
      (1)   Single-family detached. Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum
finished living area of 1,100 square feet of floor area.
      (2)   Single-family attached, including two-family townhouse. Each
dwelling unit shall have a minimum finished living area of 1,100 square feet of
floor area.
      (3)   Multiple-family dwelling.
 
Structure          Area per Unit
0 bedrooms         600 sq. ft.
1 bedroom          850 sq. ft.
2 bedrooms         1,050 sq. ft.
3 bedrooms         1,350 sq. ft.
4 bedrooms or more 1,500 sq. ft.
 
   (D)   Maximum building heights. Two and one-half stories or 35 feet;
however, further provided that, within 150 feet of any R-1 districts no
building shall exceed a height of two stories or 30 feet.
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage. A maximum of 40% of the lot may be covered by
all buildings.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
MU-1 MIXED USE DISTRICT
§ 155.210 REPEAL OF DISTRICT.
   Except as provided herein, no property shall be rezoned or developed as MU-
1 mixed use district.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 155.211 EFFECT UPON EXISTING PROPERTY WHICH IS CURRENTLY ZONED AS MU-1.
   This repeal of MU-1 zoning district shall not affect the right of the owner
of real property which is currently owned as "MU-1" to develop the property
under existing MU-1 requirements, as provided in this subchapter, together with
all other existing requirements for MU-1 (mixed use) districts in this chapter.
This exception shall terminate three years from the date of this chapter, after
which the MU-1 parcel shall be re-zoned by the Township Planning Commission
consistent with the township's then existing master plan.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-16-2008)
§ 155.212 EFFECT ON OTHER PROVISIONS OF CHAPTER.
   Sections of the township zoning ordinance which reference the mixed use
district shall be deemed to be amended by removing the reference to mixed use
district. The affected sections of the township zoning ordinance have been
changed.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-16-2008)
B-1 COMMERCIAL (NEIGHBORHOOD BUSINESS)
§ 155.230 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The B-l district is designed and intended to meet the day to day
convenience shopping and service needs of persons residing in adjacent
residential areas.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this district to accommodate commercial
activities primarily offering goods or services which are required by a family
at intervals of a week or less and at the same time protect adjacent
residential areas from the adverse efforts of uncontrolled or unlimited
commercial activity which can result in blighting influences upon residential
uses. This district is intended to accommodate permitted uses typically in
proximity to major shopping facilities and/or in compatible relationship with
the major arterial street system and surrounding land uses.
   (C)   The nature of modern office use development provides greater
compatibility for integration into a community structure; therefore, this
district has been established for the purpose of encouraging office and related
use development, but excluding general commercial activity with the exception
of retail relating directly to the needs of employees in the office business
district.
   (D)   All new development located in properties zoned Commercial B-l after
March 1, 2013 must have public water and sanitary sewer available, as detailed
in the current, applicable water and sanitary sewer ordinances, and be
connected to the services.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 13-09,
passed 10-9-2013; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.231 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal uses permitted by right within a B-
1 district. All the uses must be conducted wholly within a permanent, fully
enclosed building.
   (A)   Personal service establishments which perform services on the
premises, such as barber or beauty shops, repair shops for shoes, radio,
television, jewelry, self-service laundries and photographic studios;
   (B)   Institutions for human care that are hospitals, assisted living,
nursing or convalescent homes, clinics, day care or senior day care and
excluding incarceration facilities;
   (C)   Drive-in businesses including banks and similar financial
institutions, dry cleaning pick-up stations or similar personal services.
Drive-in restaurants and auto service stations are not allowed;
   (D)   Temporary outdoor uses such as displays, Christmas tree sales lots or
other quasi-civic activities may be permitted on a temporary basis without a
public hearing by the Zoning Administrator; provided that, the permit shall not
be issued for more than 30 days in any one year and that this use can be
adequately shown not to be injurious or detrimental to properties in the
immediate vicinity;
   (E)   Pet grooming establishment;
   (F)   Day nurseries;
   (G)   Office buildings for executive, administrative and professional uses
and retail uses complementary to the principal use; providing, they do not
exceed 20% of gross floor area or 3,000 square feet if the use is operated in a
freestanding structure;
   (H)   Commercial schools, including art, business, music, dance,
professional and cosmetology;
   (I)   Educational institutions;
   (J)   Funeral homes;
   (K)   Billboards, as defined in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
   (L)   Retail sales in an enclosed building. The maximum gross square feet a
business may occupy is 2,000 square feet. A maximum of five separate businesses
may be located in one building with gross area of 10,000 square feet;
   (M)   Churches, temples, synagogues and customary accessory uses; and
   (N)   Service establishments, including printing, publishing, photographic
reproduction, blue-printing and related trades or arts.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-01,
passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 08-05, passed 12-16-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009;
Ord. 13-06, passed 10-1-2013; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.232 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the B-
1 districts by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all
the provisional requirements specified in this chapter together with all
applicable standards cited in §§
155.305 through
155.319 are met.
   (A)   Restaurants, clubs and other eating or drinking establishments which
provide food or drink provided that the establishments shall not be drive-in
facilities;
   (B)   Single-family dwelling structures in the townhome style, not to exceed
a density factor of eight units per acre;
   (C)   Multiple-family residential;
   (D)   Housing for religious personnel attached to a religious institution or
school;
   (E)   Planned unit development, only upon Planning Commission determination
that the uses are similar enough to be compatible with each other and in
harmony with the character of the existing and adjacent principal uses;
   (F)   Golf driving ranges;
   (G)   Public utility transformer stations;
   (H)   Public buildings;
   (I)   Mini-storage; and
   (J)   Animal protection shelter, as defined in §
155.005(B).
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-05,
passed 12-16-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 14-07, passed 4-22-2014;
Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.233 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. Each lot shall contain a minimum of 11,050 square
feet and have frontage at the street of not less than 85 feet.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   The building setback line shall begin at the front yard setback
line.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 30 feet.
      (3)   Side yards shall be a minimum of 12 feet on each side, except in
the case of a corner lot, in which case the street side yard setback shall be
30 feet and the remaining side yard a minimum of 12 feet.
      (4)   Rear yards shall be a minimum of 20 feet.
   (C)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit. Multiple family dwellings shall
have a minimum floor area per dwelling unit in accord with the following
schedule:
 
Structure          Area per Unit
0 bedrooms         600 sq. ft.
1 bedroom          850 sq. ft.
2 bedrooms         1,050 sq. ft.
3 bedrooms         1,350 sq. ft.
4 bedrooms or more 1,500 sq. ft.
 
   (D)   Maximum building height. Three stories or 40 feet.
   (E)   Maximum lot coverage. A maximum of 35% of the lot may be covered by
all buildings. If shared parking is employed, density may be increased at the
following rate:
 
No shared parking  35% maximum lot coverage
10% shared parking 45% maximum lot coverage
25% shared parking 55% maximum lot coverage
50% shared parking 65% maximum lot coverage
 
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
B-2 COMMERCIAL (COMMUNITY AND REGIONAL RETAIL)
§ 155.245 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The B-2 business district is designed and intended to meet the needs
of a larger consumer population than is served by the B-l district.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this district to accommodate general retail
shopping and merchandising activities together with limited wholesale uses and
business and personnel services. The regulations herein set forth further are
to promote safe and convenient commercial clusters appropriate to community
needs and to avoid undue congestion, traffic conflicts and future blighting
influences. Under appropriate conditions, medium density apartment developments
are also allowed.
   (C)   All new development zoned Commercial B-2 after March 1, 2013 must have
public water and sanitary sewer available, as detailed in the current,
applicable water and sanitary sewer ordinances, and be connected to the
services.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 13-09,
passed 10-9-2013; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.246 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following uses are the principal uses permitted by right within a B-
2 district.
   (A)   All uses permitted by right within the B-1 district, subject to all
restrictions hereafter cited;
   (B)   Any retail business whose principal activity is the sale of
merchandise in an enclosed building including outdoor seasonal sales for a
period of 90 days and by permit only;
   (C)   Assembly buildings including auditoriums, social clubs, fraternal
organizations;
   (D)   Public buildings;
   (E)   Service establishments, including printing, publishing, photographic
reproduction, blue-printing and related trades or arts;
   (F)   Indoor commercial recreation facilities such as indoor theaters,
bowling alleys, indoor skating rinks or similar uses;
   (G)   Restaurants, restaurants with drive-through facilities, clubs and
other drinking establishments to include restaurants with drive-thru
facilities;
   (H)   Motel and hotel;
   (I)   Open air business uses such as retail sales of plant materials, sale
of lawn furniture, playground equipment and garden supplies;
   (J)   Veterinary hospitals and clinics;
   (K)   Servicing and repair of motor vehicles, trailers and boats when
contained within a wholly enclosed building;
   (L)   Self service storage/mini-storage; and
   (M)   Billboards, as defined in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-01,
passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.247 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the B-
2 districts by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all
the provisional requirements specified in this chapter together with all
applicable standards cited in §§
155.305 through
155.319 are met.
   (A)   Building supply and equipment establishments selling retail;
   (B)   Multiple-family residential;
   (C)   Wireless communication facilities;
   (D)   Automobile service and repair station;
   (E)   Automobile car wash, subject to the site development standards
required for gasoline service stations;
   (F)   Planned unit development, only upon Planning Commission determination
that the uses are similar enough to be compatible with each other and in
harmony with the character of the existing and adjacent principal uses;
   (G)   Service installations and public utilities;
   (H)   Wholesale business;
   (I)   Outdoor commercial recreation;
   (J)   Automobile show room and sales;
   (K)   Wholesale, jobbing, and distributing business; and
   (L)   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of automobiles, trucks,
manufactured homes, travel trailers and recreational vehicles.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-01,
passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012;
Ord. 13-07, passed 10-9-2013; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.248 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. Each lot shall contain a minimum of 11,050 square
feet and have frontage on the street of not less than 85 feet.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Building setback shall be 30 feet on undeveloped lots with no
adjacent neighbors. Where there are adjacent lots with buildings constructed on
them, the front facade line of the new building shall be set by the Zoning
Administrator and be harmonious with adjacent properties, but shall be no less
than 15 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a front yard of 15 feet and the yard, except
for necessary drives or walks, shall remain clear and shall not be used for
parking, loading or accessory structures.
      (3)   Side yards shall not be required, except on that side of the lot
abutting upon a residential or agricultural district, in which case there shall
be a side yard of not less than 20 feet, and further in the case of a corner
lot the side yard on the street side shall be a minimum of 30 feet, and further
except that if walls of structures facing an interior lot line contains windows
or other openings there shall be a ten-foot side yard.
      (4)   Each lot shall have a minimum rear yard of 30 feet.
   (C)   Minimum floor area per dwelling unit. Multiple family dwellings shall
have a minimum floor area per dwelling unit in accord with the following
schedule:
 
Structure          Area per Unit
0 bedrooms         600 sq. ft.
1 bedroom          850 sq. ft.
2 bedrooms         1,050 sq. ft.
3 bedrooms         1,350 sq. ft.
4 bedrooms or more 1,500 sq. ft.
 
   (D)   Maximum building height. The maximum building height shall be three
stories or 40 feet.
   (E)   Lot coverage. A maximum of 35% of the lot may be covered by all
buildings. If shared parking is employed, density may be increased at the
following rate:
 
No shared parking  35% maximum lot coverage
10% shared parking 45% maximum lot coverage
25% shared parking 55% maximum lot coverage
50% shared parking 65% maximum lot coverage
 
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
B-3 COMMERCIAL (GENERAL INTENSIVE BUSINESS)
§ 155.260 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The B-3 business district is designed and intended to meet the need
for sites required by diversified and more intensive business types. It is the
purpose of this district to accommodate uses characterized by customers that
are often served in their vehicles, large space users, combined commercial
services such as retail, wholesale and repair. This district's clientele is
often other businesses.
   (B)   All new commercial and industrial development located in properties
zoned Commercial B-3 after March 1, 2013 must have public water and sanitary
sewer available, as detailed in the current, applicable water and sanitary
sewer ordinances, and be connected to the services.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 13-09,
passed 10-9-2013)
§ 155.261 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal uses permitted by right within a B-
3 district. Only similar principal permitted uses are permitted on a single
lot. Where more than one principal permitted use is proposed for a lot, the
Planning Commission shall determine if the uses are similar enough to be
compatible with each other and in harmony with the character of the existing
and adjacent principal uses:
   (A)   All uses permitted by right within a B-2 district are subject to all
restrictions herein cited;
   (B)   Building supply and equipment establishments;
   (C)   Automobile showrooms for new and used automobiles;
   (D)   Rental establishments renting single axle trucks, trailers and small
contracting tools, such as, but not limited to, compressors, power washers,
compactors and air hammers;
   (E)   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of new or used automobiles,
trucks, manufactured homes, travel trailers, boats or farm machinery;
   (F)   Billboards, as defined in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
   (G)   Automobile/vehicle service stations;
   (H)   Public buildings; and
   (I)   Bus passenger terminals.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-01,
passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.262 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the B-
3 districts by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all
the provisional requirements specified in this chapter together with all
applicable standards cited in §§
155.305 through
155.319 are met.
   (B)   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the B-
3 district by the application for issuance of a special use permit:
      (1)   Drive-in theaters, race tracks, golf driving ranges and miniature
golf courses;
      (2)   Wireless communication facilities;
      (3)   Contracting and service establishments including offices and
accompanying storage or shop area for plumbers, mechanical contractors, home
builders and other similar uses or trades; provided, all storage is screened
from public view;
      (4)   Tattoo and piercing parlors;
      (5)   Planned unit development;
      (6)   Public utility and service installations;
      (7)   Manufacturing and processing; and
      (8)   Wholesale, jobbing and distributing business.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.263 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. Each lot shall contain a minimum of 11,050 square
feet and a minimum of 85 feet in frontage at the street.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   Building setback shall be 30 feet.
      (2)   Each lot shall have a front yard of 30 feet and the yard, except
for necessary drives or walks, shall remain clear and shall not be used for
parking, loading or accessory structures.
      (3)   Side yards shall not be required, except on that side of the lot
abutting upon a residential or agricultural district in which case there shall
be a side yard of not less than 20 feet; and further, in the case of a corner
lot, the side yard on the street side shall be a minimum of 30 feet; and
further except that, if walls of structures facing an interior lot line
contains windows or other openings, there shall be a ten-foot side yard.
      (4)   Each lot shall have a rear yard of 30 feet.
   (C)   Maximum building height. The maximum building height shall be three
stories or 35 feet.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
M-1 INDUSTRIAL (LIMITED MANUFACTURING)
§ 155.275 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   This district is intended for light industrial uses with few, if any
nuisance characteristics, but also permits commercial establishments not
engaged in retail sales and service establishments which are of a type not
generally requiring the customer to call at the place of business. The M-
1 district is designed to permit manufacturing, processing, assembling,
packaging or treatment of products from previously prepared materials. It is
also intended to prohibit residential uses and intensive retail enterprises as
being incompatible with the primary industrial and related uses permitted;
however, under "special use" provision, certain retail and wholesale activities
may be permitted.
   (B)   All new commercial and industrial development must have public water
and sanitary sewer available and be connected to the services.
   (C)   It is the purpose of these regulations to promote sound industrial
areas within the community which are also protected from incompatible uses.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.276 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal uses permitted by right within an M-
1 district. Only similar principal permitted uses are permitted on a single
lot. Where more than one principal permitted use is proposed for a lot, the
Planning Commission shall determine if the uses are similar enough to be
compatible with each other and in harmony with the character of the existing
and adjacent principal uses:
   (A)   Office buildings for any of the following: executive, administrative,
professional, accounting or writing, clerical or stenographic and drafting;
   (B)   Production, manufacturing, processing, assembling, packaging or
treatment of goods;
   (C)   Laboratories, research and testing;
   (D)   Restaurants, taverns and other eating or drinking establishments which
provide entertainment, food and/or drink on the premises, including "drive-in"
services;
   (E)   Commercial schools;
   (F)   Veterinary hospitals or clinics;
   (G)   Public buildings;
   (H)   General contractors;
   (I)   Landscape contractors;
   (J)   Contractor's storage;
   (K)   Warehouse and storage buildings and yards;
   (L)   Billboards, as defined in
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances; and
   (M)   Morgues, as defined in §
155.005 of this code of ordinances.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-01,
passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 21-05, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.277 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   The following uses of land and buildings may be permitted in the M-
1 district by the application for issuance of a special use permit when all the
provisional requirements are met with all applicable standards:
   (A)   Retail and wholesale businesses whose principal activity is the sale
of merchandise in an enclosed building;
   (B)   Drive-in businesses subject to the site development standards for
automobile service stations;
   (C)   Wireless communication facilities;
   (D)   Facilities for the developmentally disabled and physically
handicapped, drug or alcoholic patients and correctional institutions, and must
be a minimum of five acres; and
   (E)   Service installations and public utilities.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.278 GENERAL USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All activities in this district shall be carried on in
completely enclosed buildings. Storage may be permitted out-of-doors; provided
that, within 200 feet of any other district, the storage shall be in completely
enclosed buildings.
      (2)   All outdoor storage shall be effectively screened from public view
by a solid, opaque, uniformly finished wall or fence with solid entrance and
exit gates. The fence or wall shall be at least six feet in height, but in no
case shall the fence be lower than the enclosed storage up to a maximum of
eight feet in height. The storage shall be deemed to include the parking of
licensed motor vehicles over one and one-half-tons rated capacity. Completely
obscuring landscaping may be used as an alternative.
   (B)   Uses in this district shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Emit no obnoxious, toxic or corrosive fumes or gases which are
harmful to the public health, safety or general welfare, except those produced
by internal combustion engines under design operating conditions;
      (2)   Emit no smoke, odorous gases or other odorous matter in quantities
as to be offensive at or beyond any boundary of the parcel;
      (3)   Produce no heat or glare to an extent to be detrimental to the
health, safety and general welfare at or beyond the lot boundaries;
      (4)   Produce no physical vibrations to an extent to be determined
detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare at or beyond the lot
boundaries;
      (5)   Does not include in the manufacturing process any production or
storage of any material designed for use as an explosive, nor in the use of any
material in production; and
      (6)   Shall conform to all local, state and applicable federal pollution
control standards, including noise, air and water quality.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.279 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. All lots shall have a minimum of one acre and 120
feet frontage on a public street.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   All structures are required to have a minimum front yard or setback
of not less than 40 feet from the front property line. Side and rear yards
shall be no less than 20 feet each, as determined at the time of site plan
review. Where a lot in this district abuts a lot in any residential district,
no building in the M-1 district shall be closer than 100 feet to the property
line of the residential lot.
      (2)   Except for landscape improvements, necessary drives and walks, and
parking for office personnel and visitors (up to ten spaces), the front yard
shall remain clear of loading, storage or accessory structures. Side and rear
yards, except for a landscape strip along the lot boundary ten feet in width,
may be used for parking and loading, but not for storage. The side or rear yard
may be eliminated where a railroad service to the site is obtained at the edge
of the lot.
      (3)   Structures and solid fences or walls shall be a minimum of 15 feet
from the property line.
      (4)   When the side or rear yard areas abut land within a residential
district and when the yard areas are to be used for parking, loading, unloading
or servicing, then the side and rear yard areas shall be effectively screened
by an opaque, solid, uniformly finished wall or fence and landscaping
sufficient to enhance the area abutting the residential district. The wall or
fence shall be at least six feet in height, but in no case shall the fence or
wall be lower than the enclosed parking, loading or servicing activity to be
screened.
   (C)   Maximum building height. Buildings shall not exceed three and one-half
stories in height or 45 feet; provided, any buildings within 75 feet of a
residential district shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage. There is no maximum lot coverage requirement for
M-1 districts.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
M-2 INDUSTRIAL (HEAVY MANUFACTURING)
§ 155.290 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this section to establish and preserve areas for
industrial and related uses of a nature so that they do not create serious
problems of compatibility with other kinds of land uses. This district is
intended to make provisions for medium to heavy industrial uses and for certain
kinds of business uses which are most appropriately located as neighbors of
industrial uses or which are necessary to service the immediate needs of the
businesses in these areas.
   (B)   All new commercial and industrial development must have pubic water
and sanitary sewer available and be connected to the services.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.291 USES PERMITTED BY RIGHT.
   The following are the principal uses permitted by right within an M-
2 district. Only similar principal permitted uses are permitted on a single
lot. Where more than one principal permitted use is proposed for a lot, the
Planning Commission shall determine if the uses are similar enough to be
compatible with each other and in harmony with the character of the existing
and adjacent principal uses:
   (A)   All uses permitted by right in M-1;
   (B)   Distribution warehouses;
   (C)   Bulk storage;
   (D)   Outdoor uses;
   (E)   Fuel sales;
   (F)   Truck terminals;
   (G)   Heavy contractors;
   (H)   Billboards, as defined by
Ch. 153 of this code of ordinances;
   (I)   Adult arcade;
   (J)   Adult bookstore or adult video store;
   (K)   Adult painting studio;
   (L)   Adult cabaret;
   (M)   Adult carwash;
   (N)   Adult companionship establishment;
   (O)   Adult entertainment facility;
   (P)   Adult establishment;
   (Q)   Adult massage parlor, health/sport club;
   (R)   Adult mini-motion picture theater;
   (S)   Adult motion-picture theater;
   (T)   Adult novelty business;
   (U)   Adult motel;
   (V)   Adult sauna/steam room/bathhouse;
   (W)   Massage establishment;
   (X)   Nude model studio;
   (Y)   Sexual encounter center; and
   (Z)   Sexually oriented business.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-01,
passed 1-22-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.292 USES PERMITTED BY SPECIAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Salvage yard and resource recovery facilities;
   (B)   Storage of waste disposal vehicles;
   (C)   Sand mining, quarries, gravel pits;
   (D)   Commercial cleaning plants;
   (E)   Sewage treatment and disposal;
   (F)   Wireless communication facilities;
   (G)   Facilities for the developmentally disabled and physically
handicapped, drug or alcoholic patients and correctional institutions, and must
be on a minimum of five acres;
   (H)   Service installations and public utilities;
   (I)   Industrial parks;
   (J)   Fireworks storage; and
   (K)   Crematoriums.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.293 GENERAL USE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   All activities in this district shall be carried on in
completely enclosed buildings. Storage may be permitted out-of-doors; provided
that, within 200 feet of any other district, the storage shall be in completely
enclosed buildings.
      (2)   All outdoor storage shall be effectively screened from public view
by a solid, opaque, uniformly finished wall or fence with solid entrance and
exit gates. The fence or wall shall be at least six feet in height, but in no
case shall the fence be lower than the enclosed storage up to a maximum of
eight feet in height. The storage shall be deemed to include the parking of
licensed motor vehicles over one and one-half tons rated capacity. Completely
obscuring landscaping may be used as an alternative upon approval of the
Planning Commission.
   (B)   Uses in this district shall conform to the following standards:
      (1)   Emit no obnoxious, toxic or corrosive fumes or gases which are
harmful to the public health, safety or general welfare; except those produced
by internal combustion engines under design operating conditions;
      (2)   Emit no smoke, odorous gases or other odorous matter in such
quantities as to be offensive at or beyond any boundary of the parcel;
      (3)   Produce no heat or glare to an extent to be detrimental to the
health, safety and general welfare at or beyond the lot boundaries;
      (4)   Produce no physical vibrations to an extent to be determined
detrimental to the health, safety and general welfare at or beyond the lot
boundaries;
      (5)   Does not include in the manufacturing process any production or
storage of any material designed for use as an explosive, nor in the use of any
material in production; and
      (6)   Shall conform to all local, state and applicable federal pollution
control standards, including noise, air and water quality.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.294 DIMENSIONAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Minimum lot size. Lots shall have a minimum of one acre unless
otherwise specified with 120 feet frontage on a public street.
   (B)   Minimum yard requirements.
      (1)   (a)   All structures are required to have a minimum front yard or
setback of not less than 40 feet from the front property line. Side and rear
yards shall be no less than 20 feet each, as determined at the time of site
plan review. Where a lot in this district abuts a lot in any residential
district, no building in the M-2 district shall be closer than 100 feet to the
property line of the residential lot.
         (b)   Except for landscape improvements, necessary drives and walks,
parking for office personnel and visitors (up to ten spaces), the front yard
shall remain clear and shall not be used for loading, storage or accessory
structures. Side and rear yards, except for a landscape strip along the lot
boundary ten feet in width, may be used for parking and loading but not for
storage. The side or rear yard may be eliminated where a railroad service to
the site is obtained at the edge of the lot.
      (2)   Structures and solid fences or walls shall be a minimum of 15 feet
from the property line.
      (3)   When the side or rear yard areas abut land within a residential
district and when the yard areas are to be used for parking, loading, unloading
or servicing, then the side and rear yard areas shall be effectively screened
by an opaque, solid, uniformly finished wall or fence and landscaping
sufficient to enhance the area abutting the residential district. The wall or
fence shall be at least six feet in height, but in no case shall the fence or
wall be lower than the enclosed parking, loading or servicing activity to be
screened.
   (C)   Maximum building height. Buildings shall not exceed three and one-half
stories in height or 45 feet; provided, any buildings within 75 feet of a
residential district shall not exceed two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
   (D)   Maximum lot coverage. There is no maximum lot coverage requirement for
M-2 districts.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
SPECIAL USES (SPECIAL USE PERMIT REQUIREMENTS)
§ 155.305 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this subchapter to provide a set of procedures and
standards for special uses of land or structure, which because of their unique
characteristics, require special consideration in relation to the welfare of
adjacent properties and the community as a whole.
   (B)   It is the expressed purpose of the regulations and standards, to
allow, practical latitude for the developer, and at the same time maintain
adequate provision for the protection of the health, safety, convenience and
general welfare of the community.
   (C)   For the purposes of this chapter, the following special use categories
are identified:
      (1)   Facilities/institutional uses;
      (2)   Golf courses, golf academies, shooting clubs, shooting ranges and
country clubs;
      (3)   Manufactured home developments;
      (4)   Planned unit developments;
      (5)   Planned residential unit development;
      (6)   Funeral homes and mortuaries;
      (7)   Service installations and public utilities;
      (8)   Automotive service station; and
      (9)   Miscellaneous special uses.
   (D)   The following, together with previous references in other chapters of
this subchapter, designate the requirements, procedures and standards, which
must be met before a special use permit can be issued.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.306 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   The application for a special use permit shall be submitted and processed
under the following procedures.
   (A)   Submission of application.
      (1)   An application shall be submitted through the Zoning Administrator
on a special form for that purpose. Each application shall be accompanied by
the payment of a fee as established by the local Township Board.
      (2)   In the event the allowance of a desired use requires both a
rezoning and special use permit, both requests may be submitted jointly,
subject to the following.
         (a)   The ordinance procedures for each shall be followed as
specified.
         (b)   All applicable standards and specifications required by the
ordinance shall be observed.
         (c)   In the event both permits are required, separate hearings will
be held. The rezoning hearing shall be heard first.
   (B)   Data required.
      (1)   The special form shall be completed in full by the applicant
including a statement by the applicant that can be complied with.
      (2)   Site plan drawn to scale (preferably 1" = 100') of the total
property involved showing the location of all abutting streets, the location of
all existing and proposed structures and uses of the property and any natural
or human-made features which effect the property, together with indication of
abutting uses. See site plan requirements in §§
155.330 through
155.335.
      (3)   Preliminary plans and specifications of the proposed development.
   (C)   Planning Commission review and hearing. The application together with
all required data shall be transmitted to the Planning Commission for review.
After review and study of any application and related material, the Planning
Commission shall hold a public hearing. Notices shall be given in accordance
with §
155.385.
   (D)   Permit expiration. A special use permit issued pursuant to this
subchapter shall be valid for one year from the date of issuance of the permit.
If construction has not commenced and proceeded meaningfully toward completion
by the end of this one-year period, the Zoning Administrator shall notify
applicant in writing of the expiration of the permit.
   (E)   Revocation. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to revoke
any special use permit after it has been proved that the holder of the permit
has failed to comply with any of the applicable requirements, or other
applicable sections. Written notice of violation shall be given by the Zoning
Administrator to the holder of the permit and correction must be made within 30
days. After a 30-day period, an additional notice shall be given by the Zoning
Administrator, the use for which the permit was granted must cease within 60
days from date of second notice.
   (F)   Re-application. No application for a special use permit which has been
denied wholly or in part by the Planning Commission shall be resubmitted until
the expiration of one year or more from the date of the denial, except on the
grounds of newly discovered evidence or proof of change of conditions.
   (G)   Recommendation.
      (1)   The Township Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the
Township Board of Trustees to deny, approve or approve with conditions, a
request for special use permit within 60 days of its submission to the Planning
Commission, except in those cases where the applicant has been requested to
furnish additional information, in which case a decision shall be made within
30 days from the receipt of the information.
      (2)   The Planning Commission may deny, approve or approve with
conditions, the request for special use permit approval. If the application for
a special use permit is in compliance with all standards in this zoning
ordinance, and other applicable ordinance and state and federal statutes, the
Planning Commission will make a recommendation to the Township Board of
Trustees, which will then have the option of holding a public hearing and final
approval or denial. The decision on a special use permit shall be incorporated
in a written statement of findings and conclusions relative to the special use,
which specifies the basis for the decision and any conditions imposed.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.307 PERMIT STANDARDS.
   Before issuing a special use permit, the Planning Commission shall establish
that the following general standards, as well as specific standards, shall be
satisfied.
   (A)   General standards. The Planning Commission shall review each
application for the purpose of determining that each proposed use meets the
following standards and, in addition, shall find adequate evidence that each
use on the proposed site will:
      (1)   Be designed, constructed, operated and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and that such a use will not change the
essential character of the area in which it is proposed;
      (2)   Not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or intended uses in the
same general area and will be an improvement to property in the immediate
vicinity and to the community as a whole;
      (3)   Be served adequately by essential public facilities and services,
such as highways, streets, police, fire protection, drainage structures, refuse
disposal, water and sewage facilities and/or schools;
      (4)   Not create excessive additional requirements at public cost for
public facilities and services;
      (5)   Not involve uses, activities, processes, materials and equipment or
conditions of operation that will be detrimental to any persons, property or
the general welfare by reasons of excessive production of traffic, noise,
smoke, fumes, glare or odors; and
      (6)   Be consistent with the intent and purpose of the zoning district in
which it is proposed to locate the use.
   (B)   Conditions and safeguards. The Planning Commission may stipulate
additional conditions and safeguards deemed necessary for the general welfare,
for the protection of individual property rights and for ensuring that the
intent and objectives of this chapter will be observed. The breach of any
condition, safeguard or requirement shall automatically invalidate the permit
granted.
   (C)   Specific requirements. The general standards and requirements of this
section are basic to all uses authorized by special use permit. The specific
and detailed requirements set forth in the following sections relate to
particular uses and are requirements which must be met by those uses in
addition to the foregoing general standards and requirements where applicable.
   (D)   Permitted uses. Uses permitted by special use permit shall be those
listed by districts as noted in the respective zoning districts as herein
regulated, controlled or defined.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.308 FACILITIES/INSTITUTIONAL USES.
   (A)   Authorization. In recognition of the many institutional types of non-
residential functions that have been found compatible and reasonably harmonious
with residential uses, certain institutional uses specified in this section may
be authorized by the issuance of a special use permit. The permit shall not be
issued unless all the procedures and applicable requirements stated herewith,
together with the additional requirements of this section can be complied with.
   (B)   Uses. The following uses may be authorized in those districts as noted
under the respective zoning districts, and provided the applicable conditions
are complied with:
      (1)   Institutions for human care. Hospitals, day care, sanitariums,
nursing or convalescent homes, assisted living homes, homes for the aged and
philanthropic and charitable institutions. Camp or correctional institutions
are prohibited;
      (2)   Religious institutions. Churches, synagogues or similar places of
worship, convents, parsonages and parish houses, and other housing for clergy;
and
      (3)   Educational and social institutions. Public and private elementary
and secondary schools, and institutions for higher education, auditoriums and
other places of assembly, and centers for social activities, including
charitable and philanthropic activities. Camp or correctional institutions are
prohibited.
   (C)   Site location principles. The following principles shall be utilized
to evaluate the proposed location of any institutional use within a permitted
district. These principles are alterable depending upon the specific conditions
of each situation, but they shall be applied by the Planning Commission as
general guidelines to help assess the impact of an institutional use upon the
district in which the use is proposed to be located.
      (1)   Motor vehicle entrances should be made on a principal arterial or
immediately accessible from a principal arterial as to avoid the impact of
traffic generated by the institutional use upon a residential area.
      (2)   Site locations should be preferred that offer natural or human-made
barriers that would lessen the effect of the intrusion of the institutional use
into a residential area.
   (D)   Hospitals (for overnight stay).
      (1)   The proposed site shall be at least five acres in area.
      (2)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line abutting a
principal or minor arterial.
      (3)   No more than 25% of the gross site shall be covered by structures.
   (E)   Religious institutions.
      (1)   The proposed site shall be at least one acre in size, plus one-half
acre per 100 seats in the main auditorium.
      (2)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet to any property or street
line.
      (3)   No more than 25% of the gross site area shall be covered by
structures.
   (F)   Transfer stations and the like. For all other uses that may be
permitted, except public utility transformer stations and substations, gas
regulator stations and housing for religious personnel attached to a church or
school function.
      (1)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet to any property or street
line.
      (2)   No more than 25% of the gross site area shall be covered by
structures.
      (3)   All buildings shall be of an appearance that shall be harmonious
and unified as a group of buildings and shall blend appropriately with the
surrounding area.
   (G)   For public utility transformer stations and substations, gas regulator
stations.
      (1)   All buildings shall be harmonious in appearance with the
surrounding residential area and shall be similar in design and appearance to
any other buildings on the same site development.
      (2)   Where mechanical equipment is located in the open air, it shall be
screened from the surrounding residential area by suitable plant material and
it shall be fenced for safety. All buildings housing mechanical equipment shall
be landscaped and maintained to harmonize with the surrounding area.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.309 GOLF COURSES, GOLF ACADEMIES, SHOOTING CLUBS, SHOOTING RANGES AND
COUNTRY CLUBS.
   (A)   Authorization. In recognition of the basic open space and recreation
character of golf courses and shooting or country clubs and compatibility
within agricultural and residential areas, these uses may be permitted.
   (B)   Uses.
      (1)   Golf courses;
      (2)   Golf academies;
      (3)   Shooting clubs and shooting ranges;
      (4)   Country clubs; and
      (5)   Accessory uses for a permitted use shall be construed to include
restaurant and other eating or drinking establishments and the retail sales
directly connected with the conduct of the principal use.
   (C)   Site location principles. Site location should be allowed which
enhances the natural environment and amenities for community life.
   (D)   Development requirements. The following standards shall be applicable
as basic requirements for the use of land or for the erection, reconstruction
or alteration of permitted structures.
      (1)   Minimum site shall be ten acres or more and access shall be so
designated as to provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from a street.
      (2)   Lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so arranged
and maintained as to direct the light away from all residential lands which
adjoin the site.
      (3)   Minimum yard and height standards require that no building shall be
closer than 50 feet to any property or street line.
      (4)   Additional requirements for a golf academy.
         (a)   Whenever a golf academy abuts property within a residential or
agricultural district, a transition strip at least 100 feet in width shall be
provided between all operations and structures, including fences, and the
residential or agricultural property. Grass, plant materials and structural
screens of a type approved by the Planning Commission shall be placed within
the transition strip.
         (b)   A minimum yard of 100 feet shall separate all uses, operations
and structures permitted herein, including fences, from any public street or
highway used for access or exit purposes. This yard shall be landscaped in
accordance with plans approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   A golf academy is required to submit its hours of operation and
photometric plans.
      (5)   Additional requirements for shooting clubs and shooting ranges.
         (a)   The parcel of land on which any shooting range is located shall
be at least 1,320 feet in length in the direction in which any firearms are
fired.
         (b)   The shooting range shall be laid out so that a hill, bank or
berm is located in a manner as to prevent any bullets/gunshot from leaving the
property.
         (c)   The shooting range shall not be located in an area where small
children are likely to play due to the proximity of houses, schools, churches,
parks or similar facilities. In no case shall a shooting range be located
within one mile of a platted subdivision.
         (d)   No shooting range shall be used or operated earlier than 9:00
a.m. or later than one hour prior to sunset.
         (e)   All shooting ranges and shooting clubs shall comply with the
basic safety standards published by the National Rifle Association.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.310 MANUFACTURED HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Authorization.
      (1)   Manufactured housing developments are herein recognized as
fundamentally a multiple residential use and that allowing in a residential
classification, subject to particular conditions and standards, will best
promote the public health, safety, comfort, convenience, prosperity and the
general welfare as set out in this chapter.
      (2)   The special features and demands of manufactured housing require
full considerations of their site location, design and improvement; their
demands upon public services and utilities; and their relationship to and
effect upon adjacent land uses.
   (B)   Uses. A manufactured housing development may include any or all of the
following uses; provided that, a plan of the proposed development is approved
by the Mobile Home Commission of the state in accordance with Pub. Act 243 of
1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1035 et seq., as amended; and, provided further
that, the development proposal meets the standards and conditions and all other
provisions as herein established.
      (1)   Manufactured homes are designed for occupancy as a dwelling unit,
and containing a minimum of 1,100 square feet of living area.
      (2)   Accessory buildings and services required for normal operation. The
establishments or service facilities shall be designed and intended to serve
frequent trade of needs of persons residing within the park and may be
permitted; provided that, the uses:
         (a)   Shall not occupy more than 5% of the area of the park;
         (b)   Shall be subordinate to the residential character of the park;
and
         (c)   Shall present no visible evidence of commercial character to any
area outside of the park boundaries.
      (3)   Maintenance building for conducting the operation and maintenance
of a mobile home park. Only one permanent building can be established, however,
a caretaker's residence may be established within or in addition to the
permanent building.
   (C)   Uses specifically prohibited. The sales, display or storage of
manufactured homes for the uses within any portion that is expressly
prohibited.
   (D)   Development requirements.
      (1)   The following minimum requirements, guidelines and standards shall
be used in considering the issuance of a special use permit
      (2)   In addition to the provisions of this chapter, all parks shall
comply with Pub. Act 243 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1035 et seq., as
amended, proof of which shall be established by presentation of a certified
copy of construction permit issued by the state prior to final approval of
special use permit.
      (3)   If any of the requirements of this section are less restrictive
than the State Act (Pub. Act No. 243 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1035 et
seq., as amended), the state requirements shall prevail.
         (a)   Park site standards.
            1.   Manufactured homes intended for residential use must be
located within a properly authorized manufactured home park.
            2.   Minimum site size for manufactured home park shall be 40
acres.
            3.   Minimum number. At least 60 spaces shall be completed and
ready for occupancy along with related park improvements before first
occupancy.
            4.   Minimum site location standards require each proposed site to
have at least one property line not less than 200 feet in length abutting a
principal or minor arterial or collector street. The arterial or collector
street shall be paved and of sufficient design capacity as required by the
County Road Commission to safely and effectively handle any increased traffic
generated.
            5.   Minimum site access standards require a minimum of two site
access points and all points of entrance or exit from the park are to be paved
to a minimum width of 24 feet for a two-way or one-way. All street entrance or
exit drives shall not be located closer than 350 feet from the intersection of
any two arterial streets, and no street parking shall be allowed within 100
feet of intersection with the public street.
            6.   Minimum side yard dimensions require that no building upon the
premises shall be located closer than 100 feet from any property line.
            7.   Maximum height for any building or structure shall not exceed
two and one-half stories or 35 feet.
            8.   Minimum open space standards. At least 10% of the entire park
must be preserved in open space. Open space does not include roads.
         (b)   Manufactured home space standards.
            1.   Minimum space shall be 5,000 square feet and the lot shall not
be less than 50 feet in width. Park density shall not exceed six units per
gross acre of park site. For each 5% increase in open space, an increase of one
unit per gross acre of park site will be granted up to eight units per acre.
            2.   Minimum space yard dimensions for front yards and rear yards
shall be ten feet and for the side yards shall be a minimum of ten feet from
the nearest space line and the aggregate side yard dimensions shall not be less
than 25 feet. The front yard is the yard which runs from the hitch end of the
stand to the nearest space line. The rear yard is the opposite end of the stand
and the side yards are at right angles to the ends. Yard area shall not be
encroached upon by enclosed buildings or structures; except that, surfaced
parking area or surfaced patio area may be provided in yard areas, but in all
cases shall not be closer than five feet from a space side yard line.
            3.   Space improvement standards require that each stand consisting
of a solid reinforced concrete slab at least four inches in depth. All off-
street parking spaces provided on individual mobile home space or on the mobile
home park site shall be clearly defined and hard surfaced with bituminous or
concrete surfacing which shall be durable and well drained under normal use and
weather conditions. An outdoor concrete surfaced patio area of not less than
200 square feet shall be provided at each mobile home site, conveniently
located to the entrance of the mobile home.
            4.   Storage facilities shall be waterproof and will provide a
maximum space of 500 cubic feet for each mobile home space.
         (c)   Utilities standards.
            1.   Sanitary sewer and water facilities to all manufactured homes
shall be connected to public facilities.
            2.   Utility lines to each manufactured home park space shall be
installed underground and specially designed for that purpose. When separate
meters are installed, each meter shall be located in a uniform manner. When
natural gas in unavailable, fuel oil or gas shall be furnished and distributed
in a uniform manner in accord with an approved plan by the Planning Commission.
   (E)   Parking, streets and walkways. All driveways, streets, parking areas
and walkways within the mobile home park shall be provided with surfacing of
bituminous or concrete (see construction standards in §§
155.080 through
155.089) which shall be durable and well drained, and adequately lighted with
lighting units so spaced and of the capacity and height for safety and ease of
movement of pedestrians and vehicles at night.
      (1)   Minimum parking standards are specified in §§
155.080 through
155.089, and required parking shall be off-street parking and shall be so
located as to be convenient to residents and visitors.
      (2)   (a)   Park street standards provide that each mobile home space
shall have access to a street which shall meet the following specifications
where appropriate to its character:
 
Minimum Pavement Widths
Parking Allowance Traffic Flow Minimum Paved Width
No parking        1- or 2-way  24 ft.
Parking 1 side    1- or 2-way  30 ft.
Parking 2 sides   1- or 2-way  38 ft.
 
         (b)   All on-street parking shall be parallel and so arranged as not
to impair the free movement of traffic or the safety of residents or visitors.
      (3)   Curb and gutter shall be provided for on all streets and all street
construction shall be in accordance with specifications as required by the
County Road Commission.
      (4)   Walkway standards provide that walks be provided from mobile homes
to service buildings and mobile home facilities shall be at least four feet in
width and walks used in common by one to three mobile homes shall be at least
30 inches in width.
      (5)   The developer shall submit a park lighting scheme previously
approved by the utility company supplying power.
   (F)   Buffers, landscaping and recreation.
      (1)   Greenbelt buffer of 30 feet in width shall be located within the 50
feet yard area as established herein. This greenbelt shall be established and
continually maintained and shall consist of trees and shrubs, or grassed berm,
to protect privacy for the mobile home residents and to shield the mobile homes
from surrounding areas. The greenbelt shall contain at least one row, either
straight or staggered, of deciduous and/or evergreen trees spaced not more than
40 feet apart and at least three rows of deciduous and/or evergreen shrubs,
spaced not more than eight feet apart. In the case of a berm, the berm shall be
a minimum of five feet in vertical height.
      (2)   Recreation space standards provide that common recreation space of
not less than 20% of the gross park area shall be developed and maintained by
the park owner. This area shall not be less than 100 feet in its smallest
dimensions and its boundary no further than 500 feet from any mobile home space
within its service area. Yard requirements as set out in this chapter are not
to be defined as recreational areas in obtaining the minimum area of 20% as set
forth herein.
   (G)   Public health and safety.
      (1)   Storage, collection and disposal of refuse and garbage shall be so
conducted as not to create health hazards, rodent harborage, insect breeding
area, fire hazards or pollution of air or water bodies. All refuse and garbage
shall be collected at least once weekly through a suitable public or private
agency, if available. The park owner shall provide this service. Garbage
containers shall be located in a uniform manner at each space and so designed
to be of a permanent character or located out of general view. Dumpsters are
expressly prohibited.
      (2)   Suitable fire hydrants shall be installed in all parks as required
by the Fire Chief.
      (3)   To aid protection of the public safety, an orderly street name
system and numbering system shall be established by the mobile home park owner
and a plan of this system shall be verified by the local Post Office Department
and filed with the community Fire and Police Department. Mobile home space
numbers shall be located uniformly on each space throughout the mobile home
park and street names shall be adequately marked.
      (4)   Installation of manufactured homes upon each site shall be
accomplished in accordance with Part 6 of the Manufactured Housing Commission
rules. All manufactured housing shall be connected to utilities and shall be
skirted and anchored in accordance with Part 6 of the Manufactured Housing
Commission rules.
   (H)   Miscellaneous provisions.
      (1)   Resident supervision and maintenance. The park shall be operated in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter and the manufactured home park
owner(s) shall provide a designated individual, in residence, to adequately
supervise and maintain the park, its facilities and its equipment in good
repair and in a clean and sanitary condition.
      (2)   Performance bond. Upon granting a special use permit, a bond
executed by any surety company authorized to do business in the state may be
required to be delivered to the Township Board by the applicant for the
faithful performance of the provisions of this chapter and conditions of the
special use permit. The bond shall be in an amount to be determined by the
Township Board and shall be conditioned upon the completion of all acts
relative to the construction, alteration or extension of any mobile home park
within a period of time to be determined as a condition of the special use
permit.
      (3)   Inspection. Inspection of manufactured home parks is authorized and
the Building Inspector is directed to make at least yearly inspections of the
premise to ensure conformance with these ordinance provisions and all other
applicable codes and regulations. The Chief of the local Fire Department or his
or her designated representative is directed to make at least yearly
inspections of the premises to ensure adequate provisions for fire protection
are being observed in the interest of the public safety.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.311 PLANNED RESIDENTIAL UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   It is the purpose of this section to encourage more imaginative and livable
housing environments within the residential districts, as noted, through a
planned reduction, or averaging, of the individual lot area requirements for
each zone district; providing, the overall density requirements for each
district remains the same. The averaging or reduction of lot area requirements
shall only be permitted when a land owner, or group of owners acting jointly,
can plan and develop a tract of land as one complex land use unit, rather than
an aggregation of individual buildings located on separate, unrelated lots.
Under these conditions, a special use permit may be issued for the construction
and occupancy of a planned residential unit development providing the
standards, procedures and requirements set forth in this section can be
complied with.
   (A)   Objectives.
      (1)   To provide a more desirable living environment by preserving the
natural character of open fields, stands of trees, brooks, ponds, flood plains,
hills and similar natural assets;
      (2)   To encourage the preservation of open space and the development of
recreational facilities in a generally central location and within reasonable
distance of all living units;
      (3)   To encourage developers to use a more creative and imaginative
approach in the development of residential areas;
      (4)   To provide for more efficient and aesthetic use of open areas by
allowing the developer to reduce development costs through the bypassing of
natural obstacles in the residential site; and
      (5)   To encourage variety in the physical development pattern of the
community by providing a variety and mixture of housing types.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section, shall take precedence
when in conflict with other section of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Qualifying conditions. Any application for a special use permit shall
meet the following conditions to qualify for consideration as planned
residential unit development.
      (1)   All planned residential unit developments shall be under the
control of the one owner or group of owners and shall be capable of being
planned and developed as one integral unit.
      (2)   Public water and sewer facilities, if not existing at time of
development, shall be provided as part of the site development.
      (3)   The development shall be a minimum of six acres.
      (4)   The proposed planned unit residential development shall meet all of
the general standards outlined herein.
   (D)   Uses that may be permitted. The following uses of land and structures
may be permitted within planned residential unit development, subject to the
district dimensional requirements as listed within each zoning district:
      (1)   Conservation-Greenbelt: single-family detached residential
development;
      (2)   A-1: single-family detached residential development;
      (3)   R-1A: single-family detached residential development;
      (4)   R-1: single-family detached residential development;
      (5)   R-2: single-family detached and two-family dwellings;
      (6)   R-3: single-family detached, single-family in the townhouse style,
and two-family dwellings; and
      (7)   Recreation and open space, (in any R district); provided that, only
the following land uses may be set aside as common land for open space or
recreational use under the provisions of the section. Historic building sites,
or historical sites, parks and parkway areas, ornamental parks, extensive areas
with tree cover, low lands along streams or areas of rough terrain when the
areas have natural features worthy of scenic preservation.
   (E)   Lot variation and development regulations. The lot area for planned
unit residential developments may be averaged or reduced from those sizes
required by the applicable zoning district within which the development is
located by compliance with the following requirements.
      (1)   The acreage of the site, computed from the legal description of the
parcel being developed shall be used for all calculations related to density
and open space. The gross acreage shall be used. No factors for rights-of-way
or easements will be considered. The perimeter setbacks and building heights
shall meet the requirements of the zoning district in which the parcel is
located.
      (2)   Minimum size of the development shall be six acres.
   (F)   Open space requirements.
      (1)   There shall be a minimum of 10% open space. There is no maximum
amount of open space that may be set aside as open space.
      (2)   All open space, tree cover, recreational area, scenic vista or
other authorized open land areas shall be either:
         (a)   Set aside as common land for the sole benefit, use and enjoyment
of present and future lot or home owners within the development. Open space
land shall be owned by the land owner or owners or a home owners association or
other similar non-profit organization so that the fee simple title shall be
vested in tract lot owners as tenants in common; provided that, suitable
arrangements have been made for the maintenance of the land and any buildings
thereon; and, provided further that, a copy of the open space easement for the
land be conveyed to the legislative body to assure that open space land remain
open;
         (b)   Dedicated to the general public as parkland for the use of the
general public. Open space land shall be dedicated to the general public for
parks or recreational purposes by the tract owner or owners; provided that, the
location and extent of the land conforms to the development plan; and, provided
further that, access to and the characteristics of the land is such that it
will be readily available to and desirable for public use, development and
maintenance;
         (c)   The Planning Commission shall determine whether (F)(2)(b) or (F)
(2)(c) is most appropriate. In the case where the land is to be dedicated as a
public park, such as division (F)(2)(b) above, the Planning Commission shall
forward to the legislative body the park proposal and plan for approval; and
         (d)   It is the intent of this section that the owners or developers
of the planned unit residential development shall not be compelled or required
to improve the natural condition of the open space lands.
   (G)   Street development requirements. Street standards and specifications
adopted by the County Road Commission and all applicable local standards shall
be complied with for all street improvements.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.312 PLANNED NEIGHBORHOOD SHOPPING CENTERS.
   It is the purpose of this section to arrange sound neighborhood shopping
facilities within developing areas, without the necessity of indicating
specific sites in advance. Planned neighborhood shopping centers may be allowed
within R-2 and R-3 districts upon issuance of a special use permit where all
the provisions of this section are met. Planned shopping centers are also
permitted within residential planned unit developments.
   (A)   Objectives. The following objectives shall be considered in reviewing
any application for a special use permit for a planned neighborhood shopping
center:
      (1)   To promote a more complete urban design which includes necessary
neighborhood services conveniently located and attractively designed; and
      (2)   To encourage developers to use creative and imaginative approaches
in the development of neighborhoods.
   (B)   Planning Commission review and hearing. Notices shall be given in
accordance with §
155.385. All special land uses require a hearing, therefore a separate hearing
is not required for a planned neighborhood shopping center.
   (C)   Qualifying conditions. To qualify for consideration as a planned
neighborhood shopping center, the following considerations shall be met:
      (1)   The proposed center is designed and will be developed with a
unified architectural treatment;
      (2)   The center shall contain at least five individual uses; and
      (3)   To be eligible for consideration as part of a residential planned
unit development, the planned unit residential development must be a minimum of
50 dwelling units.
   (D)   Uses that may be permitted. The following uses of land and structures
may be permitted within a planned neighborhood shopping center:
      (1)   Retail food establishments, as permitted in B-2 districts;
      (2)   Other retail businesses, as permitted in B-2 districts;
      (3)   Personal service establishments, as permitted in B-1 districts;
      (4)   Offices for professional services, as permitted by B-1 districts;
      (5)   Professional and administrative offices, as permitted in B-
1 districts;
      (6)   Restaurants and other eating or drinking establishments which
provide food or drink for consumption on the premises; provided that, the
establishments shall not be so-called "drive-in" facilities; and
      (7)   Temporary outdoor uses may be permitted on a temporary basis
without a public hearing by the Planning Commission; provided that, the permit
shall not be issued for more than 30 days in any one year and that the use can
be adequately shown not to be injurious or detrimental to properties in the
immediate vicinity.
   (E)   Development requirements. In addition to qualifying conditions listed
above, the following requirements shall be met.
      (1)   Minimum yard requirements.
         (a)   Each lot shall have a minimum front yard of 15 feet and the
yard, except for necessary drives or walks, shall remain clear and shall not be
used for parking, loading or accessory structures.
         (b)   Side yards shall be of not less than 30 feet and further in the
case of a corner lot the side yard on the street side shall be a minimum of 25
feet.
         (c)   Each lot shall have a rear yard of 30 feet.
         (d)   Side yards abutting any residentially zoned property shall be
adequately screened.
      (2)   Maximum building height. The maximum building height shall be three
stories or 40 feet.
      (3)   Maximum lot coverage. The maximum coverage of land by all buildings
shall not exceed 80%.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.313 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   It is the purpose of this section to promote more imaginative and flexible
developments of various uses that will encourage open space preservation, open
space amenities, landscaping and are pedestrian-friendly.
   (A)   Objectives.
      (1)   To encourage economic development by offering developers greater
flexibility in the design and location of uses;
      (2)   To encourage the provision of common open space in the development
of planned unit development properties;
      (3)   To encourage developers in the use of a more creative and
imaginative approach to development; and
      (4)   To encourage user-friendly and pedestrian-friendly developments.
   (B)   Applicability. The provisions of this section, shall take precedence
when in conflict with other section of the Zoning Ordinance.
   (C)   Qualifying conditions.
      (1)   In applying for a special use permit as a planned unit development,
applicants should keep in mind that the approval of the development, in terms
of layout, design, uses and all other related site improvements runs with the
property itself and not the property owner. This means that any transfer of
property will require the new owner(s) to meet the provisions of the
development as approved by the township. Modifications or transfer must follow
the requirements as set forth in this section.
      (2)   To qualify for consideration as a planned unit development, the
following conditions shall be met.
         (a)   The proposed development shall be designed within a unified
architectural treatment as provided for in division (F) below.
         (b)   Minimum lot size shall be three acres and shall contain at least
three individual uses.
         (c)   The lot shall front at least one street classified as an
arterial or principal collector and be provided with adequate ingress and
egress, including provision of service land running the length of the property
abutting the arterial or collector.
         (d)   The lot or lots shall be zoned B-l, B-2, B-3 or a combination of
these three districts. When located upon a principal arterial road or along a
state highway, the lot or lots may be a combination of A-l and one or more of
the following: B-l, B-2 and B-3. A planned unit development is not permitted in
an area only zoned for agriculture or in areas shown in the township's adopted
future land use plan as agriculture only.
         (e)   Public water and sewer facilities shall be available or shall be
provided as part of the site development.
   (D)   Permitted uses. All cumulative uses as permitted by right and as
permitted by special use permit in the B-l, B-2 and B-3 districts may be
granted approval under the planned unit development special use permit,
excluding adult uses as defined within this chapter; provided, the uses and
structures are complementary to each other, do not cause undue overcrowding and
comply with the other provisions of this section.
   (E)   Lot variation and development requirements.
      (1)   The common open space created under the provisions of this section
shall be no less than 10% of the total lot area. The open space may include,
but not limited to, the following:
         (a)   A public plaza;
         (b)   A park;
         (c)   A public plaza or a park created in combination with the storm
water retention basin;
         (d)   Area devoted exclusively to designated pedestrian walkways
within the development (not including sidewalk or parking lot walkways) may be
counted as part of the open space; and
         (e)   Landscaped areas beyond what is required under the prevailing
zoning district requirements may be counted as open space.
      (2)   For each square foot of common open space created, an equal amount
may be added to the bulk requirements of the prevailing zoning district.
      (3)   Suggested setbacks shall be 40 feet as front yard, 20 feet as side
yards and 30 feet as rear yard.
      (4)   Maximum building height shall be three stories or 40 feet.
      (5)   The Planning Commission in its review of the site plan shall
determine the lot width, building setbacks, building heights and densities. In
determining the appropriate requirements, the Planning Commission shall take
into account:
         (a)   The nature of existing and future land uses adjacent to and near
the site;
         (b)   The number, type and size of buildings proposed for the site;
         (c)   Location of natural and cultural features on the site;
         (d)   Topography of the site;
         (e)   Provision of public utilities to the site;
         (f)   Requirements for adequate fire, police and emergency vehicle
access; and
         (g)   The objectives of this section.
      (6)   Planned unit developments with attached housing, including two-
family dwellings, townhome development, and multiple-family dwellings, shall be
developed in accordance with §
155.028, Attached Housing Residential Development Standards. Planned unit
developments including a building or buildings with residential dwellings on a
floor or floors above a commercial or office use shall be exempt from the §
155.028 standards.
   (F)   Architectural and site design guidelines.
      (1)   A unified architectural and site design theme should be
incorporated into each development.
      (2)   The appearance of a "sea of asphalt" parking lot in the front of
the development shall be avoided. Both perimeter and interior parking lot trees
shall be provided for shade and visual relief while maintaining view corridors
to the storefront areas.
      (3)   A portion of the total building area should be located at the
street perimeter with substantial landscaping that reinforces and strengthens
the streetscape and helps screen off-street parking area.
      (4)   Landscaping trees shall be allowed to achieve their natural form.
Pruning to reduce the natural diameter of the trees shall not occur.
      (5)   Truck delivery and circulation routes should be separated from
customer circulation throughout the site. Delivery and service activities
should be accessed from the least traveled route adjacent to the site.
      (6)   All roof top mechanical equipment, antennas and the like shall be
screened from view. Roof top lighting is strongly discouraged.
      (7)   Textured or colored paving materials are encouraged to identify
pedestrian circulation areas, especially within the parking lot.
      (8)   Shopping cart storage areas shall be incorporated into the building
design to provide a visual screen of carts from the parking area.
      (9)   Outdoor gathering areas and public eating areas are encouraged.
      (10)   All commercial signs shall be designed as an integral part of the
development and shall be harmonious with other aspects of the development.
   (G)   Amending or transferring ownership.
      (1)   Prior to a transfer of ownership or a change in use, the property
owner(s) of the development must contact the township in writing to declare
their intent and initiate an administrative review process.
      (2)   Administrative review process shall include, but not be limited, to
the following.
         (a)   During and after the establishment of the planned unit
development, the owner(s) or proponents of the development shall strictly
adhere to conditions, schedules and development requirements recommended by the
Planning Commission. The owner(s) or proponents must submit any proposed
modifications to the approved plan that specifically affects established
densities, uses, an increase or reduction in size and scope of the project,
modifications affecting publicly dedicated open spaces, rights-of-way or
easements, and alterations to the approved overall plan, including
architectural design changes.
         (b)   Any of these modifications shall require submission of a site
plan application to the township describing the proposed changes. All proposed
changes shall follow the same process as the original site plan review and
approval process.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-03,
passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 16-05, passed 5-16-2016) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.314 DAY NURSERY.
   (A)   Authorization. In order to facilitate the care of school children,
this section provides for the inclusion of nursery schools and child care
centers within districts R-1A, R-2 and R-3 and in religious institutions within
any zone district. This use may be authorized by the issuance of a special use
permit or as otherwise cited when all of the procedures and applicable
requirements stated and the additional requirements of this section can be
complied with.
   (B)   Uses that may be permitted. Nursery schools, day nurseries and child
care centers (not including dormitories) may be authorized; provided that,
there shall not be more than one dwelling unit used for residential purposes on
the site.
   (C)   Development requirements. The following requirements for site
development together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter
shall be complied with:
      (1)   Minimum site size. Eleven thousand fifty square feet with 85-foot
lot width at front building lines. There shall also be provided for each child
in attendance 200 square feet of lot area in addition to the base figure of
11,050 square feet; and
      (2)   Play area. There shall be provided on the site additional useable
outdoor play area at the rate of 50 square feet for each child not a member of
the family, exclusive of required front yard, required side yard along a street
and of driveways and parking areas. The play area shall be fenced for safety
and shall be screened from any adjoining land by suitable plant material.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.315 FUNERAL HOMES AND MORTUARIES.
   (A)   Authorization. Because funeral homes and mortuaries perform special
and necessary services to urban populations, and in recognition of the unique
locational and site development characteristics of these functions, the uses of
land may be authorized by special use permit within designated districts.
   (B)   Uses that may be permitted. Funeral homes, undertaking parlors and
mortuaries; provided that, the conduct of all aspects of activities related to
the uses shall take place within the principal building and not in an accessory
building. A caretaker's residence may be provided within the principal
building.
   (C)   Development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter
shall be complied with: front, side and rear yards shall be at least 40 feet,
except on those sides adjacent to non-residential districts wherein it shall be
20 feet. All yards shall be appropriately landscaped in trees, shrubs and
grass. No structures or parking areas shall be permitted in the yards; except
that, rear yards may be used for parking purposes under the requirements
specified, and except for required entrance drives and those walls and/or
fences used to obscure the use from abutting residential districts.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.316 PUBLIC UTILITIES AND SERVICE INSTALLATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to promote the health, safety
and general welfare of the residents of the township; to provide standards for
the safe provision of utility distribution facilities consistent with
applicable federal and state regulations; to minimize the total number of
utility distribution facilities in the community by encouraging shared use of
the facilities and to minimize adverse visual, sound and odor effects from
utility distribution facilities by requiring careful sitting, visual impact
assessment and appropriate landscaping thereby protecting the natural features
and aesthetic character of the township.
   (B)   Uses that may be permitted.
      (1)   Public utilities and service installations, except those approved
prior to the effective date of this section, may not continue to be used unless
in conformity with these regulations. No utility distribution facility shall
hereafter be erected, moved, reconstructed, changed or altered unless in
conformity with these regulations. No existing structure shall be modified to
serve as a utility distribution facility unless in conformity with these
regulations.
      (2)   These regulations shall apply to all property within the following
districts: A-1, R-1A, B-2, B-3, M-1 and M-2 districts. Utility distribution
facilities shall be specifically excluded from all other districts.
   (C)   Site plan review. In addition to the requirements of §§
155.330 through
155.335, the following materials must be submitted.
      (1)   The submitted site plan shall show all existing and proposed
structures including lighting and improvements including roads, buildings,
tower(s), guy wires and anchors, antennae, parking and landscaping, and shall
include grading plans for new facilities and roads.
      (2)   The plan shall ensure that the utility distribution facilities
shall be in a completely enclosed structure which conforms in character and
appearance to other buildings, located within 1,500 feet of the proposed
structure.
      (3)   The facility plan shall show that the facility shall be located at
least 500 feet from any property boundary line and at least 750 feet from any
current structure.
      (4)   The facility plan shall show that it does not involve business
offices, storage areas or structures requiring trucking or other truck
movements.
      (5)   The applicant shall submit documentation on the proposed intent and
capacity of use as well as a justification for the height of any utility
distribution facilities and justification for any clearing required.
   (D)   Lot size and setbacks. All proposed utility distribution facilities
accessory structures shall be located on a single parcel and shall be setback
from abutting parcels and street lines a distance sufficient to substantially
preserve the privacy of any adjoining residential properties.
      (1)   Lot size of parcels containing a utility distribution facilities
shall be determined by the amount of land required to meet the setback
requirements. If the land is to be leased, the entire area required shall be
leased from a single parcel unless the Planning Commission determines that this
provision may be waived.
      (2)   Utility distribution facilities shall be located with a minimum
setback from any property line equal to at least 500 feet and 750 feet from any
existing structure. Accessory buildings shall comply with minimum setback
requirements in the underlying zoning district.
   (E)   Visual/noise/odor impact assessment. The Planning Commission may
require the applicant to undertake visual and noise impact assessments which
may include:
      (1)   A zone of visibility map and/or zone of noise penetration and/or
zone of odor penetration map shall be provided in order to determine where the
facility may be seen and what noise or odor will be emanating from;
      (2)   Pictorial representations of before and after view from any key
viewpoints both inside and outside of the township including, but not limited
to, state highways and other major roads, other public lands or sites normally
open to the public, and from any other location where the site is visible to a
large number of visitors or travelers. If this is a requirement, the Township
Zoning Administrator shall determine the key sites at a presubmission
conference with the applicant;
      (3)   Assessment of the alternative designs and color schemes, as
described in division (F) below;
      (4)   Engineering studies showing likely noise impacts upon properties
within a 2,000-foot radius of the facility as well as alternate designs to
reduce or eliminate the transmission of noise to areas outside the walls of the
utility distribution facilities; and
      (5)   Studies to show that no odor will emanate from the facility.
   (F)   Facility design. Alternate designs shall be considered for new
facilities, including underground. The design of a proposed new utility
distribution facility shall comply with the following.
      (1)   Unless specifically required by other regulations, a utility
distribution facility shall have a finish that minimizes its degree of visual
impact.
      (2)   The maximum height of any new utility distribution facility shall
not exceed that which shall permit operation without artificial lighting of any
kind or nature, except as required by state and/or federal law and/or
regulation. The Planning Commission, at its discretion, may modify this
requirement if the applicant can justify the need to exceed this height
limitation.
      (3)   No lighting shall be permitted unless required by the state or
federal law. If facility lighting is necessary, the applicant shall fully
disclose to the Planning Commission all lighting options. Only the minimal
amount of lighting necessary to meet state and/or federal laws and/or
regulations shall be authorized. Light pollution or light spillover to the
nearby and distant properties shall be minimized to the greatest degree
possible by use of shielding. The Planning Commission shall upon review approve
only the lighting scheme that it determines to be least obtrusive to the
affective properties.
      (4)   Accessory building shall maximize the use of building materials,
colors and textures designed to blend with the natural surroundings.
      (5)   A sign shall be conspicuously placed near the base of a utility
distribution facility and it shall generally state that danger exists and that
no access is permitted. No portion of any utility distribution facility or
accessory building shall be used for a sign other than as stated or for any
other advertising purpose, including, but not limited to, company name, phone
numbers banners and streamers.
      (6)   No noise shall be permitted to extend beyond the premises, except
at a level of no more than 45 db(A) for more than 30 minutes in a 24-hour
period. The applicant shall fully disclose to the Planning Commission all noise
options. Only the minimal amount of noise necessary shall be authorized. Noise
pollution to nearby and distant properties shall be minimized to the greatest
degree possible by use of shielding, burying or noise making devices,
insulation, buildings and the use of technology. The Planning Commission shall
upon review approve only the noise levels and scheme that it determines to be
least obtrusive to the affected properties.
      (7)   No odor shall be permitted to extend beyond the premises. The
applicant shall fully disclose to the Planning Commission all potential odor
problems. Odor pollution to the nearby and distant properties shall be
prohibited by the use of appropriate devices. The Commission shall, upon
review, approve only the odor levels and schemes that it determines to be least
likely to allow odors to extend to adjacent or distant properties.
   (G)   Existing vegetation. Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to
the maximum extent possible. No cutting of trees exceeding four inches in
diameter (measured at a height four feet off the ground) shall take place prior
to the approval of the special permit.
   (H)   Screening. Facades may be required to be built and deciduous or
evergreen trees planting may be required to screen portions of the facility and
accessory buildings from nearby residential property as well as from public
sites known to include important views or vistas. Where a site abuts a
residential property or public property, including streets, facades and
screening shall be required where the facility is located aboveground.
   (I)   Access. Adequate emergency and service access shall be provided.
Maximum use of existing roads, public or private, shall be made. Road grades
shall closely follow natural contours to assure minimal visual disturbance and
reduce soil erosion potential.
   (J)   Parking. Parking shall be provided to assure adequate emergency and
service access. The Township Zoning Administrator shall determine the number of
required spaces based upon a recommendation from the applicant. Two parking
spaces shall be located in any required yard.
   (K)   Fencing. The facility shall be adequately enclosed by a fence, the
design of which shall be approved by the Planning Commission. This requirement
may be waived by the Planning Commission if the applicant demonstrates that the
measures are unnecessary to ensure the security of the facility.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.317 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to exercise a measure of
control over service stations and permitted buildings, and their sites, and to
establish a basic set of standards within which individual solutions may be
developed to meet the retail service needs of motor vehicles. The objectives of
the regulations set forth in this section are to:
      (1)   Promote the type of development which will be compatible with the
other land use activities located in areas where service stations will be
constructed;
      (2)   Control those aspects of service station design, site layout and
operation which may, unless regulated, be damaging to surrounding uses of land;
and
      (3)   Minimize the traffic congestion and safety hazards which can be in
service station activity.
   (B)   Uses that may be permitted. Gasoline service stations; provided, the
accessory uses and services are conducted wholly within a completely enclosed
building. Body repair, engine overhauling, steam cleaning or other mechanical
or physical modifications to motor vehicles is specifically prohibited.
   (C)   Site development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter
shall be complied with:
      (1)   Minimum site size. Fifteen thousand square feet with a minimum
width of 150 feet.
      (2)   Site location. The proposed site shall have at least one property
line on a principal or minor arterial.
      (3)   Building setback.
         (a)   The service station building, or permitted buildings shall be
setback 50 feet from all street right-of-way lines and shall not be located
closer than 50 feet to any property line in a residential district unless,
separated there from by a street or alley.
         (b)   No installations, except walls or fencing and permitted signs,
lighting and essential services, may be constructed closer than 20 feet to the
line of any street right-of-way.
         (c)   Hydraulic hoists, pits and all lubrication, greasing, automobile
washing and repair equipment shall be entirely enclosed within a building.
      (4)   Access drives.
         (a)   No more than one driveway approach shall be permitted directly
from any principal or minor arterial, nor more than one driveway approach from
any other street, each of which shall not exceed 35 feet in width at the
property line.
         (b)   If the service station or permitted building site fronts on two
or more streets, the driveways shall be located as far from the street
intersection as practicable.
         (c)   No driveway or curb cut for a driveway shall be located within
ten feet of an adjoining property line and shall be no less than 25 feet from
any adjacent lot within an R district as extended to a curb or pavement.
      (5)   Curbing and paving. A raised curb at least six inches in height
shall be erected along all of the street property lines, except at driveway
approaches. The entire service area shall be paved with a permanent surface of
concrete or asphalt.
      (6)   Fencing. A solid fence or wall six feet in height shall be erected
along all property lines abutting any lot within a residential district.
      (7)   Lighting. Exterior lighting shall be so arranged so that it is
deflected away from adjacent residential districts and adjacent streets.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.318 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION.
   (A)   General. Changing technology in the field of communications has
resulted in a reliance upon more versatile convenient forms of communication.
Businesses, individuals and government have all developed a strong dependence
upon the ability to quickly contact others. The use of radios and cellular
phones have proven themselves over and over again in emergency situations.
   (B)   Qualifying conditions.
      (1)   Requirements. The following site and developmental requirements
shall apply.
         (a)   Communication towers shall be restricted to self-supporting
structures. The use of guy wires is prohibited.
         (b)   The base of the tower and accessory structures shall be enclosed
with a minimum six-foot high fence.
      (2)   Special performance standards:
         (a)   The tower must be setback from all property lines a distance
equal to its height, unless engineering plans and specifications have been
verified by a report from a structural engineer registered in the state showing
the tower antenna capacity by type and number, and a certification that the
tower is designed to withstand winds in accordance with ANSI/EIA/TIA 222
(latest revision) standards, which tower shall be a self-supporting lattice
tower or a self-supporting monopole. The applicant shall incur all costs
associated with the review of a report.
         (b)   Towers shall be setback from property lines a minimum distance
equal to its height when erected on a parcel that abuts other A-1 or
residentially zoned or used parcels. This requirement is independent hereof.
         (c)   Accessory structures are limited to uses associated with the
operation of the tower and may not be located any closer to any property line
than 30 feet.
         (d)   Accessory structures shall be designed to be aesthetically
compatible with the adjoining properties. This may include the construction of
a brick facade and a pitched roof.
         (e)   Accessory structures shall not exceed 400 square feet of gross
building area per structure.
         (f)   All bufferyard requirements within this chapter shall be met.
         (g)   All towers shall be equipped with an anti-climbing device to
prevent unauthorized access.
         (h)   The plans of the tower construction shall be certified by a
state registered structural engineer.
         (i)   The applicant shall provide verification that the antenna mount
and structure have been reviewed and approved by a professional engineer and
that the installation is in compliance with all applicable codes.
         (j)   All towers must meet the standards of the Federal Aviation
Administration, the Federal Communications Commission and the Tri-City Area
Joint Aviation Committee.
         (k)   Communication towers in excess of 175 feet in height above grade
level shall be prohibited within two miles of a public airport property
boundary or one-half-mile radius of a helipad.
         (l)   Metal towers shall be constructed of, or treated with,
corrosive-resistant material and shall be painted white or off-white. Applicant
shall submit a maintenance program acceptable to the township. The antenna
shall be painted to match the exterior treatment of the tower.
         (m)   Antenna and metal towers shall be grounded for protection
against a direct strike by lightning and shall comply as to electrical wiring
and connections with all applicable local statutes, regulations and standards.
         (n)   Towers with antenna shall be designed to withstand a uniform
wind loading as prescribed in the current Township Building Code.
         (o)   All signals and remote control conductors of low energy
extending substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or
antenna and or structure, or between tower, shall be at least eight feet above
the ground at all points, unless buried underground.
         (p)   Towers shall be located so that they do not interfere with
reception in nearby residential areas.
         (q)   All signals and remote control conductors of low energy
extending substantially horizontally above the ground between a tower or
antenna and a structure, or between towers, shall be at least eight feet above
the ground at all points, unless buried underground.
         (r)   Towers shall be located so there is room for vehicles doing
maintenance to maneuver on the property owned and or leased by the applicant.
         (s)   The base of the tower shall occupy no more than 500 square feet.
         (t)   Minimum spacing between tower locations shall not be less than
one and one-half mile radius to prevent a concentration of towers in one area.
This shall include a distance of neighboring township towers.
         (u)   Height of the tower shall not exceed 175 feet from grade within
all applicable districts.
         (v)   Towers shall not be artificially lit unless required by the
Federal Aviation Administration.
         (w)   Existing on-site vegetation shall be preserved to the maximum
extent practical.
         (x)   There shall not be displayed advertising or identification of
any kind intended to be visible from the ground or other structures, except as
required for emergency purposes.
         (y)   The antenna shall be painted to match the exterior treatment of
the tower.
         (z)   All parking and drive areas must be paved as provided in this
chapter.
         (aa)   The developer shall plant two alternating rows of evergreen
trees with a minimum height of five feet on 20-foot centers along the entire
perimeter of the tower and related structures. In no case shall the evergreens
be any closer than ten feet to any structure.
         (bb)   The tower and site compound shall be removed by the property
owner or lessee within six months of being abandoned. The township will require
an irrevocable $10,000 performance bond to ensure its removal.
         (cc)   A conceptual plan must be submitted by the applicant which
indicates the contemplated are less within the township that the communication
provider may construct other towers.
         (dd)   Towers shall be designed to provide for co-location. If the
applicant demonstrates that he, she or they cannot co-locate on an existing
tower, the applicant must provide documentation satisfactory to the township
that co-location is not possible.
         (ee)   Subject to the conditions in this section the township may
permit the location of personal wireless communication facilities on any
township owned and occupied land.
         (ff)   The applicant shall submit a copy of a valid FCC license for
the proposed activity or proof that the applicant or carrier is the successful
bidder for an FCC license at auction and that the final issuance of the FCC
license purchased at auction is pending.
         (gg)   This chapter and section shall apply to land owned by Saginaw
Valley State University.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.319 MISCELLANEOUS SPECIAL USES.
   (A)   Special uses that may be permitted.
      (1)   Incinerators and sanitary landfills;
      (2)   Junk yards;
      (3)   Sewage treatment and disposal installations as an integral design
of a park as permitted within a zone district, and designed only for service to
that mobile home park development. Sewage treatment and disposal installation
may also be allowed when designed only for and as part of a planned unit
development as permitted within a residential zone district;
      (4)   Drive-in theaters, race tracks, golf driving ranges and miniature
golf courses or similar uses;
      (5)   Special open space uses, such as private resorts, recreational
camps and other open space uses operated for profit or public purposes by a
municipality or other local unit of government;
      (6)   Facilities/institutions for the developmentally disabled and
physically handicapped, drug or alcoholic patients and camps or correctional
institutions;
      (7)   Quarries or sand/gravel pits;
      (8)   Airports and commercial landing strips;
      (9)   Wireless communication facilities;
      (10)   Kennels; and
      (11)   Crematoriums.
   (B)   Incinerators and sanitary landfills.
      (1)   All uses shall be enclosed by a fence six feet or more in height
for the entire periphery of the property. Fences shall be adequate to prevent
trespassing and contain debris.
      (2)   All areas within any single development shall be rehabilitated
progressively as they are worked out or abandoned so that they shall be in a
condition of being entirely lacking in hazards, inconspicuous and blended with
the general surrounding ground form.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may establish routes for truck movement in
and out of the development in order to minimize the wear on streets, to
minimize traffic hazards and to prevent encroachment of traffic, or the
byproducts of traffic (such as dust and noise) upon adjacent properties.
      (4)   All permitted installations shall be maintained in a neat, orderly
condition so as to prevent injury to any single property, an individual or to
the community in general.
   (C)   Junk yards.
      (1)   The site shall be a minimum of 20 acres in size;
      (2)   A solid fence or wall at least eight feet in height shall be
provided around the entire periphery of the site to screen the site from
surrounding property. The fence or wall shall be of sound construction, painted
and otherwise finished neatly and inconspicuously;
      (3)   All activities shall be confined within the fenced-in area. There
shall be no stocking of material above the height of the fence or wall; except
that, movable equipment used on the site may exceed the wall or fence height.
No equipment, material, signs or lighting shall be used or stored outside the
fenced-in area;
      (4)   All fenced-in areas shall be set back at least 100 feet from any
front street or property line. The front yard setback shall be planted with
trees, grass and shrubs to minimize the appearance of the installation;
      (5)   No open burning shall be permitted and all industrial processes
involving the use of equipment for cutting, compressing or packaging shall be
conducted within a completely enclosed building;
      (6)   Whenever the installation abuts upon property within a residential
or agricultural district, a transition strip at least 100 feet in width shall
be provided between the fenced-in areas and the property within a residential
or agricultural district. The strip shall contain plant materials, grass and
structural screens of a type approved by the Planning Commission to effectively
minimize the appearance of the installation and to help confine odors therein;
      (7)   Any other reasonable provisions necessary to meet the intent of
this chapter;
      (8)   Sewage treatment and disposal installations;
      (9)   All operations shall be completely enclosed by a wire link fence
not less than six feet high; and
      (10)   All operations and structures shall be surrounded on all sides by
a transition strip at least 200 feet in width within which grass, plant
materials and structural screens shall be placed to minimize the appearance and
odors of the installations. The Planning Commission shall approve all treatment
of transition strips.
   (D)   Drive-in theaters, race tracks, golf driving ranges and miniature golf
courses or similar uses.
      (1)   All sites shall be located on a principal arterial roads.
      (2)   Whenever any use that may be permitted in this section abuts
property within a residential or agricultural district, a transition strip at
least 100 feet in width shall be provided between all operations and
structures, including fences, and the residential or agricultural property.
Grass, plant materials and structural screens of a type approved by the
Planning Commission shall be placed within the transition strip.
      (3)   A minimum yard of 100 feet shall separate all uses, operations and
structures permitted herein, including fences, from any street or highway used
for access or exit purposes. This yard shall be landscaped in accordance with
plans approved by the Planning Commission
      (4)   Race tracks and drive-in theaters shall be enclosed for the entire
used site for their full periphery with a solid screen fence at least eight
feet in height. Fences shall be of sound construction, painted or otherwise
finished, attractively and in harmony with the surrounding environment.
      (5)   Drive-in theater ticket gates shall be provided in accordance with
the following ratios: one ticket gate for 300-car capacity theaters; two ticket
gates for 600 car capacity theaters; three ticket gates for 800-car capacity
theaters; four ticket gates for 1,000 car capacity theaters. Vehicle standing
space shall be provided between the ticket gates and the street or highway
right-of-way line equal to at least 30% of the vehicular capacity of the
theater.
      (6)   Drive-in theater picture screens shall not be permitted to face any
street and shall be so located as to be out of view from any major
thoroughfare. The picture screen tower shall not exceed 65 feet in length and
40 feet in height.
   (E)   Special open space uses.
      (1)   The proposed site shall be at least two acres in area.
      (2)   The proposed site shall have at least one property line abutting a
major thoroughfare or principal collector. All ingress and egress to the site
shall be directly from the thoroughfare or collector street.
      (3)   All buildings and structures shall be setback at least 200 feet
from any property or street lines. Whenever the installation abuts upon
property within a residential district, this 200-foot setback shall be
landscaped with trees, grass and structural screens of a type approved by the
Planning Commission to effectively screen the installation from surrounding
residential properties.
      (4)   No more than 25% of the gross site shall be covered by buildings.
      (5)   Accessory uses for a permitted use shall be construed to include
restaurant and other eating or drinking establishments and they retain sales
directly connected with the principal open space use.
   (F)   Facilities/institutions for the developmentally disabled and
physically handicapped, drug or alcoholic patients and camps or correctional
institutions.
      (1)   The proposed site shall be at least five acres in area.
      (2)   All two-story structures shall be at least 100 feet from boundary
lines or street lines. Buildings less than two stories shall be no closer than
50 feet to any property or street line. No more than 25% of the gross site
shall be covered by buildings.
   (G)   Sand, clay or gravel pits; quarries.
   (H)   Airports and commercial landing strips.
      (1)   The proposed site shall be at least 2,640 feet by 500 feet.
      (2)   Any runway shall have a minimum length of 1,500 feet with a 500-
foot clearance at each of the runway's ends.
      (3)   Buildings, height limits, lighting, parking and uses and activities
shall be in accordance with applicable FAA and MAC regulations.
   (I)   Kennels.
      (1)   A minimum lot size of five acres shall be maintained.
      (2)   Any building or fenced area where animals are kept shall be located
a minimum of 200 feet from any public right-of-way, 100 feet from any property
line and 150 feet from any residential dwelling located off the premises.
      (3)   The kennel shall be established and maintained in accordance with
all applicable state, county and township sanitation regulations.
   (J)   Pet grooming establishment.
      (1)   No structure occupied by animals shall be closer than 200 feet to
any agricultural or residential lot line.
      (2)   In all cases, the use and all animals shall be confined in an
enclosed building.
      (3)   Accessory products may be sold (a maximum of 30% of the gross floor
area of the establishment can be devoted to accessory retail uses) and may also
include pet obedience training and daily animal-sitting, but shall not include
any overnight boarding of animal(s).
      (4)   No outdoor storage permitted.
      (5)   In areas where the uses may be in proximity to other uses involving
intensive activity such as shopping centers or other urban density locations,
special attention is required to protect the public health and welfare. To
these ends, the Planning Commission may require among other things: separate
building entrance and exit to avoid animal conflicts.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009) Penalty, see §
155.999
SITE PLAN REVIEW AND DESIGN GUIDELINES
§ 155.330 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose of site plan review and design guidelines is to determine
compliance with the provisions and intent set forth in this chapter and to
promote the orderly development of the township and to prevent the development
or alteration of land without proper attention to siting and appearance.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.331 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Prior to the erection of any building or structure or additions
thereto, change in use in any zoning district, any land use requiring special
approval or any planned unit development, a site plan shall be submitted for
review and approval. This review and approval shall be performed by the Zoning
Administrator or by the Township Planning Commission.
   (B)   Site plan review by the Township Planning Commission. The Township
Planning Commission shall review all other structures and uses of land or
building not covered herein and the following site plan review procedures shall
be followed.
      (1)   Administrative site plan review by the Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   The Zoning Administrator shall perform a site plan review for:
            1.   A residential structure having two or fewer dwelling units
therein and accessory structures and uses;
            2.   A change in the use of a structure or land that does not
require additional parking and does not involve structural alterations;
            3.   A commercial accessory building containing 1,000 square feet
or less;
            4.   An addition to an existing structure if the addition totals
10% or less of the existing structures or 1,000 square feet, and only if the
addition will be surfaced with material or materials which do not differ from
materials on the existing structure;
            5.   An addition to parking o less than 10% of the existing parking
area that does not alter circulation;
            6.   A change in the intensity of a use, which may include new
services or expanded hours of operation or other such similar changes that
impact the way in which the business relates and impacts neighboring properties
and traffic patterns;
            7.   In order to perform this review, the Zoning Administrator may
require the submission of information set forth in this section.
            8.   The Zoning Administrator will transmit copies of the site plan
to the departments as appropriate for review. Upon receiving recommendations
from the different departments, the Zoning Administrator shall transmit the
recommendations to the applicant, and if the applicant concurs with the staff
recommendations, the site plan will be approved along with all the
recommendations, the site plan will be approved with all the recommendations as
agreed to by the applicant.
         (b)   In instances where the applicant does not concur with
recommendations or where the Zoning Administrator deems Planning Commission
review necessary during the administrative site plan review, the applicant or
the Zoning Administrator may request the site plan be transmitted to the
Township Planning Commission. The applicant will be required to pay the
appropriate associated fee for site plan review.
      (2)   Site plan review by the Township Planning Commission. All other
structures and uses of land or buildings not covered herein shall be reviewed
by the Township Planning Commission, and the following site plan review
procedures shall be followed.
         (a)   Application deadlines. If a zoning application requires a site
plan review by the Planning Commission pursuant hereto, a complete application
package must be received according to the policy and procedure set by the
Township Planning Commission.
         (b)   Application. The application requesting a site plan review must
be accompanied by a fee, as established by the Township Board. The application
will not be reviewed until all requirements are met, including the requirements
that the fee has been paid. The site plan must include all relevant items
listed below.
            1.   Scale. The site plan must be drawn to a consistent scale of
not less than one inch equals 50 feet (1" = 50') for sites of three acres or
less, or one inch equals 200 feet (1" = 200') for larger sites.
            2.   Identification. The applicant's name, address and telephone
number and the name and address of the firm(s) responsible for preparation of
the site plan must be included. If the applicant does not own the property, the
owner must be identified and must sign a statement certifying that the
applicant is acting in the owner's behalf.
            3.   Property information. The site plan must accurately depict the
subject property and land adjacent to and across any thoroughfare from,
including all existing and proposed easements or rights-of-way. Zoning of the
site and the adjacent properties, and the current use of the site and of
adjacent properties, must be identified. A legal description and computation of
the area of the property must accompany the site plan.
            4.   Site features. The site plan should depict existing
environmental conditions, including the location of wooded areas, isolated
trees over six inches in diameter, topography, wetlands, any existing
structures, including any site contamination, including those proposed for
removal, and other significant conditions. The approximate location and use of
structures and the location of the nearest driveways on adjacent or opposing
parcels should be shown.
            5.   Transportation features. The site plan must show the location
and surface type of all existing and proposed roads, access drives, internal
vehicle circulation areas, all turning radii, parking lots (including number
and location of handicapped parking spaces), sidewalks, loading areas or docks,
truck bays and refuse pickup stations. Developments located within Cardinal
Square shall follow the guidelines, as listed in §
155.332.
            6.   Utilities. The site plan must show the location and size of
all existing and proposed public utilities. Waterline information shall include
location of existing and proposed fire hydrants and valves. Sanitary sewer
information shall include location of any pumping station and approximate
location of manholes. Storm drainage information shall include any enclosed
drains, flow restrictors and on-site retention. The site plan must also include
any existing or proposed private utilities, such as natural gas, electricity,
telephone and cable television.
            7.   Site drainage and grading. The site plan must show the
location of storm drains, invert elevations, proposed finished grades, drainage
ditches, catch basins, manholes, flow restrictors and on-site retention.
Allowable discharge and on-site storage calculations must also be included.
            8.   Structures. The site plan must show the location and
dimensions, including height, of all proposed buildings, accessory structure
and related features. Schematic plans and elevations of all structures must be
included. The site plan should also show the location, arrangement, dimensions
and type of proposed signs, lighting, landscaping, screening, fences, and
decorative walls. Developments located within the Cardinal Square shall follow
the guidelines as listed in §
155.332. For multi-family housing developments, the number of units in each
building must be identified.
            9.   Supplementary materials. The site plan shall be complemented
by any additional information that, in the Zoning Administrator's discretion,
is important for the site plan review process. Applicants shall be responsible
for all costs of required supplementary materials. This could include, but not
be limited to, an assessment of the proposed project's impact on environmental,
historic, social or economic conditions; traffic studies; or proposed measures
to control or mitigate such impacts as noise, smoke, particulates, vibration,
odors or fire hazards.
            10.   Materials Board. The Township Zoning Administrator may
request a materials board be submitted at the time of the site plan review.
This Board shall contain small, representative samples of all the exterior
finishes proposed for the structure and associated elements of the site. This
Materials Board will become part of the approval and will be used to ensure
compliance.
         (c)   Decision guidelines for site plan review. In order that
buildings, open space and landscaping will be in harmony with other structures
and improvements in the area, and to assure that no undesirable health, safety,
noise and traffic conditions will result from the development, the Township
Planning Commission shall determine whether the site plan meets the following
criteria, unless the Township Planning Commission determines that one or more
of the criteria are inapplicable.
            1.   The site plan shall comply with all requirements of the
applicable zoning district and design guidelines, unless otherwise provided in
this chapter.
            2.   The site plan is consistent with the intent and purpose of the
ordinance and the intent of the district in which it is located.
            3.   The vehicular transportation system shall provide for
circulation throughout the site and for efficient ingress and egress to all
parts of the site by fire and safety equipment.
            4.   Recreation and open space areas shall be provided in all
multiple-family developments.
            5.   All developments occurring within the defined boundaries of
Cardinal Square should follow the design guidelines contained in this chapter.
            6.   The requirements for screening, fencing, walls and other
protective barriers shall be complied with as provided in this chapter.
            7.   Pedestrian walkways and/or pathways shall be provided as
deemed necessary by the Township Planning Commission for separating pedestrian
and vehicular traffic.
            8.   All elements of the site plan shall be harmoniously and
efficiently organized in relation to topography, the size and type of the lot,
the character of adjoining property and type and size of buildings. The site
shall be so developed as not to impede the normal and orderly development or
improvement of surrounding property for uses permitted in this chapter.
         (d)   Approval process. The site plan shall be reviewed by the
Township Planning Commission and shall be approved, disapproved, approved with
specific conditions, performance guarantees and/or bond requirements, or tabled
as may be deemed necessary to carry out the purpose of this chapter and other
codes and regulations of the township. If, during review, the Planning
Commission finds a site plan not in conformance with the provisions set forth
in this section it may, at its discretion, return the site plan to the
applicant with a written statement of the modifications necessary to secure
approval.
            1.   Approval. Following approval of the site plan, it shall become
part of the record, and subsequent actions relating to the activity authorized
shall be consistent with the approved site plan unless a change or addition
conforming to this chapter received the mutual agreement of the landowner and
the Township Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator, as appropriate.
Incidental and minor variations of the approved site plan with written approval
of the Zoning Administrator shall not invalidate prior site plan approval.
            2.   Denial for specific requirements. In instances where specific
dimensional or area requirements of this chapter are not satisfied on the site
plan, requests for variance(s) may be initiated by the applicant to the
Township Zoning Board of Appeals. Requirements not met are grounds for denial.
         (e)   Approved site plan.
            1.   The approved site plan shall become part of the record of
approval, and subsequent actions relating to the activity authorized shall be
consistent with the approved site plan unless a change or addition conforming
to this chapter receives the mutual agreement of the landowners and the
Township Planning Commission or Zoning Administrator as appropriate. Incidental
and minor variations of the approved site plan with written approval of the
Zoning Administrator shall not invalidate prior site plan approval.
            2.   The approved site plan shall be valid for a term of one year.
Construction must begin within this time period.
      (3)   Supplemental cost recovery ordinance of expenses incurred by the
township for applications, permits or other similar services provided by the
township or its agents. The township ordains.
         (a)   Purpose. In order to protect the township from extraordinary
expenses resulting from the utilization of township resources in response to
requests by any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability company,
association, partnership, commercial entity, consortium, joint venture,
government entity or any other legal entity, this chapter authorizes the
imposition of charges to recover actual costs incurred by the township in
response to request for administrative review, mailing, publishing, public
hearings, engineering, planning, environmental or fiscal impact consulting
assistance, consultants, attorneys' fees, service charges and interest, and any
other costs direct or indirect in connection with any established fee whether
or not the services are provided by the township or by a third party on behalf
of the township.
         (b)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (B)(3), the
following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or
requires a different meaning.
            ASSESSABLE COSTS. Those costs for services incurred by the township
for administrative review, mailing, publishing, public hearings, engineering,
environmental or fiscal impact consulting assistance, consultants, attorneys'
fees, service charges and interest, and any other costs direct or indirect in
connection with any established fee established by the Township Board for
various applications, permits, and other similar services whether or not the
services are provided by the township or by a third party on behalf of the
township.
            PROJECT. A specific plan or design beginning when the application
is submitted and all associated fees are paid to the township and concluding
when the final certificate of occupancy has been issued or when the owner of
the property or person with authority to submit the plan or design to the
township notifies the township in writing that it plans to abandon the plan or
design submitted for a period not less than three months.
            RESPONSIBLE PARTY. Any individual or any individual's parent or
legal guardian, in the case of a minor, any firm, corporation, limited
liability company, association, partnership, commercial entity, consortium,
joint venture, government entity or any other legal entity that is responsible
for the payment of any fee to the township, and his, her or their heirs,
estates, successors and assigns.
         (c)   Cost recovery authorization and procedure.
            1.   The township may recover all assessable costs relating to any
application, permit and other similar services from any or all responsible
parties jointly and severally.
            2.   The Township Supervisor, Zoning Administrator, or his or her
designee, shall determine the total assessable costs for each various types of
applications and administrative review procedures on a per application, review
or service basis. In making the determination, the following shall be
considered: after consideration of the factors in division (B)(3)(b)
immediately above, the Township Supervisor, Zoning Administrator, or his or her
designee may allocate assessable costs among and between responsible parties,
including allocating all or some of the costs jointly and severally against
more than one responsible party.
            3.   The Township Board shall adopt a fee schedule for various
applications, permits, and other similar services which may be amended from
time to time by resolution of the Township Board. The fee is only an estimate
as actual costs may vary.
         (d)   Billing and collection of assessable costs.
            1.   All fees collected with regard to any application, permit or
other similar services shall be deposited in a way that expenditures can be
tracked and an itemized bill can be provided if requested.
            2.   If the account in which, the fee collected reaches a zero
amount prior to the completion of the review or other action needed to take
place, the township shall invoice the responsible party for the estimated
additional amount needed to complete the review or other action that needs to
take place.
            3.   If the township needs to invoice the responsible party for the
estimated additional amount needed to complete the review or other action
needed to take place, the Township Supervisor, or his or her designee shall
have the authority to determine if the responsible party's application, permit
or other similar service continues in the process or if it the process shall be
stopped until the additional requested fee is received and has been cleared by
the township's banking institution.
            4.   Upon the issuance of the final certificate of occupancy for
the entire project, the Township Treasurer or his or her designee shall, within
90 days, return to the responsible party any unused funds and an accounting of
the expended funds. If all funds are expended, then the Township Treasurer or
his or her designee shall only furnish an accounting if so requested by the
responsible party.
If the project is of a nature that does not require an issuance of a
certificate of occupancy at any time, from the start of the project to the
finish, a written determination by the appropriate board or township official
stating that the application, permit or other similar services has been
completed, the Township Treasurer or his or her designee shall within 90 days
return to the responsible party any unused funds and an accounting of the
expended funds. If all funds are expended, then the Township Treasurer or his
or her designee shall only furnish an accounting if so requested by the
responsible party.
         (e)   Procedure for appealing assessable costs.
            1.   Any responsible party who receives an accounting of assessable
costs shall have an opportunity to meet with the Township Supervisor or his or
her designee to request a modification of assessable costs. The responsible
party shall request a meeting with the Township Supervisor in writing within
seven calendar days of the date of receipt of the accounting of assessable
costs. The meeting shall take place no later than 14 calendar days after the
Township Supervisor receives the written request.
            2.   If, after meeting with the Township Supervisor or his or her
designee, the responsible party is still not satisfied, he or she may appear
before the Township Board to further request a modification of assessable
costs. A responsible party who desires to appear before the Township Board must
first meet with the Township Supervisor or his or her designee as provided
above and shall file a written request to appear before the Township Board with
the Township Clerk within seven calendar days after the date of the meeting
with the Township Supervisor. Any filed request to appear shall specifically
identify and explain all reasons why the responsible party believes the
assessable costs should be modified. Any reason, basis or argument for
modification of assessable costs not set forth in the request to appear shall
be deemed waived by the responsible party, unless the information presented is
a new matter that was unknown to the applicant at the time the request to
appear before the Township Board was made.
            3.   Upon receipt of the request, the Township Clerk will place the
responsible party on the agenda of the next regularly scheduled Township Board
meeting, which meeting is at least 14 calendar days after the date on which the
responsible party files the request to appear.
            4.   Failure to timely file a written request to appear either
before the Township Supervisor or the Township Board shall constitute a waiver
of the responsible party's right to appear before the Township Board; and shall
further constitute the responsible party's agreement to pay the assessable
costs.
            5.   After a responsible party has been given an opportunity to
appear before it, the Township Board shall promptly determine whether to
confirm, modify or void the payment of assessable costs invoiced and notify the
responsible party in writing within 30 days of its decision.
         (f)   No limitation of liability. The recovery of assessable costs
pursuant hereto does not limit the liability of a responsible party under
applicable local, state or federal law.
         (g)   Severability. The provisions of this section are hereby declared
to be severable and if any clause, sentence, word, section or provision is
declared void or unenforceable for any reason by any court of competent
jurisdiction, it shall not affect any portion of the section other than the
part of portion thereof.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 08-03,
passed 9-16-2008; Ord. 09-02, passed 10-20-2009; Ord. 12-001, passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.332 DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   These guidelines are intended to serve as recommendations for all
development and redevelopment projects by both the private and public sector in
B-1, B-2 and B-3 districts, within the area defined as Cardinal Square, from
Freeland Road south to Tittabawassee Road and from Mackinaw Road east to Davis
Road.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.333 FUNDAMENTAL DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   The fundamental design guidelines are general in nature and were created to
apply to the entire Cardinal Square area.
   (A)   Application of design guidelines. The guidelines apply to the entire
Cardinal Square area and every development within the defined area. As many
developments exist and were constructed prior to the establishment of the
guidelines, the following shall be used as a guide for when mandating
compliance:
      (1)   All new developments within Cardinal Square;
      (2)   Any redevelopment which requires a site plan review by the Planning
Commission;
      (3)   All expansions, remodels and the like, including those reviewed
administratively, shall make an effort to address the intent and purpose of
these guidelines while understanding that the extent of the expansion or
remodel may determine the extent to which the guidelines can be incorporated;
and
      (4)   An addition of an accessory building containing 1,000 square feet
or more along key roads.
   (B)   Area-wide design guidelines.
      (1)   Promote an understanding that this district is unique to the area
and distinct;
      (2)   Develop the public nature of the area and reinforce the sense that
Cardinal Square belongs to everyone;
      (3)   Foster physical continuity, meaning that there is freedom of
movement for pedestrians, automobiles and transit systems;
      (4)   Encourage a diversity of uses, activities and sizes of
developments;
      (5)   Encourage street level activity;
      (6)   Create a hierarchy of transportation that begins with pedestrians.
The hierarchy in order of priority:
         (a)   Pedestrians;
         (b)   Bicycles;
         (c)   Vehicles; and
         (d)   Transit.
      (7)   Encourage quality building.
   (C)   Guidelines for the public streetscape. The streetscape environment
includes all the elements that can make a pedestrian comfortable such as the
sidewalk, street trees, street furniture and the facade of the building.
      (1)   All projects must incorporate pedestrian access from the street and
parking areas.
         (a)   All development and redevelopment must include sidewalk and
sidewalk connections as deemed appropriate by Planning Commission.
         (b)   All new development and redevelopment must include the extension
of the multi-use path when located on or adjacent to their property.
         (c)   Multi-use pathway connections are encouraged, even though it may
not be directly adjacent to the development.
         (d)   In order to provide safe and convenient pedestrian access, all
crosswalks on streets whether public or private and driveways shall be denoted
by a change in surface consistent with the intent of the design guidelines and
as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Terminal street views (the point where a street connects
perpendicular to a second street) shall focus on a significant built or natural
feature (a building, landscaping, public space, not a parking lot).
      (3)   Street trees and landscaping should be designed and maintained to
enhance pedestrian access and levels of comfort.
      (4)   Wrought iron or simulated wrought iron fences with brick columns
shall be installed at key points along key road frontages, as determined by the
Zoning Administrator.
         (a)   A minimum of 16 and a maximum of 32 feet length of wrought iron
or simulated wrought iron fence shall be installed between each brick column.
         (b)   All fences shall be between 32 and 36 inches in height.
         (c)   Brick columns shall be 24 by 24 inches in width with a 27 by 27
inches in width limestone cap. The overall height should be 42 inches to 48
inches above finished grade. The brick colors of the columns shall match
existing columns within Cardinal Square or the building on the site, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (d)   All fences shall be located between four and eight feet behind
the sidewalk or pathway, or match the fence on adjoining properties, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (e)   Low profile landscaping that enhances the fence, preferably a
mix of ornamental grasses, perennials and shrubs, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator, shall be installed between the fence and the sidewalk or the
pathway.
      (5)   Buildings, not parking lots, should be the primary feature at the
entrance to a development.
      (6)   Facades facing streets or public walkways shall incorporate windows
and doors so as to encourage pedestrian activity. Mirrored or smoked glass is
discouraged as it acts as a wall and prevents pedestrian interaction.
   (D)   Guidelines for public spaces. These guidelines encourage open spaces,
plazas and parks as public spaces, and that these natural amenities encourage
human occupancy.
      (1)   A complete network of sidewalks and pathways should be constructed
in the Cardinal Square area to create a walking/strolling environment as deemed
necessary by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Developments should provide pedestrian amenities, such as benches,
trash receptacles and bike racks at key locations on site that are consistent
with the area.
      (3)   When public spaces are designed, care should be taken to preserve
enough open space to reasonably handle an open-air special event, such as an
art fair or outdoor concert.
   (E)   Guidelines for buildings. These guidelines include recommendations for
the physical makeup and shape of construction inside the property lines.
      (1)   Entries shall be the highlight of the building.
      (2)   Buildings should be developed that relate to people at all publicly
visible sides; eliminate a back door appearance from parking lots and rear
entrances.
      (3)   Each building shall be encouraged to explore some level of
individual expression in order to reflect the sense of a distinct area rather
than a linear shopping center.
      (4)   A minimum of 50% of the building materials should be natural brick
or stone. The remainder of the building should be constructed in approved
complimentary, natural materials. This regulation applies to all sides of the
principal structure. Accessory structures must be constructed of materials that
are consistent and compatible with the architectural style of the principal
structure.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.334 ADMINISTRATION OF THE DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   The design guidelines in this chapter are to be used as guides for the
township when reviewing site plans and special land uses within the Cardinal
Square district.
   (A)   Flexibility of the guidelines. Because not every development may be
able to meet each specific design guideline, the guidelines were written to be
flexible and to expand, and contract, to fit the development and achieve the
intent of the district as described in the ordinance and in the master plan.
   (B)   Applicable to all developments. Although not all developments will
meet all the guidelines, each new or redevelopment project in the area should
meet most of the design guidelines.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.335 STORM WATER MANAGEMENT DESIGN GUIDELINES.
   The intent of storm water management design guidelines is to encourage the
use of structural, vegetative or managerial practices, commonly referred to as
best management practices (BMPs), designed to treat, prevent or reduce
degradation of water quality due to storm water runoff. All development
projects subject to review under the requirements of this chapter shall be
designed, constructed and maintained using BMPs to prevent flooding, protect
water quality, reduce soil erosion, maintain and improve wildlife habitat, and
contribute to the aesthetic values of the project. The particular facilities
and measures required on-site shall reflect and incorporate existing grade,
natural features, wetlands and watercourses on the site to the maximum extent
feasible.
   (A)   Storm water drainage. All storm water drainage plans shall meet the
standards adopted by the township for design and construction and shall, to the
maximum extent feasible, utilize various control techniques, including, but not
limited to:
      (1)   Limitation of land disturbance and grading;
      (2)   Maintenance of vegetated buffers and natural vegetation;
      (3)   Minimization of impervious surfaces;
      (4)   Use of terraces, contoured landscapes, runoff spreaders, vegetated
or rock-lined swales;
      (5)   Use of infiltration devices, soil permitting; and
      (6)   Shared use of detention basins.
   (B)   General standards.
      (1)   Storm water management systems shall be designed to prevent
flooding and the degradation of water quality related to storm water runoff and
soil erosion from proposed development.
      (2)   All properties that are subject to this chapter shall provide for
on-site storage of storm water. Facilities shall be designed to provide a
volume of storage and discharge rate that meets the standards of the township's
storm water engineering and design guidelines.
      (3)   Priority shall be placed on site design that maintains natural
drainage patterns and watercourses. Alterations to natural drainage patterns
shall not create flooding or degradation in water quality for adjacent or
downstream property owners. The County Public Works Commissioner must approve
site designs if it is a watercourse under his or her jurisdiction. The County
Road Commission and the State Department of Transportation must also approve
site designs for watercourses within their jurisdictional rights-of-way.
      (4)   The use of swales and vegetated buffer strips (containing desirable
native plant materials) or other infiltration practices is encouraged as a
method of storm water conveyance so as to decrease runoff velocity, allow for
biofiltration, allow suspended sediment particles to settle, and to remove
pollutants. Tolerance for water saturation, sunlight, pesticides, metals and
salt shall be required in determining appropriate plantings in these areas.
      (5)   Drainage systems shall be designed to be visually attractive. The
integration of storm water conveyance systems and retention and detention
basins in the overall landscape concept is recommended. Ponds with a naturally
contoured, rather than square or rectangular, design and appearance shall be
encouraged.
      (6)   Where large amounts of grease and oil may accumulate, as in the
case of commercial/industrial developments and large areas of pervious surfaces
for parking, approved oil separators shall be required.
      (7)   For sites that store or use chemicals, a spill response plan shall
be submitted and approved by the township, or the site can provide the township
evidence of a State Department of Environmental Quality approved storm water
pollution prevention plan and certificate of coverage.
   (C)   Storm water management and wetlands. Wetlands may be used for storm
water management if all the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Wetlands and their current functions shall be protected from
impairment due to the discharges of storm water. Measures such as a vegetated
forebay shall be taken to reduce erosive velocities of storm water discharge
and remove sediment and other pollutants prior to discharge to a wetland. The
volume of a vegetated forebay is defined by the township's storm water
management plan.
      (2)   Wildlife, fish or other beneficial aquatic organisms and their
habitat within the wetland will not be impaired.
      (3)   The wetland has sufficient holding capacity for storm water, based
upon calculations prepared by the proprietor and reviewed and approved by the
township, and that the additional storm water will not impair the wetland's
current functions.
      (4)   On-site erosion and sediment control shall be provided to protect
the natural function of the wetland.
      (5)   Provisions approved by the township shall be established so as to
ensure that the wetland is not disturbed or impaired in the future relative to
the needed storage capacity.
      (6)   Applicable permits from the local government and the State
Department of Environmental Quality are obtained.
   (D)   Site plan standards for impervious surface reduction.
      (1)   The township recognizes that, due to the specific requirements of
any given development, inflexible application of the design standards may
result in development with excessive paving, storm water runoff and a waste of
space which could be left as an open space.
      (2)   The township may permit deviations from ordinance requirements
during the site plan review process to reduce impervious surfaces, as
determined by the Township Zoning Administrator or Planning Commission. These
deviations can be either prescribed by ordinance or proposed through creative
land development techniques that are permitted by this chapter. The township
may permit deviations whenever it finds that the deviations are more likely to
meet the intent and standards of this chapter and accommodate the specific
characteristics of the use in question.
      (3)   The township may attach conditions to the approval of a deviation
that bind the approval to the specific use in question. Measures that reduce
impervious surface and increase infiltration may include, but are not limited
to, the following.
         (a)   Streets and access.
            1.   Design residential streets with the minimum required pavement
width needed to support travel lanes, on-street parking and emergency (as
defined by applicable emergency response agencies), maintenance and service
vehicle access and function based on traffic volumes.
            2.   Reduce the total length of residential streets by examining
alternative street layouts to determine the best option for increasing the
number of homes per unit length.
            3.   Design street right-of-way widths/private road easements to
reflect the minimum required to accommodate the travel-way, the sidewalk and
vegetated open channels.
            4.   Minimize the number of street cul-de-sacs and reduce the
radius of cul-de-sacs to the minimum required to accommodate emergency and
maintenance vehicles. Alternative turnarounds shall be considered, including
the use of mountable curbing and grass shoulders for the occasional event of
access by fire trucks and other large commercial trucks. Provide landscape
center islands wherever cul-de-sacs exist.
            5.   Where density, topography, soils and slope permit, use
vegetated open channels in the street right-of-way/private road easements to
convey and treat storm water runoff.
            6.   Use alternative driveway surfaces and shared driveways that
connect two or more sites. (Use agreements should accompany any application.)
            7.   Promote more flexible design standards for residential
subdivision sidewalks. Where practical, consider locating sidewalks on only one
side of the street and providing common walkways linking pedestrian areas.
         (b)   Parking.
            1.   Base parking requirements on the specific characteristics of
the use, land-banking in open space parking required to satisfy ordinance
requirements.
            2.   Reduce the overall imperviousness associated with parking lots
by providing compact car spaces, minimizing stall dimensions, incorporating
efficient parking lanes, depressed center islands with curb cuts and using
pervious materials in the spillover parking areas where possible.
            3.   Encourage shared parking between compatible users.
            4.   Encourage use of grass pavers or pervious pavers for little-
used parking areas, for example, church parking lots that are used only once a
week and the like.
         (c)   Site design.
            1.   Direct rooftop runoff to pervious areas such as yards, open
channels or vegetated areas and avoid routing rooftop runoff to the roadway and
the storm water conveyance system.
            2.   Incorporate a green roof or a roof garden to create a
vegetated roof system that retains and filters storm water prior to drainage
off building rooftops.
            3.   Create naturally vegetated buffer systems, which may vary in
width as determined by the township along all drainageways. Critical
environmental features such as the 100-year flood plain, steep slopes and
wetlands shall be considered.
            4.   Minimize clearing and grading of woodlands and native
vegetation to the least amount needed to build lots, allow access and provide
fire protection.
            5.   Conserve trees and other vegetation at each site by planting
additional vegetation, clustering tree areas and promoting the use of native
plants.
            6.   Incorporate shared use of detention/retention basins, where
feasible.
   (E)   Storm water facility maintenance.
      (1)   Whenever a landowner is required to provide restricted discharge,
on-site storm water detention and/or surface drainage to wetlands, or whenever
other protective environmental measures including monitoring devices and oil
and sediment separators are required, the measures or facilities shall be
provided and maintained at the landowner's expense. The landowner shall provide
assurance to the township that the landowner will bear the responsibility of
providing and maintaining the methods or facilities, by written agreement,
suitable for recording at the office of the County Register of Deeds, that will
act as a perpetual restriction on the land, the form and content of which shall
be approved by the Township Attorney. A maintenance plan shall be provided
including notation and description of maintenance requirements and timelines.
      (2)   Refer to the township storm water management plan and guidelines
for a sample maintenance plan.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
TOWN AND GOWN OVERLAY DISTRICTS
§ 155.340 INTRODUCTION.
   (A)   The standards and requirements outlined in this chapter promote the
following principles in order to facilitate a new vision for the two geographic
areas in Kochville Township shown as the “Town Overlay District” and the “Gown
Overlay District” on the following page:
      (1)   Communities should be designed to re-establish and reinforce the
public domain;
      (2)   Districts must exhibit human scale;
      (3)   Neighborhoods must be diverse in uses, activity, and population;
and
      (4)   Building form that respects traditional development patterns
encourage and sustain pedestrian-level activity.
   (B)   These principles result in strategies that retain distinctive
traditional form, reduce negative environmental impacts, support transit and
pedestrian environments, reduce auto dependence, encourage adaptive reuse and
investment, ensure compatibility with adjacent uses, and create more affordable
and sustainable neighborhoods. These principles embrace the idea that
pedestrians are the catalyst for meaningful communities. Without pedestrians,
our common areas are simply obstructions to the car and not focal points for
the Kochville Township community. Areas in Kochville Township in which commerce
and civic uses are integrated with homes and job opportunities create growing
independence for those populations who don’t have access to cars. This
subchapter is designed to create development that reinforces the public domain
without sacrificing the diversity of character of individual buildings, and to
reintroduce the pedestrian within a traditional compact neighborhood setting.
   (C)   The Town and Gown Overlay Districts will accommodate modern activities
without sacrificing the timeless traditions of human scale and character of
place. It is designed to foster sustainable development in a vibrant,
traditional, pedestrian-friendly pattern that encourages diverse and compact
development. The Town and Gown Overlay Districts promote a lively pedestrian
environment by allowing for small businesses and other commercial uses at the
street level, and encouraging upper-story residences and offices that overlook
public space. Building form standards encourage high-quality buildings that
respect their neighborhood context.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1474.jpg]
 
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1476.jpg]
 
   (D)   Parcels included within the Town and Gown Districts:
Parcel ID Number Common Address Parcel ID Number Common Address
Parcel ID Number    Common Address      Parcel ID Number    Common Address
18-13-4-35-4002-006 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-35-3005-022 5230 FASHION SQUARE
18-13-4-35-4002-016 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-35-2012-006 5656 BAY
18-13-4-36-3005-001 DAVIS               18-13-4-35-3005-011 2468 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-35-4002-018 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-26-3013-000 6440 BAY
18-13-4-35-4002-019 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-26-3005-000 6190 BAY
18-13-4-35-3003-200 2910 TITTABAWASSEE  18-13-4-35-4002-014 5310 HAMPTON
18-13-4-35-4002-003 5225 HAMPTON PLACE  18-13-4-35-2018-700 5750 BAY
18-13-4-36-3003-002 5350 DAVIS RD       18-13-4-35-2016-000 2675 KOCHVILLE
18-13-4-35-4002-002 5195 HAMPTON PLACE  18-13-4-36-3003-000 5330 DAVIS
18-13-4-35-4011-001 TITTABAWASSEE       18-13-4-35-4002-001 5195 HAMPTON
18-13-4-35-3005-023 5230 FASHION SQUARE 18-13-4-35-3003-002 2800 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-35-3005-014 2650 TRAUTNER       18-13-4-35-2005-000 5930 BAY
18-13-4-35-4002-020 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-26-2017-000 6570 BAY
18-13-4-35-3003-300 5054 BAY            18-13-4-26-2019-000 2500 PIERCE
18-13-4-35-3002-002 5450 BAY            18-13-4-26-3022-000 6284 BAY
18-13-4-36-3003-003 DAVIS               18-13-4-35-3002-000 5330 BAY
18-13-4-35-3002-004 2685 TRAUTNER       18-13-4-26-2006-000 6640 BAY
18-13-4-35-4002-021 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-26-3017-000 6150 BAY
18-13-4-35-3002-003 5300 BAY            18-13-4-26-3011-000 2760 KOCHVILLE
18-13-4-35-3003-500 BAY                 18-13-4-26-3004-000 6232 BAY
18-13-4-35-2012-010 FASHION SQUARE      18-13-4-35-4008-000 2482 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-35-4001-001 DAVIS               18-13-4-26-3024-000 6300 BAY
18-13-4-35-4002-015 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-35-3005-016 5415 FASHION SQUARE
18-13-4-35-3005-004 2660 TITTABAWASSEE  18-13-4-35-2012-002 5570 BAY
18-13-4-35-4002-022 5151 HAMPTON PLACE  18-13-4-35-2012-001 5538 BAY
18-13-4-35-4002-017 HAMPTON PLACE       18-13-4-35-3004-000 5020 BAY
18-13-4-35-2012-012 5600 BAY            18-13-4-26-2018-000 6666 BAY
18-13-4-35-4002-008 5407 HAMPTON PLACE  18-13-4-26-2009-000 2920 LIBERTY
18-13-4-35-2019-001 5400 BAY            18-13-4-35-3003-501 2772 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-35-3005-025 5230 FASHION SQUARE 18-13-4-26-3003-000 2590 KOCHVILLE
18-13-4-35-3005-008 2600 TITTABAWASSEE  18-13-4-35-1009-000 2400 KOCHVILLE
18-13-4-35-3005-020 2429 TRAUTNER       18-13-4-35-3003-400 5202 BAY
18-13-4-35-3005-026 5230 FASHION SQUARE 18-13-4-36-3008-000 5400 N MICHIGAN
18-13-4-26-2001-004 6000 BAY            18-13-4-35-4002-023 5360 HAMPTON
18-13-4-26-2001-005 6000 BAY            18-13-4-35-4001-000 5400 DAVIS
18-13-4-26-2002-000 6730 BAY            18-13-4-35-4002-009 5442 HAMPTON
18-13-4-35-2022-000 5950 BAY            18-13-4-35-2020-000 2675 KOCHVILLE
18-13-4-26-3019-000 6410 BAY            18-13-4-35-3103-000 2260 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-35-2015-000 5680 BAY            18-13-4-36-3004-001 5310 DAVIS
18-13-4-26-2001-003 6000 BAY            18-13-4-36-3003-001 5420 DAVIS
18-13-4-26-2001-002 6000 BAY            18-13-4-35-3005-005 2508 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-26-2001-001 6930 BAY            18-13-4-35-2012-007 5650 BAY
18-13-4-26-2020-000 6900 BAY            18-13-4-35-3101-000 2270 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-26-3016-000 6368 BAY            18-13-4-35-1007-000 5500 DAVIS
18-13-4-35-4002-007 5375 HAMPTON        18-13-4-35-4012-000 2200 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-26-2005-000 6530 BAY            18-13-4-35-3006-000 5230 BAY
18-13-4-35-2012-011 KROSSROADS PARK     18-13-4-35-4002-010 5446 HAMPTON
18-13-4-35-3005-010 2424 TITTABAWASSEE  18-13-4-26-3028-000 2600 W KOCHVILLE
18-13-4-35-3102-000 2322 TITTABAWASSEE  18-13-4-35-3008-000 5230 BAY
18-13-4-35-3005-001 2710 TITTABAWASSEE  18-13-4-35-4007-000 5225 DAVIS
 
Parcel ID Number Common Address Parcel ID Number Common Address
Parcel ID Number    Common Address     Parcel ID Number    Common Address
18-13-4-35-3005-002 2690 TITTABAWASSEE 18-13-4-35-4010-000 5255 DAVIS
18-13-4-35-3005-006 2468 TITTABAWASSEE 18-13-4-35-2007-000 5740 BAY
18-13-4-35-3005-003 5150 FASHION SQ    18-13-4-26-3020-000 2839 LIBERTY
18-13-4-26-3014-000 2690 KOCHVILLE     18-13-4-26-3015-000 6420 BAY
18-13-4-35-3003-502 5208 BAY           18-13-4-26-3021-000 2955 LIBERTY
18-13-4-35-4002-005 5311 HAMPTON       18-13-4-36-2003-000 5500 DAVIS
18-13-4-35-3003-600 5212 BAY           18-13-4-35-3010-000 2930 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-35-4002-004 2205 TRAUTNER      18-13-4-35-4002-011 5410 HAMPTON
18-13-4-26-3016-001 6340 BAY           18-13-4-35-1002-000 2400 KOCHVILLE
18-13-4-35-2011-000 5660 BAY           18-13-4-35-3005-012 5200 FASHION SQUARE
18-13-4-35-3005-017 2332 TRAUTNER      18-13-4-26-2016-000 6500 BAY
18-13-4-35-3005-013 2258 TITTABAWASSEE 18-13-4-35-2012-006 5656 BAY
18-13-4-35-3003-100 2832 TITTABAWASSEE 18-13-4-35-3002-001 5300 BAY
18-13-4-35-4011-002 2222 TITTABAWASSEE 18-13-4-35-2006-000 5800 BAY
18-13-4-35-3005-015 2865 TRAUTNER      18-13-4-35-4009-000 2200 TITTABAWASSEE
18-13-4-36-3002-000 5470 DAVIS
 
(Ord. 11-008, passed 12-20-2011)
§ 155.341 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   Applicability. Both the Town Overlay District and the Gown Overlay
District shall be overlay districts that apply over the existing zoning
districts. Use and development of land within these overlay districts shall be
regulated as follows:
      (1)   Any existing use shall be permitted to continue and the use shall
be subject to the underlying zoning requirements and not the overlay district.
      (2)   Where a new use is established within an existing building, the use
shall be subject to the requirements of the overlay district and the site shall
be brought into compliance with the requirements of the applicable overlay
district to the maximum extent practical, as determined by the Zoning
Administrator at the time of reviewing the application for site plan review.
      (3)   Any expansion to an existing use or building that requires site
plan approval from the Planning Commission shall be subject to the requirements
of the applicable overlay district and shall be brought into compliance with
the overlay district requirements.
      (4)   Where a new building is proposed, the use and site shall be subject
to the requirements of the applicable overlay district. Development application
(s) for new building(s) is subject to the site plan review requirements and
design guidelines contained in Chapter 19.
   (B)   The provisions of the overlay districts, when in conflict with other
articles of the Zoning Ordinance, shall take precedence.
   (C)   The provisions of the overlay districts shall specifically supersede
the dimensional requirements (minimum lot size, minimum yard requirements,
minimum floor area per dwelling unit, maximum building height, density, and
maximum lot coverage) described for each zoning districts that are described in
Chapters 6 through 17 of the Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 12-20-2011)
§ 155.342 PRINCIPLES AND STANDARDS APPLICABLE TO BOTH OVERLAY DISTRICTS.
   The Town and Gown Overlay Districts reflect traditional neighborhood design
principles which serve as the context and framework for this chapter of the
Zoning Ordinance. The following outlines the underlying principles and
prescriptive standards that apply to both overlay districts.
   (A)   General layout and orientation.
      (1)   The front facade required building line exists within a prescribed
area defined by the distance from the public right-of-way. In this way,
building placement within the overlay districts is coherent and agreeable, but
not regimented to the degree that the effect is of a contrived, sterile, themed
or highly-planned development. These prescribed areas are based on the existing
framework of a traditional neighborhood oriented to the pedestrian, and not a
suburban environment oriented to motorized transportation.
      (2)   New developments in the overlay districts should integrate street
and roadway design, public space, open space, the natural environment, and the
built environment to create a complementary and connected pattern for efficient
growth and development access.
   (B)   Connectivity and access.
      (1)   Guiding principles.
         (a)   These overlay districts are intended to create and enhance a
safe and welcoming pedestrian environment within a multi-modal transportation
network; to decrease dependence on the automobile; and improve streetscapes and
connections to make walking and biking in the overlay districts easy, safe,
convenient, and desirable.
         (b)   These overlay districts embrace compact, traditional development
patterns with street and site layouts offering multiple connections without
cul-de-sacs or dead-ends.
      (2)   Standards.
         (a)   All non-residential developments which provide automobile
parking facilities shall provide bicycle parking facilities (racks) at a ratio
of at least one bicycle parking space for every five automobile parking spaces.
Multiple-family developments shall provide said facilities at a ratio of at
least one bicycle parking space for every five multiple-family units.
         (b)   Clearly defined, safe pedestrian walkways shall be provided from
adjacent public rights-of-way through off-street parking areas or front
landscaping areas to non-residential building entrances (at least one per
site).
         (c)   Proposed developments that create new streets shall place
utility lines underground.
   (C)   Buildings.
      (1)   Guiding principles.
         (a)   Building form promotes diversity by accommodating flexible
opportunities for a variety of residential, commercial, civic, and recreational
uses.
         (b)   Buildings oversee streets with visually active fronts. For
example, orientation of household gathering spaces (porches and entryways) is
toward the front of the structure which faces the street. This overview of the
streetside area contributes to vital and safe public space and enhances the
pedestrian environment.
         (c)   Buildings frame the majority of the streetside area, and have
facades that are closely related in orientation, position, and scale to exhibit
an agreeable public space.
         (d)   Preferred exterior building materials include concrete, masonry,
tile, stone, and wood.
         (e)   A variety of rooflines are encouraged to reduce the massive
scale of large buildings.
      (2)   Standards. At the time of new development:
         (a)   Primary building entrances shall be oriented toward streets,
parks, and plazas, and not to the interior toward parking lots and garages.
Secondary entrances oriented toward parking lots are permitted.
         (b)   All lots shall share a frontage line with the streetside area.
Residential layouts such as single-family cluster housing, urban townhouses, or
apartment clusters shall be allowed to face a common courtyard public space,
but in general, primary ground floor residential entries must orient to and be
visible from the street, not to interior parking lots.
         (c)   Building facades are the public “face” of every building. Long
facades located along the required building line (RBL) shall be divided into
discrete facades every 70 feet on average so as not to present one long,
continuous facade.
         (d)   The facade shall include a functioning, primary streetside
entry. The entry requirement may be satisfied through the use of liner shops
(small shops with direct access onto the fronting sidewalk) that wrap large
footprint buildings.
         (e)   In no case shall the streetside facade of a building consist of
a blank wall or an unbroken series of garage doors.
         (f)   Building facades of commercial, retail, multi-family
residential, and civic uses that exceed 100 feet in length measured along the
street facade shall have variations in roofline or rooftop parapet to reduce
the massive scale of the large buildings. Rooftop equipment shall be concealed
behind parapets or screened from view by pedestrians.
   (D)   Streetscape requirements.
      (1)   Guiding principles.
         (a)   The street is a coherent space, with consistent building
placement and scale on both sides, contributing to a cohesive and coherent
street identity, or streetscape.
         (b)   Wherever practical, bicycle accommodations should be added to
streets to encourage multi-modal access.
         (c)   Streetscape elements include both planted features and other
manufactured amenities that line the streets which combine to create the
character of the public domain. This includes travel lanes between the curbs as
well as the sidewalks and planting strips. Public plazas and open space also
contribute to the overall character of streets.
         (d)   Street trees provide both form (canopy) and comfort (shade) to
streets. Native trees and plants efficiently contribute to the reduction of air
and noise pollution, maintenance of natural habitat, the conservation of water,
and stormwater management.
         (e)   Regular spacing of street trees gives coherence to the
streetscape, enhancing character.
         (f)   Sidewalks should be designed to facilitate both clear access to
the fronts of buildings and passage for pedestrians.
      (2)   Standards.  At the time of new development:
         (a)   The tree planting zone is located immediately adjacent to the
curb and shall be continuous. In addition to the required planting of trees as
covered below, this area may also be used for the placement of street furniture
including utility poles, waste receptacles, fire hydrants, traffic signs,
newspaper vending boxes, bus shelters, bicycle racks, and similar elements in a
manner that does not obstruct pedestrian access or motorist visibility, as
determined by the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)   Street trees shall be planted at an average spacing of no
greater than 40 feet on the side(s) of the street being developed (and may
depend on the available right-of-way width).
         (c)   Tree planting areas should be at grade (no raised or curbed
planters) and maximize soil area to encourage healthy growth.
         (d)   Upon construction of a new residential structure, at least one
tree will be provided on the lot per 40 feet of street frontage, to be planted
between the right-of-way and the RBL. Existing trees shall fulfill this
requirement. Street trees do not fulfill this requirement.
         (e)   The developer is required to install sidewalks or a pathway
where none currently exist.
         (f)   Sidewalks and other pathways shall be separated from the
roadway.
         (g)   Public sidewalks and private walkways shall be constructed of
concrete and have minimum widths of six feet.
   (E)   Parking. Parking goals for the overlay districts are:
      (1)   Guiding principles.
         (a)   Reduce fragmented, uncoordinated, inefficient, single-purpose
reserved parking and encourage shared parking and access drives.
         (b)   Reduce the number of large, open parking areas that create
unpleasant, windswept spaces for pedestrians.
         (c)   Reduce the amount of impervious surfaces that contribute to
water pollution and/or excessive stormwater runoff.
         (d)   Avoid nuisance impacts on adjacent neighborhoods by providing
for efficient and adequate parking for all uses contained within the overlay
districts.
         (e)   Incorporate convenient bicycle parking.
         (f)   Conceal parking from the public right-of-way by locating the
majority of parking beside or behind buildings.
      (2)   Standards. At the time of new development:
         (a)   A minimum of 1 and 1/8 parking space per residential unit, of
which a minimum of 1/8 parking space per residential unit shall be provided as
shared parking. There are no maximum limits on shared parking.
         (b)   A minimum of one space per 1,000 square feet of non-residential
Gross Floor Area (GFA) shall be provided as shared parking; there are no set
maximum limits on shared parking. New on-street parking spaces created in
conjunction with the development, which did not previously exist, may be
counted toward the minimum requirement for shared parking.
         (c)   A maximum of one space per 1,000 square feet of non-residential
GFA or two spaces per residential unit may be made available for reserved
parking.
         (d)   Parking requirements shall be met either on-site or within a 600
foot radius of the development parcel.
         (e)   Parking shall be concealed in the center or rear of lots, or
shall be hidden with walls or bermed landscape buffers of at least 50% opacity.
         (f)   Landscape screening, landscaping, and tree canopy requirements
for surface parking areas as provided for in division (F) of this chapter’s
regulations shall be required upon construction of any new surface parking
area, or will be required for any existing surface parking area when 50% or
more of the lot is resurfaced.
   (F)   Landscaping, buffering, and screening.
      (1)   Guiding principles.
         (a)   Principles are intended to enhance the pedestrian environment,
and to screen or buffer more intense uses from those of lesser intensity.
         (b)   Deciduous trees should be planted on the southern face of a
building or outdoor area. Such vegetation will provide cooling in the summer
(when leaves are present), while still allowing sunlight to filter in during
the winter (when leaves have fallen). Coniferous vegetation should be used on
the north and west sides to protect the area from prevailing winter winds.
      (2)   Standards. At the time of new development:
         (a)   Commercial uses with loading and truck parking areas, and
outdoor storage located within 200 feet of and having a common lot line with a
residential use, shall include a 25 foot wide landscape buffer area with a
minimum three foot tall berm and trees to at least a 50% opacity running along
the entire property line that is adjacent to the residential use.
         (b)   Parking lots that contain at least 20 parking spaces shall
incorporate landscaped islands of at least 200 square feet for every 20 parking
spaces. The minimum linear dimension of the landscaped area is five feet.
         (c)   Buffer walls shall be of brick, stone, or other similar
decorative material. Retaining walls shall not be considered as a fence or wall
for the purpose of this chapter.
         (d)   Vehicle storage/parking (not including on-street parking),
refuse collection, off-street loading, and mechanical equipment areas shall be
located and screened so as not to be visible from adjacent public streets and
residential uses. Screening may be accomplished through the use of a fence at
least six feet high with landscaping that at maturity will equal at least four
feet high, or a wall constructed of materials compatible with the aesthetics of
the principle structure.
   (G)   Lighting.
      (1)   Guiding principles.  Principles are intended to reduce the amount
of light illuminating the night sky and light that excessively impacts
residential areas.
      (2)   Standards. At the time of new development:
         (a)   All exterior lighting, including free-standing, canopy, pole and
building mounted, shall be fully shielded and directed downward with a 70
degree cutoff to prevent off-site glare. Canopy lighting shall be fully
recessed.
         (b)   The intensity of light within a site shall not exceed ten
footcandles within any part of the site and one footcandle at any property
line, except where it abuts a residential use where a maximum of one half
footcandles is permitted.
         (c)   The mounting height of fixtures shall not exceed 16 feet.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 12-20-2001; Ord. 13-08, passed 10-9-2013)
§ 155.343 STANDARDS FOR THE TOWN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent and purpose of the Town Overlay District is to:
      (1)   Develop a fully integrated pedestrian-oriented environment with
buildings containing commercial, retail, residential, and office uses.
      (2)   Create a synergy of uses within the Town Overlay District to
support economic development and redevelopment.
      (3)   Minimize traffic congestion, inefficient surface parking lots,
infrastructure costs, and environmental impacts by promoting a compact
pedestrian-friendly district.
      (4)   Regulate building height to achieve appropriate scale along streets
to ensure proper transition to nearby residential neighborhoods.
      (5)   Encourage buildings to incorporate alternative energy applications
such as solar, wind energy, and other renewable energy technologies in order
produce on-site energy and to enhance overall building efficiency.
   (B)   Building form standards.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1472.jpg]
 
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   The building height is measured in stories.
         (b)   Each principal building will be at least one story in height,
but no greater than four stories in height, subject to approval by the
Kochville Township Fire Department.
         (c)   An additional tower story is allowed above the maximum building
story height, within the following parameters.
            1.   The footprint of the tower shall not exceed 300 feet.
            2.   No horizontal facade dimension of the tower shall exceed 20
feet.
            3.   Story height is the same as those for upper stories.
            4.   No attic story is permitted above a tower story.
      (3)   Accessory structure height: Accessory buildings shall be no greater
than one story or 20 feet, measured to the eave or top of parapet.
      (4)   Ground story height: commercial uses.
         (a)   The ground story finished floor elevation shall be equal to, or
greater than the exterior sidewalk elevation in front of the building, to a
maximum finished floor elevation of 18 inches above the sidewalk.
         (b)   At least 80% of the ground story shall have an interior clear
height (floor to ceiling) of at least ten feet contiguous to the required
building line frontage for a minimum depth of 25 feet, and a maximum story
height of 16 feet.
      (5)   Ground story height: residential uses.
         (a)   The average finished floor elevation shall be no less than two
feet and no more than seven feet above the exterior sidewalk elevation at the
required building line.
         (b)   At least 80% of the ground story shall have an interior clear
height (floor to ceiling) of at least eight feet and maximum story height of 12
feet.
   (C)   Elements.
      (1)   Upper story height: all uses. At least 80% of each upper story
shall have an interior clear height (floor to ceiling) of at least eight feet
and maximum story height of 12 feet.
      (2)   Mezzanines. Mezzanines having a floor area greater than 1/3 of the
floor area of the story in which the mezzanine is situated shall be counted as
full stories.
      (3)   Door and wall openings.
         (a)   Blank lengths of wall exceeding 20 linear feet are prohibited on
all required building lines (RBL).
         (b)   Door and wall openings shall comprise at least 30%, but not more
than 90% of the ground story facade area per story, and at least 20% but not
more than 75% of the upper story facade area per story.
      (4)   Building projections.
         (a)   Balconies, bay windows and stoops shall not project closer than
five feet to a common lot line or more than five feet beyond the RBL.
         (b)   Each residential ground floor unit shall include a stoop of not
more than five feet deep or a front porch a maximum of ten feet deep.
         (c)   Awnings that project over the sidewalk portion of a street
right-of-way shall maintain a clear height of at least ten feet, and shall be a
minimum of six feet wide.
         (d)   No part of any building except overhanging eaves, balconies, bay
windows, stoops and porches as specified by the code shall encroach beyond the
required building line. No projections will encroach onto the public right-of-
way.
      (5)   Doors/entries.  At least one functioning entry door(s) shall be
provided along the ground story facade of each building. In addition, doors
shall be provided at intervals not exceeding 75 feet.
      (6)   Fencing.
         (a)   A fence of not more than 50% opacity, wall, or hedge, not more
than 48 inches in height, may be placed along the front and common lot lines of
the front yard.
         (b)   A privacy fence, maximum six feet in height, and otherwise
conforming to the Zoning Ordinance may be placed along any rear and common lot
lines not surrounding the front yard or otherwise occupied by a building.
         (c)   The height of the front yard fence, wall, or privacy fence shall
be measured from the adjacent public sidewalk or, when not adjacent to a
sidewalk, from the adjacent ground elevation once construction is complete.
   (D)   Site layout.
      (1)   Overview of representative site layout:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1478.jpg]
 
      (2)   Building placement.
         (a)   Front structure setback: The required building line (RBL) is on
a line that lies between a distance of ten to 70 feet from the public right of
way (within the RBZ).
         (b)   Building facade shall be located parallel with the street and
sidewalk.
         (c)   A minimum of 75% of the building facade must be located within
the RBZ.
         (d)   There is a five foot minimum side lot setback for detached
structures.
         (e)   A rear yard of at least a ten-foot depth is required.
      (3)   Buildable area. A contiguous open area equal to at least 15% of the
total buildable area shall be preserved on every lot, at or above grade and
behind the RBL.
      (4)   Multiple-family residential and civic buildings.
      (5)   Accessory structures (other than garages). Any accessory buildings
shall be located behind the parking setback line, shall be no closer than six
feet (consult the State Building Code for construction requirements for
setbacks of less than ten feet between structures) from the principal building,
and shall adhere to the minimum side and rear yard setbacks prescribed under
building placement.
      (6)   Parking.
         (a)   Vehicle parking areas on private property shall be located
behind the parking setback line, except where parking is provided below the
building.
         (b)   Parking setback line is five feet behind the maximum RBL (25
feet from the public right of way).
         (c)   All parking that is visible from the street shall be screened by
a fence, shrubbery, hedge or masonry wall with a minimum height of three feet
or a bermed, landscaped area at least three feet high and five feet deep of at
least 50% opacity. Location and selection of the screening method shall be
determined based on access requirements to underground utilities with
visibility and safety requirements.
         (d)   Garage access must be located at the side or rear of principal
buildings.
         (e)   Driveways shall be set back at least two feet from a common lot
line.
         (f)   Detached garages shall be located behind principal buildings,
must be at least six feet (consult the State Building Code for construction
requirements for setbacks of less than ten feet between structures) from the
principal building, and shall adhere to the minimum side and rear yard setbacks
prescribed under Building Placement.
         (g)   One carport is permitted per residential dwelling unit. The
carport shall not exceed 400 square feet in roofed area or be higher than ten
feet. Carports shall be located behind principal buildings, and adhere to the
minimum side and rear yard setbacks prescribed under building placement.
         (h)   These requirements are not applicable to on-street parking.
   (E)   Uses.
      (1)   The ground story shall house commercial, office, multi-family
residential, civic, or residential uses.
      (2)   The upper stories shall house residential, multi-family
residential, office or civic uses. No restaurant or retail sales uses shall be
allowed in upper stories unless they are second story extensions equal to or
less than the area of the ground story use.
      (3)   No office multi-family or civic uses are permitted above a
residential use.
      (4)   Additional habitable space is permitted within attic and tower
stories.
      (5)   Auto sales agency.
      (6)   Auto showroom.
      (7)   Bank, with drive-through facilities.
      (8)   Drive-through facility accessory to a permitted retail business,
excluding restaurants.
      (9)   Dwelling, detached single-family units.
      (10)   Funeral home.
      (11)   Group child day care, at least seven but no more than 12 children.
      (12)   Gasoline service station, including full-service.
      (13)   Churches and religious institutions.
      (14)   Restaurant, with drive-through facilities.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 12-20-2011; Ord. 13-08, passed 10-9-2013; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.344 STANDARDS FOR THE GOWN OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The intent and purpose of the Gown Overlay District is to:
      (1)   Develop a fully integrated pedestrian-oriented environment with
buildings containing commercial, retail, residential, and office uses.
      (2)   Create a synergy of uses within the Gown Overlay District to
support economic development and redevelopment.
      (3)   Minimize traffic congestion, inefficient surface parking lots,
infrastructure costs, and environmental impacts by promoting a compact
pedestrian-friendly district.
      (4)   Regulate building height to achieve appropriate scale along streets
to ensure a proper transition from Saginaw Valley State University to the Town
Overlay District.
      (5)   Encourage buildings to incorporate alternative energy applications
such as solar, wind energy, and other renewable energy technologies in order
produce on-site energy and to enhance overall building efficiency.
      (6)   Create a sense of place for the Gown Overlay District via a
pedestrian-oriented traditional neighborhood form that exhibits exceptional
design and architectural character.
   (B)   Building form standards.
      (1)   Cross-section of representative building form:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1480.jpg]
 
      (2)   Building height.
         (a)   The building height is measured in stories.
         (b)   Each principal building will be at least one story in height,
but no greater than three stories in height.
         (c)   An additional tower story is allowed above the maximum building
story height, within the following parameters.
            1.   The footprint of the tower shall not exceed 300 feet.
            2.   No horizontal facade dimension of the tower shall exceed 20
feet.
            3.   Story height is the same as those for upper stories.
            4.   No attic story is permitted above a tower story.
      (3)   Accessory structure height: accessory buildings shall be no greater
than one story or 20 feet, measured to the eave or top of parapet.
      (4)   Ground story height: commercial uses.
         (a)   The ground story finished floor elevation shall be equal to, or
greater than the exterior sidewalk elevation in front of the building, to a
maximum finished floor elevation of 18 inches above the sidewalk.
         (b)   At least 80% of the ground story shall have an interior clear
height (floor to ceiling) of at least ten feet contiguous to the required
building line frontage for a minimum depth of 25 feet, and a maximum story
height of 16 feet.
      (5)   Ground story height: residential uses.
         (a)   The average finished floor elevation shall be no less than two
feet and no more than seven feet above the exterior sidewalk elevation at the
required building line.
         (b)   At least 80% of the ground story shall have an interior clear
height (floor to ceiling) of at least eight feet and maximum story height of 12
feet.
   (C)   Elements.
      (1)   Upper story height: all uses. At least 80% of each upper story
shall have an interior clear height (floor to ceiling) of at least eight feet
and maximum story height of 12 feet.
      (2)   Mezzanines.  Mezzanines having a floor area greater than 1/3 of the
floor area of the story in which the mezzanine is situated shall be counted as
full stories.
      (3)   Door and wall openings.
         (a)   Blank lengths of wall exceeding 20 linear feet are prohibited on
all required building lines (RBL).
         (b)   Door and wall openings shall comprise at least 30%, but not more
than 90% of the ground story facade area per story, and at least 20% but not
more than 75% of the upper story facade area per story.
      (4)   Building projections.
         (a)   Balconies, bay windows and stoops shall not project closer than
five feet to a common lot line or more than five feet beyond the RBL.
         (b)   Each residential ground floor unit shall include a stoop of not
more than five feet deep or a front porch a maximum of ten feet deep.
         (c)   Awnings that project over the sidewalk portion of a street
right-of-way shall maintain a clear height of at least ten feet, and shall be a
minimum of six feet wide.
         (d)   No part of any building except overhanging eaves, balconies, bay
windows, stoops and porches as specified by the code shall encroach beyond the
required building line. No projections will encroach onto the public right-of-
way.
      (5)   Doors/entries. On the ground story facade of each building, doors
shall be provided at intervals not exceeding 75 feet. Measurements will be
taken from the center line of each door opening.
      (6)   Fencing.
         (a)   A fence of not more than 50% opacity, wall, or hedge, not more
than 48 inches in height, may be placed along the front and common lot lines of
the front yard.
         (b)   A privacy fence, maximum 6 feet in height, and otherwise
conforming to the Zoning Ordinance may be placed along any rear and common lot
lines not surrounding the front yard or otherwise occupied by a building.
         (c)   The height of the front yard fence, wall, or privacy fence shall
be measured from the adjacent public sidewalk or, when not adjacent to a
sidewalk, from the adjacent ground elevation once construction is complete.
   (D)   Site layout.
      (1)   Overview of representative site layout:
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1482.jpg]
 
      (2)   Building placement.
         (a)   Front structure setback: The required building line (RBL) is on
a line that lies between a distance of ten to 60 feet from the public right of
way (within the RBZ).
         (b)   Building facade shall be located parallel with the street and
sidewalk.
         (c)   A minimum of 75% of the building facade must be located within
the RBZ.
         (d)   Side structure setback: There is a five-foot minimum side lot
setback for detached structures.
         (e)   A rear yard of at least ten foot depth is required.
      (3)   Buildable area.  A contiguous open area equal to at least 20% of
the total buildable area shall be preserved on every lot, at or above grade and
behind the RBL.
      (4)   Multiple-family residential and civic buildings.
      (5)   Accessory structures (other than garages).  Any accessory buildings
shall be located behind the parking setback line, shall be no closer than six
feet (consult the State Building Code for construction requirements for
setbacks of less than ten feet between structures) from the principal building,
and shall adhere to the minimum side and rear yard setbacks prescribed under
Building Placement.
      (6)   Parking.
         (a)   Vehicle parking areas on private property shall be located
behind the parking setback line, except where parking is provided below the
building.
         (b)   Parking setback line is five feet behind the maximum RBL (25
feet from the public right- of-way).
         (c)   All parking that is visible from the street shall be screened by
a fence or masonry wall at least four feet high, or a bermed, landscaped area
at least three feet high and five feet deep of at least 50% opacity.
         (d)   Garage access must be located at the side or rear of principal
buildings.
         (e)   Driveways shall be set back at least two feet from a common lot
line.
         (f)   Detached garages shall be located behind principal buildings,
must be at least six feet (consult the State Building Code for construction
requirements for setbacks of less than ten feet between structures) from the
principal building, and shall adhere to the minimum side and rear yard setbacks
prescribed under Building Placement.
         (g)   One carport is permitted per residential dwelling unit. The
carport shall not exceed 400 square feet in roofed area or be higher than ten
feet. Carports shall be located behind principal buildings, and adhere to the
minimum side and rear yard setbacks prescribed under building placement.
         (h)   These requirements are not applicable to on-street parking.
   (E)   Uses.
      (1)   Uses permitted by right:
         (a)   The ground story shall house commercial, office, multi-family
residential, civic, or residential uses.
         (b)   The upper stories shall house residential, multi-family
residential, office or civic uses. No restaurant or retail sales uses shall be
allowed in upper stories unless they are second story extensions equal to or
less than the area of the ground story use.
         (c)   No office multi-family or civic uses are permitted above a
residential use.
         (d)   Additional habitable space is permitted within attic and tower
stories.
      (2)   Uses permitted by special use permit.  Uses identified in the
Kochville Township Zoning Ordinance as potential eligible special uses in
accordance with the respective corresponding underlying zoning designation.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 12-20-2011; Ord. 13-08, passed 10-9-2013; Ord. 16-05,
passed 5-16-2016)
§ 155.345 TOWN AND GOWN ADMINISTRATOR.
   (A)   The Kochville Township Planning Commission hereby designates the
Kochville Township Downtown Development Authority Director to the position of
Town and Gown Administrator.
   (B)   Duties and responsibilities of Town and Gown Administrator.
      (1)   Review all site plans received by Kochville Township that are
located in the Town and Gown Districts for compliance with the Town and Gown
Overlay District requirements.
      (2)   Meet with the developer or property owner to discuss the Town and
Gown Overlay District requirements.
      (3)   Meet with the Zoning Administrator to discuss the Town and Gown
Overlay District requirements and the impact of those requirements with the
zoning requirements and the Cardinal Square guidelines.
      (4)   After meeting with the developer and Zoning Administrator, the Town
and Gown Administrator shall prepare a written recommendation that sets forth
what provisions of the Towns and Gown Overlay District should be imposed on the
developer and what provisions are recommended to be waived by the Kochville
Township Planning Commission and the reason those provisions should be waived.
      (5)   Provide the written report set forth in §
155.345(B)(4), above, to the Zoning Administrator and to the Kochville Township
Planning Commission.
   (C)   The developer or the Kochville Township Zoning Administrator may
dispute the finding of the Town and Gown Administrator at the special use
permit public hearing before the Kochville Township Planning Commission. The
Kochville Township Planning Commission shall have the authority to modify the
Town and Gown Overlay requirements imposed on the developer by the Town and
Gown Administrator.
(Ord. 11-008, passed 12-20-2011)
TITTABAWASSEE ROAD CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 155.350 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   It is the purpose and intent of this subchapter to affirm the commitment of
the township to cooperate with the state, the county and other municipalities
in enforcing ordinances adopted jointly, or otherwise, by these entities.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.351 ARTERIAL STREET ACCESS DRIVEWAY REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intention. This subchapter is intended to recognize the unique and
disparate functions of major and minor arterials, which include long distance
traffic movement as well as land access to individual traffic generators. It is
the purpose of this subchapter to serve the public interest by minimizing
operational difficulties caused by these generally incompatible traffic
functions.
   (B)   Efficient use. The regulations of this subchapter strive to promote
the efficient use of public thoroughfares, protect the public investment in
long distance traffic carrying facilities, diminish hazardous traffic
conditions, minimize accidents and property damage, and avoid future
degradation of arterial street traffic capacity. Simultaneously, the
regulations strive to protect the right of abutting landowners to reasonable
access.
   (C)   Effect. These regulations are in effect in all communities that abut
the Tittabawassee Road Corridor, as defined herein. The presence of this
language in each municipality's zoning ordinance is intended to promote the
consistent and continued intent and purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   Applicability.
      (1)   The regulations set forth in this subchapter will apply to the
Tittabawassee Road Corridor from M-47 (Midland Road) to the Saginaw River and
as designated on the official municipal zoning map. These regulations shall
apply as an overlay district to the general ordinance, as shown on the official
township zoning map.
      (2)   These regulations will only apply when the average daily bi-
directional traffic volumes on Tittabawassee Road, for one-half mile east or
west of the proposed access point, exceed 13,000 vehicles. In addition, these
regulations will apply if traffic generated by any new development or change to
an existing development is expected to cause the average daily bi-directional
traffic volume to exceed 13,000 vehicles for one-half mile east or west of the
proposed access point.
      (3)   As an overlay zone, these regulations will apply in addition to
those regulations presently in force. Where there are actual or implied
conflicts between regulations in the overlay zone and the base zoning district,
the Tittabawassee Road Corridor Overlay Zone regulations shall apply.
Construction or any alteration of a direct access driveway, except resurfacing,
along any street, road or highway within the overlay zone shall require
issuance of an access permit from the Planning Commission and the County Road
Commission.
      (4)   The County Road Commission will count and determine the average
daily traffic count of Tittabawassee Road for purposes of this subchapter.
   (E)   Description of access control overlay zone. The overlay zone in the
township will be along the frontage of Tittabawassee Road from Venoy Road to
Hospital Road for a depth of 600 feet as measured from the proposed right-of-
way line for Tittabawassee Road. Intersecting road frontages will also be
included in the overlay zone for a distance of six 600 feet.
   (F)   Performance standards. It shall be unlawful to construct or utilize
any direct access driveway, which does not meet the following criteria.
      (1)   Any driveway design utilized must allow an entering vehicle turning
speed of 15 mph to help reduce interference with through street traffic.
      (2)   Driveway design and placement must be in harmony with internal
circulation and parking design so that the entrance can absorb the maximum rate
of inbound traffic during a normal weekday peak traffic period as determined by
a traffic survey method approved by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   There must be sufficient on-site storage to accommodate at least
five queued vehicles waiting to park or exit without utilizing any portion of
the paved street or in any other way interfering with street traffic.
      (4)   Provisions for circulation between adjacent parcels should be
provided through coordinated or joint parking systems, service drives or other
methods, determined at the time of site plan review.
      (5)   Driveway entrances must be able to accommodate all vehicle types
having occasion to enter the site, including delivery vehicles without
inhibiting other vehicles either on the road or those entering or exiting the
site.
      (6)   Driveway placement should be such that loading and unloading
activities will in no way hinder vehicle ingress or egress.
      (7)   Direct access driveway placement must be such that an exiting
vehicle has an unobstructed sight distance from the stop bar, according to the
following schedule:
 
Road Design Speed (mph) Sight Distance (feet)
30                      220
35                      225
40                      275
45                      325
50                      350
 
      (8)   Driveway design must be such that an entering vehicle will not
encroach upon the exit lane of a two-way driveway. In addition, an exiting
vehicle turning right must be able to enter traffic utilizing only the first
through traffic lane available without encroachment into the adjacent through
lane.
   (G)   Permit application.
      (1)   All applications for driveway approach permits shall be made on a
form prescribed by and available at the township and the County Road
Commission.
      (2)   Permit applications shall be accompanied by clear, scaled drawings
(minimum of 1" = 20') in triplicate showing the following items:
         (a)   Location and size of all structures proposed on the site;
         (b)   Size and arrangement of parking stalls on aisles;
         (c)   Proposed plan of routing motor vehicles entering and leaving the
site;
         (d)   Driveway placement;
         (e)   Property lines;
         (f)   Right-of way lines (existing and proposed if different);
         (g)   Intersecting roads, streets and driveways within 300 feet either
side of the property on both sides of the corridor;
         (h)   Width of right-of-way;
         (i)   Width of road surface;
         (j)   Type of surface and dimensions of driveways;
         (k)   Proposed turning radii;
         (1)   Proposed treatment of right-of-way adjacent to driveway(s) and
between the right-of-way line and property line. Show all proposed landscaping,
signs, above ground utilities and the like;
         (m)   Traffic analysis and trip generation survey results and
methodology obtained from a licensed engineer if determined necessary by the
Planning Chairperson;
         (n)   Design dimension and justification for any alternative or
innovative access design;
         (o)   Dumpster location; and
         (p)   Adjacent parcel information such as, but not limited to, parking
lots, buildings, structures, mutual drives and the like.
   (H)   Permit review process.
      (1)   Application for an access permit may be obtained from the township.
      (2)   The completed application must be received by the Township Zoning
Administrator at least 14 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting where
the permit will be reviewed.
      (3)   The applicant, the County Road Commission and the Zoning
Administrator may meet prior to the Planning Commission meeting to review the
application and proposed access design.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall review and recommend approval, or
denial, or request additional information prior to forwarding the access
application to the County Road Commission for their review.
      (5)   The County Road Commission shall review the access permit
application and conclusions of the Planning Commission. One of three actions
may result.
         (a)   If the Planning Commission and the Road Commission approve the
application as submitted, the access permit shall be granted.
         (b)   If both the Planning Commission and the Road Commission deny the
application, the permit shall not be granted.
         (c)   If either the Planning Commission or Road Commission requests
additional information, approve with conditions or do not concur in approval or
denial, there shall be a joint meeting of the administrative staff of the
County Road Commission, Township Planning Commission and the applicant. The
purpose of this meeting will be to review the application to obtain concurrence
between the Planning Commission and the Road Commission regarding approval or
denial. No application will be considered approved, nor will any permit be
considered valid unless both above mentioned agencies have indicated approval.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of each application
for an access permit which has been submitted, including the disposition of
each one. This record shall be a public record.
         (e)   An access permit remains valid for a period of one year from the
date it was issued. If the permit holder fails to begin earnest construction
authorized by the access permit by the end of one year, the permit is
automatically null and void. Any additional rights, which have been granted by
the Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals, such as special use
permits, or variances, expire together with the access permit. Any performance
guarantee shall be refunded to the permit holder unless the failure to initiate
activity has resulted in costs to the township or the Road Commission. If any
amount of the guarantee remains after the costs are satisfied, the balance of
the guarantee shall be released and returned to the permit holder.
         (f)   The permit may be extended for a period not to exceed one year.
The extension must be requested in writing by the permit holder before the
expiration of the initial permit period. Administrative staff of the township
may approve a permit extension provided there are no existing or
planned deviations from the original access permit site or other sites within
three 300 feet, and there are no violations of applicable ordinances. If there
is any deviation or cause for question, the administrative staff of the
municipality shall consult a representative of the County Road Commission for
input.
         (g)   Reissuance of an access permit which has expired requires a new
access application form to be filled out and processed independently of
previous action.
         (h)   The permittee shall assume all responsibility for all
maintenance of the driveway approaches from the right-of-way line to the paved
edge of the traveled roadway.
         (i)   Where a permit has been granted for entrances to a parking
facility, the facility shall not be altered or the plan of operation changed
until a revised plan has been submitted and approved as specified in this
section.
         (j)   Application for a permit to construct or reconstruct any
driveway entrance and approach to a site shall also cover the reconstruction or
closing of all non-conforming or unused entrances and approaches to the same
site at the expense of the property owner.
         (k)   When a building permit is sought for the reconstruction or
remodeling of an existing site or a zoning or occupancy certificate is sought
for use or change of use for any land, buildings or structures, all of the
existing, as well as proposed driveway approaches and parking facilities shall
comply, or be made to comply, with all design standards as set forth in this
chapter prior to the issuance of a zoning or occupancy certificate.
         (l)   The township and the County Road Commission acting jointly may
require a performance bond or cash deposit in any sum not to exceed $5,000 for
each approach or entrance to ensure compliance with all of the terms of the
permit. The bond shall terminate and deposit be returned to the permittee when
the terms of the permit have been met or when the permit is canceled or
terminated.
   (I)   Driveway spacing.
      (1)   Driveway spacing will be determined as a function of arterial road
operating speeds. Spacing will be determined according to the following
schedule:
Driveway Spacing*
Table 1
Posted Road Speed Minimum Spacing (feet)
Driveway Spacing*
Table 1
Posted Road Speed Minimum Spacing (feet)
25 mph            105
30 mph            125
35 mph            150
40 mph            185
45 mph            230
50 mph            275
NOTES TO TABLE:
*   Standards are derived from the American Association of State Highway
Transportation Officials, Geometric Design of Highways and Streets, Table of
Stopping Sight Distance.
 
      (2)   These spacings are based on average vehicle acceleration and
deceleration rates and are considered necessary to maintain safe stopping
distances and traffic operation. Spacing will be measured from the midpoint of
each driveway. In the event that a particular parcel or parcels lack sufficient
arterial frontage to maintain adequate spacing, the land owner(s) have the
following options:
         (a)   The adjacent landowners may agree to establish a common driveway
in compliance with the regulations stated herein. The driveway must meet
standard specifications, and the estimated driveway volume will be the sum of
the trip generation rate of all land uses in question. A joint easement
agreement among all properties involved must be entered into prior to an access
permit being granted; and
         (b)   If a common driveway cannot be established, for reasons beyond
the property owners' (both the proponent and adjacent land owners) control, the
proponent can seek a variance from the Zoning Board of Appeals from minimum
spacing, but in no case should the variance be greater than the next lowest
classification on Table 4. For example, on a 40 mph arterial requiring a 185-
foot spacing, the distance may be reduced to no less than 150 feet which is the
standard for a 35 mph facility.
   (J)   Number of driveways per parcel.
      (1)   A maximum of one driveway opening may be permitted to a particular
site from Tittabawassee Road and one abutting street. Wherever feasible, access
must be obtained from an abutting street.
      (2)   When, in the opinion of the township or the Road Authority's
Traffic Engineer, and in the views of the permittee, it is in the interest of
good traffic operation, the Board may permit: one additional driveway entrance
along a continuous site frontage in excess of 300 feet; or two additional
driveway entrances along a continuous site frontage in excess of 600 feet.
      (3)   Where a dual service driveway, as depicted in Figure 5, is used it
will be considered, for purpose of this section, to be only one direct access
driveway.
      (4)   In the case of dual one-way driveways, one pair may be used per 250
feet of frontage. Only one pair of one-way drives may be used per street
frontage.
   (K)   Design criteria. The design features described and illustrated in this
section shall be used by the accompanying the driveway permit application.
Figure 1 depicts the standard minimum driveway design. Every driveway
constructed along and within a right-of-way must at least meet the listed
design criteria.
      (1)   Departures. If projected driveway traffic volumes exceed 750
vehicles per day, for all traffic using the driveway, a departure from the
standard design may be required. The township, in conjunction with the County
Road Commission, may specify a driveway system which will accommodate vehicle
movements normally expected without creating undue congestion or hazard on the
road.
      (2)   Alternative designs. The applicant may also request a particular
alternative design as part of the site plan accompanying the driveway
application permit. The following figures (1 through 8) and tables (2 through
5) depict driveway standards and reasonable working ranges for each standard.
This standard shall be used unless the Zoning Administrator in consultation
with the County Road Commission determines that another dimension within the
range is more suitable for a particular site or special condition and is
approved by the appropriate road authority and municipality.
Figure 1: Standard Two-Way Driveway Permitted by Right
(see Table 2)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1372.jpg]
 
Single Two-Way Commercial Driveway Curbed Highway
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1374.jpg]
 
Single Two-Way Commercial Driveway Uncurbed Highway
 
Table 2: Two-Way Drive Standard for Design
Design Features      Curbed Road               Uncurbed Road
                     Standard   Range          Standard   Range
Driveway width     B 24 feet    20-36 feet     24 feet    20-36 feet
Entering radius    C 20 feet    15-35 feet     25 feet    15-35 feet
Exiting radius     D 15 feet    15-35 feet     20 feet    15-35 feet
Intersecting angle A 90 degrees 80-100 degrees 90 degrees 80- 100 degrees
 
      (3)   Right turns and tapers. Right turn lanes and tapers will be
required when:
         (a)   Expected right turn ingress movements meet or exceed 50 mph
during a typical weekday peak traffic period;
         (b)   When driveway volumes are expected to meet or exceed 1,000
vehicles per day; and
         (c)   1.   When the County Road Commission or Township Engineer can
document, through traffic analysis, that the treatment is necessary to avoid
congestion and/or unsafe conditions on a thoroughfare.
            2.   Center left turn lanes in conjunction with tapers will be
required when existing traffic volume or traffic generated by any new
development or change to an existing development causes any bi-directional
hourly volume to exceed 825 vehicles for one-half mile east or west of the
proposed access point. The required storage length for left turn lanes shall be
according to the Federal Highway Administration's standards for left turn
storage lanes, available in the County Planning Office.
         3.   A right turn lane shall be preceded by a taper. The design
features dimension of a right turn lane and taper shall conform to those given
in Figure 2 and Table 2.
Figure 2: Right Turn Lane and Tapers (Entering Tapers)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1376.jpg]
 
Figure 3: Right Turn Lane and Tapers (Exiting Tapers)
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1378.jpg]
 
Table 3: Right Turn Lane and Tapers Standards for Design
Design Features  Curbed Road    Uncurbed Road
                 Standard Range Standard Range
Table 3: Right Turn Lane and Tapers Standards for Design
Design Features          Curbed Road                      Uncurbed Road
                         Standard  Range                  Standard Range
Curb ending            B N/A                              10 feet  no range
Right turn lane length F length of lane = width of lane x
                         speed
Right turn lane width  G 12 feet   10-5 feet              12 feet  10-15 feet
Entering tapers        H 150 feet* 50-150 feet            150 feet 15-35 feet
Exiting tapers         H 150 feet* 50-150 feet            150 feet 50-150 feet
Exiting radius         D N/A                              50 feet  50-150 feet
NOTES TO TABLE:
*If a right turn lane is used, the Entering and Exiting Taper standard shall
be 50 feet. Without a right turn lane, the Entering or exiting taper standard
shall be 150 feet.
This standard shall be used unless the Zoning Administrator in consultation
with the traffic engineer determines that another dimension within the range
is suitable for a particular site or special condition.
 
      (4)   Driveway profile. Driveway profiles shall be determined using the
following criteria.
         (a)   The grade of a two-way, one-way or divided commercial driveway
shall not exceed 1.5% for a minimum distance of 25 feet from the edge of the
pavement. Beyond this distance, the grade shall not exceed 5%.
         (b)   If the road is curbed and if the sidewalk is ten feet or less
from the edge of the pavement, the grade of a driveway shall be the grade
required to meet the sidewalk elevation. If that grade would exceed the
maximums specified in division (K)(4)(a) above, the sidewalk shall be either
tilted or inclined.
         (c)   If the road is uncurbed, the grade of the driveway between the
road edge of pavement and the edge of the shoulder shall conform to the slope
of the shoulder to the edge of the driveway approach. From that point, the
dimensions specified herein will apply.
         (d)   For a driveway on an upgrade towards the road, a grade of 1.5%
for a distance of 100 feet from the edge of the pavement is required. Beyond
this distance, the grade shall not exceed 4% and the difference in grades where
there is a change of grade shall not exceed 3%.
         (e)   Vertical curves with a minimum length of 15 feet shall be
provided at a change of grade of 4% or more.
         (f)   If the sidewalk elevation has to be adjusted to meet the
driveway, the sidewalk shall be inclined at a rate not to exceed one foot
vertical for every 24 feet horizontal.
      (5)   Drainage.
         (a)   A driveway shall be constructed so that is does not adversely
affect the road drainage. The drainage and the stability of the road subgrade
shall not be altered by driveway construction or roadside development.
         (b)   Drainage from adjacent parking or storage areas on private
property in excess of existing drainage shall not be discharged into the road
drainage system.
Figure 4: Standard Profile Design
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1380.jpg]
 
      (6)   Surfacing and curbing along curbed roads. A driveway shall be paved
and curbed from the paved road edge to the proposed right-of-way line, as
determined by the engineer.
      (7)   Surfacing and curbing along uncurbed roads. A driveway shall be
paved and curbed from the paved road surface to the proposed right-of-way line
or to the point of curvature between the driveway edge and the larger radius,
point (b) in Figure 2. The curb ending adjacent to the driveway shall be
located at least 13-1/2 feet from and parallel to the edge of the pavement.
      (8)   Surface materials and thickness. The surface of a paved driveway,
excluding right-turn lanes, shall be concrete, bituminous or equivalent
surfacing material. The thickness of the surface and the base to be used shall
be sufficient to provide the bearing capacity needed to carry the proposed
traffic loads. A two and one-half inch, 250 pounds per square yard, bituminous
mix on eight inches of compacted gravel, eight inches of non-reinforced
concrete or equivalent surfacing material which meets current MDOT Standard
Specifications for Construction is acceptable for normal driveway traffic loads
over stable soil. These specifications are minimum requirements and apply to
the driveway only.
      (9)   Surfacing of right-turn lanes and tapers.
         (a)   The pavement of a right-turn lane and accompanying tapers shall
match the road pavement, unless the Road Commission and the township both
permit the use of an equivalent pavement.
         (b)   The cross slope of a right-turn lane and tapers shall be:
            1.   A continuation of a cross slope of the roadway if the road is
curbed; and
            2.   Equal to the shoulder slope if the road is uncurbed.
      (10)   Shoulders.
         (a)   The surface of the shoulder adjacent to a right-turn lane and
tapers shall be of the same material as the shoulder and conform to the current
Michigan Department of Transportation Standard Specifications for Roadway
Construction.
         (b)   If the distance between two paved commercial driveways serving
the same property is less than 100 feet, measured between adjacent ends of the
nearest curbed radii, the applicant shall pave the shoulder between the
driveways.
      (11)   Driveway curb details. The driveway curb shall either match the
existing curb or shall conform to the current standards for curb and gutter as
determined by the township and Road Commission.
   (L)   Corner clearance. Intersecting streets and direct access driveways
shall be spaced according to the same regulations for distances between direct
access driveways, as listed herein, with the exception of the following. Direct
access driveways must be at least 400 feet from the intersections of M-84 (Bay
Road), North Center Road and Mackinaw Road.
   (M)   Consistency with comprehensive plan. In some cases, on a particularly
congested arterial, the township plan may call for specific innovative
treatment of access control. Examples may include service drives, continuous
right turn lanes, access off and onto collector streets, commercial parks and
combined, coordinated parking/access systems. In such cases, any innovative
design meeting the spirit and intent of these regulations, and performance
standards, may be considered through site plan review.
   (N)   Temporary driveway permits. Temporary driveway permits are intended to
allow existing driveways and new driveways, necessary to access sites remote
from adjacent access, to remain in use until a time as the conditions specified
on the permit are met.
      (1)   A temporary permit may be granted for:
         (a)   Existing driveways that access existing development or are
necessary to service farm fields and are only used for that purpose. Existing
driveways are legal non-conforming driveways and may exist without a temporary
permit under the conditions specified in division (O) below.
         (b)   New driveways necessary to access new development where the new
development is remote from adjacent access drives or that shared access is not
feasible at the time of development.
      (2)   Conditions upon which the temporary permit will expire may include:
         (a)   Adjacent development within 115 feet of the site where the
temporary driveway is located is planned. At this time, joint access provisions
with the adjacent property owner must take place.
         (b)   The use of the site for which the temporary permit was granted
has ceased for six months or more or the use of the site or the driveway has
changed so that the use of the driveway is increased to any degree.
   (O)   Non-conforming driveways.
      (1)   Driveways that do not conform to the regulations in this chapter,
and were constructed before the adoption of this chapter, shall be considered
legal non-conforming driveways. Existing driveways granted a temporary permit
are legal non-conforming driveways until the time as the temporary permit
expires.
      (2)   Loss of legal non-conforming status results when a non-conforming
driveways ceases to be used for its intended purpose, as shown on the approved
site plan, for a period of six months or more. Any reuse of the driveway may
only take place after the driveway conforms to all aspects of this chapter.
      (3)   Legal non-conforming driveways may remain in use until the time as
the use of the driveway or property is changed or expanded in a way that it
impacts the use of the driveway. At that time, the driveway must be made to
conform with all aspect of this chapter.
      (4)   Driveways that do not conform to the regulations in this chapter,
and have been constructed after adoption of this chapter shall be considered
illegal non-conforming driveways.
      (5)   Illegal non-conformities must be cited as violations of this
chapter, made to cease use of the driveway and correct any non-conforming
aspects of the driveway. Driveways constructed in illegal locations must be
closed and all evidence of the driveway removed from the right-of-way and site
on which it is located.
      (6)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the repair, improvement or
modernization of lawful non-conforming driveways.
   (P)   Variances for driveway designs.
      (1)   The applicant may apply for a variance from the standard driveway
designs under the following conditions:
         (a)   When driveway volumes are expected to meet or exceed 1,000
vehicles per day;
         (b)   When expecting turning ingress or egress movements meet or
exceed 50 per hour during a typical weekday peak traffic period as determined
by a traffic study or generally accepted trip generation table, approved by the
Planning Commission, such as the Institute of Transportation Engineers Trip
Generation Manual;
         (c)   When, in the judgment of the County Road Commission or Municipal
Traffic Engineer, specific site conditions require alternative design
treatments to provide for safe and efficient driveway operations;
         (d)   When a joint or coordinated access-parking system is being used.
When two adjacent property owners agree to combine access points, the
municipality may grant an incentive bonus. The total road frontage normally
required will each be reduced by 10% for both landowners (Site circulation and
safety standards will still be enforced.); and
         (e)   When a permittee seeks a variance for an innovative method for
access design or operations.
      (2)   (a)   Variances should be granted only where practical difficulties
require an innovative access design or dimensional change that is consistent
with the intent of ths chapter.
         (b)   Variances may not be granted for financial hardship or in any
instance where the intent of this chapter can be met by abiding by the
standards in this document.
      (3)   The Township Board of Appeals and one representative of the County
Road Commission shall hear and decide all requests for a variance,
interpretation or administrative review of access control regulations.
   (Q)   Sample driveway design allowed by variance.
Figure 5: Dual Service Drive
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1382.jpg]
 
   (R)   Shared access on property line. The standard shall be used unless the
Zoning Administrator in consultation with the County Road Commission and
Township Planning Commission determines that another dimension within the range
is more suitable for a particular site or special condition.
Figure 6: Sample Coordinated Access Parking System
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1384.jpg]
 
   (S)   Industrial park with frontage road.
Figure 7: Sample Service Drives
*Design standards based upon site plan review.
Table 4: Design Standards Dual Service Drive
Design Features  Curbed Road    Uncurbed Road
                 Standard Range Standard Range
Table 4: Design Standards Dual Service Drive
Design Features       Curbed Road                Uncurbed Road
                      Standard    Range          Standard    Range
Distance between   S  20 feet     10-150 feet    20 feet     10-150 feet
driveways
Driveway width     B  24 feet     20-36 feet     24 feet     12-50 and 20-36
                                                             feet
Entering radius    CR 20 feet     15-35 feet     25 feet     15-35 feet
Entering radius    CL 10 feet     5-25 feet      5 feet      5-15 feet
Exiting radius     DR 10 feet     5-25 feet      5 feet      5-25 feet
Exiting radius     DL 15 feet     5-50 feet      20 feet     5-50 feet
Intersecting angle AR 60 degrees  45-90 degrees  60 degrees  45-90 degrees
Intersecting angle AL 120 degrees 90-135 degrees 120 degrees 90-135 degrees
 
Figure 8: Continuous Right Lane
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1386.jpg]
 
Single two-way commercial driveway on curbed road
Single two-way commercial driveway on uncurbed road
Divided commercial driveway
Exit drive
Entrance drive
Dual service driveway
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006) Penalty, see §
155.999
BAY ROAD CORRIDOR OVERLAY DISTRICT
§ 155.365 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The intent of this subchapter is to recognize that the traffic
conditions along Bay Road (M-84) from Tittabawassee to Freeland Road are
basically the same as along Tittabawassee Road. It is the purpose of this
subchapter to minimize potential traffic problems along this corridor.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter are intended to:
      (1)   Promote safe and efficient travel within the M-84 Overlay District;
      (2)   Minimize disruptive and potentially hazardous traffic conflicts;
      (3)   Ensure safe access by emergency vehicles;
      (4)   Protect the substantial public investment in the road system by
preserving capacity and avoiding the need for unnecessary and costly
reconstruction which disrupts business and traffic flow;
      (5)   Separate traffic conflict areas by reducing the number of
driveways;
      (6)   Provide safe spacing standards between driveways and between
driveways and intersections;
      (7)   Provide for shared access between abutting properties;
      (8)   Implement the M-84 Corridor access management plan and map
recommendations;
      (9)   Ensure reasonable access to properties, though not always by the
most direct access; and
      (10)   Coordinate access decisions with the State Department of
Transportation and/or the Bay and County Road Commission, as applicable.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.366 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   The regulations to be applied with respect to Bay Road access shall be
identical to those standard set forth in §§
155.350 and
155.351.
   (B)   The provisions of this subchapter apply to an area described as 660
feet east and west of the centerline of M-84 between Weiss Street, in Saginaw
Township, Saginaw County and M-13/Euclid Avenue in Monitor Township, Bay
County. Single-family residential driveways are exempt from this chapter.
   (C)   In instances where this subchapter conflicts with §§
155.350 and
155.351, §§
155.350 and
155.351 and any subsequent amendments shall take precedence.
   (D)   Any development within the area described in this section that also
requires a site plan review at the municipal level will be required to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter. In instances where the site plan review
procedure or site plan review standards conflict with the local procedures or
standards, this subchapter shall prevail. Aspects of the site plan that are not
addressed in this subchapter shall be governed by the municipality's ordinance
where applicable.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.367 M-84 ACCESS MANAGEMENT PLAN MAP.
   (A)   The M-84 access management plan map identifies seven types of
modifications that will further the intent of this chapter. These modifications
are listed both by number and color. Application of the regulations in this
chapter are intended to achieve the mapped modifications at a time that a site
is developed for the first time, redeveloped to the extent that a site plan is
required, the owner chooses to make the modifications indicated, or the
township causes the modification to take place to achieve necessary safety
improvements. Driveways shown on the map without any modifications planned are
permitted to exist as they are constructed and located.
   (B)   The modifications listed are:
      (1)   Entrance closed;
      (2)   New entrance;
      (3)   Modify;
      (4)   Move entrance;
      (5)   Add curb/define entry;
      (6)   Future non-motorized facility; and
      (7)   Restrict access according to ordinance.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.368 PERMANENT ACCESS FOR UNDERDEVELOPED PARCELS OR EXISTING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Each parcel or lot having a single property tax number, as of the
effective date of this subchapter (hereafter referred to as "the parent
parcel"), that shares a lot line for less than 450 feet with right-of-way
within the corridor as defined in this plan, shall be entitled to one driveway
or road access per parcel onto M-84. Where a parcel is divided by M-84, the
portion of the parcel on each side of M-84 shall be entitled to access
according to this subchapter.
      (1)   All subsequent land divisions of a parent parcel shall not increase
the number of driveways or road accesses beyond those entitled to the parent
parcel on the effective date of this subchapter.
      (2)   Parcels subsequently divided from the parent parcel, either by
metes and bounds descriptions, or as a plat under the applicable provisions of
the Land Division Act, Pub. Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.,
as amended, or as a condominium project in accord with the Condominium Act,
Pub. Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.272, as amended, shall
have access by another public road, an approved private road if the township
permits, or by a service drive meeting the requirements of §
155.370.
      (3)   If the parcel is a corner lot and a second driveway is warranted,
the second driveway shall have access from the abutting street.
   (B)   All driveways or access points located on parcels greater than 450
feet shall be at least 450 feet from the nearest access point on the same or
adjacent parcels. Residential and farm access driveways are exempt from this
regulation.
   (C)   (1)   A second driveway may be permitted if a registered traffic
engineer determines that topographic conditions on the site, curvature on the
road or sight distance limitations demonstrate a second driveway within a
lesser distance is safer or the nature of the land use to be served requires a
second driveway for safety.
      (2)   The affected agencies, including the local municipality, MDOT and
SCRC or the BCRC, as applicable, must unanimously agree to the deviation.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.369 APPLICATION REVIEW, APPROVAL AND COORDINATION PROCESS.
   (A)   All standards of the State Department of Transportation and the County
and Bay County Road Commissions, as applicable, shall be met prior to approval
of an access application under this subchapter.
   (B)   Application, review and approval process applications for driveway or
access approval shall be made on a form prescribed by and available at Charter
Township, Kochville Township, Frankenlust Township and Monitor Township, the
County or Bay County Road Commission, and/or the State Department of
Transportation - Bay City Transportation Service Center.
   (C)   Saginaw Charter Township, Kochville Township, Frankenlust Township and
Monitor Township, the Saginaw/Bay County Planning Department and the Saginaw/
Bay County Road Commission and the State Department of Transportation shall
meet at least twice each year, at the initiation of the MDOT, to ensure that
there is appropriate coordination of the access management review process and
outcomes.
      (1)   Applications shall be accompanied by clear, scaled drawings
(minimum of 1 "=20') in triplicate showing the following items:
         (a)   Location and size of all structures proposed on the site;
         (b)   Size and arrangement of parking stalls on aisles;
         (c)   Proposed plan of routing vehicles entering and leaving the site
(if passenger vehicles are to be separated from delivery trucks indicate this
on the drawing);
         (d)   Driveway placement;
         (e)   Property lines;
         (f)   Intersecting roads, streets and driveways within 300 feet either
side of the property on both sides of the street;
         (g)   Width of road surface;
         (h)   Type of surface and dimensions of driveway;
         (i)   Proposed inside and outside turning radii;
         (j)   Show all existing and proposed landscaping, signs and other
structures or treatments within and adjacent to the right-of-way;
         (k)   Traffic analysis and trip generation survey results, obtained
from a licensed traffic engineer for all developments with over 750 vehicle
trips per day or 100 directional peak hour trips;
         (l)   Design dimensions and justification for any alternative or
innovative access design;
         (m)   Dumpsters or other garbage containers; and
         (n)   Existing and proposed utility box placement.
      (2)   Applications are strongly encouraged to include the following
sources for access designs, the National Access Management Manual, TRB, 2002
and the AASHTO Green Book. The following techniques are addressed in these
guidebooks and are strongly encouraged to be used when designing access that
includes:
         (a)   Not more than one driveway access per abutting road;
         (b)   Shared driveways;
         (c)   Service drives: front, rear and perpendicular;
         (d)   Parking lot connections with adjacent property(ies); and
         (e)   Other appropriate designs to limit access points on an arterial
or collector road.
      (3)   Applications may be accompanied by an escrow fee for professional
site plan and/or traffic analysis review to be determined by the township in
which the project is located.
   (D)   Review and approval process. The following process shall be completed
to obtain access approval.
      (1)   A site plan review access application meeting the requirements of
this section shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator, Clerk or other
township designee of the township. MDOT form 2205, Driveway Permit, shall be
submitted concurrently to the MDOT- Bay City Transportation Service Center.
      (2)   The completed application must be received by the Township Zoning
Administrator at least 30 days prior to the Planning Commission meeting where
the application will be reviewed.
      (3)   (a)   The township in which the application is being made shall
forward a copy of the access management application and the site plan to MDOT
and the appropriate county road commission. MDOT and the Road Commission shall
provide written comment to the township and discuss any outstanding issues with
the township with the intent of reaching consensus on a recommendation for the
access management application and site plan.
         (b)   In the event that consensus cannot be reached on access
management issues, MDOT or the township shall call a meeting of the appropriate
road agencies and municipal Planning Commission representatives prior to the
Planning Commission meeting to review the document and reach consensus on the
issue. Applications not forwarded to MDOT and the Road Commission shall not
have completed the review process and may not be acted on by the Township
Planning Commission.
      (4)   (a)   The Planning Commission may obtain professional consultation
prior to making a decision on the application.
         (b)   Costs for the review shall be the responsibility of the
applicant provided the applicant is made aware of the costs prior to the
application being considered by the Planning Commission.
      (5)   The Township Planning Commission in which the development is
proposed shall review the application and make its determination regarding the
driveway.
      (6)   The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of each application
that has been submitted, including the written disposition of each application.
MDOT shall provide the township with a copy of the written permit or any other
disposition of the permit for the township's records. This record shall be a
public record.
      (7)   (a)   Written approval of an application remains valid for a period
of one year from the date it was authorized.
         (b)   If authorized construction is not initiated by the end of one
year, the authorization is automatically null and void, unless the township
specifically extends the time period during which the application remains valid
by Planning Commission action.
         (c)   Any additional approvals that have been granted by the Planning
Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals, such as a special use permit or
variance, also expire at the end of one year.
      (8)   (a)   An approval may be extended for a period not to exceed six
months. The extension must be requested, in writing, by the applicant before
the expiration of the initial approval.
         (b)   The Zoning Administrator may approve extension of an
authorization; provided, there are no deviations from the original approval
present or planned, there are no violations of applicable ordinances and no
development on abutting property has occurred with a driveway location that
creates an unsafe condition.
         (c)   If there is any deviation or cause for question, the Zoning
Administrator shall consult a representative of the Saginaw/Bay County Planning
Commission staff, the Saginaw and/or Bay County Road Commission, as applicable,
and the State Department of Transportation for input.
      (9)   Reissuance of an authorization that has expired requires a new
access application form to be filled out and processed independently of any
previous action.
      (10)   The applicant shall assume all responsibility for all maintenance
of the driveway approaches from the right-of-way line to the edge of the
traveled roadway.
      (11)   Where authorization has been granted for entrances to a parking
facility, the facility shall not be altered or the plan of operation changed
until a revised access application has been submitted and approved as specified
in this section.
      (12)   Application to construct or reconstruct any driveway entrance and
approach to a site requires a permit, but shall also address and achieve the
reconstruction or closing of all non-conforming or unused entrances and
approaches to the same site at the expense of the property owner.
      (13)   When a building permit is sought for the modification or
reconstruction to the extent that a site plan is required in the municipality
or by MDOT's requirements, all of the existing, as well as proposed driveway
approaches and parking facilities shall comply, or be brought into compliance,
with all design standards as set forth in this chapter and the adopted M-84
access management plan and map, prior to the issuance of a zoning or occupancy
certificate and pursuant to the procedures of this section.
      (14)   (a)   The State Department of Transportation, as applicable, shall
require a performance bond or cash deposit in any sum of a minimum of $10,000
for each new or reconstructed approach or entrance to a commercial use, to
ensure compliance with an approved application.
         (b)   The performance bond shall terminate and the deposit be returned
to the applicant when the terms of approval have been met or when the
authorization is cancelled or terminated.
         (c)   No performance bond is required for residential uses.
Review and Approval Process Flow Chart
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/437a58bf21309260f89abd8e818581d0e817affe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1388.jpg]
 
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.370 SERVICE DRIVES.
   (A)   The use of shared access, parking lot connections and service drives
in conjunction with driveway spacing is intended to preserve traffic flow along
thoroughfares and minimize traffic conflict, while retaining reasonable access
to the property. Where noted above, or where the Planning Commission determines
that restricting new access points or reducing the number of existing access
points may have a beneficial impact on traffic operations and safety while
preserving the property owner's right to reasonable access, then access from a
side street, a shared driveway, a parking lot connection or service drive
connection to the arterial or collector street may be required.
   (B)   However, where traffic safety would be improved, and the driveway
spacing requirements of this chapter can be met, then direct connection to the
arterial or collector street may be allowed in addition to a required service
drive.
      (1)   In particular, shared access, service drives or at least a
connection between abutting land uses may be required in the following cases:
         (a)   Where the driveway spacing standards of this section within this
chapter cannot be met;
         (b)   Where recommended in the M-84 access management plan and map;
         (c)   When the driveway could potentially interfere with traffic
operations at an existing or planned traffic signal location;
         (d)   The site is along a collector or arterial street with high
traffic volume or along segments experiencing congestion or a relatively high
number of crashes;
         (e)   The property frontage has limited sight distance; and
         (f)   The Fire or Emergency Services Department recommends a second
means of emergency access.
      (2)   In areas where frontage roads or rear service drives are
recommended, but adjacent properties have not yet developed, the site shall be
designed to accommodate a future road/facility designed according to the
standards cited in this chapter. The Planning Commission may approve temporary
access points where a continuous service drive is not yet available and a
performance bond or escrow is accepted to assure elimination of temporary
access when the service road is constructed. (See §§
155.135 through
155.138.)
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.371 STANDARD FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Notwithstanding the requirements of
Ch. 152 of this code of ordinances, the standards for all service drives shall
be as follows.
   (A)   Site plan review. The Planning Commission shall review and approve all
service drives to ensure safe and adequate continuity of the service drive
between contiguous parcels as part of the site plan review process.
   (B)   Front and rear service drives. A front or rear service drive may be
established on property that abuts only one public road. The design of a
service road shall conform with national design guidelines such as those
identified in the National Access Management Manual by TRB, the ASSHTO
Greenbook, and National Cooperative Highway Research Program (NCHRP), Access
Management Guidelines to Activity Centers, Report 348, and Impacts of Access
Management Techniques, Report 420.
   (C)   Location. Service roads shall generally be parallel to the front
property line and may be located whether in front of, or behind, principal
buildings and may be placed in required yards. In considering the most
appropriate alignment for a service road, the Planning Commission shall
consider the setbacks of existing and/or proposed buildings and anticipated
traffic flow for the site.
   (D)   Width and construction. A service drive shall be within an access
easement permitting traffic circulation between properties. The easement shall
be recorded with the County Register of Deeds. This easement shall be at least
32 feet wide. A service drive shall have a minimum pavement width of 24 feet,
measured face to face at the curb with an approach width of a minimum of 27
feet at the intersection. The service drive shall be constructed of a paved
surface material that is resistant to erosion and shall meet the Saginaw/Bay
County Road Commission standards for base and thickness of asphalt or concrete,
unless the community has more restrictive standards.
   (E)   Snow storage and landscaping areas. A minimum of six feet of snow
storage/landscaping area shall be reserved along both sides of the service
drive.
   (F)   Stacking. A minimum of 60 feet of storage at the intersection for
entering and existing vehicles as measured from the pavement edge must be
provided for all frontage roads. At driveways where it can be demonstrated that
traffic volumes will exceed 750 vehicles per day or 100 vehicles during the
peak hour, a minimum of 80 feet of stacking space shall be required.
   (G)   Distance from intersection on service drives. Frontage roads and
service drive intersections at the collector or arterial street shall be
designed according to the same minimum standards as described for driveways.
   (H)   Driveway entrance. The Planning Commission shall approve the location
of all access to the service drive, based on the driveway spacing standards
referenced in this chapter. Access to the service drive shall be located so
that there is no undue interference with the free movement of service drive and
emergency vehicle traffic, where there is safe sight distance, and where there
is a safe driveway grade as established by the MDOT and Saginaw/Bay County Road
Commission.
   (I)   Driveway radii. All driveway radii shall be shall be concrete curbs
and conform with the requirements of the MDOT Access Management Guidebook.
   (J)   Acceleration lanes and tapers. The design of the driveway,
acceleration, deceleration or taper shall conform with the requirements of the
MDOT Access Management Guidebook.
   (K)   Elevation. The elevation of a service drive shall be uniform or gently
sloping between adjacent properties.
   (L)   Service drive maintenance. No service drive shall be established on an
existing right-of-way. The service drive shall be a public street (if dedicated
and accepted by the applicable Road Commission) or a private road if permitted,
maintained by the adjoining property owners it serves who shall enter into a
formal agreement for the joint maintenance of the service drive. The agreement
shall also specify who is responsible for enforcing speed limits, parking and
related vehicular activity on the service drive. This agreement shall be
approved by the municipality's attorney and recorded with the Register of
Deeds. If the service drive is a private road, the local government shall
reserve the right to make repairs or improvements to the service drive and
charge back the costs.
   (M)   Landscaping. Landscaping along the service drive shall conform to the
requirements of the municipality's zoning ordinance. Installation and
maintenance of landscaping shall be the responsibility of the developer or a
property owners association.
   (N)   Parking areas. All separate parking areas (those that do not use joint
parking cross access) shall have no more than one access point or driveway on
the service drive.
   (O)   Parking. The service road is intended to be used exclusively for
circulation, and not as parking, loading or unloading aisle. Parking shall be
prohibited along two-way frontage roads and service drives that are constructed
at the minimum width. One-way roads or two-way roads designed with additional
width for parallel parking may be allowed if it can be demonstrated through
traffic studies that on-street parking will not significantly affect the
capacity, safety or operation of the frontage road or service drive.
Perpendicular or angle parking along either side of a designated frontage road
or service drive is prohibited. The Planning Commission may require the posting
of "no parking" signs along the service road.
   (P)   Directional signs and pavement markings. Pavement markings may be
required to help promote safety and efficient circulation. The property owner
shall be required to maintain all pavement markings. All directional signs and
pavement markings along the service drive shall conform with the current
Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (Q)   Assumed width of pre-existing service drives. Where a service drive in
existence prior to the effective date of this provision has no recorded width,
the width will be considered to be 26 feet for the purpose of establishing
setbacks and will be measured an equal distance from the midpoint of the road
surface.
   (R)   Alternate cross access. In the case of expansion, alteration to
redesign of an existing development where it can be demonstrated that
preexisting conditions prohibit installation of a frontage road or service
drive in accordance with these standards, the Planning Commission shall have
the authority to allow and/or require alternate cross access between adjacent
parking areas through the interconnection of main circulation aisles. Under
these conditions, the aisles serving the parking stalls shall be aligned
perpendicularly to the access aisle, with islands, curbing and signage to
further delineate the edges of the route to be used by through traffic. (See
the MDOT Access Management Guidebook for further detail and sample drawings.)
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.372 TEMPORARY ACCESS PERMITS.
   (A)   A temporary access permit may be conditionally issued to a property
included in this adopted corridor or access management plan that plans road
improvements and installation of service drives and shared driveways that would
eliminate the need for the temporary driveway.
   (B)   A temporary access permit shall be reviewed using the temporary permit
form during the site plan review process. Failure to use this form and supply
the justification for a temporary permit according to the provisions of the
form prohibit a temporary access point on the site. A copy of this completed
form shall be kept on file with the approved site plan at the township and
recorded with the deed to the property for which it applies.
   (C)   Conditions may be included in the temporary access permit including,
but not limited to, a limitation on development intensity on the site until
adjoining parcels develop which can provide a shared driveway, shared access
via a service drive, and/or cross parking lot connection consistent with the
requirements of §
155.369.
   (D)   (1)   A site plan for property that cannot meet the access
requirements of §
155.369 and has no alternative means of reasonable access to a road system may
be issued a temporary access permit.
      (2)   When adjoining parcels develop which can provide a shared driveway,
shared access via a service drive or a cross parking lot connection, the
temporary access permit shall be rescinded and an application for an access
permit consistent with the requirements of §
155.369 and
155.370 shall be required.
   (E)   (1)   The municipality and the State Department of Transportation, as
applicable, may require a performance bond or cash deposit in any sum of a
minimum of $10,000 for each temporarily permitted driveway to ensure compliance
with removal of the driveway at a time as the permit stipulates.
      (2)   The performance bond shall terminate and deposit be returned to the
applicant when the term of approval have been met or when the authorization is
cancelled or terminated.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.373 NON-CONFORMING DRIVEWAYS.
   (A)   Driveways that do not conform to the regulations in this chapter, and
were constructed before the effective date of this chapter and existing
driveways granted a temporary access permit, shall be considered legal non-
conforming driveways.
   (B)   Loss of legal non-conforming status results when a change to the site
or use requires a new site plan, according to this chapter. Any reuse of the
driveway may only take place after the driveway conforms to all aspects of this
chapter.
   (C)   When the owner of a property with an existing non-conforming driveway
or driveways applies for a permit to upgrade the property, the Planning
Commission will determine whether it is necessary and appropriate to retrofit
the existing driveway or driveways. If the developer is proposing a change in
use of the driveway the non-conforming status is no longer valid and a permit
for the driveway is required from the State Department of Transportation or the
Road Commission as applicable according to the standards of this chapter.
      (1)   The property owner may be required to establish a retrofit plan.
The objectives of the retrofit plan will be to minimize the traffic and safety
impacts of development by bringing the number, spacing, location and design of
driveways into conformance with the standards and requirements of this chapter
to the extent possible without imposing unnecessary hardship on the property
owner. The retrofit plan may include:
         (a)   Elimination of driveways;
         (b)   Realignment or relocation of driveways;
         (c)   Provision of shared driveways and/or cross parking lot
connection;
         (d)   Access by means of a service drive;
         (e)   Restriction of vehicle movements (e.g., elimination of left-
turns in and out);
         (f)   Relocation of parking;
         (g)   Traffic demand management (e.g., a reduction in peak hour
trips);
         (h)   Signalization based on warrants; and
         (i)   Other changes as may enhance traffic safety.
      (2)   The requirements of the retrofit plan shall be incorporated as
conditions to the permit for the change or upgrade of use and the property
owner shall be responsible for the retrofit.
   (D)   Driveways that do not conform to the regulations in this chapter and
have been constructed after adoption of this chapter, shall be considered
illegal non-conforming driveways.
   (E)   Illegal non-conforming driveways are a violation of this chapter. The
property owner shall have 30 days in which to correct the violation. The
property owner shall be issued a violation notice which may include closing off
the driveway until any non-conforming aspects of the driveway are corrected.
Driveways constructed in illegal locations shall be immediately closed upon
detection and all evidence of the driveway removed from the right-of-way and
site on which it is located. The costs of the removal shall be borne by the
property owner.
   (F)   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the repair, improvement or
modernization of lawful non-conforming driveways; provided, it is done
consistent with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.374 VARIANCES.
   The following standards shall apply when the Board of Appeals considers a
request for a variance from the standards of this section.
   (A)   The granting of a variance shall not be considered until a temporary
access permit under §
155.369 has been considered and rejected.
   (B)   Applicants for a variance must provide proof of practical difficulties
unique to the parcel (such as wetlands, steep slopes, an odd parcel shape or
narrow frontage or location relative to other buildings, driveways or an
intersection or interchange) that make strict application of the provisions of
this chapter impractical. This shall include proof that:
      (1)   Indirect or restricted access cannot be obtained;
      (2)   No reasonable engineering or construction solution can be applied
to mitigate the condition;
      (3)   No reasonable alternative access is available from a road with a
lower functional classification than the primary road; and
      (4)   Without the variance, there is no reasonable access to the site.
   (C)   The Board of Appeals shall make a finding that the applicant for a
variance met his, her or their burden of proof under division (B)(2) above,
that a variance is consistent with the intent and purpose of this chapter, and
is the minimum necessary to provide reasonable access.
   (D)   Under no circumstances shall a variance be granted unless not granting
the variance would deny reasonable access, endanger public health, welfare or
safety, or cause an unnecessary hardship on the applicant. No variance shall be
granted where the hardship is self-created.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 155.385 GENERAL ADMINISTRATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered by the Planning
Commission, the Zoning Board of Appeals and the Township Board in conformance
with applicable state enabling legislation.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Township Board shall employ a Zoning Administrator
and/or Code Enforcement Officer to act as its officer to effect proper and
adequate administration of this chapter. The term of employment, compensation
and any other conditions of employment shall be established by the Township
Board. For the purposes of this chapter, the Zoning Administrator and/or Code
Enforcement Officer shall have the necessary powers as granted by law.
   (B)   Duties of Zoning Administrator and/or Code Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   All applications for permits or certificates shall be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator who may issue certificates of occupancy or sign
permits when all applicable provisions of township ordinance(s) have been met.
The Zoning Administrator and/or Code Enforcement Officer shall be empowered to
make inspections of buildings or premises to carry out their duties in the
enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   Permits for buildings requiring a sewage disposal system in areas
not served by public sanitary sewer will not be issued until proper approval
for an on-site sewage disposal system is received by the township from the
District Health Department or other state or county agency with the authority
to grant the approval.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator and/or Code Enforcement Officer shall keep
record of all non-conforming uses as they present themselves.
      (4)   Under no circumstances is the Zoning Administrator permitted to
make changes in this chapter, nor to vary the terms of this chapter in carrying
out their duties.
   (C)   Certificate of occupancy. A certificate of occupancy shall not be
issued by the building official pursuant to any other ordinance or code of the
township unless there is full compliance with this chapter, and any state and
federal requirements.
   (D)   Public notice. All applications for development approval requiring a
public hearing shall comply with the Zoning Act and the other provisions of
this section with regard to public notification.
      (1)   Responsibility. When the provisions of this chapter or the Zoning
Act require that notice be published, the Zoning Administrator shall be
responsible for preparing the content of the notice, having it published in a
newspaper of general circulation in the township and mailed or delivered as
provided in this section.
      (2)   Content. All mail, personal and newspaper notices for public
hearings shall:
         (a)   Describe nature of the request. Identify whether the request is
for a rezoning, text amendment, special land use, planned unit development,
variance, appeal, ordinance interpretation or other purpose;
         (b)   Location. Indicate the property that is the subject of the
request. The notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses
within the subject property. Street addresses do not need to be created and
listed if no addresses currently exist within the property. If there are no
street addresses, other means of identification may be used such as a tax
parcel identification number, identifying the nearest cross street or including
a map showing the location of the property. No street addresses must be listed
when 11 or more adjacent properties are proposed for rezoning, or when the
request is for an ordinance interpretation not involving a specific property;
         (c)   When and where the request will be considered. Indicate the
date, time and place of the public hearing(s);
         (d)   Written comments. Include a statement describing when and where
written comments will be received concerning the request. Include a statement
that the public may appear at the public hearing in person or by counsel; and
         (e)   Handicap access. Information concerning how handicap access will
be accommodated if the meeting facility is not handicap accessible.
      (3)   Personal and mailed notice.
         (a)   General. When the provision of this chapter or state law require
that personal or mailed notice be provided, notice shall be provided to:
            1.   The owners of property for which approval is being considered,
and the applicant, if different than the owner(s) of the property;
            2.   a.   Except for rezoning requests involving 11 or more
adjacent properties or an ordinance interpretation request that does not
involve a specific property; to all persons to whom real property is assessed
within 300 feet of the boundary of the property subject to the request,
regardless of whether the property or occupant is located within the boundaries
of the township. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term "occupant"
may be used is making notification. Notification need not be given to more than
one occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than one
dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses or organizations, one occupant of each unit or spatial
area owned or leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses or
organizations, one occupant of each unit or spatial area shall receive notice.
In the case of a single structure containing more than four dwelling units or
other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses or organizations, notice may be given to the manager
or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post the notice at the
primary entrance to the structure. The applicant shall provide the Zoning
Administrator with a list of the persons along with the application.
               b.   All neighborhood organizations, public utility companies,
railroads and other persons which have requested to receive notice pursuant to
division (D)(4)(b) below.
            3.   Other governmental units or infrastructure agencies within one
mile of the property involved in the application.
         (b)   Notice by mail/affidavit. Notice shall be deemed mailed by its
deposit in the United States mail, first class, properly addressed, postage
paid. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a list of property owners and
registrants to whom notice was mailed, as well as of anyone to whom personal
notice was delivered.
      (4)   Timing of notice. Unless otherwise provided in the Zoning Act, or
this chapter where applicable, notice of a public hearing shall be provided as
follows:
         (a)   For a public hearing on an application for a rezoning, text
amendment, special land use, planned unit development, variance, appeal or
ordinance interpretation: not less than 15 days before the date the application
will be considered for approval; and
         (b)   Registration to receive notice by mail:
            1.   General. Any neighborhood organization, public utility
company, railroad or any other person may register with the Zoning
Administrator to receive written notice of all applications for development
approval pursuant to division (D)(3)(a)2. above, or written notice of all
applications for development approval within the zoning district in which they
are located. The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing this
notification. Fees may be assessed for the provision of this notice, as
established by the legislative body.
            2.   Requirements. The requesting party must provide the Zoning
Administrator information on an official form to ensure notification can be
made. All registered persons must re-register bi-annually to continue to
receive notification pursuant to this section.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 14-06,
passed 4-22-2014)
§ 155.385.01 ZONING PERMITS.
   No residential building or residential structure subject to the provisions
of this section shall hereafter be erected, structurally altered,
reconstructed, used, or moved, nor shall any excavation, or filling of land
commence until a zoning permit application has been filed with the Zoning
Administrator and a zoning permit has been issued by the Zoning Administrator,
except as otherwise provided for in this section. No zoning permit shall be
required for any lawful use of any building or structure in existence as of the
adoption date of this section.
   (A)   The application shall be signed by the owner of the premises or his
agent and shall certify that all provisions of this section and other
applicable laws and requirements are to be complied with. The application shall
be accompanied by:
      (1)   A site plan, if required, or a sketch in duplicate, in a scale
sufficient to clearly detail- as determined by the Zoning Administrator, the
location and dimensions of the premises including the boundary lines of all
parcels of land under separate ownership contained therein; the size,
dimensions, location on the premises, and height of all buildings, structures
or other impervious surfaces in existence, to be erected and/or altered; the
width and alignment of all abutting streets, highways, alleys, utility
locations, easements; the location and dimensions of sewage disposal facilities
or proposed sewage disposal facilities, if applicable.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the authority to require a
legal survey, sealed by a professional surveyor (not a mortgage survey) in the
cases where there may be encroachment on the setbacks by the proposed
structures or when the exact locations of property boundary lines are not
known.
      (3)   Copies of permits or waivers of permits by other agencies as may be
required by statute and/or by the Zoning Administrator.
      (4)   Such other information as may be required to determine compliance
with this section.
   (B)   A zoning permit shall not be issued until all other necessary permits
required by statute have been obtained or waived with exception of those
permits issued by the Building Department.
   (C)   The location of the property boundaries and all structures to be
erected shall be staked on the ground for Zoning Administrator's use prior to
the issuance of the zoning permit.
   (D)   The zoning permit will expire after one year from date of issuance for
any zoning permit under which no construction has occurred or no substantial
construction has been done in the furtherance of the zoning permit.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator shall have the power to revoke or cancel any
zoning permit in case of failure or neglect to comply with the provisions of
the section, or in the case of a false statement or misrepresentation made in
the application. The owner shall be notified of such revocation in writing.
   (F)   No zoning permit shall be valid until the required fees have been
paid. No separate fee shall be required for accessory buildings or structures
when application thereof is made at the same time as the principal building or
structure. Applications and petitions filed pursuant to the provisions of this
section shall be accompanied by the filing fees as specified by the Township
Board of Trustees.
   (G)   Upon issuance of the zoning permit, a copy of the permit and the
application, including any drawings shall be transmitted to the Township
Assessor.
(Ord. 14-05, passed 4-22-2014)
§ 155.386 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Zoning Administrator and/or Code Enforcement Officer shall enforce the
provisions of this chapter.
   (A)   Violation and penalties. Violations of any provisions of this chapter
are declared to be a nuisance per se. Any and all building or land use
activities considered possible violations of the provisions of this chapter
observed by or communicated to an official or employee shall be reported to the
Zoning Administrator and/or Code Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   Inspection of violation. The Zoning Administrator and/or Code
Enforcement Officer shall inspect each alleged violation or violations he or
she observes or is aware of and shall order correction in writing, of all
conditions found to be in violation of this chapter.
      (2)   Correction period. All violations shall be corrected within a
period of 30 days after the order to correct is issued or in a longer period of
time, not to exceed six months, as the Zoning Administrator or Code Enforcement
Officer may deem necessary and appropriate.
      (3)   Cumulative rights and remedies. The rights and remedies provided
herein are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (B)   Conflicting regulations. In the interpretation, application and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, whenever any of the provisions
or limitations imposed or required by this chapter are more stringent than any
other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this chapter shall govern;
provided also that, whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance
impose more stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this
chapter, then the provisions of the other law or ordinance shall govern.
   (C)   Availability of other enforcement options. Nothing in this chapter
shall be deemed to require the township to initiate its municipal civil
infraction ordinance enforcement activity through the issuance of an ordinance
violation notice. As to each ordinance violation designated as a civil
infraction the township may, at its sole discretion, proceed directly with the
issuance of a civil infraction citation or take other enforcement action as is
authorized by law including requesting a proper court to enjoin or abate any
violation of the provisions of this chapter as a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.387 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   General. The Township Board may amend this chapter and the boundaries
of zoning districts shown on the Zoning District by ordinance of the Township
Board in accordance with the applicable zoning enabling legislation of the
state.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. Proposals for amendments, supplements or
changes may be initiated by the Township Board of its own action, by the
Planning Commission or by petition of one or more owners, or their agents, of
property to be affected by the proposed amendment.
   (C)   Amendment procedures.
      (1)   Petition to Township Board. Each petition by one or more owners, or
their agents, for an amendment shall be submitted upon an application of
standard form to the Township Clerk. A fee as established by the Township Board
shall be paid at the time of application to cover costs of necessary
advertising, for public hearings and investigation of the amendment request.
The Clerk shall transmit the application to the Planning Commission for
recommended action.
      (2)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall consider each
proposal for amendment in terms of its own judgment on particular factors
related to the individual proposal and in terms of the likely effect of the
proposal upon the master plan for the community. The Planning Commission may
recommend any additions or modifications to the original amendment petition.
      (3)   Public hearing. Notices shall be given in accordance with §
155.385.
      (4)   County Metropolitan Planning Commission. Following the conclusion
of the Public Hearing, the Planning Commission shall submit the proposed
amendments, including any zoning district map, to the County Metropolitan
Planning Commission for its review and recommendation. The recommendation of
the County Planning Commission shall be conclusively presumed unless the
Commission shall within 30 days of its receipt, have notified the Township
Board of its disapproval or approval.
      (5)   Township Board.
         (a)   Upon receipt of the Planning Commission's, together with the
County Planning Commission's, recommendation, the Township Board shall review
the recommendations.
         (b)   If the Township Board shall deem any amendments, changes,
additions or departures are advisable to the proposed ordinance amendment
recommended by the Planning Commission, it shall refer the same back to the
Planning Commission for a report thereon within a time specified by the
Township Board.
         (c)   After receiving the proposed amendment recommendations
heretofore specified, the Township Board shall grant a hearing on the proposed
amendment to any property owner who has filed a written request to be so heard
and shall request the Planning Commission to attend the hearing. Thereafter,
the Township Board may deny, or adopt the amendment with or without any
changes.
      (6)   Re-submittal. No application for a rezoning which has been denied
by the Township Board shall be resubmitted for a period of one year from the
date of the last denial, except on grounds of newly discovered evidence or
proof of changed conditions found upon inspection by the Township Board to be
valid.
   (D)   Conditional rezoning (CR).
      (1)   Intent. The Planning Commission and Township Board have recognized
that, in certain instances, it would be advantageous to both the township and
property owners seeking rezoning if a plan, along with conditions and
limitations that may be relied upon by the township, could be proposed as part
of a petition for rezoning. Therefore, it is the intent of this division (D) to
provide an election to property owners in connection with the submission of
petitions seeking the amendment of this division (D) for approval of a rezoning
with conditions, per Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended.
      (2)   Definitions. For purposes of this division, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         REZONING CONDITIONS . Conditions proposed by the applicant and
approved by the township as part of an approval under this section, including
review and recommendation by the Planning Commission, which shall constitute
regulations in connection with the development and use of property approved
with a rezoning condition in conjunction with a rezoning. Such rezoning
conditions shall not authorize uses or developments of greater intensity or
density and which are not permitted in the district proposed by the rezoning
(and shall not permit uses or development expressly or implicitly prohibited in
the conditional rezoning agreement), and may include some or all of the
following:
            1.   The location, size, height or other measure for and/or of
buildings, structures, improvements, setbacks, landscaping, buffers, design,
architecture, and other features shown on the CR Plan.
            2.   Specification of maximum density or intensity of development
and/or use, expressed in terms fashioned for the particular development and/or
use, for example, and without limitation, units per acre, maximum usable floor
area, hours of operation and the like.
            3.   Preservation of natural resources and/or features.
            4.   Facilities to address drainage/water quality.
            5.   Facilities to address traffic issues.
            6.   Preservation of open space.
            7.   A written understanding for permanent maintenance of natural
resources, features, and/or facilities to address drainage/water quality,
traffic, open space and/or other features or improvements; and, provision for
authorization and finance of maintenance by or on behalf of the township in the
event the property owner(s) fail(s) to timely perform after notice.
            8.   Signage, lighting, landscaping, and/or building materials for
the exterior of some or all structures.
            9.   Permissible uses of the property.
            10.   Protection of township land from annexation.
            11.   Preservation of historic farms, barns and other buildings to
preserve the history of the township.
            12.   Donation of land for open space, using a land conservancy or
other means, to protect the open space for future generations.
            13.   Paving, making substantial improvements to, or funding of
improvements to major township roads where the entire township benefits.
            14.   Construction and/or donation of community buildings where the
need has been identified and defined by the township.
            15.   Preservation of a rural view shed which is an undeveloped
area adjacent to the road right-of-way, having a depth of at least 200 feet,
where existing natural features, such as wetlands, woodlands, hedgerows,
undulating landforms, and scenic vistas, are preserved and incorporated into
the landscape.
            16.   Provide usable and contiguous open space amounting to at
least 40% of the site, using the concept of clustering.
            17.   Added landscaping, above and beyond what is required by
township ordinance.
            18.   Reclamation and re-use of land, where previous use of land
causes severe development difficulties, or has caused blight.
            19.   Installation of streetscape on an arterial road, beyond what
is required by ordinance, and where compatible with township guidelines
concerning trees, streetlights, and landscaping.
            20.   Drain and drainage improvements, beyond what is required by
ordinance, using best management practices.
            21.   Providing monuments or other landmarks to identify township
boundaries.
            22.   Such other conditions as deemed important to the development
by the applicant.
         CONDITIONAL REZONING (CR) AGREEMENT. A written agreement approved and
executed by the township and property owner, incorporating a CR Plan, and
setting forth rezoning conditions, conditions imposed pursuant to Public Act
110 of 2006, as amended, and any other terms mutually agreed upon by the
parties relative to land for which the township has approved a rezoning with
rezoning conditions. Terms of the CR Agreement shall include agreement and
understanding of the following:
            1.   That the rezoning with rezoning conditions was proposed by the
applicant to induce the township to grant the rezoning;
            2.   That the township relied upon such proposal and would not have
granted the rezoning but for the terms spelled out in the CR Agreement;
            3.   That the conditions and CR Agreement are authorized by all
applicable state and federal laws and constitutions;
            4.   That the CR Agreement is valid and was entered into on a
voluntary basts, and represents a permissible exercise of authority by the
township;
            5.    That the property in question shall not be developed or used
in a manner inconsistent with the CR Plan and CR Agreement;
            6.   That the approval and CR Agreement shall be binding upon and
inure to the benefit of the property owner and township, and their respective
heirs, successors, assigns, and transferees;
            7.   That, if a rezoning with rezoning conditions becomes void in
the manner provided in this section, no development shall be undertaken or
permits for development issued until a new zoning district classification of
the property has been established;
            8.   That each of the requirements and conditions in the CR
Agreement represents a necessary and reasonable measure which, when considered
with all other conditions and requirements, is roughly proportional to the
increased impact created by the use represented in the approved rezoning with
rezoning conditions, taking into consideration the changed zoning district
classification and the specific use authorization granted.
         CONDITIONAL REZONING (CR) PLAN. A plan of the property which is the
subject of a rezoning with rezoning conditions, prepared by a licensed civil
engineer or architect, that may show the location, size, height, design,
architecture or other measure or feature for and/or buildings, structures,
improvements and features on, and in some cases adjacent to, the property. The
details to be offered for inclusion within the CR Plan shall be determined by
the applicant, subject to approval of the Township Board after recommendation
by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   Authorization and eligibility.
         (a)   Application. A property owner shall have the option of making an
election under this section in conjunction with a submission of a petition
seeking a rezoning. Such election may be made at the time of the application
for rezoning is filed, or at a subsequent point in the process of review of the
proposed rezoning. The election shall be made by filing an application
conforming with this section for approval of a conditional rezoning that would
establish site-specific use authorization if the petition for rezoning is
granted. Such election shall be to seek a rezoning with rezoning conditions
pursuant to Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, which would represent a
legislative amendment of the zoning ordinance.
         (b)   Site specific regulations. In order to be eligible for the
proposal and review of a rezoning with rezoning conditions, a property owner
must proposed a rezoning of property to a new zoning district classification,
and must, as part of such proposal, voluntarily offer certain site-specific
regulations (to be set forth on a CR Plan and in a CR Agreement to be prepared)
which are, in material respects, equally or more strict or limiting than the
regulations that would apply to the land under the proposed new zoning
district, such as set forth in divisions 1. through 22. of the definition of
REZONING CONDITIONS above.
      (4)   Required application information.
         (a)   A CR Plan, as defined in division (D)(2) above. The CR Plan
shall not replace the requirement for site plan review and approval, special
land use approval, or subdivision or condominium approval, as the case may be.
         (b)   Statement of rezoning conditions, as defined in division (D)(2)
above. Rezoning conditions shall not authorize uses or development not
permitted in the district proposed by the rezoning (and shall not permit uses
or development expressly or implicitly prohibited in the CR Agreement).
         (c)   A CR Agreement, as defined in division (D)(2) above. The CR
Agreement shall be prepared by the applicant (or designee) and approved by the
Township Attorney. The CR Agreement shall incorporate the CR Plan and set forth
the rezoning conditions, together with any other terms mutually agreed upon by
the parties (including the minimum provisions specified in the definition of CR
Agreement, above).
      (5)   Review and approval criteria. The applicant shall have the burden
of demonstrating that the following requirements and standards are met by the
CR Plan, Rezoning Conditions, and CR Agreement:
         (a)   Enhancement of the project area. Approval of the application
shall accomplish, among other things, and as determined in the discretion of
the Township Board, the integration of the proposed land development project
with the characteristics of the project area, and result in an enhancement of
the project area as compared to the requested zoning change, and such
enhancement would be unlikely to be achieved or would not be assured in the
absence of the use of a conditional rezoning.
         (b)   In the public interest. Sufficient conditions shall be included
on and in the CR Plan and CR Agreement on the basis of which the Township Board
concludes, in its discretion, that, as compared to the existing zoning and
considering the site specific land use proposed by the applicant, it would be
in the public interest to grant the rezoning with rezoning conditions;
provided, in determining whether approval of a proposed application would be in
the public interest, the benefits which would reasonably be expected to accrue
from the proposal shall be balanced against, and be found to clearly outweigh
the reasonably foreseeable detriments thereof, taking into consideration
reasonably accepted planning, engineering, environmental and other principles,
as presented to the Township Board, following recommendation by the Planning
Commission, and also taking into consideration the special knowledge and
understanding of the township by the Township Board and Planning Commission.
      (6)   Review process.
         (a)   Pre-application meeting. Prior to the time of making application
for a conditional rezoning, the applicant shall schedule a pre-application
submission meeting with the Township Manager, the Township Planner, the
Township Engineer, the Township Building Official, the Township Attorney, or
their designees, for a preliminary review of the application for conditional
rezoning and so that the applicant has a thorough understanding of the process.
The applicant shall pay the township's costs and expenses incurred for this
meeting.
         (b)   Offer of conditions. At the time of making application for
amendment of this division (D) seeking a rezoning of property, or at least a
later time during the process of township consideration of such rezoning, a
property owner may submit an application for approval of a conditional rezoning
to apply in conjunction with the rezoning.
         (c)   Application. The application, which may be amended during the
process, shall include a CR Plan proposed by the applicant and shall specify
the rezoning conditions proposed by the applicant, recognizing that rezoning
conditions shall not authorize uses or development not permitted in the
district proposed by the rezoning.
         (d)   Notice of public hearing. The proposed rezoning with rezoning
conditions, together, shall be noticed for public hearing before the Planning
Commission as a proposed legislative amendment to the zoning ordinance in
accordance with §
155.385.
         (e)   Planning Commission recommendation. Following the public hearing
and further deliberations as deemed appropriate by the Planning Commission, the
Planning Commission shall make a recommendation to the Township Board on the
proposed rezoning with rezoning conditions.
         (f)   Township Board action. Upon receipt of the recommendation of the
Planning Commission, the Township Board shall commence deliberations on the
proposed rezoning with rezoning conditions. If the Township Board determines
that it may approve the rezoning with rezoning conditions, the Township Board
shall specify tentative conditions and direct the Township Attorney to work
with the applicant in the finalization of the proposed CR Agreement.
      (7)   Zoning map designation. If approved, the zoning district
classification of the rezoned property shall consist of the district to which
the property has been rezoned, accompanied by a reference to "CR Conditional
Rezoning". The zoning map shall specify the new zoning district plus a
reference to "CR" (for example, the district classification for the property
might be B-3 General Intensive Commercial with CR, Conditional Zoning, with a
zoning map designation of B-3/CR) and use of the property so classified and
approved shall be restricted to the permission granted in the CR Agreement, and
no other development or use shall be permitted.
      (8)   Use of property.
         (a)   Generally. The use of the property in question shall, subject to
division (D)(8)(b) below, be in total conformity with all regulations governing
development and use within the zoning district to which the property has been
rezoned, including, without limitation, permitted uses, lot sizes, setbacks,
height limits, required facilities, buffers, open space areas, and land use
density.
         (b)   Development subject to conditional rezoning requirements.
Development and use of the property shall be subject to the more restrictive
requirements shown or specified on the CR Plan, and/or in the other conditions
and provisions set forth in the CR Agreement, required as part of the
conditional rezoning approval, and such CR Plan and conditions and CR Agreement
shall supersede all inconsistent regulations otherwise applicable under the
zoning ordinance.
      (9)   Recordation of CR Agreement. A rezoning with rezoning conditions
shall become effective following publication in the manner provided by law and
after recordation of the CR Agreement with the County Register of Deeds,
whichever is later.
      (10)   Amendment to CR Agreement. Amendment of a CR Agreement shall be
proposed, reviewed and approved in the same manner as a new rezoning with
rezoning conditions.
      (11)   Expiration. Unless extended by the Township Board for good cause,
the rezoning with rezoning conditions shall expire following a period of two
years from the effective date of the rezoning unless construction on the
development of the property pursuant to the required permits issued by the
township commences within such two-year period and proceeds diligently and in
good faith as required by ordinance to completion.
         (a)   Extension of approval. In the event the development has not
commenced, as defined above, within two years from the effective date of the
rezoning, the conditional rezoning and the CR Agreement shall be void and of no
effect. The property owner may apply to the Township Board for a one-year
extension one time. The request must be submitted to the Township Clerk before
the two-year time limit expires. The property owner must show good cause as to
why the extension should be granted.
         (b)   Violation of the CR Agreement. If development and/or actions are
undertaken on or with respect to the property in violation of the CR Agreement,
such development and/or actions shall constitute a nuisance per se. In such
cases, the township may issue a stop work order relative to the property and
seek any other lawful remedies. Until curative action is taken to bring the
property into compliance with the CR Agreement, the township may withhold, or
following notice, revoke permits and certificates, in addition to or in lieu of
such other lawful action to achieve compliance.
         (c)   Township action upon expiration. If the rezoning with rezoning
conditions becomes void in the manner provided in above, then the township
shall rezone the property to its former zoning classification in accordance
with the zoning ordinance procedures. Until such a time as a new zoning
district classification of the property has become effective, no development
shall be undertaken or permits for development issued.
      (12)   Performance guarantee. To guarantee performance and to ensure the
township does not bear any costs associated with non-performance, the property
owner must submit a letter of credit or cash deposit upon making application
for conditional rezoning in an amount specified in the township Fee Schedule.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 13-10,
passed 11-26-2013)
§ 155.388 ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Creation and membership.
      (1)   Pursuant to Pub. Act 110 of 2006, being M.C.L.A. § 125.3601, one of
the regular members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be a member of the
Planning Commission. The remaining regular members, and any alternate members,
shall be selected from the electors of the township residing within the zoning
jurisdiction of the township. The members selected shall be representative of
the population distribution and of the various interests present in the
township. One regular member may be a member of the Board of Trustees, but
shall not serve as Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals. An employee or
contractor of the Board of Trustees may not serve as a member of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
      (2)   The Township Board may appoint not more than two alternate members
for the same term as regular members to the Zoning Board of Appeals. An
alternate member may be called as specified in this chapter to serve as a
regular member of the Zoning Board of Appeals in the absence of a regular
member if the regular member is absent from or will be unable to attend one or
more consecutive meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals. An alternate member
may also be called to serve as a regular member for the purpose of reaching a
decision on a case in which the regular member has abstained for reasons of
conflict of interest. The alternate member appointed shall serve in the case
until a final decision is made. The alternate member has the same voting rights
as a regular member of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (3)   The total amount annually allowed the Board of Appeals as per diem
or as expenses actually incurred in the discharge of duties shall not exceed a
reasonable sum, which shall be appropriated annually in advance by the Township
Board.
      (4)   A member of the Board of Appeals may be removed by the Township
Board for misfeasance, malfeasance or non-feasance in office upon written
charges and after public hearing. A member shall disqualify himself or herself
from a vote in which the member has a conflict of interest. Failure of a member
to disqualify himself or herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict
of interest constitutes malfeasance in office.
      (5)   Terms shall be for three years, except for members serving because
of their memberships on the Planning Commission, or Township Board, whose terms
shall be limited to the time they are members of the Planning Commission, or
Township Board, respectively, and whose terms shall be limited to the time they
are members of those bodies. When members are first appointed, the appointments
may be for less than three years to provide for staggered terms. A successor
shall be appointed not more than one month after the term of the preceding
member has expired. Vacancies for unexpired terms shall be filled for the
remainder of the term.
      (6)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not conduct business unless a
majority of the regular members of the Board is present.
   (B)   Organization and procedures.
      (1)   Rules of procedure. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall adopt its own
rules of procedure as may be necessary to conduct its meetings and carry out
its function, and shall have all other powers as provided by law. The Board
shall choose its Chairperson, and in the absence of the Chairperson, an acting
Chairperson. The Board may also alert other officers or committees as it
considers necessary.
      (2)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and
at such times as the Zoning Board of Appeals may determine. All meetings by the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be open to the public. The Board may declare any
meeting, or part of any meeting, a study meeting to pursue matters of business
without comment or interruption from the public in attendance. The Chairperson
or, in his or her absence, the acting Chairperson may administer oaths and
compel the attendance of witnesses.
      (3)   Records. Minutes of all proceedings shall be kept and maintained
which shall contain evidence and dates relevant to every case considered
together with the votes of the members and the final disposition of each case.
The minutes shall be filed in the office of the Township Clerk and shall be
made available to the general public.
      (4)   Counsel. The Township Attorney shall act as legal counsel for the
Zoning Board of Appeals and shall be present at all meetings upon request by
the Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (5)   Hearings.
         (a)   Following receipt of a written request concerning a request for
a variance, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the
hearing of the request and give notice as provided in §
155.385. Upon receipt of a written request seeking an interpretation of the
zoning ordinance or an appeal of an administrative decision, a notice stating
the time, date and place of the public hearing shall be published in a
newspaper of general circulation within the township and shall be sent to the
person requesting the interpretation not less than 15 days before the public
hearing. In addition, if the request for an interpretation or appeal of an
administrative decision involves a specific parcel, written notice stating the
nature of the interpretation request and the time, date, and place of the
public hearing on the interpretation request shall be sent by first-class mail
or personal delivery to all persons to whom real property is assessed within
300 feet of the boundary of the property in question and to the occupants of
all structures within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in question. If
a tenant's name is not known, the term "occupant" may be used.
         (b)   Any person may appear and testify at the hearings, either in
person or by duly authorized agent or attorney.
         (c)   The Chairperson of the Zoning Board of Appeals may recess the
hearings from time to time and, if the time and place of the continued hearing
be publicly announced at the time of adjournment of the Board hearing, no
further notice shall be required.
      (6)   Decisions. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall return a decision upon
each case within 30 days after a request or appeal has been filed, unless an
extended time is agreed upon with the parties concerned. Any decision of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall not become final until the expiration of the five
days from the date of entry of the order, unless the Zoning Board of Appeals
shall find the immediate effect of the order is necessary for the preservation
of property or personal rights and shall so certify on the record.
      (7)   Malfeasance. The Township Board of Trustees shall provide for the
removal of a member of the Zoning Board of Appeals for misfeasance, malfeasance
or non-feasance in office upon written charges and after public hearing.
   (C)   Majority vote. The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the
Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirements,
decision or determination of the Zoning Administrator and/or Code Enforcement
Officer or to decide in favor of the applicant on any matter upon which they
are required to pass under this chapter or to effect any variation in the
ordinance.
   (D)   Appeals.
      (1)   Filing of appeals.
         (a)   Appeals to the Zoning Board of Appeals may be made by any person
aggrieved, or by any order, requirement, decision or determination made by an
administrative official charged with enforcement of this chapter.
         (b)   Any appeal from the ruling of the Administrative Official
concerning the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter may be made to the
Zoning Board of Appeals within ten days after the date of the mailing of the
Administrator's decision. The appeal shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall specify the grounds for appeal. The Zoning
Administrator shall immediately transmit to the Chairperson of the Board of
Appeals papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed from was
taken.
      (2)   Stay. An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the
action appealed from unless the Zoning Administrator certifies to the Zoning
Board of Appeals after notice of appeal has been filed, that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in their opinion, cause imminent peril
to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Zoning Board
of Appeals or, by a court of record.
      (3)   Fees. A fee, as established by the Township Board from time to
time, shall be paid to the Zoning Administrator at the time of filing
application with the Zoning Board of Appeals. The purpose of the fee is to
cover, in part, the necessary advertisements, investigations and other expenses
incurred by the Zoning Board of Appeals in connection with the appeal.
   (E)   Duties and powers. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall not have the
power to alter or change the zoning district classification of any property,
nor to make any change in the terms or intent of this chapter, but does have
power to act on those matters where this chapter provides for an administrative
review, interpretation, variance exception or special approval permit, as
defined in this section.
      (1)   Review. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall hear and decide appeals
where it is alleged by the appellant that there is an error in any order,
requirement, permit, decision, determination or refusal made by the Zoning
Administrator or by any other official in administering or enforcing any
provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Interpretation. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power
to:
         (a)   Interpret, upon request, the provision of this chapter in a way
as to carry out the intent and purpose of the ordinance;
         (b)   Determine the precise location of the boundary lines between
zoning districts;
         (c)   Classify a use which is not specifically mentioned as part of
the use regulations of any zoning district so that it conforms to a comparable
permitted or prohibited use, in accordance with the purpose and intent of each
district; and
         (d)   Determine the off-street parking and loading space requirements
of any use not specifically mentioned in §
155.082.
      (3)   Water and sewer. May not alter or give variance for potable water
and sanitary sewer requirements.
      (4)   Variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to
authorize, upon an appeal, dimensional (non-use) variances allowed by law;
provided, the conditions listed herein can be satisfied:
      (5)   Dimensional variance. A dimensional variance may be granted only in
cases where the applicant demonstrates in the official record of the public
hearing that practical difficulty exists by showing all of the following:
         (a)   The need for the requested variance is due to unique
circumstances or physical conditions of the property involved, such as
narrowness, shallowness, shape, water or topography and is not due to the
applicants personal or economic difficulty;
         (b)   The need for the requested variance is not the result of actions
of the property owners or previous property owners (self-created);
         (c)   Strict compliance with regulations governing area, setback,
frontage, height, bulk, density or other dimensional requirements will
unreasonably prevent the property owner from using the property for a permitted
purpose, or will render conformity with those regulations unnecessarily
burdensome;
         (d)   The requested variance is the minimum variance necessary to do
substantial justice to the applicant as well as to other property owners in the
district; and
         (e)   The requested variance will not cause an adverse impact on
surrounding property, property values or the use and enjoyment of property in
the neighborhood or zoning district.
   (F)   Rules. The following rules shall be applied in the granting of
variances.
      (1)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may specify, in writing, conditions
regarding the character, location, length of time and other features that will
in its judgment, secure the objectives and purposes of this chapter. The breach
of any condition shall automatically invalidate the variance granted.
      (2)   Each variance granted under the provisions of this chapter shall
become null and void unless:
         (a)   The construction authorized by the variance or permit has been
commenced within six months after the granting of the variance; or
         (b)   The occupancy of land, premises or buildings authorized by the
variance has taken place within one year after the granting of the variance.
      (3)   No application for a variance which has been denied wholly or in
part by the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be resubmitted for a period of one
year from the date of the last denial, except on the grounds of newly
discovered evidence or proof of changed conditions found upon inspection by the
Board to be valid.
   (G)   Temporary variances. The Zoning Board of Appeals may grant temporary
variances for temporary structures, such as a garage, partial structure, cellar
or basement to be used for dwelling purposes. Temporary variances are limited
to six months or less with no extensions. Temporary variances are subject to
the following procedures and limitations.
      (1)   An application for a variance for the erection or movement of a
temporary structure for dwelling purposes, including trailer coaches, shall be
made to the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (2)   Notices shall be given in accordance with §
155.385.
      (3)   A temporary variance shall not be granted unless the Zoning Board
of Appeals finds adequate evidence that the proposed location of the use will
not be detrimental to property in the immediate vicinity; and that the proposed
water supply and sanitary facilities have been approved by the County Health
Department.
      (4)   The Zoning Board of Appeals may impose any reasonable conditions in
addition to the district requirements in which the use is proposed, including
setbacks, land coverage, off-street parking, landscaping and other requirements
deemed necessary to protect adjoining properties and the public welfare. The
violation of any condition shall automatically invalidate the permit.
      (5)   Unique and temporary conditions shall exist which justify the need
for a manufactured home on a given lot or parcel such as a dwelling for
seasonal farm labor, aged family members, domestic employees or similar
dwelling needs of a temporary nature that relate to the use of the principal
dwelling on the property in question.
      (6)   The variance issued shall clearly set forth the conditions under
which the variance is granted and shall state that the proposed temporary
dwelling structure is to be vacated upon expiration of a specific time limit
not to exceed 12 months. No temporary variance shall be transferable to any
other owner or occupant. The variance may be renewed in the case of
manufactured homes if the conditions of divisions (G)(1) through (G)(5) above
can be met again.
   (H)   Bond for compliance.
   (I)   Bond authorized. In authorizing any variance, or in granting any
conditional, or special approval permits, the Zoning Board of Appeals may
require that a bond of ample sum be furnished to ensure compliance with
requirements, specifications and conditions imposed with the grant of variance.
   (J)   Zoning Board of Appeals decisions. The decision of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall be final. A party aggrieved by the decision may appeal to the
Circuit Court.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 09-02,
passed 10-20-2009)
§ 155.389 CONFLICTS WITH OTHER LAWS.
   (A)   Whenever any provision of this chapter imposes requirements for lower
heights of buildings, or a less percentage of lots that may be occupied or
requires wider or larger courts or deeper yards than are imposed or required by
existing provisions of law or other ordinances of the township, the provisions
of this chapter shall govern.
   (B)   Whenever provisions of any other ordinance or regulation of the
township imposes requirements for lower height of buildings or less percentage
of lots that may be occupied, or requires wider or larger courts or deeper
yards than are required by this chapter, the provisions of the other ordinance
or regulation shall govern.
   (C)   It is the legislative intent that this chapter be liberally construed
and should any provision or section of this chapter be held unconstitutional or
invalid the ruling shall not be construed as affecting the validity of
remaining portions of the ordinance, it being the intent that this chapter
shall stand notwithstanding the invalidity of any provision or section therein.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.390 REPEAL.
   The existing zoning regulations of the township, as amended, are hereby
repealed. The adoption of this chapter, however, shall not affect or prevent
any pending or future prosecution of, or action to abate, any existing
violation of the prior ordinance, as amended, if the use, so in violation, is
in violation of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.391 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect 11-2-2006.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
CONSERVATION DEVELOPMENT
§ 155.405 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose, and intent of this subchapter is to preserve the township's
rural landscape, natural resource areas, farmland and other large areas of open
land while permitting residential development, located and so designed to
reduce the perceived intensity of development. Specific objectives are as
follows:
   (A)   To maintain and protect the township's rural character by preserving
important landscape elements;
   (B)   To provide for greater design flexibility in the sitting of dwellings
and other development features than would be permitted by the application of
standard regulations in order to minimize the disturbance of rural landscape
elements and overall aesthetic value of the landscape;
   (C)   To increase flexibility and efficiency in the sitting of services and
infrastructure by reducing street length, utility requirements, drainage
requirements and the amount of paving required for residential development
where possible;
   (D)   To create groups of dwellings with direct visual and physical access
to common open space;
   (E)   To permit active and passive recreational use of common open space by
residents of the development or by the public;
   (F)   To reduce erosion and sedimentation by retaining existing vegetation
where possible;
   (G)   To allow for the continuation of agricultural uses in those areas best
suited for the activities and when the activities are compatible with adjoining
residential uses;
   (H)   To permit various means for owning common open space and for
protecting it from development in perpetuity; and
   (I)   To maintain and protect the township's rural character by preserving
important landscape elements.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.406 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   Each parcel to be developed under the provisions of this section shall
contain a minimum of ten acres.
   (B)   Property proposed as part of this open space development shall be
zoned CG-1, A-1, R-1A, R-1, R-2 and R-3 or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.407 PRINCIPAL PERMITTED USES.
   (A)   Single-family residential uses as follows:
      (1)   Clustered single-family detached dwellings, with at least 35% of
the gross development parcel in common open space; and
      (2)   Single-family farmstead dwellings with or without associated
agricultural structures such as barns, silos, storage sheds and stables.
   (B)   Two-family and multiple-family uses, only if permitted within the
underlying zoning district, as follows: clustered single-family, two-family and
multiple-family detached or attached dwellings, with at least 35% of the gross
development parcel in common open space.
   (C)   Agricultural activities, including:
      (1)   The cultivation, harvesting and sale of crops and related products
produced on the farm;
      (2)   Orchards, nurseries, greenhouses and related horticultural uses;
      (3)   Growing and sale of Christmas trees; and
      (4)   Existing agricultural structures such as barns, silos, storage
sheds and stables.
   (D)   Open space uses, primarily passive in nature, including wildlife
sanctuaries, forest preserves, nature centers, trails, picnic areas and similar
uses;
   (E)   Conservation of natural features in their existing state; and
   (F)   Approved storm water management facilities for the proposed
development, including detention and retention basins.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.408 ACCESSORY USES.
   (A)   Attached and detached private garages and storage structures in
accordance herewith.
   (B)   Home occupations which are clearly incidental to the principal
residential use, as defined in §
155.005.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.409 CONDITIONAL USES.
   The following uses may be permitted by the Planning Commission; provided,
the proposed use shall not adversely impact the rural character of the district
and shall be consistent with the purpose and intent of this chapter. Recreation
uses requiring the installation of new building or other structures in the
common open space of a cluster development. The total building coverage of the
new buildings or structures shall not exceed 5,000 square feet.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.410 PROHIBITED USES.
   The cutting of healthy trees greater than four inches in diameter when
measured five feet above grade, re-grading, topsoil removal, within common open
space areas, except as originally identified within the approved plan.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.411 APPROVAL PROCESS.
   Prior to submitting a formal application for a site plan review for a
residential project developed in conjunction with this chapter, the applicant
must meet for an initial consultation with the Township Zoning Administrator
and/or designee to discuss the site and the proposed number of dwelling units.
Further, the applicant is strongly encouraged to consult with the township
throughout the development of the site so as to reduce the potential for large
changes later in the plan. All open space developments are required to submit
the following information, in addition to all the requirements of §
155.331(B).
   (A)   Inventory and site analysis. To assist the Planning Commission with
determining whether the applicant has met the intent and purpose of this
chapter, the initial application for any development shall include an inventory
and site analysis of the parcel. This inventory and site analysis shall
include: an inventory of all significant natural features on site, identified
on a site plan. These significant natural features should include: trees
greater than eight inches in diameter when measured five feet above grade;
   (B)   Wetland areas;
   (C)   Areas of wildlife habitat;
   (D)   Other areas as determined by the township; and
   (E)   A narrative review of the site, detailing the following specific
items:
      (1)   A review of the site as in existence now including:
         (a)   Any water bodies;
         (b)   Any significant geologic or water features;
         (c)   Any significant woodlots or natural habitat;
         (d)   Surrounding land uses; and
         (e)   Existing road system surrounding the proposed development.
      (2)   A detailed rationale explaining how the proposed project meets the
intent and purpose of this chapter, including:
         (a)   Efforts made to retain existing vegetation;
         (b)   How the site was designed so as to minimize infrastructure and
pavement; and
         (c)   Detailed information and explanation of the property to remain
in open space and a plan for its management and on going maintenance.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.412 DENSITY AND DIMENSIONAL STANDARDS.
   (A)   General. The following density and dimensional standards shall apply
to residential open space development:
 Lots or Parcels Served by Private Onsite Lots or Parcels Served by Centralized
 Waste Treatment Systems                  Sewage Facilities
                   Lots or Parcels Served by  Lots or Parcels Served by
                   Private Onsite Waste       Centralized Sewage
                   Treatment Systems          Facilities
Accessory building 10 feet from all lot lines 10 feet from all lot lines
setback
Maximum height     35 feet                    35 feet
Minimum front yard 30 feet                    30 feet
Minimum lot area   20,000 square feet*        15,000 square feet
Minimum lot width  100 feet                   100 feet
Minimum rear yard  30 feet                    30 feet
Minimum side yard  20 feet, 8 feet minimum    20 feet, 8 meet minimum
NOTES TO TABLE:
*   Minimum lot size dependent on receiving a permit for on-site septic
treatment from the Saginaw County Department of Public Health. Minimum
lot area of 40,000 square feet given as a guide.
 
   (B)   Separation distances for open space development.
      (1)   The outer boundaries of all open space developments shall conform
to the following separation distances:
         (a)   From existing or proposed primary roads: 50 feet;
         (b)   From all perimeter subdivision boundaries: 75 feet;
         (c)   From cropland or pasture land: 100 feet;
         (d)   From buildings or barnyards housing livestock: 300 feet;
         (e)   From other open space developments: 100 feet;
         (f)   From wetlands, flood plains or water courses: 50 feet; and
         (g)   From active recreation areas, such as parks or play fields: 100
feet.
      (2)   All separation areas for open space developments along existing
streets shall be landscaped in order to block views of new residential
development, preserve scenic views and protect rural landscape character.
   (C)   Calculation of site capacity.
      (1)   For open space development, the calculation of site capacity or the
number of dwelling units permitted on a site shall be based on net buildable
acreage. The applicant shall determine the net buildable acreage (NBA) using
the following method, substantiated by sufficient plans and data to verify the
calculations:
Gross Acreage of Site Acres
Gross Acreage of Site                                               Acres
From the gross acreage, subtract:
All lands located within existing street rights-of-way              acres
All lands located within existing utility and railway rights-of-way acres
All lands located within a flood plain                              acres
All lands located within a pond or lake                             acres
50% of lands having a slope between 12% and 20%                     acres
25% of the area located within a woodland:                          acres
The result is the net buildable area:                               acres
 
         (a)   The elevation of the 100-year flood plain determined through
flood plain studies shall be used where available. Where flood stage data are
not available, the regulatory flood elevation shall be determined by a
registered professional engineer.
         (b)   Where two or more categories overlap, the overlapping acreage
shall be counted only once, using the most restrictive classification.
      (2)   To determine the number of units permitted on a given site, the net
buildable acreage shall be divided by the minimum lot size within the existing
zoning district and then adding 10% to that number and rounding to the nearest
whole number, excepting that each lot must be a minimum of 15,000 square feet.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.413 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR OPEN SPACE DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   All lots shall take access from interior streets.
   (B)   All lots shall abut common open space in the front or in the rear.
   (C)   In locating dwelling units, disturbance to woodlands and individual
mature trees should be minimized. No more than 20% of the wooded area shall be
cleared for construction.
   (D)   All lots must meet the required separation distances as specified in §
155.412(B).
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.414 DESIGN STANDARDS FOR COMMON OPEN SPACE.
   On all parcels developed under the open space development regulations, a
minimum of 35% of the gross land area shall be set aside as protected common
open space. This open space shall meet the following standards.
   (A)   For the purposes of this section, GROSS LAND AREA includes all lands
within the parcel except existing street, railway and utility rights-of-way.
   (B)   Common open space shall comply with the following design standards.
      (1)   All open spaces shall be part of a larger continuous and integrated
open space system within the parcel being developed. For the purposes of this
section, areas shall be considered continuous if they are within 100 feet of
each other.
      (2)   Common open space shall, to the greatest extent possible, protect
site features identified in the site inventory and analysis as having
particular value in the context of preserving rural character.
      (3)   Natural features shall generally be maintained in their natural
condition, but may be modified to improve their appearance, or restore their
overall condition and natural processes, as recommend by natural resource
professionals. Modifications may include:
         (a)   Woodland management;
         (b)   Reforestation;
         (c)   Meadow management; and
         (d)   Wetlands management.
      (4)   No area of common open space shall be less than 30 feet in its
smallest dimension or less than 10,000 square feet in area. Open space not
meeting this standard shall not be counted toward the total required 50% common
open space.
      (5)   The boundaries of common open space shall be marked by natural
features wherever possible, such as edges of woodlands or individual large
trees.
      (6)   Trails in common open space that are located within 50 feet of
homes shall be identified by plantings or other landscape features.
      (7)   Under no circumstance shall all common open space be isolated in
one area of the development. Common open space shall be distributed
appropriately throughout the development to properly serve and enhance all
dwelling units and any other common facilities.
      (8)   Common open space shall include lands located along existing public
streets in order to preserve existing rural landscape character as seen from
these streets, and shall, in no case, contain less than the requires setback or
buffer.
   (C)   Safe and convenient pedestrian access and access for maintenance
purposes shall be provided to all common open space areas that are not used for
agricultural purposes, in accordance with the following.
      (1)   Access points shall be provided that are equal to or greater than
the minimum width of the lots in the development. This width may be reduced to
50 feet if the applicant can demonstrate that meeting the lot width requirement
would run counter to the objectives of this section.
      (2)   Access to common open space used for agriculture may be restricted
for public safety and to prevent interference with agricultural operations.
   (D)   The following areas shall not be included in the calculation of common
open space:
      (1)   Private lot areas;
      (2)   Street and highway rights-of-way, public or private;
      (3)   Railway and utility rights-of-way;
      (4)   Parking areas; and
      (5)   Areas not meeting the requirements of division (B)(4) above.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.415 LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   The preservation of existing vegetation shall always be preferred to
the installation of new plant material.
   (B)   Existing woodlands and significant mature trees shall be retained to
the maximum extent possible. Where possible, existing woodlands shall be
incorporated into the site boundaries.
   (C)   Street trees shall be planted along internal streets. Informal
arrangements are encouraged for street trees, to avoid the urban appearance
that regular spacing may invoke.
   (D)   In the case of an open site, with very little existing vegetation, a
proposed landscape plan for the open space area shall be submitted and approved
by the township's landscape architect.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.416 OWNERSHIP AND MAINTENANCE OF COMMON FACILITIES AND OPEN SPACE.
   To ensure adequate planning for ownership, operation and maintenance of
common open space, recreation facilities, storm water management facilities,
common parking areas, private streets and other common or community facilities
(hereinafter referred to as common facilities), the following regulations shall
apply.
   (A)   Ownership. The following methods may be used, either alone or in
combination, to own common facilities. Common facilities shall not be
transferred to another entity, except for transfer to another method of
ownership permitted under this section, and then only when there is no change
in the common facilities. Ownership methods shall conform to one or more of the
following:
      (1)   Homeowner's association;
      (2)   Condominium agreements;
      (3)   Dedication of conservation easements to a public agency;
      (4)   Fee simple dedication to a non-profit conservation organization;
      (5)   Dedication of conservation easements to a non-profit conservation
organization;
      (6)   Dedication of conservation easements to a recognized civic and our
service organization; and
      (7)   Ownership retained by the original landowner.
   (B)   Maintenance and operation of common facilities.
      (1)   A plan and narrative for the use, maintenance and insurance of all
common facilities, including provisions for funding, shall be provided to and
approved by the Township Board. A plan shall:
         (a)   Define ownership;
         (b)   Establish necessary regular and periodic operation and
maintenance responsibilities;
         (c)   Estimate staffing needs, insurance requirements and other
associated costs and define the means for funding the same on an on-going
basis;
         (d)   Include a land stewardship plan, specifically focusing on the
long term management of open space lands; and
         (e)   At the discretion of the Township Planning Commission, the
applicant may be required to escrow sufficient funds for the maintenance and
operation costs of common facilities for up to one year.
      (2)   In the event that the association established to own and maintain
common areas and facilities or any successor organization thereto, fails to
property maintain all or any portion of the common areas or facilities, the
township may serve written notice upon the association setting forth the manner
in which the association has failed to maintain the aforesaid common areas and
facilities. The notice shall set forth the nature of corrections required and
the time within the corrections shall be made. Upon failure to comply, the
association or any successor organization shall be considered in violation of
this chapter, in which case the township shall have the right to enter the
premises and take the needed corrective actions. The costs of corrective
actions by the township shall be assessed against the properties that have the
right of enjoyment of the common areas and facilities.
      (3)   Common open space lands may be leased to another person or other
entity for use, operation and maintenance; provided that:
         (a)   The residents of the development shall, at all times, have
access to the leased lands, except in the case of lease for agricultural
purposes, in which case the residents, with their agreement, may be restricted
from accessing the land;
         (b)   The common open space lands to be leased shall be maintained for
the purposes set forth in this section; and
         (c)   Lease agreements shall be recorded in the office of the County
Register of Deeds within 30 days of the execution, and a copy of the recorded
lease shall be filed with the township.
      (4)   Common open space shall be restricted in perpetuity from further
subdivision and/or land development by deed restriction, conservation easement
or other agreement in a form acceptable to the township and duly recorded in
the office of the County Register of Deeds.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.417 SEWAGE AND WATER SUPPLY FACILITIES.
   (A)   Sewage facilities.
      (1)   Sewage facilities for the open space development may consist of any
system meeting the requirements of the County Department of Public Health and
the State Department of Environmental Quality.
      (2)   If approved by the Planning Commission, sewerage facilities or
portions thereof may be located within common open space.
   (B)   Water supply facilities. Water supply facilities may consist of any of
the following systems; provided, they meet the requirements of the county and
the Department of Environmental Quality.
      (1)   Private, individual wells;
      (2)   Private, community wells; and
      (3)   Public water supply system.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
NON-CONFORMING USES
§ 155.430 INTENT.
   It is the intent of this subchapter to permit the continuance of a lawful
use of any building or land existing at the effective date of this chapter;
however, as herein provided, no building, structure or use of part thereof,
shall be, altered, constructed or reconstructed, except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. It is hereby declared that the existence of non-
conforming uses could be detrimental to the community and special provisions to
control their existence and expansion or discontinuance are provided for this
chapter.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.431 AUTHORITY TO CONTINUE.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter, any non-conforming lot, use
or structure lawfully existing on the effective date of this chapter or
subsequent amendment thereto may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful. All non-conformities shall be encouraged to convert to conformity
wherever possible and shall be required to convert to conformity status as
required by this chapter. The burden of establishing that any non-conformity is
a legal non-conformity, as defined by this subchapter, shall, in all cases, be
upon the owner of the non-conformity and not upon the township.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.432 RECONSTRUCTION AND RESTORATION.
   (A)   No non-conformity shall be enlarged upon, expanded or extended
(including extension of hours of operation) unless the alteration is in full
compliance with all requirements of this chapter. Normal maintenance and
incidental repair of a legal non-conformity shall be permitted; provided that,
this does not violate another section of this subchapter.
   (B)   Nothing in this subchapter shall be deemed to prevent restoring a
structure to a safe condition in accordance with an order of a public official
who is charged with protecting the public safety and who declares a structure
to be unsafe and orders its restoration to a safe condition; provided that, the
restoration is not otherwise in violation of the various provisions of this
section prohibiting the repair or restoration of partially damaged or destroyed
structure or signs.
   (C)   No non-conformity shall be moved in whole or in part, for any distance
whatsoever, to any other location on the same or any other lot unless the
entire structure shall thereafter conform to the regulations of the zoning
district in which it is located after being moved, unless changes are being
made to the site in conformance with other sections of this part.
   (D)   No use, structure or sign which is accessory to a principal non-
conforming use or structure shall continue after the principal use or structure
shall have ceased or terminated, unless it shall thereafter conform to all
regulations of this chapter.
   (E)   Any lawful non-conforming use damaged by fire, explosion, an act of
God or by other causes may be restored, rebuilt or repaired; provided that, the
reconstruction or restoration work does not increase the gross floor area or
value of the structure to more than that which is permitted in other sections
of this part.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.433 IMPROVEMENT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the enlargement, improvement, or
modernization of a lawful nonconforming building to allow for facility
improvement provided that such repair does not exceed 50% of the true cash
value as determined by the State Equalized Value or increase the size of the
primary structure by more than 30%. All improvements must be presented on a
site plan developed in accordance with the data requirements of §
155.331(B) and approved by the Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 12-001,
passed 2-21-2012)
§ 155.434 CHANGING USES.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals may authorize a change from one non-conforming
use to another non-conforming use; provided, the proposed use would be more
suitable to the zoning district in which it is located than the non-conforming
use which is being replaced. Whenever a non-conforming use has been changed to
a more nearly conforming use or to a conforming use, the use shall not revert
or be changed back to another non-conforming use unless the change shall be
more nearly conforming.
   (B)   Any non-conforming use status may be transferred with the same rights
guaranteed the new owners as those belonging to the owners of record on the
effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.435 PRIOR CONSTRUCTION APPROVAL.
   Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the completion of construction and
use of a non-conforming building for which a building permit has been issued
prior to the effective date of this chapter, provided that construction is
commenced within 90 days after the date of issuance of the permit and that the
entire building shall have been completed according to plans filed with the
permit application within one year after the issuance of the permit.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.436 NON-CONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   A non-conforming lot of record may be used for any principal use
permitted in the zone in which the lot is located, provided that for any use
which is to be served by an individual well and/or septic system, the non-
conforming lot shall be of a size and design to meet the minimum requirements
of the County Health Department for the well or septic systems.
   (B)   If the proposed use is to be a single residential dwelling so that the
lot is physically unable to provide the open space or yard requirements of this
chapter, those yard requirements shall be waived.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
§ 155.437 ELIMINATION OF NON-CONFORMING USES.
   (A)   In accordance with applicable state and local legislation, the
township, through its agents, may acquire properties on which non-conforming
buildings or uses are located, by condemnation or other means, and may remove
the uses or structures. The resultant property may be leased or sold for a
conforming use or may be used by township body for a public use. The net cost
for the acquisition may be assessed against a benefit district, or may be paid
from other sources of revenues.
   (B)   Whenever a non-conforming use has been discontinued for six
consecutive months, or for 18 months during any three-year period, the
discontinuance shall be considered conclusive evidence of an intention to
abandon legally the non-conforming use. At the end of this period of
abandonment, the non-conforming use shall not be reestablished, and any future
use shall be in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006)
WIND ENERGY
§ 155.450 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   (A)   The purpose of this subchapter is to establish regulations for wind
energy systems with the intention to strike an appropriate balance for the need
for clean, renewable energy resources and the necessity to protect the health,
safety and welfare of the general public.
   (B)   This subchapter shall set standards for private onsite wind energy
systems designed to serve the needs of a home, small business or farm.
   (C)   The distribution of energy to an off-site customer is prohibited.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.451 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLADE GLINT. The intermittent reflection of the sun off the surface of the
blades of a wind turbine.
   COUNTY. The County of Saginaw.
   FAA. The Federal Aviation Administration.
   HUB HEIGHT. When referring to a wind turbine, the distance measured from the
ground level to the center of the turbine hub.
   INHABITED STRUCTURE. A permanent building existing prior to the installation
of a wind energy conversion facility, which is used for human or animal
habitation.
   KILOWATT. A unit of electricity equal to 1,000 watts.
   MET (ANEMOMETER) TOWER. A tower, including any anchor, base, base plate,
boom, cable, electrical or electronic equipment, guy wire, hardware, indicator,
instrument, telemetry device, vane or wiring, that is used to collect or
transmit meteorological data, including wind speed and wind flow information,
in order to monitor or characterize wind resources for a wind site assessment
for possible installation of wind energy conversion facilities or on-site wind
energy systems.
   MICHIGAN TALL STRUCTURE ACT (Pub. Act 259 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481
to 259.493). Governs the height of structures in proximity to airport related
uses and is included as a standard of this chapter by reference.
   NET ENERGY CONSUMPTION. The amount of energy delivered by the utility and
used by the customer, minus the amount of energy generated by the customer and
delivered to the utility.
   NET METERING. An accounting mechanism in which electric utility customers
who generate a portion or all of their own electricity needs are billed by
their utility for only their net energy consumption during each billing period.
NET METERING is allowed for turbines producing less than 30 kilowatts.
   NON-PARTICIPATING PROPERTY. Real property that has no wind energy system.
   ON-SITE SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A small electricity-generating system
consisting of one, but not more than two, wind turbine systems sized primarily
to serve the needs of the on-site consumer for a home, farm or small business,
on whose property they are constructed and not intended to distribute
electricity to a customer or customers, but may be inter-connected to a public
utility.
   OWNER. The person/entity that owns a wind energy system or met tower.
   ROTOR. An element of a wind energy system that acts as a multi-bladed
airfoil assembly, thereby extracting through rotation, kinetic energy directly
from the wind.
   SHADOW FLICKER. A repeating cycle of changing light intensity when shadows
caused by rotating blades of a wind turbine pass over an object or across a
window.
   SOUND PRESSURE LEVEL. The level of sound produced by the rotating blades of
a wind energy system; the spinning generator; and the moving gears as measured
in dBA from a property line, specific location or distance.
   STRAY VOLTAGE. Any voltage or current existing between two points, where
none is expected which may be contacted by persons, animals and/or equipment.
   TOTAL HEIGHT. Includes the height of the tower including the rotor radius
measured at the top of its blade in the vertical position.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY SITE PERMIT. A permit issued upon compliance with the
standards of this subchapter.
   WIND ENERGY FACILITY SITE PLAN REVIEW. The process used to review a proposed
wind energy facility.
   WIND TURBINE. A wind energy conversion system which converts wind energy
into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator, and includes the
turbine, blade, tower and base and pad transformer, if any. A WIND TURBINE, by
definition, shall include a horizontal axis wind turbine (HAWT) and/or a
vertical axis wind turbine (VAWT).
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.452 ACCESSORY USES.
   An on-site wind energy system shall be considered an accessory use for all
systems designed to serve the needs of the individual owner. On-site wind
energy systems shall not be considered an expansion of a non-conforming use or
structure.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.453 APPLICABILITY.
   A single or combination of not more than two wind turbine generators sized
to serve the needs of the on-site consumer for a home, farm or small business
shall be a permitted use in all districts where the parcel size is one acre or
larger, and shall not be considered a special use where the wind turbine is ten
kW or less of rated capacity and the wind tower is 75 feet or less in total
height. The approvals may be administratively given subject to meeting the
requirements of this chapter. Where a wind turbine is greater than ten kW of
rated capacity and/or greater than 75 feet in total height, the wind turbine
shall be considered a special use approval. A wind energy system shall not
exceed a total height of over 150 feet. Where a vertical axis wind turbine
(VAWT) may be used or may be mounted on a roof, not exceeding a total height of
35 feet above ground level, the Planning Commission may approve the
installation where a parcel is less than one acre in size as long as the
turbine meets the required setback from the property lines.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.454 SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED.
   (A)   General. A wind energy system shall not be located, constructed,
erected, altered or used without first submitting a site plan for zoning
approval and obtaining a wind energy sitting permit where the approval may be
administratively given, or as may be required as a special use approval.
   (B)   Siting and special use fees.
 
Total heights under 75 feet and 10 kW  $250 flat fee per tower
or less of rated capacity
Total heights over 75 feet and/or over $325, plus $8 per foot of total height
10 kW in rated capacity                over 75 feet per tower and special use
                                       fee
Special use fee                        $500 (includes up to two on-site towers)
 
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011; Res. 11-002, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.455 INFORMATION TO BE SUBMITTED.
   (A)   The following information, in addition to information as required and
as may be applicable for site plan review under §§
155.330 through
155.335 must be submitted as part of the site plan review for wind energy
system(s) of rated capacities of more than ten kW and/or for systems over 75
feet in total height. The following, as applicable, shall also be submitted for
MET towers:
      (1)   Survey of the property showing property boundaries and existing
features such as land contours, large trees, buildings, structures, roads
(rights-of-way), utility easements, land use, zoning district, ownership of
property and vehicular access;
      (2)   Plan(s) showing the proposed location and number of turbine towers,
underground and overhead wiring (including depth of underground wiring), access
roads (including width) substations and accessory structures;
      (3)   Photo exhibits visualizing the proposed wind energy system;
      (4)   Stamped and signed drawings from a state licensed structural
engineer providing the details of the foundation and anchoring system as
recommended by the manufacturer. A description of the wind energy system(s)
height and design, including cross section, elevation and diagram of the
foundation and anchoring system; the Planning Commission and/or the Zoning
Administrator or Building Official may require a soil analysis to determine the
suitability of the proposed location;
      (5)   Supporting documentation shall be submitted, where required,
indicating that the applicant has received approval to install a wind energy
system(s) under state, federal and local laws and regulations, including
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), the Michigan Tall Structures Act (Pub.
Act 259 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et seq.), the Michigan Airport
Zoning Act (Pub. Act 23 of 1950, being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.431 et seq.), and state
and local building codes. The FAA will issue a signed statement when the
precise location(s) has been determined. Building permits will not be issued
prior to receiving all signed statements, but a special use permit may be
granted. Where a wind energy system does not require state or federal approval,
construction permits may be issued; and
      (6)   A certificate of insurance with a minimum of $1,000,000 liability
coverage per incidence, per occurrence shall be required. An expired insurance
certificate or an unacceptable liability coverage amount is grounds for
revocation of the use permit.
   (B)   Information required as part of an administrative site plan review for
a wind energy system with a rated capacity of ten kW or less, and 75 feet or
less in total height.
      (1)   A site plan at an appropriate scale showing the proposed location
of the wind energy system, and any structures;
      (2)   Standard drawings of the wind turbine structure including the
tower, base, footings, cross-section and connection and certification of the
tower and turbine showing compliance with applicable building codes and
recognized standards;
      (3)   Plan(s) showing the proposed location of turbine tower(s),
underground wiring (including depth of underground wiring), access road, if
any, and accessory structures;
      (4)   Documentation from the manufacturer, including full specifications
and manufacturer recommended installation procedures;
      (5)   Proof of applicants public liability insurance; and
      (6)   Any other documentation to the satisfaction of the Zoning
Administrator to ensure the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
township.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.456 WIND TURBINE/TOWER HEIGHT.
   The total height of a wind turbine shall not exceed 150 feet. Due to the
proximity of MBS International Airport, the applicant shall demonstrate
compliance with the State Tall Structure Act (Pub. Act 259 of 1959, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 259.481 et seq.) and FAA guidelines as part of the approval
process, when required by the Act.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.457 APPLICATION STANDARDS.
   The following shall be included and/or be utilized as standards when
preparing, submitting and reviewing an application for a wind energy facility.
A site plan that differs from these standards can be approved only upon the
review of the Planning Commission and approval from the Township Board that the
modification is in the best interest of the township and the applicant. The
things that will be considered in addition to the site plan are as follows.
   (A)   Setbacks, separation and security. The minimum setback distance
between the wind turbine tower and all surrounding property lines, overhead
utility or transmission lines, other wind turbine towers, electrical
substations, meteorological towers, public roads and dwellings (other than the
owner), shall be equal to no less than one and one-fifth times the sum of the
tower height at its hub and the rotor radius measured at the top of its blade
in the vertical position. No part of the wind energy system structure,
including any guy wire anchors, may extend closer than ten feet to the owner's
property lines.
   (B)   Sound pressure levels. Individual wind turbine towers shall be located
so that the level of noise produced by the wind turbine operation shall not
exceed 50 db(A), measured at any site from the property line; except that, the
level of noise generated by a wind turbine operation may exceed 50 db(A) during
short-term events such as power outages and severe wind storms. If the tower is
installed in an area of already higher sound levels, the ambient sound level,
plus five db(A) shall be used.
   (C)   Minimum ground clearance. The vertical distance from the ground level
to the tip of a wind generator blade on a wind turbine, when the blade is at
its lowest point must be at least twenty 25 feet unless otherwise approved by
the Planning Commission. This section shall not apply to a vertical axis wind
turbine system where the system is mounted on the roof of a structure.
   (D)   Shadow flicker and blade glint. Wind turbines shall be sited such that
shadow flicker will not fall directly on a receptor. Depending on the size of
the system, tower height and proximity to surrounding properties and
inhabitable structures, the Zoning Administrator may request documentation
describing measures that shall be taken to eliminate or mitigate any shadow
flicker concerns. Rotor blades shall have a non-reflective finish to prevent
blade glint.
   (E)   Safety. A wind energy system shall have braking, governing or
feathering system to prevent uncontrolled rotation or over speeding. All wind
towers shall have lightning protection. All ground mounted electrical and
control equipment must be labeled and secured to prevent unauthorized access. A
tower may not have step bolts or a ladder within eight feet of the ground that
is readily accessible to the public. The wind energy system shall be properly
grounded in accordance with the manufacturer's installation procedures to allow
stray voltage to enter the surrounding ground. The system shall be checked and
verified prior to placing the system in service.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.458 INSPECTIONS.
   The applicant(s) of all wind turbine systems, including towers, shall comply
with all applicable state construction and electrical codes and local building
permit requirements. The owner must have received the required inspections from
a state licensed inspector showing that the wind energy system complies with
all applicable codes before placing it into operation. Interconnected (on-grid)
systems must comply with all standards set by the State Public Service
Commission.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.459 DECOMMISSIONING.
   (A)   The applicant of a wind energy system shall notify the township upon
the removing of a wind energy system. All electrical connections between the
system and the electrical system of the home, farm or business shall be
inspected by the township to ensure the connection to the utility company
system has been properly removed.
   (B)   The applicant shall be responsible for notifying the utility company
of the removal of the system.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
§ 155.460 APPLICABLE CONSTRUCTION CODES, STANDARDS; STATE AND FEDERAL
REGULATIONS.
   The following construction codes, standards and state and federal
regulations are applicable to this chapter by reference and all wind energy
systems sited within the township shall comply with these standards and Federal
Aviation Administration requirements:
   (A)   State Airport Zoning Act (Pub. Act 23 of 1950, being M.C.L.A. §§
259.431 et seq.);
   (B)   State Tall Structures Act (Pub. Act 259 of 1959, being M.C.L.A. §§
259.481 et seq.);
   (C)   State Public Service Commission standards for inter-connection;
   (D)   Federal Energy Regulatory Commission standards;
   (E)   State Building Code of 2006;
   (F)   National Electrical Code of 2005; and
   (G)   State Residential Code of 2006.
(Ord. 11-001, passed 1-18-2011)
MEDICAL MARIHUANA
§ 155.470 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the Medical Marihuana Ordinance.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.471 INTENT.
   Kochville Township seeks to regulate the location where medical marihuana
caregiver activities may occur within the township to residentially zoned
properties under the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act (“MZEA”), M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.472 PURPOSE; LOCATION OF ACTIVITIES.
   This subchapter is adopted to regulate the location of activities related to
the cultivation of medical marihuana by licensed primary caregivers and
qualifying patients, consistent with the regulations of the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq. (“MMMA”), and not to prohibit or
penalize the cultivation of medical marihuana activities in the township.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.473 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY. A closet, room, or other comparable, stationary,
and fully enclosed area equipped with secured locks or other functioning
security devices that permit access only by a registered primary caregiver or
registered qualifying patient. Marihuana plants grown outdoors are considered
to be in an ENCLOSED, LOCKED FACILITY if they are not visible to the unaided
eye from an adjacent property when viewed by an individual at ground level or
from a permanent structure and are grown within a stationary structure that is
enclosed on all sides, except for the base, by chain-link fencing, wooden
slats, or a similar material that prevents access by the general public and
that is anchored, attached, or affixed to the ground; located on land that is
owned, leased, or rented by either the registered qualifying patient or a
person designated through the departmental registration process as the primary
caregiver for the registered qualifying patient or patients for whom the
marihuana plants are grown; and equipped with functioning locks or other
security devices that restrict access to only the  registered qualifying
patient or the registered primary caregiver who owns, leases, or rents the
property on which the structure is located.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA. That term as defined in section 7106 of the public health
code, 1978 PA 368, M.C.L.A. § 333.7106.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITY. Any building, parcel, property, location, within
the township, used to cultivate, manufacture, extract, sell, transport medical
marijuana for commercial purposes.
   PRIMARY CAREGIVER or CAREGIVER. A person who is at least 21 years old and
who has agreed to assist with a patient’s medical use of marihuana and who has
not been convicted of any felony within the past 10 years and has never been
convicted of a felony involving illegal drugs or a felony that is an assaultive
crime as defined in section 9a of chapter X of the code of criminal procedure,
1927 PA 175, M.C.L.A.§ 770.9a.
   QUALIFYING PATIENT or PATIENT. A person who has been diagnosed by a
physician as having a debilitating medical condition.
   TOWNSHIP. The Township of Kochville, Saginaw County, Michigan.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.474 LOCATION.
   (A)   This subchapter does not regulate the cultivation of marihuana inside
of a residential structure.
   (B)   Medical marihuana cultivation grown in an accessory structure, shall
be clearly incidental to and a secondary use to the principal single-family
residential structure.
   (C)   The required setback distances from lot lines shall conform to the
setback requirements of the district in which the location resides.
   (D)   No more than one caregiver may operate out of a single location on a
single parcel of land.
   (E)   The licensed primary caregiver must reside at the location where
medical marihuana is cultivated.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.475 LIGHT AND VENTILATION.
   (A)   Light cast by light fixtures inside any building used for marihuana
cultivation shall not be visible outside the building from dusk to dawn the
following day.
   (B)   The building used for marihuana cultivation shall be equipped with an
activated carbon filtration system for odor control to ensure that air leaving
the building through an exhaust vent first passes through an activated carbon
filter.
   (C)   The filtration system shall be maintained in working order and shall
be in use. The filters shall be changed a minimum of once every 365 days.
   (D)   Doors and windows of a building used for marihuana cultivation shall
remain closed, except for the minimum length of time needed to allow people to
ingress or egress the building.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.476 PERMITS AND REGISTRATION.
   (A)   The location of medical marihuana cultivation shall be kept as a
record by the township and shall be registered on a form for that purpose, with
the name of the licensed primary caregiver and contact information.
   (B)   The fee for such registration shall be set by the Township Board in
their schedule of fees and shall be paid at the time of registration by the
licensed primary caregiver shown as the owner or occupant of the location that
the medical marihuana is being cultivated.
   (C)   A zoning permit shall be obtained prior to locating any medical
marihuana grow operation in an accessory building incidental to the principal
single-family residential use.
   (D)   A building permit and any other applicable permits shall be obtained
for any new structure, alteration to an existing structure, and inspected for
compliance prior to use.
   (E)   Electrical permits shall be obtained by a licensed electrician for
installation of equipment and shall be inspected for conformance to the
Michigan Electrical Code in effect at the time.
   (F)   A mechanical and plumbing permit must be obtained for any plumbing
and/or mechanical work being completed in the structure and shall be inspected
for compliance with the Michigan Plumbing and Michigan Mechanical Codes in
effect at the time.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.477 COMMERCIAL MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITIES PROHIBITED.
   Medical marihuana facilities are prohibited in any district within the
township.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021) Penalty, see § 155.999
§ 155.478 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE LAW.
   The licensed caregiver, cultivating medical marihuana, is responsible for
the security of the structure used for cultivation. Such structure must be
fully enclosed, locked and secured in order to be entitled to MMMA protections,
and must be at all times in compliance with the laws of the State Medical
Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.; and all other applicable rules
promulgated by the state.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.479 VIOLATIONS A NUISANCE.
   (A)   A violation of this subchapter shall be punishable as provided in §
155.999.
   (B)   Any violation of, or failure to comply with, this subchapter is hereby
declared to be a nuisance per se and may be abated by any and all available
means, including without limitation, equitable relief by any court of competent
jurisdiction. Any person violating this subchapter shall pay the cost and
expenses, including reasonable attorney fees, incurred by the township abating
the nuisance.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021) Penalty, see §
155.999
§ 155.480 SEVERABILITY.
   If any section, clause, paragraph, sentence or phrase of this subchapter
shall, for any reason, be held to be invalid or unconstitutional, such invalid
section, clause, paragraph, sentence or phrase is hereby declared to be
severable, and any such invalid or unconstitutional section, clause, paragraph,
sentence or phrase shall in no way effect the remainder of this subchapter; and
it is hereby declared to be the intention of the Township Board that the
remainder of this subchapter would have been passed notwithstanding the
invalidity or unconstitutionality of any section, clause, paragraph, sentence
or phrase thereof.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.481 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect 30 days following publication as required
by law following adoption by the Township Board.
(Ord. 21-04, passed 7-19-2021)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified, any person or other entity who violates
any of the provisions of this chapter is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, as defined by state law, and subject to a civil fine determined in
accordance with the following schedule:
 
                                        Minimum Fine Maximum Fine
1st violation/citation                  $50          $100
2nd violation/citation for same offense $250         $400
3rd violation/citation for same offense $500         $500
4th violation/citation for same offense $500         $500
 
      (2)   Additionally, the violator shall pay costs, which may include all
direct or indirect expenses to which the township has been put in connection
with the violation. A violator of this chapter shall also be subject to
additional sanctions, remedies and judicial orders as are authorized under
state law. Each day a violation of this chapter continues to exist constitutes
a separate violation.
   (B)   Medical marihuana. A violation of §§
155.470 –
155.481 shall be a civil infraction and shall be punishable by a fine of not
more than $250. Any further violation of that subchapter shall be a misdemeanor
and, upon conviction thereof, shall be punishable by a fine of not more than
$500 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or both.
(Ord. 06-14-Z, passed 10-3-2006; Ord. 06-14, passed 10-17-2006; Ord. 21-04,
passed 7-19-2021)
CHAPTER 156: SOLAR ENERGY FACILITIES
Section
   
156.01   Title
   
156.02   Purposes and objectives
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Description and fee
   
156.05   Location
   
156.06   Security
   
156.07   Supplemental regulations
   
156.08   Site plan required
   
156.09   Abandonment and decommissioning plan
   
156.10   Complaint resolution
   
156.11   Repowering
   
156.12   Violation shall be a misdemeanor
§ 156.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and shall be cited as the “Solar Energy
Facilities Ordinance.”
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.02 PURPOSES AND OBJECTIVES.
   The purposes and objectives for which this chapter is passed are as follows:
   (A)   To preserve the dignity and aesthetic quality of the environment in
Kochville Township.
   (B)   To preserve the physical integrity of land in close proximity to
residential areas.
   (C)   To protect and enhance the economic viability and interests of the
citizens and residents of the township.
   (D)   To facilitate the construction, installation, and operation of solar
energy facilities (SEFs) in the township in a manner that minimizes the adverse
impacts to forestry, agricultural, commercial, and residential lands. This
chapter is not intended to abridge safety, health, or environmental
requirements contained in other applicable codes, standards, or ordinances. The
provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to nullify any provisions of
local, state or federal law.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain terms and words are hereby defined;
words used in the present tense shall include the future; words used in the
singular number shall include the plural number; and the plural the singular;
and the word “shall” is mandatory and not discretionary.
   ABANDONMENT. To give up, discontinue, withdraw from. Any solar energy
facility that ceases to produce energy on a continuous basis for 12 months will
be considered abandoned.
   BUILDING. Any structure having a roof supported by columns or walls, and
designated or intended for the shelter, support, enclosure or protection of
persons, animals, or chattels.
   DECOMMISSIONING PLAN. A document that details the planned shut down or
removal of a solar energy facility from operation or usage.
   FENCE. A continuous barrier extending from the surface of the ground to a
uniform height of not less than six feet from the ground at any given point,
constructed of steel, or other material of similar nature and strength.
   IMPROVED AREA. The area containing solar panels, electrical inverters,
storage buildings, fences, and access roads.
   LAYDOWN YARD. A temporary worksite that is necessary for the construction,
operation, maintenance, and decommissioning of a SEF. A LAYDOWN YARD is used to
house employee office sites and facilities, store materials, components, and
equipment, and to provide parking and locations for temporary facilities such
as construction trailers. Hours of operation for a LAYDOWN YARD shall be
similar to other kinds of construction sites, typically from 7:00 a.m. to 7:00
p.m. during weekdays, with hours limited on the weekends from 10:00 a.m. to 4:
00 p.m.
   MAXIMUM TILT. The maximum angle or the most vertical position of a solar
array as compared to the horizon line.
   MINIMUM TILT. The minimum or most horizontal angle of a solar array as
compared to the horizon line.
   NON-PARTICIPATING LOT(S). One or more lots for which there is not a signed
lease or easement for development of a principal-use SEF associated with the
applicant/project.
   OPAQUE FENCE. A continuous opaque, un-perforated barrier extending from the
surface of the ground to a uniform height of not less than six feet from the
ground at any given point, constructed of steel, or any substance of a similar
nature and strength which will hide the solar energy facility.
   PARTICIPATING LOT(S). One or more lots under a signed lease or easement for
development of a principal-use SEF associated with the applicant project.
   PUBLIC ROAD. Any road or highway which is now or hereafter designated and
maintained by the Saginaw County Road Commission as part of the County Road
System. Setbacks for improved areas shall be measured from the road right of
way.
   REPOWERING. Reconfiguring, renovating, or replacing and SEF to maintain or
increase the power rating of the SEF within the existing project footprint.
   SOLAR ARRAY. A photovoltaic panel, solar thermal collector, or collection of
panels in a solar energy system that collects solar radiation.
   SOLAR ENERGY FACILITY (SEF). An energy facility includes an area of land
principally used to convert solar energy to electricity, which includes, but is
not limited to, all the components and subsystems required to convert solar
energy into electric or thermal energy suitable for use. The area of the system
includes all the land inside the perimeter of the system, which extends to any
fencing. This term applies to solar photovoltaic (PV) systems used for the
purpose of generating and selling energy to a public utility off site and does
not apply to private commercial or residential uses where the energy is used
for supplying supplemental electricity for on-site uses.
   SOLAR GLARE. The effect produced by light reflecting from a solar panel with
an intensity sufficient to cause annoyance, discomfort, or loss in visual
performance and visibility.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.04 DESCRIPTION AND FEE.
   (A)   A general description of the proposed project, including a legal
description of the property or properties on which the project would be located
and an anticipated construction schedule.
   (B)   A description and drawing of the proposed technology to include the
type of solar panel and system, fixed mounted versus solar tracking, height of
panels, number of panels, and angles of orientation.
   (C)   Applicant shall remit an application fee and an escrow deposit, in the
amount specified by township policy. This schedule shall be based on the cost
of the application review and may be adjusted from time to time. If a
professional review of plans is required, then such costs shall be paid from
the escrow deposit.
   (D)   An escrow account in the form of a cash deposit of not less than
$7,500, or such other amount estimated by the Township Board, shall be set up
when the applicant applies for a special use permit. The deposit shall be
sufficient to cover all reasonable costs and expenses associated with the
special land use zoning review and approval process, which costs can include,
but are not limited to, fees of township consultants and other third-party
professionals such as an attorney, community planner, and professional
engineer, as well as any reports or studies which the township anticipates it
may have done related to the zoning review process for the particular
application. Such escrow amount shall include regularly established fees. At
any point during the zoning review process, the township may require that the
applicant place additional monies into the township escrow should the existing
escrow amount filed by the applicant prove insufficient. If the escrow account
needs replenishing and the applicant refuses to do so within 14 days after
receiving notice, the zoning review and approval process shall cease until and
unless the applicant makes the required escrow deposit. Any escrow amounts
which are in excess of actual costs shall be returned to the applicant within
90 days of permitting process completion which includes approval of the final
inspection of the SEF site, including all conditions of the site plan approval.
An itemized billing of all expenses shall be provided to the applicant. The
township may hire qualified professionals for each and any of the technical
fields associated with the special use permit, such as, but not limited to,
electrical, environment, economics, wildlife, health, and land-use.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.05 LOCATION.
   (A)   The location of a solar energy facility is limited to the A-
1 Agricultural and the R-1A Low Density Transitional Residential Districts
within the township.
   (B)   A solar energy facility is limited to sites with a minimum lot size of
20 acres of land.
   (C)   A solar energy facility must comply with the requirements of this
chapter and other applicable chapters or sections of this code of ordinances.
   (D)   A solar energy facility shall be considered a special use in the
township subject to §§
155.306 and
155.307 of the zoning ordinance.
   (E)   All improved areas, including disposal areas, shall maintain a minimum
60-foot front, side, and rear yard setback. All solar panels, electrical
inverters, storage buildings, and access roads shall maintain a minimum 25-foot
setback from the associated perimeter fencing. In the event that an opaque
fence is installed the setback may be reduced to 20 feet.
   (F)   A setback is not required for any component that is part of the SEF
from the common property lines of adjacent leased property.
   (G)   All structures related to the SEF shall be subject to the dimensional
and locational requirements for structures in the underlying zoning district.
   (H)   Improved areas shall be at least 150 feet from any residential use,
family or group child day-care home, or church, measured from the closest lot
line.
   (I)   All access roads and storage areas shall be established on a 30-foot
minimum easement to a public right of way. Such easements shall be recorded at
the Saginaw County Register of Deeds.
   (J)   Solar panels and associated racking is limited in height to 12 feet,
measured from the existing natural grade at the base of such equipment to the
highest point of the system at maximum tilt.
   (K)   A SEF shall not be held to the maximum lot coverage requirements of
the district.
   (L)   The location of laydown yards shall be on a highway, all season, or
primary road as identified by the Saginaw County Road Commission. In no case
shall a laydown yard be permitted on a gravel road.
   (M)   Screening requirements.
      (1)   The applicant shall submit a landscape plan detailing all proposed
changes to the landscape of the site, including temporary or permanent roads or
driveways, grading, vegetation clearing, and planting.
      (2)   All SEF shall have a minimum landscape buffer of 25 feet along any
road or adjacent to a residential use, which shall consist of grass ground
cover and two rows of closely-spaced, staggered evergreen plantings, planted no
more than 12 feet on center, front to back and side to side, which can
reasonably be expected to form a visual barrier that is at least eight feet
above ground level within three years of planting. The minimum height at time
of planting shall be no less than six feet in height with a diameter of no less
than four feet at its base and a species of evergreen that produces dense
growth capable of producing a complete visual barrier. The landscape buffer
shall be installed outside of the SEF fence line extending towards the road
and/or residential use.
      Example:
add image
 
      (3)    Land clearing of natural vegetation shall be limited to that which
is necessary for the construction, operation, and maintenance of the SEF
pursuant to practices of best management of natural areas or good husbandry of
the land or forest other prescribed by applicable laws, regulations, and
bylaws.
      (4)   Each owner, operator or maintainer of a solar energy facility shall
maintain the landscape buffer so that the vegetation will reach maturity as
soon as practical and will have maximum density in foliage. Dead or diseased
landscaping shall be removed and must be replanted at the next appropriate
planting time. Plants or grasses on participating lots, including those within
the landscaping buffer, shall be maintained by the facility operator to not
exceed six inches in height.
      (5)   Applicant must provide a detailed maintenance plan for the proposed
solar energy system and surrounding area, including provisions that will be
employed to maintain and promote native vegetation while minimizing the
proliferation of weeds during and following construction.
      (6)   Wherever screening is adjacent to a residence and/or non-
participating lot, the Planning Commission may require additional screening
methods including, but not limited to opaque fencing, berms, and/or additional
plantings to achieve a complete visual barrier.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 21-02, passed 3-22-2021; Ord. 23-01,
passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.06 SECURITY.
   Solar energy facilities shall be fenced completely as defined in §
156.05 above. The perimeter fence shall be designed to restrict unauthorized
access and additional security measures are encouraged and must meet the
requirements of the applicable electric code. Opaque fences shall not be
composed of fabrics, tarps, or similar materials such as slats in a chain link
fence which are prone to fraying over time.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.07 SUPPLEMENTAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Signage.
      (1)   The manufacturers or installer’s identification and appropriate
warning signs shall be posted on or near the panels in a clearly visible
manner.
      (2)   Signage should, at minimum, include warning high voltage, contact
information for owner/operator, unique identification such as the address for
the SEF in case of emergency. No portion of the SEF shall be used to display
advertising.
      (3)   The manufacturers’ information or ownership information may be
allowed on any equipment of the SEF, provided that they comply with the
prevailing sign regulations.
      (4)   An information sign shall be posted and maintained at the entrance
(s) which lists the name and phone number of the operator that may be contacted
24 hours and seven days a week.
   (B)   Emergency services. Marking is required to provide emergency
responders with appropriate warning and guidance with respect to isolating the
solar electric system in the event of a fire or emergency. The main service
disconnect marking shall be placed adjacent to the main service disconnect in a
location clearly visible from the location where the lever is operated.
Materials used for marking shall be weather resistant. UL 969 shall be used as
a standard for weather rating. The applicant shall provide a copy of the
project summary, electrical schematic, and site plan to the local fire chief.
Appropriate measures shall be taken to ensure that emergency services can
safely access the SEF. Access roads and internal routes within an SEF that are
anticipated to be utilized by emergency vehicles shall be maintained throughout
construction and shall be identified on the site plan provided to the local
fire chief. The applicant, owner, or operator will cooperate with local
emergency services in developing an emergency response plan.
   (C)   Wiring. On site power lines between solar panels and inverters shall
be placed underground. Any above-ground wiring within the footprint of the SEF
shall not exceed the height of the solar array at maximum tilt.
   (D)   Screening. The design of solar energy facilities buffers shall use
materials, colors, textures, screening, and landscaping, that will blend the
facility into the natural setting and existing environment.
   (E)   Batteries. If the solar energy facility consists of batteries or
storage of batteries, adequate design must be provided to ensure all local,
state, and federal requirements regulating outdoor battery storage have been
met.
   (F)   Driveway. The applicant must obtain a driveway permit from the County
Road Commission.
   (G)   Reflection and glare.
      (1)   The design and construction of the solar energy facility shall be
sited so as not to produce light emissions, either direct or indirect
(reflective), that would interfere with pilot vision and/or traffic control
operations or emit glare which negatively impacts adjacent properties and is a
nuisance.
      (2)   The applicant or owner has the burden of proof that any glare
produced does not have an adverse effect of adjacent uses through siting and
mitigation. The applicant shall provide a mitigation plan at the time of
application.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may require an analysis by a third-party
qualified professional to determine if glare from the SES will be visible from
nearby residents and roadways. If required, the analysis shall consider the
changing position of the sun throughout the day and year, and its influence on
the SES.
   (H)   Utility. A copy of the application to the utility company that will be
purchasing electricity from the proposed site shall be provided to the
township.
   (I)   Landowner agreement. An affidavit or evidence of an agreement between
the property owner and the facility’s owner or operator confirming the owner or
operator has permission of the property owner to apply for the necessary
permits for construction and operation of the solar energy facility.
   (J)   Studies and reports. Any other relevant studies, reports,
certificates, and approval as may be reasonably required by the township.
   (K)   Certifications. Certification that the applicant has complied with or
will comply with all applicable county, state, and federal laws, regulations,
and ordinances, including compliance with the following:
      (1)   Farmland and Open Space Preservation Program (Part 361 of the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of 1994 as
amended, more commonly known as PA 116), and with applicable parts of the
Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act (Act 451 of 1994,
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.101 et seq.) including but not limited to Part 31 Water
Resources Protection (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.3101 et seq.), Part 91 Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.9101 et seq.), Part 301 Inland Lakes and
Streams (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.30101 et seq.), and Part 303 Wetlands (M.C.L.A. §§
324.30301 et seq.).
      (2)   The applicant shall be responsible for making repairs to any public
roads, drains and infrastructure damaged by the construction or operation of
the solar energy facility. The applicant/owner will be required to enter into a
road use agreement and drain agreement with the County Road Commission and
Drain Commission for post-construction repairs, if required by these agencies.
      (3)   Copies of all such permits and approvals that have been obtained or
applied for at the time of the application.
   (L)   Manufacturers safety data sheets. Documentation shall include the type
and quality of all materials used in the operation of all equipment. The
applicant shall submit manufacturer’s safety data sheets.
   (M)   Maintenance plan. The applicant shall submit a maintenance plan that
describes the following:
      (1)   Explains routine maintenance to solar panels and facility.
      (2)   Demonstrates the SEF will be designed, constructed, and operated to
minimize dust generation, including the provision of sufficient watering of
excavated or graded soil during construction to prevent excessive dust.
      (3)   States the manner in which unpaved access roads will be treated and
maintained, either with a dust palliative or graveled or treated by another
approved dust control method to prevent excessive dust.
      (4)   Provisions that will be employed to maintain and promote native
vegetation while minimizing the proliferation of weeds during and following
construction. A record of mowing and the height of vegetation/grass following
each cutting shall be recorded in the maintenance log described below.
      (5)   If a SEF is not maintained in operational and reasonable condition
or poses a potential safety hazard, the owner shall take expeditious action to
correct the situation, including SEF removal as necessary.
      (6)   The owner shall keep a maintenance log on each SEF and must provide
a complete log to the township annually or within 30 days of request.
   (N)   Lighting. Lighting shall be consistent with local, state, and federal
law, and shall be limited to that required for safety and operational purposes.
Lighting shall comply with the requirements of the township zoning ordinance.
   (O)   Noise. The sound pressure level of a SEF and all ancillary solar
equipment shall not exceed 45 dBA (Leq (1-hour)) at the property line of an
adjoining non-participating lot. The site plan shall include modeled sound
isolines extending from the sound source to the property lines to demonstrate
compliance with this standard.
   (P)   Transfer of sale. If a SEF ownership changes, the township shall be
notified within 30 days of sale.
      (1)   Upon transfer or sale, the cash bond shall be maintained at all
times, the estimated costs of decommissioning shall be resubmitted, and the
security adjusted to account for the new estimate.
      (2)   The new owner/operator must meet with the Township Zoning
Administrator within 60 days of the change in ownership.
   (Q)   Road use agreement. The applicant, owner, or operator shall enter into
an agreement with the County Road Commission which, at minimum, satisfies the
following requirements:
      (1)   Identifies the routes intended for use in connection with the
development, construction, operation, and maintenance of the SEF.
      (2)   Surveys and provides a baseline report of the condition of such
routes prior to use by the SEF.
      (3)   Agrees to restore affected roads, at minimum, to the condition
reflected in the baseline report within 90 days of permit process completion.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.08 SITE PLAN REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners or operators of solar energy facilities established after the
effective date of this chapter shall present four copies of a site plan which
conform to the standards of this chapter, and submit the required fee, to the
Township Community Development Department. The site plan shall include
setbacks, panel locations, any ground mounted electrical equipment, panel
sizes, and location of property lines, buildings, road right of ways, utility
easements, and buffer landscaping plan.
   (B)   The owners shall submit a map analysis showing a radius of five
nautical miles from the center of the solar energy facility (SEF) with any
airport operations within the area highlighted and such map shall be submitted
with the permit application.
   (C)   For consideration of potential impacts to low altitude airport flight
paths, notification of intent to construct the SEF shall be sent to the Airport
Zoning Authority having jurisdiction, at least 60 days before the scheduled
Planning Commission meeting. Notification shall include location of the SEF
(i.e., map, coordinates, address, parcel ID), technology (i.e., ground-mounted
fixed, tracked PV, solar thermal, etc.), and the area of the system (e.g., 20
acres). A copy shall be included with the permit application and site plan
including the proof of delivery of the notification and date of delivery to the
Airport Zoning Authority.
   (D)   The owners shall submit copies of regulatory approvals from applicable
state and federal agencies having jurisdiction.
   (E)   A certificate of insurance with a minimum of $1,000,000 liability
coverage per incidence, per occurrence shall be required naming Kochville
Township as additional insured. An expired insurance certificate or an
unacceptable liability coverage amount is grounds for revocation of the special
use permit.
   (F)   The Zoning Administrator or Township Zoning Consultant shall review
the site plan and submit the plan to the Planning Commission within 45 days of
receipt and staff review to insure conformity with the requirements of this
chapter. After review and study of any application and related material, the
Planning Commission shall hold a public hearing. Notices shall be given in
accordance with §
155.385.
   (G)   The Planning Commission shall make recommendation to the Township
Board of Trustees to approve, deny, or approve with conditions, a request for
special use permit within 60 days of its submission to the Planning Commission.
   (H)   The Township Board shall require a surety bond in an amount sufficient
to cover costs of removal of the SEF in case of abandonment.
   (I)   Any modifications of the approved site plan that are made after the
initial approval, which include the expansion or reduction of the project area,
shall be re-submitted to the Township Planning
Commission for review and approval at an additional fee based upon the current
fee schedule. Incidental and minor variations of the approved site plan may be
approved by the Zoning Administrator. Incidental and minor variations in this
context are defined as a change in location of access roads, solar panels,
electrical inverters, storage buildings which conform to the requirements of
this subchapter and are within the approved project area.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.09 ABANDONMENT AND DECOMMISSIONING PLAN.
   (A)   Abandonment. A SEF that ceases to produce energy on a continuous basis
for 12 months will be considered abandoned unless the current responsible party
(or parties) with ownership interest in the SEF provides substantial evidence
(updated every six months after 12 months of no energy production) to the
Zoning Administrator or his designee of the intent to maintain and reinstate
the operation of that facility. It is the responsibility of the responsible
party (or parties) to notify the Township Board of Trustees at the time of
abandonment of the SEF. It is the responsibility of the responsible party (or
parties) to remove all equipment and facilities and restore the property to its
condition prior to development of the SEF.
      (1)   A condition of every approval shall be adequate provision for the
removal of SEF facilities in their entirety whenever they cease to actively
produce power for 12 months. The Board of Trustees can grant an extension of an
additional six months upon the SEF owner demonstrating that the facilities will
be put back into use, in which case the SEF owner must provide data indicating
the repaired SEF is in good operational condition and functioning at efficiency
similar to surrounding SEF. Removal shall include the proper receipt of a
demolition permit from the Building Official and proper restoration of the
site, including but not limited to all participating parcels, to original
condition. Removal of the structure, wiring, and all other components in their
entirety.
      (2)   Upon determination of abandonment, the Zoning Administrator shall
notify the party (or parties) responsible they must remove the SEF and restore
the site to its condition prior to development of the SEF within 180 days after
notice by the Zoning Administrator or other township designee.
      (3)   If the responsible party (or parties) fails to comply, the Zoning
Administrator may initiate judicial proceedings or take any other steps legally
authorized against the responsible parties to recover the costs required to
remove the SEF and restore the site to a non-hazardous pre-development
condition.
   (B)   Decommissioning.
      (1)   A decommissioning plan signed by the party responsible for
decommissioning and the landowner (if different) addressing the following shall
be submitted prior to the issuance of the development permit.
         (a)   The anticipated life of the project.
         (b)   The estimated decommissioning costs net of salvage value in
current dollars.
         (c)   The method of ensuring that funds will be available for
decommissioning and restoration which includes, but is not limited to:
            1.   Removal of all non-utility owned equipment, conduit,
structures, fencing, roads, solar panels and foundations.
            2.   Restoration of property to condition prior to development of
the SEF.
         (d)   Anticipated manner in which the project will be decommissioned
and the site restored.
            1.   Decommissioning shall include the removal of all above ground
and below ground components and associated facilities within the footprint of
the SEF.
            2.   All access roads to the SEF shall be removed, cleared, and
graded by the facility owner, unless the property owner requests, in writing, a
desire to maintain the access road. The township will not be assumed to take
ownership of any access road, and such remaining roads will not be considered
public roads.
            3.   The site and any disturbed earth shall be stabilized, graded,
and cleared of any debris by the owner of the SEF or its assigns. If the site
is not to be used for agricultural purposes following removal, the site shall
be seeded to prevent soil erosion, and restored to its condition existing prior
to any construction activities, unless the property owner(s) requests, in
writing, the land surface areas not be restored.
         (e)   A provision to give notice to the township one year in advance
of decommissioning.
         (f)   Defined conditions upon which decommissioning will be initiated
(i.e., end of land lease, no power production for 12 months, abandonment,
etc.).
         (g)   The timeframe for completion of decommissioning activities.
         (h)   Description of any agreement (e.g., lease) with landowner
regarding decommissioning.
         (i)   The party currently responsible for decommissioning.
         (j)   Plans for updating this decommissioning plan.
      (2)   A surety bond to assure payment of the cost of decommissioning
shall be required. To ensure proper removal of the structure when it ceases to
be used for a period of one year or more, any application for a new SEF shall
include a description of the financial security guaranteeing removal of the
SEF, which will be posted prior to receiving a building permit for the
facility. The security shall be a: 1) cash deposit in a trust account; or 2) or
any other financial instrument uninterrupted for the life of the project. The
amount of such guarantee shall be no less than the estimated cost of removal
and shall include a provision for inflationary cost adjustments. When
determining the amount of such required security, the township may also require
future meetings at pre-set intervals to establish corrected values for
decommissioning. The financial security instrument shall be adjusted to each
determined corrected value.
      (3)   (a)   The estimate shall be prepared by the engineer for the
developer and shall be approved by the township. The applicant shall be
responsible for the payment of any costs or attorney fees incurred by the
township in securing removal.
         (b)   The amount of each SEF security guarantee shall be determined by
way of a certified estimate by the applicant’s design professional and shall
not include salvage value. That deposit shall be updated and supplemented every
five years based on the CPI (consumer price index) for each year.
      (4)   A condition of the surety bond shall be notification by the surety
company to the Township Zoning Administrator 30 days prior to its expiration or
termination. Such financial guarantee shall be deposited with the Township
Treasurer after a special use has been approved but before construction
operations begin on the SEF project. Failure to keep such financial security in
full force and effect at all times while the structure exists shall constitute
a material and significant violation of a special use approval and this chapter
and shall subject the applicant to all available remedies to the township,
including enforcement action, fines, revocation of the special use approval and
SEF removal.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.10 COMPLAINT RESOLUTION.
   It is the intent of this chapter to provide a mechanism to address and
resolve complaints.
   (A)   The SEF applicant shall submit a detailed, written complaint
resolution process developed by the SEF applicant to resolve complaints
concerning the construction or operation of the SEF. The complaint resolution
process must be approved by the Planning Commission as a condition of approval
of the special land use permit application.
   (B)   During or post-construction, the Township Board shall be kept
appraised of all complaints and shall receive a report outlining the issues,
the progress, and the resolution of each such complaint. Such report shall be
presented every 60 days by the applicant/owner to the Township Board.
   (C)   The owner/operator will submit annual reports to the Board of the
complaints and resolutions.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.11 REPOWERING.
   (A)   If at the end of the lease period, or the useful life of the SEF, the
applicant/owner decides to retrofit or repower the installation by
reconfiguring, renovating, or replacing the existing components the applicant/
owner shall provide the Planning Commission a proposal to change the project.
It shall be considered a new application, subject to the ordinance standards at
the time of the request.
   (B)   The applicant/owner would not need to apply for a new permit if they
are performing routine maintenance, as described in the provided maintenance
plan.
(Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
§ 156.12 VIOLATION SHALL BE A MISDEMEANOR.
   Any person, firm, corporation, or other entity who maintains or operates or
who controls the maintenance of a solar energy facility in violation of this
chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to prosecution, and if
convicted, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500. Each day the solar
energy facility shall be maintained or operated in violation of this chapter
shall constitute a separate liability offense.
(Ord. 17-07, passed 11-20-2017; Ord. 23-01, passed 1-17-2023)
CHAPTER 157: FLOODPLAIN MANAGEMENT
Section
   
157.01   Agency designated
   
157.02   Code appendix enforced
   
157.03   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
§ 157.01 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Pub. Act 230 of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of
Kochville Township is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge
the responsibility of the township under Pub. Act 230 of 1972, as amended,
State of Michigan. The township assumes responsibility for the administration
and enforcement of said Act within the boundaries of the township.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 1-25-2021)
§ 157.02 CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Pub. Act 230 of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of the State
Building Code shall be enforced by the Building Official within the township.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 1-25-2021)
§ 157.03 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The following are adopted by reference for the purposes of administration of
the State Construction Code are declared to be part of Section 1612.3 of the
State Building Code, and provide the content of the “Flood Hazards” section of
Table R301.2(1) of the State Residential Code, as follows:
   (A)   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study
(FIS) entitled Study for Saginaw County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions) dated
October 16, 1997; and
   (B)   The Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS), map number 26145C0035 (35),
26145C0040 (40), 26145C0075 (75), 26145C0080 (80), 26145C0085 (85), and Map
Index 2614CIND0, dated October 16, 1997.
(Ord. 21-01, passed 1-25-2021)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
      Table
         
I.   FRANCHISES
         
II.   REZONINGS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date       Description
         Passed
87-5     12-7-1987  Granting a 30-year non-exclusive gas and/or electric
                    franchise to Consumers Power Company
17-06    8-21-2017  Granting a 30-year non-exclusive gas and/or electric
                    franchise to Consumers Power Company
Res. 19- 10-14-2019 Approving Mid Michigan Waste Authority agreements with
24                  “America Waste, Inc.” and “WM Recycle America, LLC”
                   
 
TABLE II: REZONINGS
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. Date   Description
No.  Passed
72-3 10-2-  Rezoning land (the northeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 27,
     1972   Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to IV-C Commercial
     10-2-  Rezoning land (the south 105 feet of the west 230 feet of the west 15 acres of
72-5 1972   the north 20 acres of the south half of the northwest quarter of Section 35,
            Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to IV-C Commercial
            Rezoning land (the north 100 feet of the west 417.8 feet of the south half of
72-6 10-2-  the north half of the southwest quarter of the northwest quarter; 0.96 acre in
     1972   Section 35, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to IV-
            C Commercial
            Rezoning land (the north 320 feet of the west 200 feet of the north 13 acres of
72-7 10-2-  the west 23 acres of the southwest quarter of the southwest fractional quarter;
     1972   1.45 acres of Section 26, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning
            to IV-C Commercial
     10-2-  Rezoning land (the southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 27,
72-8 1972   Township 13 North, Range 4 East, except the north 130 feet of the east 240 feet
            thereof) from present zoning to IV-C Commercial
            Rezoning land (the north 15 acres of the southwest fractional quarter of the
73-1 5-7-   northwest fractional quarter, except the south 175 feet thereof; ten acres in
     1973   Section 26, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to IV-
            C Commercial
            Rezoning land (that part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter of
            Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East, commencing at a point on the
     5-7-   centerline of West Freeland Road 330 feet from the centerline of Kraenzlein Road
73-2 1973   and continuing 150 feet in an easterly direction; thence in a southerly
            direction 200 feet; thence in a westerly direction parallel to West Freeland
            Road 150 feet; and thence in a northerly direction 200 feet to the point of
            origin; 0.688 acre) from present zoning to IV-C Commercial
            Rezoning land (a triangular piece of that part of the north half of the
73-3 7-2-   northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 34, Township 13 North,
     1973   Range 4 East, lying southerly of the southerly bank of the drain running through
            the northeast quarter of Section 34) from present zoning to IV Commercial
73-4 7-2-   Rezoning land (in the south half of the southeast quarter of Section 22,
     1973   Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to IV-C Commercial
73-5 7-2-   Rezoning several parcels of land in Section 35, Township 13 North, Range 4 East
     1973
73-  11-7-  Rezoning land (a parcel in the southeast quarter of the southwest quarter of
10   1973   Section 36, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to IV-
            C Commercial
            Rezoning land (the west 15 acres of the south half of the southeast quarter of
2-   3-4-   the southeast quarter, except the east 200 feet of the south 233 feet; 13.9
74-Z 1974   acres in Section 36, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to
            Industrial
            Rezoning land (that part of 20 acres of the north 30 acres of the northwest
74-  4-1-   quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 13 North, Range 4 East,
2R   1974   which lies northwesterly of the northwesterly right-of-way line of Highway I-
            675) from present zoning to 4-C Commercial
            Rezoning land (the west half of the north half of the south half of the
74-9 12-17- southeast quarter of the southeast quarter; approximately five acres in Section
     1974   34, Township 13 North, Range 4 East; subject to the use of the easterly 40 feet
            of Bay Road) from present zoning to 4-C Commercial
            Rezoning land (the east 250 feet of the north 350 feet of the northwest quarter
     7-7-   of the northeast quarter of Section 22, except that part lying north of the
75-3 1975   Goetz Drain and also except the west 330 feet south of the Goetz Drain and also
            except the east 480 feet thereof; approximately two acres in Section 22,
            Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from present zoning to 4-C Commercial
     10-6-  Rezoning land (242 feet of the southerly 332.1 feet of the west half of the west
75-4 1975   half of the southwest quarter of Section 33, Township 13 North, Range 4 East;
            1.84 acres) from present zoning to Commercial
            Rezoning land (the north 300 feet of the east 300 feet of the northwest quarter
76-3 7-9-   of the northeast quarter of Section 35, Township 13 North, Range 4 East,
     1976   containing 2.07 acres of land and subject to highway use of the north 33 feet
            thereof) from present zoning to 4-C Commercial
77-1 2-7-   Rezoning land (the Bay Road property of Saginaw Telephone Employees Credit
     1977   Union) from present zoning to 4-C Commercial
77-2 5-10-  Rezoning land:
     1977
          (1)   Lot 3 of Century Park from present zoning to Commercial
          (2)   Lots 1 and 2 of Century Park from present zoning to Commercial
     5-10-  Rezoning land (the north ten acres of the northwest quarter of the southwest
77-3 1977   quarter of Section 36, Township 13 North, Range 4 East, and except certain land)
            from present zoning to IV-C Commercial
1-   7-10-  Rezoning land (commonly known as 5665 Bay Road) from present zoning to
78-Z 1978   Commercial IV-C
2-   9-5-   Rezoning land:
78-Z 1978
          (1)   3090 Tittabawassee Road from present zoning to IV-C Commercial
          (2)   5015 Bay Road from present zoning to Commercial IV-C
     5-5-   Rezoning land (the south half of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter,
80-5 1980   except the south 200 feet thereof in Section 36, Township 13 North, Range 4
            East) from R-1A to M-1
82-  5-3-   Rezoning land:
1-Z  1982
            (1)   The part of the northwest quarter of Section 36, Township 13 North, Range
          4 East, lying southerly of I-675, except the west 300 feet and consisting of
            approximately 69 acres from R-1A and B-1 to B-3 Commercial
            (2)   The west 300 feet of the east half of the southwest quarter of Section 36,
          Township 13 North, Range 4 East, lying southerly of I-675 and consisting
            approximately of 15 acres from R-1A and B-1 to R-2 Residential
85-3 2-4-   Rezoning land:
     1985
          (1)   The north 233 feet of the east 350 feet of the northeast quarter of
            Section 27, Township 13 North, Range 4 East, from B-2 to B-3
            (2)   The east 350 feet of the north half of the north half of the northeast
          quarter of Section 27, Township 13 North, Range 4 East, excepting certain land,
            from B-2 to B-3
            (3)   The west 330 feet of the north 340 feet of the northwest quarter of the
          northwest quarter; 2.58 acres of Section 26, Township 13 North, Range 4 East,
            from B-2 to B-3
85-  8-5-   Rezoning land:
2-Z  1985
            (1)   The northern 350 feet of Government Lot 1 and part of the Indian Reserve
            being that part of the northeast quarter lying northeasterly of the reserve
          line, except the south 165 feet of the north 964 feet of the east 264 feet and
            further except the east 350 feet of Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East
            from R-1A to B-1
            (2)   The north 350 feet of the east 480 feet of the northwest quarter of the
          northeast quarter of Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East from R-1A to B-
            1
          (3)   The north 350 feet of described property of Section 22, Township 13 North,
            Range 4 East from R-1A to B-1
            (4)   The north 350 feet of Governmental Lot 2, except the west 330 feet of that
            part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter lying south of Goetz
          Drain and also except the east 480 feet thereof and also except that part
            thereof lying north of Goetz Drain and also except the west 250 feet of the east
            730 feet of the north 350 feet; 10.71 acres of Section 22, Township 13 North,
            Range 4 East from R-1A to B-1
            (5)   The north 350 feet lying south of Goetz Drain, being the west 330 feet of
          that part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter lying south of Goetz
            Drain of Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East from R-1A to B-1
86-  1-6-   Rezoning land:
2-Z  1986
            (1)   The north 350 feet of Government Lot 1 and part of the Indian Reserve
          being part of the northeast quarter lying northeasterly of the reserve line,
            except the east 660 feet thereof in Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East
            from R-1A to B-1
            (2)   The north 350 feet of the east 480 feet of the northwest quarter of the
          northeast quarter of Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East from R-1A to B-
            1
            (3)   The north 350 feet of property, including that part thereof lying north of
          the Goetz Drain and more in Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East from R-
            1A to B-1
            (4)   The north 350 feet of Government Lot 2, except the west 330 feet of that
            part of the northwest quarter of the northeast quarter lying south of Goetz
          Drain and also except the east 480 feet thereof and also except that part
            thereof lying north of Goetz Drain and also except the west 250 feet of the east
            730 feet of the north 350 feet; 10.71 acres in Section 22, Township 13 North,
            Range 4 East from R-1A to B-1
            (5)   The north 350 feet of that part lying south of Goetz Drain, the parcel
          being the west 330 feet of that part of the northwest quarter of the northeast
            quarter lying south of Goetz Drain in Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4
            East from R-1A to B-1
            Rezoning land (east 660 feet of the north 1,333.27 feet of the northeast quarter
86-  1-6-   of Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East, being a part of Government Lots
3-Z  1986   1 and 4 and part of the Reserve, Section 22, Township 13 North, Range 4 East)
            from R-1A and B-1 to B-2
86-  6-2-   Rezoning land:
4-Z  1986
          (1)   The south 330 feet of the southwest quarter of Section 34, Township 13
            North, Range 4 East, from R-1A to B-2
          (2)   The east 300 feet of the south 330 feet of the southeast quarter of
            Section 33, Township North, Range 4 East, from R-1A to B-2
86-  6-2-   Rezoning land (the east 660 feet of the southeast quarter of the northeast
5-Z  1986   quarter and the east 660 feet of the southeast quarter, all in Section 22,
            Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from B-1 to B-2
87-  6-1-   Rezoning land (the north 285 feet of the east 880 feet of the northwest quarter,
2-Z  1987   except described land in Section 34, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from R-1A
            to R-2
87-  11-2-  Rezoning land (the south half of the southwest quarter of the southeast quarter
3-Z  1987   of Section 26, Township 14 North, Range 4 East, being 17.79 acres more or less)
            from R-1A and B-1 to B-3
            Rezoning land (commencing at the west quarter of Section 25, Township 13 North,
            Range 4 East; thence north 90°, 00', 00" east 2,415.50 feet along the east-west
            quarter line to the point of beginning; thence north 00°, 22', 35" east 303.27
87-  12-7-  feet; thence north 90°, 00', 00" east 315 feet to the north-south quarter line;
4Z   1987   thence south 90°, 22', 35" west 303.27 feet along the quarter line to the center
            of the section; thence south 90°, 00', 00" 315 feet along the east-west quarter
            line to the point of beginning, containing 2.19 acres more or less) from R-1A to
            B-1
88-  3-7-   Rezoning land (the west 660 feet of the north 15 acres of the southwest
1-Z  1988   fractional quarter of the northwest fractional quarter of Section 26, Township
            13 North, Range 4 East, except the south 175 feet thereof) from R-1A to B-3
            Rezoning land (commencing on the south line of Section 27 at a point 560 feet
            south 89°, 56', 53" west from the southeast corner of Section 27; thence south
            89°, 56', 53" west on the south line 150 feet; thence north 03°, 22', 42" east,
88-  5-2-   parallel with the east section line 548.72 feet; thence north 89°, 56', 53"
2-Z  1988   east, parallel with the south line 250 feet; thence south 03°, 22', 42" west,
            parallel with the east line 584.72 feet to the point of beginning , all in the
            southeast quarter of the southeast quarter of Section 27, Township 13 North,
            Range 4 East) from R-1A to B-4
89-  7-10-  Rezoning land (the east 400 feet of the southwest quarter of the southwest
8-Z  1989   quarter of Section 34, Township 13 North, Range 4 East, except the south 300
            feet thereof) from R-1A to B-2
89-  12-4-  Rezoning land (part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section
9-Z  1989   36, Township 13 North, Range 4 East, commencing at the south quarter corner of
            the section) from B-3 to M-1
            Rezoning land (part of the south half of the southeast quarter of Section 27,
            Township 13 north, Range 4 East, commencing at the southeast corner of the
            section; thence south 89°, 56', 53" west, 710 feet along the south section line
90-  3-5-   to the point of beginning; thence continuing south 89°, 56', 53" west 608.80
1-Z  1990   feet along the section line; thence north 02°, 28', 15" east, 584.24 feet along
            the east one-eighth line; thence north 89°, 56', 53" east 618.07 feet; thence
            south 03°, 22', 42" west 584.72 feet parallel with the east section line to the
            point of beginning, containing 8.22 acres more or less) from R-1A to B-1
90-  8-6-   Rezoning land (Lots 3,4 and 53 of Century Park, located in the east half of the
2-Z  1990   southwest quarter of the southwest quarter, Section 36, Township 13 North, Range
            4 East) from R-2 to B-1
            Rezoning land (the southwest quarter, except the north 430 feet of the south 840
            feet of the west 200 feet; also except the north 241 feet of the west 200 feet;
91-  3-4-   also except the west 300 feet of the south 300 feet; also except the north 130
1-Z  1991   feet of the south 1,060 feet of the west 200 feet; also except the east 400 feet
            thereof; being 20.23 acres more or less in Section 34, Township 13 North, Range
            4 East) from R-1A to B-2
91-  9-9-   Rezoning land:
8-Z  1991
            (1)   A part of the northeast quarter of the northeast quarter of Section 26,
            Township 13 North, Range 4 East, beginning at a point on the north section line
            685 feet, south 89°, 48', 10" inches west from the northeast corner of the
          section; thence south 01°, 39', 45" east, 233 feet; thence south 02°, 24', 13"
            east, 1074.75 feet; thence south 89°, 54', 39" west on the north one-eighth
            line, 393.97 feet; thence north 02°, 24', 13" west on the east one-eighth line,
            1307.10 feet; thence north 89°, 48', 10" east on the north section line 396.96
            feet to the point of beginning; 11.82 acres more or less; from R-1A to R-4
            (2)   The east ten and one-fourth acres of the east 14.68 acres more or less of
          the west 44.68 acres of the west fractional of Lot 2 south of the Indian Reserve
            line from A-1 to R-3
            Rezoning land (commencing at a point on the south line of Section 33, 297.56
            feet westerly along the line from the southeast corner of the section; thence
91-  9-9-   continuing westerly on the section line 132 feet; thence northerly on a
9-Z  1991   deflection angle to the right of 96°, 40', 330 feet; thence easterly on a
            deflection angle to the right of 83°, 40', 132 feet; thence southerly 330 feet
            to the point of beginning in Section 33, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from
            R-1A to B-2
            Rezoning land (commencing at the southwest corner of the southwest quarter of
            the southwest quarter; thence north 300 feet to the point of beginning; thence
93-  2-1-   north 110 feet on a line parallel to the west section line; thence north 81°
1-Z  1993   east 200 feet; thence south 110 feet on a line which is parallel to the west
            section line; thence west on a line which is parallel to the south section line
            of Section 34 to the point of the beginning; all in Section 34, Township 13
            North, Range 4 East) From R-1A to B-2
93-  3-1-   Rezoning land (Lots 3, 4 and 53 of Century Park, located in the east half of the
3-Z  1993   southwest quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 13 North,
            Range 4 East) from R-2 to B-1
95-  11-20- Rezoning land:
3-Z  1995
          (1)   Part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36,
            Township 13 North, Range 4 East from B-3 to M-1
          (2)   Part of the northeast quarter of the southwest quarter of Section 36,
            Township 13 North, Range 4 East from B-3 to M-1
          (3)   Part of the north half of the southwest quarter of Section 36, Township 13
            North, Range 4 East from R-2 to M-1
96-  3-22-  Rezoning land:
1-Z  1996
          (1)   The east half of the southeast quarter of Section 27, Township 13 N, Range
            4 East, except the east 500 feet, from R-1A to B-4
          (2)   The east half of the northeast quarter of Section 36, Township 13 North,
            Range 4 East, except the east 500 feet, from R-1A to B-4
96-  3-22-  Rezoning land (the south half of the east half of the east half of the southwest
2-Z  1996   quarter, except the south 330 feet, of Section 34, Township 13 North, Range 4
            East) from R-1A to B-3
            Rezoning land (commencing at the east corner; thence west 1306.47 feet; thence
            south 5° west 132.72 feet to the point of beginning; thence continuing south 5°
99-  5-17-  west 1161.69 feet; thence south 247° west 20.72 feet; thence west 637.09 feet;
2-Z  1999   thence north 5° east 1169.90 feet; thence east 653.07 feet to the point of
            beginning; 18 acres in Section 34, Township 13 North, Range 4 East) from R-1A to
            B-3
99-  6-21-  Rezoning land (described as Lots 5, 6, 7 and 8 of Champagne Park) from M-1 to B-
1-Z  1999   4
07-  1-16-  Rezoning land (12 acres of the 30.03 acres of parcel number 18-013-4-25-2015-
05   2007   001, located at the southeast corner of Pierce Road and Davis Road) from R1-A to
            MU-1
07-  2-20-  Rezoning land (commonly known as 6930 Bay Road) from R-1A to MU-1
03   2007
07-  4-24-  Rezoning land (commonly known as 2690 Kochville Road) from R-1A to MU-1
04   2007
09-  7-21-  Rezoning land (commonly known as 1750 Tittabawassee Road; 1788 Tittabawassee
01   2009   Road; 1814 Tittabawassee Road; and 1860 Tittabawassee Road) from R-2 to B-1
11-  7-14-  Rezoning parcels 18-13-4-36-3001-001, 18-13-4-36-3001-002, 18-13-4-36-3001-003,
004  2011   18-13-4-36-3001-004, 18-13-4-36-3001-006 and amending the zoning map
11-  12-20- Rezoning parcels 18-13-4-26-2001-001, 18-13-4-26- 2001-002, 18-13-4-26-2001-003,
006  2011   18-13-4-26-2001-004, and 18-13-4-26-2001-005 and amending the zoning map
16-  1-18-  Rezoning parcel 18-13-4-1008-017, located with frontage in the 3300 block of
01   2016   Kochville Road and amending the zoning map
16-  2-15-  Rezoning parcel 18-13-4-26-3014-000, known as 2690 Kochville Road and amending
04   2016   the zoning map
           
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Resolutions
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites        Code Section
15.231 et seq.        151.077
                      113.16;
15.231—15.246       113.32;
                      154.04
15.261 et seq.        151.076
15.261—15.275       154.03
36.1—36.12          155.005
41.2                  153.001
41.61                 31.10
41.69                 31.10
41.70 et seq.         92.002
41.77                 31.10
41.181                153.001
41.184                90.011
41.288 et seq.        91.52
41.805                150.06
41.806a               30.02
117.5b                10.01
123.871               92.019
124.281—124.294     50.02
124.284d              50.01
124.284d(3)           50.01
125.71 et seq.        94.01
125.231 et seq.       31.01
125.261 et seq.       31.01
125.271 et seq.       31.01
125.321 et seq.       31.01
125.665               154.38
125.1305              155.310
125.1501 et seq.      151.002
125.1501—125.1531   150.01—
                      150.04
125.1651 et seq.      154.35
                      154.05;
125.1651—125.1680   154.07;
                      154.14—
                      154.16
125.1662              154.16;
                      154.37
125.3101 et seq.      31.01;
                      155.471
                      155.121;
125.3506              155.136;
                      155.151;
                      155.166
125.3801 et seq.      31.01
131.1—138.2         154.12
141.01 et seq.        154.09
141.03                51.001
141.101 et seq.       54.14
141.121               51.007
141.421 et seq.       32.03
152.3601              155.388
168.341—168.373     92.002;
                      152.03
207.551 et seq.       154.10
207.651—207.668     154.10
211.1 et seq.         151.053
211.181—211.182     154.10
211.201—211.217a    154.10
213.21 et seq.        154.06
213.21—213.41       153.064
213.321—213.332     154.13;
                      154.37
Ch. 252               153.008
252.301 et seq.       153.005
259.431 et seq.       155.455;
                      155.460
                      155.455;
259.481 et seq.       155.456;
                      155.460
259.481—259.493     155.451
Ch. 287               155.005
324.101 et seq.       156.07
324.3101 et seq.      156.07
324.9101 et seq.      156.07
324.20101 et seq.     30.02
324.30101 et seq.     156.07
324.30301 et seq.     156.07
333.1100 et seq.      155.005
333.1101 et seq.      155.005
333.7106              155.473
333.26421 et seq.     155.472;
                      155.478
333.27951 et seq.     115.02,
                      115.03
338.2301 et seq.      151.071
339.2501 et seq.      151.002
399.201 et seq.       154.17
400.1 et seq.         155.005
                      111.04;
436.1101 et seq.      111.07;
                      111.21;
                      Ch. 111, App. A
436.1501 et seq.      111.03
460.701 et seq.       90.052
484.2102              113.03
484.2251              113.35;
                      113.36
484.3101 et seq.      90.003
484.3101              90.003 
484.3101—484.3120   113.01;
                      113.02
484.3104(2)           113.15
484.3105(1)           113.35
484.3105(3)           113.36
                      113.31;
484.3106(1)           113.32;
                      113.51
484.3106(2)           113.34;
                      113.51
484.3106(5)           113.31
484.3106(6)           113.50
484.3106(7)           90.026
484.3106(8)           90.026
484.3108              113.11
484.3110(4)           113.12
484.3110(5)           113.13
484.3110(6)           113.14
484.3113(1)           113.10
484.3113(4)           113.10
484.3113(5)           113.11
484.3115              113.51
484.3115(2)           113.17
                      90.005;
484.3115(3)           113.11;
                      113.50;
                      113.53
484.3115(4)           113.52
484.3301              90.003 
559.101—559.272     155.368
                      31.01;
560.101 et seq.       152.01;
                      155.368
560.101—560.293     152.03
600.8396              33.02
600.8801—600.8835   10.02
691.1541—69.1544    155.005
722.111—722.128     155.005
750.243(a)—750.243(e92.047
770.9a                155.473
                      
 
REFERENCES TO RESOLUTIONS
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
Res. No. Date Passed Code Section
02-03    - -         52.02
03-20    - -         154.16
03-21    - -         154.16
04-14    - -2004     112.05
10-028   10-26-2010  111.06;
                     Ch. 111, App. A
11-002   1-18-2011   155.454
19-24    10-14-2019  TSO Table I
                    
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.    Date Passed Code Section
71-3        - -         151.001
                        70.01—
71-4        7-12-1971   70.07;
                        70.99
72-3        10-2-1972   TSO Table II
72-5        10-2-1972   TSO Table II
72-6        10-2-1972   TSO Table II
72-7        10-2-1972   TSO Table II
72-8        10-2-1972   TSO Table II
73-1        5-7-1973    TSO Table II
73-2        5-7-1973    TSO Table II
73-3        7-2-1973    TSO Table II
73-4        7-2-1973    TSO Table II
73-5        7-2-1973    TSO Table II
                        53.01—
                        53.08;
                        53.20—
73-8-R      9-17-1973   53.23;
                        53.35;
                        53.36;
                        53.50—
                        53.52
73-10       11-7-1973   TSO Table II
2-74-Z      3-4-1974    TSO Table II
74-2R       4-1-1974    TSO Table II
74-6        9-3-1974    50.02;
                        50.99
                        91.30—
74-7        9-3-1974    91.33;
                        91.99
74-9        12-17-1974  TSO Table II
                        95.01—
75-1        3-3-1975    95.07;
                        95.99
75-3        7-7-1975    TSO Table II
75-4        10-6-1975   TSO Table II
76-3        7-9-1976    TSO Table II
77-1        2-7-1977    TSO Table II
77-2        5-10-1977   TSO Table II
77-3        5-10-1977   TSO Table II
1-78-Z      7-10-1978   TSO Table II
2-78-Z      9-5-1978    TSO Table II
80-5        5-5-1980    TSO Table II
82-1-Z      5-3-1982    TSO Table II
85-3        2-4-1985    TSO Table II
85-2-Z      8-5-1985    TSO Table II
86-2-Z      1-6-1986    TSO Table II
86-3-Z      1-6-1986    TSO Table II
86-4-Z      6-2-1986    TSO Table II
86-5-Z      6-2-1986    TSO Table II
87-2-Z      6-1-1987    TSO Table II
87-3-Z      11-2-1987   TSO Table II
87-4Z       12-7-1987   TSO Table II
87-5        12-7-1987   TSO Table I
88-1-Z      3-7-1988    TSO Table II
88-2-Z      5-2-1988    TSO Table II
89-5 DDA    4-3-1989    154.01—
                        154.20
                        154.35—
89-6(DDA)   5-1-1989    154.38;
                        154.40
89-8-Z      7-10-1989   TSO Table II
89-9-Z      12-4-1989   TSO Table II
90-1-Z      3-5-1990    TSO Table II
90-2-Z      8-6-1990    TSO Table II
91-1-Z      3-4-1991    TSO Table II
91-8-Z      9-9-1991    TSO Table II
91-9-Z      9-9-1991    TSO Table II
93-1-Z      2-1-1993    TSO Table II
93-3-Z      3-1-1993    TSO Table II
                        154.35;
93-4-DDA    8-16-1993   154.37;
                        154.38
93-5-DDA    8-16-1993   154.02
93-7-W      12-20-1993  52.02
94-1-W      1-17-1994   52.01
94-4-W      2-21-1994   52.03
95-1-W      8-21-1995   52.04
95-3-Z      11-20-1995  TSO Table II
96-1-Z      3-22-1996   TSO Table II
96-2-Z      3-22-1996   TSO Table II
99-2-Z      5-17-1999   TSO Table II
99-1-Z      6-21-1999   TSO Table II
                        151.001—
                        151.007;
                        151.020—
                        151.023;
01-03       6-19-2001   151.035—
                        151.039;
                        151.050—
                        151.056;
                        151.070—
                        151.077
02-03-DDA   3-19-2002   154.02
                        154.35;
02-02-DDA   5-21-2002   154.37;
                        154.38
02-08       8-20-2002   150.02
02-09       8-20-2002   150.01
02-10       8-20-2002   150.03
02-13       8-20-2002   150.04
                        113.01—
                        113.18;
                        113.30—
03-01       1-21-2003   113.36;
                        113.50—
                        113.53;
                        113.99
                        153.001—
                        153.003;
                        153.005—
                        153.010;
                        153.020—
                        153.025;
                        153.040—
03-05       6-17-2003   153.045;
                        153.060—
                        153.064;
                        153.075—
                        153.084;
                        153.095—
                        153.097;
                        153.110—
                        153.117
03-07A      1-20-2004   50.01
04-07       2-17-2004   10.99
04-09       4-20-2004   112.01—
                        112.07
04-10-DDA   6-15-2004   154.16
                        130.01—
05-10       7-21-2005   130.03;
                        130.99
06-03(DDA)  2-21-2006   154.16
06-05 (DDA) 2-21-2006   154.35;
                        154.37
                        91.01—
06-01       3-21-2006   91.16;
                        91.99
                        152.01—
06-06(LD)   3-21-2006   152.10;
                        152.99
                        153.005—
                        153.008;
                        153.075;
06-02       4-18-2006   153.081;
                        153.084;
                        153.110;
                        153.111;
                        153.113
06-08       5-16-2006   154.01;
                        154.05
06-11       7-18-2006   153.001
06-09 (DDA) 7-21-2006   154.35—
                        154.39
06-12-W     7-26-2006   52.02
6-13-W      9-19-2006   52.02
                        155.001—
                        155.005;
                        155.020—
                        155.038;
                        155.050;
                        155.051;
                        155.065;
                        155.080—
                        155.089;
                        155.100—
                        155.106;
                        155.120—
                        155.123;
                        155.135—
                        155.138;
                        155.150—
                        155.153;
                        155.165—
                        155.168;
                        155.180—
                        155.183;
                        155.195—
                        155.198;
06-14-Z     10-3-2006   155.230—
                        155.233;
                        155.245—
                        155.248;
                        155.260—
                        155.263;
                        155.275—
                        155.279;
                        155.290—
                        155.294;
                        155.305—
                        155.319;
                        155.330—
                        155.335;
                        155.350;
                        155.351;
                        155.365—
                        155.374;
                        155.385—
                        155.391;
                        155.405—
                        155.417;
                        155.430—
                        155.437;
                        155.999
                        92.001—
                        92.004;
                        92.015—
                        92.020;
                        92.035—
06-10       10-17-2006  92.051;
                        92.065—
                        92.067;
                        92.080—
                        92.082;
                        92.999
                        155.001—
                        155.005;
                        155.020—
                        155.038;
                        155.050;
                        155.051;
                        155.065;
                        155.080—
                        155.089;
                        155.100—
                        155.106;
                        155.120—
                        155.123;
                        155.135—
                        155.138;
                        155.150—
                        155.153;
                        155.165—
                        155.168;
                        155.180—
                        155.183;
                        155.195—
                        155.198;
06-14       10-17-2006  155.230—
                        155.233;
                        155.245—
                        155.248;
                        155.260—
                        155.263;
                        155.275—
                        155.279;
                        155.290—
                        155.294;
                        155.305—
                        155.319;
                        155.330—
                        155.335;
                        155.350;
                        155.351;
                        155.365—
                        155.374;
                        155.385—
                        155.391;
                        155.405—
                        155.417;
                        155.430—
                        155.437;
                        155.999
07-05       1-16-2007   TSO Table II
07-03       2-20-2007   TSO Table II
07-04       4-24-2007   TSO Table II
                        155.030;
                        155.231;
                        155.246;
08-01       1-22-2008   155.247;
                        155.261;
                        155.276;
                        155.291
                        90.001—
                        90.011;
                        90.025—
                        90.027;
                        90.040—
08-02       4-15-2008   90.054;
                        90.065—
                        90.067;
                        90.080—
                        90.085;
                        90.100—
                        90.102
                        155.036;
                        155.081;
                        155.100;
08-03       9-16-2008   155.104;
                        155.210—
                        155.212;
                        155.313;
                        155.331
                        110.01—
                        110.09;
                        110.20—
                        110.24;
08-04       11-18-2008  110.35—
                        110.38;
                        110.50—
                        110.52;
                        110.99
08-05       12-16-2008  155.231;
                        155.232
09-01       7-21-2009   TSO Table II
09-03 (DDA) 9-15-2009   154.37—
                        154.39
                        155.005;
                        155.081;
                        155.121—
                        155.123;
                        155.136;
                        155.137;
                        155.150—
                        155.153;
                        155.166;
                        155.167;
                        155.180;
                        155.182;
                        155.183;
                        155.197;
                        155.198;
                        155.231;
                        155.232;
                        155.246;
09-02       10-20-2009  155.247;
                        155.261—
                        155.263;
                        155.276;
                        155.277;
                        155.279;
                        155.291;
                        155.292;
                        155.294;
                        155.305;
                        155.306;
                        155.308;
                        155.311;
                        155.312;
                        155.319;
                        155.331;
                        155.332;
                        155.334;
                        155.388
                        30.01—
09-04       12-15-2009  30.06;
                        30.20—
                        30.26
                        153.005;
                        153.007—
10-01       7-27-2010   153.009;
                        153.061;
                        153.111
-           10-26-2010  153.005
                        111.01—
                        111.07;
10-002      10-26-2010  111.20—
                        111.28;
                        111.99
                        153.005;
10-003      10-26-2010  153.007;
                        153.008
11-001      1-18-2011   155.450—
                        155.460
11-003      5-24-2011   31.01
11-004      7-14-2011   TSO Table II
11-005      10-25-2011  111.29
11-006      12-20-2011  TSO Table II
11-007      1-17-2012   114.01—
                        114.17
11-008      12-20-2011  155.340—
                        155.345
11-009      1-17-2012   Adopting Ordinance
                        155.005;
                        155.081;
                        155.082;
                        155.086;
                        155.137;
12-001      2-21-2012   155.247;
                        155.262;
                        155.291;
                        155.292;
                        155.331;
                        155.433
12-005      7-24-2012   111.21
                        96.01  -
13-02       4-23-2013   96.12; 
                        96.99
13-04       8-27-2013   33.01  -
                        33.07
                        94.01  -
13-05       8-27-2013   94.07; 
                        94.99
13-06       10-1-2013   155.231
13-07       10-9-2013   155.247
                        155.342; 
13-08       10-9-2013   155.343; 
                        155.344
                        155.230; 
13-09       10-9-2013   155.245; 
                        155.260
13-10       11-26-2013  155.387
14-01       1-14-2014   32.01  -
                        32.05
                        31.10  -
14-02       3-25-2014   31.16;
                        31.17
14-03       4-22-2014   155.005
14-04       4-22-2014   155.039
14-05       4-22-2014   155.385.01
14-06       4-22-2014   155.385
14-07       4-22-2014   155.232
                        153.001 -
                        153.003;
                        153.005 -
                        153.009;
                        153.020 -
                        153.025;
                        153.040 -
14-08       8-26-2014   153.045;
                        153.060 -
                        153.063;
                        153.075 -
                        153.084;
                        153.095 -
                        153.097;
                        153.110 -
                        153.117
                        154.35;
14-10       12-10-2014  154.37 -
                        154.39
15-01       1-13-2015   150.05
                        97.01 -
15-02       3-16-2015   97.10;
                        97.99
                        131.01 -
15-03       5-18-2015   131.03;
                        131.99
                        130.01 -
15-04       6-15-2015   130.03;
                        130.99
15-05       10-28-2015  92.018;
                        92.048
15-06       10-28-2015  31.25 -
                        31.33
16-01       1-18-2016   TSO Table II
16-04       2-15-2016   TSO Table II
                        155.003;
                        155.005;
                        155.028;
                        155.121;
                        155.136;
                        155.151;
                        155.166;
                        155.181;
                        155.183;
16-05       5-16-2016   155.195 -
                        155.198;
                        155.230 -
                        155.233;
                        155.245 -
                        155.248;
                        155.311;
                        155.313;
                        155.343;
                        155.344
                        153.001 -
                        153.009;
                        153.020 -
                        153.025;
                        153.040 -
                        153.045;
                        153.060 -
                        153.063;
16-06       12-19-2016  153.075 -
                        153.079;
                        153.081 -
                        153.084;
                        153.095 -
                        153.097;
                        153.110 -
                        153.117;
                        153.998;
                        153.999
                        51.001 -
                        51.010;
                        51.025 -
                        51.030;
                        51.045 -
                        51.048;
17-02       3-20-2017   51.060 -
                        51.066;
                        51.080 -
                        51.085;
                        51.100 -
                        51.107;
                        51.999
                        54.01 -
17-03       3-20-2017   54.15;
                        54.99
17-04       5-15-2017   150.05
17-05       6-19-2017   155.021;
                        155.086
17-06       8-21-2017   TSO Table I
                        156.01 -
                        156.03;
17-07       11-20-2017  156.05 -
                        156.09;
                        156.12
17-08       11-20-2017  91.50 -
                        91.56
18-01       6-18-2018   91.52
                        115.01 -
19-01       2-4-2019    115.03;
                        115.99
19-02       6-17-2019   155.040
20-01       2-24-2020   155.041
20-03       10-19-2020  150.06
                        93.01 -
20-04       10-19-2020  93.09;
                        93.99
21-01       1-21-2021   157.01 -
                        157.03
21-02       3-22-2021   156.05
21-03       5-17-2021   32.03
                        155.470 -
21-04       7-19-2021   155.481;
                        155.999
21-05       7-19-2021   155.005;
                        155.276
                        31.16;
22-01       4-18-2022   31.17;
                        31.18
23-01       1-17-2023   156.01 -
                        156.12
                       
 
 
