VILLAGE OF LAKEWOOD CLUB, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
Code current through Ordinance 104 published 6-24-2024
 
 
Published by:
AMERICAN LEGAL PUBLISHING
525 Vine Street Ste. 310 Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 www.amlegal.com
DIRECTORY OF OFFICIALS
of the
VILLAGE OF LAKEWOOD CLUB, MICHIGAN
(2025)
Village President
Robert Sikkenga
Village Trustees
Chad Greenert
Debbie Houtteman
Mark Spencer
Sarah Swanson
Tammy Verhoeven
David West
Village Clerk
Susan West
Village Treasurer
Hannah Swanson
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Separability of provisions
   
10.11   Notice
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the “The Village of Lakewood
Club Code”, for which designation “code of ordinances”, “codified ordinances”,
“this code” or “code” may be substituted.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to codify ordinances, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k)
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. A police officer, building inspector or
other designated official or employee of the village authorized by this code to
issue municipal civil infraction citations or municipal civil infraction
violation notices.
      CODE. The Village of Lakewood Club Code, as designated in §
10.01 of this chapter.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last; except that, if the last day is Sunday or a legal holiday, it shall
be excluded; and, when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNCIL. The Village Council of Lakewood Club, Michigan.
      COUNTY. The County of Muskegon, Michigan.
      JOINT AUTHORITY. All words purporting to give joint authority to three or
more public officers or other persons shall be construed as giving such
authority to a majority of such officers or other persons unless it is
otherwise expressly declared in the ordinance granting the authority.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MONTH. A calendar month.
      NUMBER. A word importing the singular number only may extend and be
applied to several persons and things as well as to one person and thing.
      OATH, AFFIRMATION, SWORN, AFFIRMED. The word “oath” shall be construed to
include the word “affirmation” in all cases where, by law, an affirmation may
be substituted for an oath; and, in like cases, the word “sworn” shall be
construed to include the word “affirmed”.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Lakewood Club, Michigan”. Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer
of the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the village and all amendments thereto.
      OWNER. Applied to a building or land, shall include any part owner, joint
owner, tenant in common, tenant in partnership, joint tenant or tenant by the
entirety, of the whole or of a part of such building or land.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners or members thereof and, as applied to corporations,
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      PRECEDING, FOLLOWING. When used by way of reference to any title, chapter
or section of any ordinance of the village shall be construed to mean the
title, chapter or section next preceding or next following that in which such
reference is made, unless some other title, chapter or section is expressly
designated in such reference.
      PROPERTY. Real and personal property.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any place to or upon which the public resorts or travels,
whether such place is owned or controlled by the village or any agency of the
state or is a place to or upon which the public resorts or travels by custom or
by invitation, express or implied. The term PUBLIC PLACE shall include any
street, alley, park, public building, any place of business or assembly open to
or frequented by the public, and any other place which is open to the public
view, or to which the public has access.
      SEAL. In all cases in which the seal of any court or public office shall
be required to be affixed to any paper issuing from such court or office, the
word SEAL shall be construed to mean the impression of such seal on such paper
alone, as well as the impression of such seal affixed thereto by means of a
wafer or wax.
      SHALL, MAY. The word “shall” shall be mandatory. The word “may” shall be
permissive.
      SIDEWALK. The portion of a street, between the curblines or lateral lines
and the right-of-way lines, which is intended for the use of pedestrians.
      SIGNATURE, SUBSCRIPTION. Include a mark when the person cannot write.
      STATE, THE STATE or THIS STATE. The State of Michigan.
      STREET, HIGHWAY AND ALLEY. The entire width, subject to an easement for
public right-of-way or owned in fee by the village, county or state, of every
way or place, of whatever nature, whenever any part thereof is open to the use
of the public, as a matter of right, for purposes of public travel. The word
ALLEY shall mean any such way or place providing a secondary means of ingress
and egress from a property.
      SUNDAYS, LEGAL HOLIDAYS. Whenever any act required to be done pursuant to
the provisions of any ordinance falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, that act
shall be performed on the next succeeding business day.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Lakewood Club, Michigan.
      WEEK. Seven days.
      WRITTEN, IN WRITING. Any form of reproduction or expression of language.
      YEAR. A calendar year; and, the word “year” alone, shall be equivalent to
the words “year of our Lord”.
(Prior Code, § 1-2)
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   (A)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor
as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be
so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
reenacted.
   (B)   No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of
deficiency in any catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter,
subchapter or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village,
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village, any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like any street or public way in the
village;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any village
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no parking zones, specific
speed zones, parking meter zones and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all ordinances are recognized as continuing in full force
and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code. The
ordinances are on file in the village offices.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of these ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code, shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   (A)   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered re-ordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted.
   (B)   The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section of the Village of Lakewood Club
code of ordinances, is amended to read as follows:...”. The new provisions
shall then be set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Village of Lakewood Club code
of ordinances is amended by adding a section, to be numbered           , which
section reads as follows:...”. The new section shall then be set out in full as
desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village Council. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, non-substantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate divisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other divisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes in
catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other divisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary, to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other division numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter”, “this subchapter”, “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§       through      ” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other non-substantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code, but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.11 NOTICE.
   (A)   Except where otherwise provided or when a different method of notice
is required by state law, any notice required to be given by any section of
this code shall be served:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
same at his or her residence, office or place of business with some person of
suitable age or discretion;
      (2)   By mailing said notice by first class mail to such owner at his or
her last known address; or
      (3)   If the owner is unknown, by posting said notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises at least three days before the act or action concerning
which the notice is given is required or is to occur.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear
down any notice made pursuant to this section without the authority of the
Village President, the Chief of Police or the village officer responsible for
placing said notice.
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   General penalty.
      (1)   Whenever, in the village’s code of ordinances, or in any technical
or other code adopted by reference in the village’s code of ordinances, or in
any rule, regulation or order promulgated or made under authority of any
provision of the village code of ordinances, or under authority of any
technical or other code adopted by reference in the village code of ordinances,
or under authority of state law, an act is prohibited or is made or declared to
be unlawful, or whenever the doing of any act is required or the failure to do
any act is declared to be unlawful, where no specific penalty is otherwise
provided, whoever violates or fails to comply with any such provision shall be
deemed responsible for a civil infraction.
      (2)   The commission of any violation of the village’s code of ordinances
that is declared to be a civil infraction shall subject a violator to a civil
penalty as provided by state law for municipal civil infractions and as
determined by this section, plus costs, for each offense.
      (3)   The commission of any violation of the village’s code of ordinances
that is declared to be a misdemeanor shall subject a violator to a fine of not
more than $500 or a term of imprisonment not more than 90 days, or both, plus
costs, for each offense.
      (4)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for in a particular civil
infraction, the civil fine for a violation of an ordinance declared a civil
infraction shall be not less than $100 plus costs and other sanctions
authorized by law. Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeat offenses. In
this division (A)(4), the term REPEAT OFFENSE means a second or any subsequent
municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or provision
committed by the same person within any 24-month period and for which the
person has admitted responsibility or is determined responsible. Unless
specifically provided for a particular civil infraction violation, the
increased fine for a repeat offense shall be as follows:
         (a)   For the first repeat offense, a fine of not less than $250, plus
costs; and
         (b)   For a second repeat offense or any subsequent repeat offense, a
fine of not less than $500, plus costs.
   (B)   Violations continuous with respect to time. Except as otherwise
provided by law or ordinance, with respect to violations of the village’s code
of ordinances that are continuous with respect to time, each day that the
violation continues is a separate offense. As to other violations, each
violation constitutes a separate offense.
   (C)   Penalties cumulative.
      (1)   The imposition of a penalty does not prevent suspension or
revocation of a license, permit or franchise or other administrative sanctions.
      (2)   Violations of this code that are continuous with respect to time
are a public nuisance and may be abated by injunctive or other equitable
relief. The imposition of a penalty does not prevent injunctive relief or civil
or quasi-judicial enforcement.
      (3)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the village may bring
an action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain,
prevent or abate any violation of the code of ordinances or any village
ordinance. The penalty or sanction shall be in addition to the abatement of the
violating condition, any injunctive relief, revocation of any permit or license
or other process.
      (4)   The penalties and sanctions provided by this section, unless
another penalty or sanction has expressly provided, shall apply to the
amendment of any section of this code and/or any addition to this code, whether
or not the penalty or sanction is reenacted in the amendatory ordinance.
(Ord. 100, passed 9-25-2023)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE COUNCIL AND ELECTED OFFICIALS
      
31.   FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE COUNCIL AND ELECTED OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Terms of office of elected officials
   
30.02   President and Trustee attendance pay
Powers and Duties of Council
   
30.15   Transfer of land
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 TERMS OF OFFICE OF ELECTED OFFICIALS.
   (A)   Intent. This section is intended to modify the statutory provisions of
the General Law Village Act; Act 3 of 1895; Art. 62.4, § 4; as amended by
Public Acts 523 and 551 of 2012, effective March 27, 2013.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      OFFICER. An elected official for the village that serves in the capacity
of President, Clerk or Treasurer.
      TERMS OF OFFICE. The time that an elected official shall serve from the
second Monday of September of the year when elected and until their successors
are elected and qualified.
      TRUSTEE. An elected official for the village that serves as part of the
Administrative Board, but is not the President, Clerk or Treasurer.
   (C)   Terms. 
      (1)   All terms of office of officers of the village are amended as
follows.
         (a)   The duly elected President of the village shall serve a term of
four years and shall hold the respective office for the term of four years
beginning on November 20 after the President’s election and qualification, and
until his or her successors are elected and qualified.
         (b)   The duly elected Treasurer of the village shall serve a term of
four years and shall hold the respective office for the term of four years
beginning on November 20 after the Treasurer’s election and qualification, and
until his or her successors are elected and qualified.
         (c)   The duly elected Clerk of the village shall serve a term of four
years and shall hold the respective office for the term of four years beginning
on November 20 after the Clerk’s election and qualification, and until their
successors are elected and qualified.
      (2)   All terms of office of Trustees of the village are amended as
follows.
         (a)   Three Village Trustees shall be elected at a biennial village
election for the term of four years and shall hold the respective office for
the term of four years beginning on November 20 after the Trustees’ election
and qualification, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
         (b)   Three Village Trustees shall be elected at a biennial village
election for the term of four years and shall hold the respective office for
the term of four years beginning on November 20 after the Trustees’ election
and qualification, and until their successors are elected and qualified.
(Ord. 33, passed 8-22-2005)
§ 30.02 PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEE ATTENDANCE PAY.
   (A)   Election to the Village Council is a privilege freely sought by the
nominee. It carries with it the responsibility to participate in Council
activities and represent the residents of the village. Attendance at Council
meetings is critical to fulfilling this responsibility.
   (B)   It is the purpose of this section to define the compensation and
attendance of Village Trustees. The Village President and Trustees shall
receive compensation for attending the regular village monthly meeting which is
to take place on the fourth Monday of the month unless otherwise posted. If the
President or Trustee does not attend the regular monthly meeting, they will not
be compensated for that meeting.
(Ord. 45, passed 9-28-2009)
POWERS AND DUTIES OF COUNCIL
§ 30.15 TRANSFER OF LAND.
   (A)   The Village Council may adopt, by a majority vote of its members, a
resolution authorizing the Village President and Clerk to execute legal
documents to transfer real property owned by the village to other persons for
fair and valuable consideration. Provided, however, that the Village Council
shall, under no circumstances, have the power to transfer, sell or convey real
property which is designated as public parks, or property which was purchased
with park funds and set aside for recreational purposes.
The village, by its Council, shall prepare and maintain a list of the public
park lands owned by the village.
   (B)   The Village Council, by a majority vote of its members, may authorize
its appointed representative, or representatives, to acquire real or personal
property by gift, devise, purchase or lease, with terms subject to the approval
of the Council, and shall adopt an appropriate resolution competently
describing the lands, the terms, and the nature of the conveyance authorized.
This section shall not apply to publicly designated park lands owned by the
village.
(Ord. 81-2, passed 9-28-1981)
CHAPTER 31: FINANCE AND REVENUE; FUNDS
Section
General Provisions
   
31.01   Fiscal year
Special Assessments
   
31.15   General powers of the Village Council
   
31.16   Local Improvement Revolving Fund
   
31.17   Improvements authorized to be funded by special assessment
   
31.18   Assessable bases
   
31.19   Agreement of exempt corporation to pay special assessments
   
31.20   Village participation
   
31.21   Issuance of bonds in anticipation of collection on special assessments
   
31.22   Special assessments to constitute a lien on property
   
31.23   Collection
   
31.24   Prepayment of installments
   
31.25   Delinquent installments; penalty
   
31.26   Reassessment of delinquent assessments
   
31.27   Special assessments insufficient or more than sufficient to pay for
improvement
   
31.28   Alternate method of defraying cost of improvement
   
31.29   Provisions cumulative
   
31.30   Procedure
   
31.31   Special assessment for garbage collection
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 31.01 FISCAL YEAR.
   The village’s fiscal year is April 1 through March 31.
(Ord. 51, passed 8-31-2021)
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
§ 31.15 GENERAL POWERS OF THE VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Village Council shall have the power to make the public improvements
authorized by this subchapter and to determine that the whole or part of the
cost shall be defrayed by special assessments against the property especially
benefitted. The cost of engineering services, all expenses incident to the
proceedings for making the improvement and the financing thereof, shall be
deemed a part of the cost of the improvement.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.16 LOCAL IMPROVEMENT REVOLVING FUND.
   (A)   Established. There is established a fund known as the Local
Improvement Revolving Fund.
   (B)   Purpose. The Village Council may authorize advances from the local
improvement revolving fund for payment of the costs of any local improvement to
the extent the local improvement is financed by special assessments upon
property specially benefitted.
   (C)   Disbursements. The Treasurer of the village may disburse amounts from
the local improvement revolving fund when authorized by resolution of the
Village Council.
   (D)   Additional revenue; interest. Additional revenues may be allotted to
the local improvement revolving fund by resolution of the Village Council, and
interest on the fund and special assessments financed from the fund shall be
added to the Revolving Fund.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.17 IMPROVEMENTS AUTHORIZED TO BE FUNDED BY SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   The improvements which may be made under this subchapter are:
   (A)   The construction and maintenance of sewers and under-drains;
   (B)   The construction and maintenance of water mains;
   (C)   The improvement of public highways by grading, graveling, paving,
curbing or draining the same or constructing driveway approaches or sidewalks
thereon;
   (D)   The maintenance and improvement of parks or the trimming and spraying
of trees;
   (E)   The installation of elevated structures for foot travel over highways;
   (F)   The collection of garbage and rubbish;
   (G)   The demolition or repairs to a dwelling or structure deemed unsafe to
the public; and
   (H)   Such other and additional improvements which by state law may be
subject to special assessments for villages.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.18 ASSESSABLE BASES.
   The Village Council shall set forth the basis of the special assessment on
either front footage, total land area or benefit basis, as the Village Council
may determine to be the most equitable to the greater number of property owners
concerned.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.19 AGREEMENT OF EXEMPT CORPORATION TO PAY SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The governing body of any public or private corporation, the lands of which
are exempt by law, may, by resolution, agree to pay a special assessment made
pursuant to this subchapter against the lands and in that case the assessment,
including all installments thereof, shall be a valid claim against the
corporation. The assessment may also be a lien against the lands so covered and
the lien may be enforced in accordance with the general laws of the state.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.20 VILLAGE PARTICIPATION.
   The Village Council may agree to pay up to one-third of the cost of a
special assessment or such equitable formula as may be agreed to by the Village
Council, for platted corner lots or for lots on a curve of a street, for the
payment of public improvements assessed on a front-footage basis.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.21 ISSUANCE OF BONDS IN ANTICIPATION OF COLLECTION ON SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Village Council may borrow money and issue the bonds of the village in
anticipation of the collection of special assessments made pursuant to this
subchapter to defray the cost of any improvement made under this subchapter
after the special assessment roll shall have been confirmed pursuant to this
subchapter. The bonds shall not exceed the amount of the special assessments in
anticipation of collection of which they are issued and shall bear annual
interest as provided by law. Collections on special assessments, to the extent
that they are pledged for payment of such bonds, shall be set aside in a
special fund for the payment of the bonds. The issuance of special assessment
bonds shall be governed by the provisions of the general laws of the state.
Bonds may be issued in anticipation of the collection of special assessments
levied pursuant to this subchapter in respect to two or more public
improvements, but no special assessment district shall be compelled to pay the
obligation of any other special assessment district. The Village Council may
pledge the full faith and credit to the village for the prompt payment of the
principal of and interest on bonds authorized by this section as the bonds
shall become due. Bonds issued pursuant to this section shall be executed by
the President and the Village Clerk and interest coupons to be attached thereto
shall be executed by the President and the Village Clerk, causing their
facsimile signatures to be affixed thereto.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.22 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS TO CONSTITUTE A LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   All special assessments contained in the special assessment roll prepared
pursuant to this subchapter, including any part thereof deferred as to payment,
shall from the date of confirmation of the special assessment roll, constitute
a lien upon the respective parcels of land assessed. The lien shall be of the
same character and effect as a lien created for village taxes and shall include
accrued interest and penalties. No judgment or decree or any act of the Village
Council vacating a special assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the
village upon the premises assessed for such amount of the assessment as may be
equitably charged against the premises or as might be lawfully assessed thereon
by a regular mode of proceeding.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.23 COLLECTION.
   When any special assessment roll shall be confirmed pursuant to this
subchapter, the Village Council shall direct the special assessments made
therein to be collected. The Village Clerk shall thereupon deliver to the
Village Treasurer the special assessment roll to which he or she shall attach
his or her warrant commanding the Village Treasurer to collect the assessments
in accordance with the directions of the Village Council. The warrant shall
require the Village Treasurer, on March 1 following the date when any special
assessment or any part thereof would have become due, to submit to the Village
Council a sworn statement setting forth the names of the persons delinquent, if
known, a description of the parcels of land upon which they are delinquent
assessments and the amount of the delinquency, including accrued interest and
penalties computed to March 1. Upon receiving the special assessment roll and
warrant, the Village Treasurer shall proceed to collect the several amounts
assessed therein as shall become due.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.24 PREPAYMENT OF INSTALLMENTS.
   Future installments of any special assessment against any parcel of land may
be paid to the Village Treasurer at any time in full, with interest accrued to
the due date of the next installment.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.25 DELINQUENT INSTALLMENTS; PENALTY.
   If any installment of a special assessment is not paid when due, then the
installment shall be deemed to be delinquent and there shall be collected, in
addition to the interest provided for in this subchapter, a penalty at the rate
of 0.5% for each month or fraction thereof, that the installment remains unpaid
before being reported to the Village Council for reassessment on the village
tax roll.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.26 REASSESSMENT OF DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS.
   In case the Village Treasurer shall, as provided in this subchapter, report
as delinquent any special assessment or part thereof, the Village Council shall
certify the delinquency of the tax assessor who shall reassess on the annual
village tax roll of that year, in a column headed “special assessments” the sum
so delinquent, with interest and penalty on March 1 of that year and an
additional penalty of 6% of the total amount. Thereafter, the statutes relating
to village taxes shall be applicable to the reassessments.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.27 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS INSUFFICIENT OR MORE THAN SUFFICIENT TO PAY FOR
IMPROVEMENT.
   (A)   Should the assessments in any special assessment roll confirmed
pursuant to this subchapter prove insufficient for any reason, including the
noncollection thereof, to pay for improvement for which they were made or to
pay for the principal and interest on bonds issued in anticipation of the
collection thereof, then the Village Council shall make additional pro rata
assessments to supply the deficiency, but the total amount assessed against any
parcel of land shall not exceed, the value of the benefits received from the
improvement.
   (B)   Should the total amount collected on special assessments prove larger
than necessary by more than 5% of the original special assessment roll, then
the surplus shall be prorated among the properties assessed in accordance with
the amount assessed against each and applied toward the payment of the next
village tax levied against such properties respectively. Any surplus of 5% or
less may be placed in the village General Fund.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.28 ALTERNATE METHOD OF DEFRAYING COST OF IMPROVEMENT.
   The Village Council, as an alternate method of defraying the cost of any
improvement made under this subchapter, after the special assessment roll shall
have been confirmed may pay the cost of improvements from the Village
Improvement Revolving Fund, and, if paid in full shall cause a dissolution of
that assessment.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.29 PROVISIONS CUMULATIVE.
   This subchapter shall be in addition to any other powers granted to the
village by its charter and any statutes of the state.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.30 PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Petitions and Village Council initiative.
      (1)   Improvements authorized by this subchapter may be initiated by
petition of the owners of record of lands constituting 51% of the frontage in
case of highway or water main improvements, and 51% of the land area for all
other improvements. The Village Council may initiate special assessment
districts by resolution of the Village Council without petition of the owners
of record, but if objection to the improvement is made at or before the first
public hearing by the owners whose property is to be assessed an aggregate of
35% of the total amount to be assessed, then the Village Council shall not
proceed with the improvement unless there shall be five members of the Village
Council voting in favor of the proposed improvement.
      (2)   Record owners of land shall be determined as of the records of the
tax assessment rolls of the village on the day of filing the petition or on the
day the Village Council shall first initiate an improvement authorized by this
subchapter. In determining the sufficiency of the petition, lands not subject
to special assessment and lands within the public streets and alleys shall not
be included in computing frontage for assessment district areas.
      (3)   Any filed petitions may be supplemented by the filing of additional
signatures and, in such case, the validity thereof shall be determined by the
records of the tax assessment roll of the village on the date of filing the
supplemental petition.
      (4)   The provisions of division (A)(1) above for objection shall not
apply to improvements for which special assessments are authorized by §
31.17(G).
   (B)   First resolution; plans and estimates. Upon the receipt of a petition
for an improvement authorized by this subchapter, or upon the initiative of the
Village Council if it desires to proceed without a petition, there shall be a
first resolution passed by the Village Council which shall cause plans and
estimates to be prepared showing the improvement, the location and, in the case
of projects for water, sewers or highways, the plans and estimates shall be
prepared by a registered engineer.
   (C)   Second resolution; establishment of special assessment district;
notice. As soon as the plans and estimates are prepared, or at the same time
the first resolution is passed, if the Village Council desires to proceed
further with the proposed improvement, it shall make a second resolution
tentatively designating the special assessment district against which the cost
of said improvement is to be assessed. Such resolution shall further set forth
the time and place when and where the Council will meet and hear objections to
the improvement and to the special assessment district. Notice of the public
hearing shall be given each owner of or party in interest in property to be
assessed, whose name appears upon the last village tax assessment record, by
mailing by first class mail addressed to such owner or party at the address
shown on the tax records, at least ten days before the date of such hearing.
The last village tax assessment record means the last assessment roll for ad
valorem tax purposes which has been reviewed by the Village Council Board of
Review, as supplemented by any subsequent changes in the names or addresses of
such owners or parties listed thereon. Where any person claims an interest in
real property whose name and correct address do not appear upon the last
village tax assessment record, he or she shall be obligated to file immediately
his or her name and address with the village tax assessing officer. This
requirement shall be deemed effective only for the purpose of establishing a
record of the names and addresses of those persons entitled to notice of
hearing in special assessment proceedings. It shall be the duty of the village
assessing officer to immediately enter on the village tax assessment records
any changes in the names and addresses of owners or parties in interest filed
with him or her and at all times to keep such tax assessment records current,
complete and available for public inspection. The notice to owners or persons
interested in the property shall state that the plans and estimates will be on
file at the Village Hall with the Village Clerk for examination; such contain a
brief description of the proposed special assessment district; and shall
include the estimate cost of such improvement on a front foot, area or benefit
basis, as the Village Council in its discretion deems appropriate.
   (D)   Hearing on objections; modification of second resolution. The Village
Council shall hold a hearing, which hearing may be adjourned, and shall hear
any objections to the petition, the Village Council initiative, the improvement
and to the special assessment district, and may revise, correct, amend or
change the plans, estimated cost or special assessment district; however, no
property shall be added to the special assessment district nor any increase in
the estimate of cost in excess of 10% above the original estimated costs unless
notice is given as originally given for the hearing, or by personal service on
the owners of the property in the entire proposed special assessment district
and a hearing afforded to such owners.
   (E)   Third resolution; contents; preparation of special assessment rolls.
After the hearing on objections provided for in this division (E), if the
Village Council then desires to proceed with the improvement, it shall proceed
with the third resolution, indicating its determination to make the
improvement, approve the plans, approve the estimates of costs, approve any
revisions, corrections, amendments or changes and shall also determine the
prior sufficiency of the petition or the original initiative of the
improvement. After such determination, the sufficiency of the petition or the
initiative shall not thereafter be subject to attack except in an action
brought in a court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days after the adoption
of the third resolution determining such sufficiency. The third resolution
shall, in addition, provide for the final determination of the special
assessment district and shall direct the Village Assessor to make the special
assessment roll in which shall be entered and described all the parcels of land
to be assessed, with the names of the respective owners thereof, if known, and
the total amount to be assessed against each parcel of land which shall be such
an allocated portion of the whole sum to be levied against all parcels of land
in the special assessment district as the benefit to the parcel of land bears
to the total benefit of all parcels of land in the special assessment district.
When the Village Assessor shall have completed his or her assessment roll, he
or she shall affix thereto his or her certificate stating that it was made
pursuant to the resolution of the Village Council adopted on a specified date
and that in making the special assessment roll, he or she has, according to his
or her best judgment, conformed in all respects to the directions contained in
the third resolution, this subchapter and the statutes of the state.
   (F)   Advertisement for bids; bids exceeding estimates. The Village Council
shall proceed to advertise and take bids as provided by law and any other
ordinances of the village; however, if bids exceed the special assessment
estimates by 10%, then a further hearing and notice as required above shall be
held before proceeding. At the further hearing, objections may be had with the
same procedures as set forth in this special assessment subchapter.
   (G)   Confirmation of special assessment roll; adoption of the fourth
resolution. When the special assessment roll prepared pursuant to this
subchapter shall be reported by the assessor to the Village Council, the same
shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk. Before confirming the
assessment roll, the Village Council shall appoint a time and place where it
will meet and review the same and hear objections thereto and shall cause
notice of such hearing and filing of such assessment roll to be mailed to each
affected owner or person in interest as set forth in division (C) above. The
Village Council shall revise the amount to be spread on the assessment roll in
accordance with the actual contract bids and such additional costs as shall be
computed in the total project. Such resolution will be known as the fourth
resolution in the special assessment procedure.
   (H)   Fifth resolution; establishment of assessment and installments;
interest. After the hearing provided for in division (G) above for the
confirmation of the special assessment roll and the special assessment roll has
been spread on the actual costs, the final spread of the roll shall be reviewed
by the Village Council, which shall then confirm the special assessment, roll
as reported to it by the Village Assessor or as amended or corrected by it, or
may refer it back to the Village Assessor for further revision, or may annul it
and direct a new roll to be made, which action shall be taken by the fifth
resolution. When the special assessment roll has been confirmed, the Village
Clerk shall endorse thereon the date of confirmation. After confirmation, the
special assessment roll and all assessments thereon shall be final and
conclusive unless attacked in a court of competent jurisdiction within 30 days
after adoption of the resolution confirming the assessment roll. The fifth
resolution may provide that the assessments shall be payable in equal
installments. The first installment of a special assessment shall be due on or
before such time after confirmation as the Village Council shall fix, and the
several subsequent installments shall be due as provided in the resolution
confirming the assessment roll but no later than in intervals of 12 months from
the due date of the first installment or from such other date as the Village
Council shall fix. All unpaid installments prior to their transfer to the
village tax roll as provided in this subchapter shall draw interest at the rate
of 6% per annum, commencing 90 days after the special assessment roll shall be
confirmed as set forth in this section.
   (I)   Apportionment upon the division of specially assessed property. Should
any parcel of land be divided or sold after a special assessment has been
confirmed pursuant to this subchapter and before, the Village Council may
require the Village Assessor to apportion the uncollected amounts between the
several divisions thereof; and a report of the apportionment, when confirmed by
the Village Council, shall be conclusive upon all parties.
   (J)   Reassessment upon invalidity of prior special assessment. Whenever any
special assessment shall, in the opinion of the Village Council, be invalid by
reason of irregularities or informalities in the proceedings, or if any court
of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge a special assessment to be illegal, the
Village Council shall, whether the improvement has been made or not or whether
any part of the assessment has been paid or not, proceed from the last step at
which the proceedings were legal and cause a new assessment to be made, for the
same purposes for which the former assessment was made. All proceedings on the
reassessment and for the collection thereof shall be conducted in the same
manner as provided in this subchapter for an original assessment, or as near
thereto as possible; and whenever an assessment or any part thereof levied upon
any premises has been so set aside, if the special assessment has been paid and
not refunded, the payments so made shall be applied against the reassessment.
Any failure to give notice as required in this section shall not invalidate an
entire special assessment roll but only the assessment on the property affected
by the lack of notice; however, in no case shall any special assessment be
declared invalid as to any property thereof which has actually received notice,
has waived notice or has paid any part of the assessment.
(Ord. 39, passed 3-16-1992)
§ 31.31 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   (A)   The intent of this section is to provide for and regulate the
collection and disposal of residential garbage, to levy and assessment for said
service, and to assess interest on any delinquent assessments.
   (B)   This section shall take effect April 1, 2006. The special assessment
roll shall be levied in annual installments, due July 1 of each calendar year.
The installments of the special assessment roll shall bear interest at the
rated of 8% per annum. The interest is to be payable annually on each
installment due date.
   (C)   The assessment made in the special assessment roll are ordered and
directed to be collected and the Village Clerk shall deliver the special
assessment roll to the Village Treasurer, with a warrant attached, commanding
the Treasurer to collect the assessments in accordance with the directions of
the Village Council and the Treasurer is directed to collect the amounts
assessed as they become due.
   (D)   The Special Assessment District shall consist of all lands within the
village which contain a STRUCTURE FROM WHICH GARBAGE MAY ACCUMULATE, further
defined as follows: any home within the village that has an occupancy permit;
whether occupied full or part time.
   (E)   Said assessment shall be pro-rated from the time the occupancy permit
is granted until the close of the fiscal year on March 30 of each calendar
year.
(Ord. 40, passed 11-28-2005)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   [Reserved]
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Engine Braking
   
70.01   Findings and purpose
   
70.02   Definitions
   
70.03   Use prohibited
   
70.04   Exceptions
   
70.05   Signage
 
   
70.99   Penalty
ENGINE BRAKING
§ 70.01 FINDINGS AND PURPOSE.
   The Board finds and determines that the use of compression-release engine
braking devices creates excessively loud, persistent noise that can be
disruptive of the peace and tranquility enjoyed by village residents and
visitors. The purpose of this subchapter is to establish and impose
restrictions on the use of compression-release engine braking devices by
drivers of motor vehicles with in the village so as to avoid the substantial
nuisance of loud, persistent noise resulting from the use of such devices and
to advance the public health, safety and welfare of the village and its
residents and visitors.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 70.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPRESSION-RELEASE ENGINE BRAKING DEVICE. A device primarily used, applied
or engaged on trucks, motor homes or other large motor vehicles for the
conversion of the engine (usually a diesel engine) from an internal-combustion
engine to an air compressor or power-absorbing or power-retarding mechanism for
the purpose of slowing down or braking the motor vehicle, including, but not
limited to, so-called Jake Brakes™, Jacobs Brakes™ or Jacobs Engine Brakes™.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle that is self-propelled.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 70.03 USE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to apply, use or engage a compression-
release engine braking device at any location within the village except in the
case of a genuine traffic emergency as described in §
70.04.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-26-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.04 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Section
70.03 shall not apply to authorized emergency vehicles, including those of
public fire departments, law enforcement departments or agencies or ambulances
or similar emergency vehicles being operated as a result of an emergency or
rescue effort.
   (B)   Section
70.03 shall not apply in circumstances in which vehicle braking by a
compression-release braking device is necessary for the prevention of imminent
harm or danger to person or property.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-26-2021)
§ 70.05 SIGNAGE.
   Appropriate signs prohibiting the application, use or engagement of
compression-release engine braking devices shall be installed at locations in
the village as determined by the Board. Failure to install such signage shall
not, however, be a defense to any person found to have violated this
subchapter.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-26-2021) Penalty, see §
70.99
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   A violation of §§
70.01 through
70.05 is a municipal civil infraction, for which the fine shall not be less
than $250 for the first offense, and not more than $500 for a subsequent
offense, in the discretion of the Court, and in addition to all other costs,
damages, expenses and actual attorney fees incurred by the village in enforcing
the ordinances. For the purpose of this section, a SUBSEQUENT OFFENSE means a
violation of §§
70.01 through
70.05 committed with respect to a separate incident by the same person within
12 months after a previous violation of the ordinance for which such person
admitted responsibility or was adjudicated to be responsible. Each day the
violation occurs shall constitute a separate offense. In addition to paying the
above-stated fines and costs, if a violator is issued a municipal civil
infraction citation, the violator shall be responsible for all costs, damages,
expenses and attorney fees incurred by the village, and shall also be subject
to all other remedies provided to the village by law.
(Ord. 50, passed 4-26-2021)
CHAPTER 71: RECREATIONAL VEHICLES
Section
   
71.01   Snowmobiles
§ 71.01 SNOWMOBILES.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a snowmobile upon a public highway, land
used as an airport or street, or on a public or private parking lot not
specifically designated for the use of snowmobiles except under the following
conditions and circumstances.
      (1)   Subject to division (B) below, a snowmobile may be operated on the
right-of-way of a public highway, except a limited access highway, if it is
operated at the extreme right of the open portion of the right-of-way and with
the flow of traffic on the highway. However, a snowmobile may be operated on
the right-of-way of a public highway against the flow of traffic if the right-
of-way is a snowmobile trail that is designated by the department in the plan
developed pursuant to § 82106(2) and that is approved by the State
Transportation Department. Snowmobiles operated on the right-of-way of a public
highway, as provided in this division (A), shall travel single file and shall
not be operated abreast except when overtaking and passing another snowmobile.
In the absence of a posted snowmobile speed limit, a snowmobile operated on the
right-of-way of a public highway, as provided in this division (A)(1), shall
not exceed the speed limit posted on the public highway.
      (2)   Subject to division (B) below, a snowmobile may be operated on the
right-of-way of a limited access public highway if it is operated on a
snowmobile trail that is designated by the Department in the plan developed
pursuant to § 82106(2) and that is approved by the State Transportation
Department. A snowmobile shall only be operated on that right-of-way in the
manner provided in that plan. In addition, a snowmobile operated on the right-
of-way of a public highway, as provided in this division (A), shall travel
single file and shall not be operated abreast except when overtaking and
passing another snowmobile. In the absence of a posted snowmobile speed limit,
a snowmobile operated on the right-of-way of a public highway, as provided in
this division (A), shall not exceed the speed limit posted on the public
highway.
      (3)   A snowmobile may be operated on the roadway or shoulder when
necessary to cross a bridge or culvert if the snowmobile is brought to a
complete stop before entering onto the roadway or shoulder and the driver
yields the right-of-way to an approaching vehicle on the highway.
      (4)   In a court action in this state where competent evidence
demonstrates that a vehicle that is permitted to be operated on a highway
pursuant to the State Vehicle Code, Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§
257.1 to 257.923, collided with a snowmobile on a roadway, the driver of the
snowmobile involved in the collision shall be considered prima facie negligent.
      (5)   A snowmobile may be operated across a public highway other than a
limited access highway, at right angles to the highway, for the purpose of
getting from one area to another when the operation can be done in safety and
another vehicle is not crossing the highway at the same time in the same
general area. An operator shall bring his or her snowmobile to a complete stop
before proceeding across the public highway and shall yield the right-of-way to
all oncoming traffic.
      (6)   Snowmobiles may be operated on a highway in a county road system
that is not normally snowplowed for vehicular traffic and on the plowed right-
of-way or shoulder when no right-of-way exists on a snowplowed highway in the
county road system, outside the corporate limits of a city or village, that is
designated and marked for snowmobile use by the county road commission having
jurisdiction. Upon the request of a County Road Commission that has designated
all county roads outside the corporate limits of a city or village for
snowmobile use, the State Transportation Department shall erect at County Road
Commission expense and shall maintain, in accordance with the “State Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices Standards”, the basic snowmobile sign unit
together with a supplemental panel stating “permitted on right-of-way or
shoulder of all......(county name) roads — M.C.L.A. § 324.82119” at the county
line on all state trunk line highways and county roads.
      (7)   A law enforcement officer of a local unit of government or the
state may authorize use of a snowmobile on a public highway or street within
his or her jurisdiction when an emergency occurs and conventional motor
vehicles cannot be used for transportation due to snow or other extreme highway
conditions.
      (8)   A snowmobile may be operated on a highway or street for a special
event of limited duration conducted according to a prearranged schedule only
under permit from the governmental unit having jurisdiction. The event may be
conducted on the frozen surface of public waters only under permit from the
Department.
      (9)   A city or village by ordinance may designate one or more specific
public highways or streets within its jurisdiction as egress and ingress routes
for the use of snowmobiles. A city or village acting under the authority of
this division (A)(9) shall erect and maintain, in accordance with the “State
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices Standards”, a sign unit giving proper
notice of the designation.
   (B)   The State Transportation Department and the Department of Natural
Resources may permanently prohibit snowmobile use as described in divisions (A)
(1) or (A)(2) above in a highway right-of-way if, within ten years after the
effective date of the amendatory act that added this division (B), all of the
following requirements are met.
      (1)   The right-of-way is designated in a closure plan developed by the
State Transportation Department and the Department of Natural Resources and
approved by the State Transportation Commission and the Commission of Natural
Resources.
      (2)   The State Transportation Department and the Department of Natural
Resources have held a public hearing on the proposed prohibition in the county
where the prohibition is to apply. The State Transportation Department and the
Department of Natural Resources shall give notice of the hearing by publication
in a newspaper of general circulation in the county not more than 21 or less
than seven days before the hearing.
      (3)   The State Transportation Department and the Department have
consulted on the proposed prohibition with the snowmobile advisory committee
created under § 82102a.
      (4)   Snowmobile use in that right-of-way poses a particular and
demonstrable threat to public safety.
      (5)   The Department has designated and, if required under division (A)
(1) or (A)(2) above, the State Transportation Department has approved an
alternative snowmobile trail that meets all of the following requirements:
         (a)   Is open for use and functional during snowmobile season;
         (b)   Bypasses the highway right-of-way on which snowmobile use is to
be prohibited; and
         (c)   Provides access to any qualified business that, when the
alternative snowmobile trail is designated, is located along the highway right-
of-way on which snowmobile use is to be prohibited. As used in this division
(B)(5), QUALIFIED BUSINESS means a gas station, restaurant, hotel, motel,
convenience store or grocery store or any other business that relies on
snowmobile-based commerce.
   (C)   The State Transportation Department and the Department of Natural
Resources may promulgate rules to implement divisions (A)(2) and (B) above.
(Ord. 14, passed - -) Penalty, see §
70.99
Statutory reference:
   Natural Resources and Protection Act 451 of 1994, see M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501
et seq.
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
      
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY
      
93.   STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.01   Purpose
   
90.02   Definitions
   
90.03   Rules and regulations
   
90.04   Animals at large
   
90.05   Dangerous animals
Kennels and Domesticated Animals
   
90.20   Title
   
90.21   Purpose
   
90.22   Application for permit
   
90.23   Acreage requirements
   
90.24   Setback requirements; signatures of property owners
   
90.25   Sanitary requirements; inspection
   
90.26   Credentials
   
90.27   Use of dwellings
   
90.28   Nuisance
   
90.29   Permit fee
 
   
90.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.01 PURPOSE.
   The village enacts this chapter to secure the public peace, health, safety
and welfare of the residents and property owners of the village. The purpose of
this chapter is designed to regulate and limit the keeping, owning, caring,
feeding, raising or control over domestic and exotic animals within the
boundaries of the village; provide regulations for animals designated as
dangerous; and to provide penalties for the violation of this chapter and to
repeal any ordinances or parts of ordinances in conflict herewith.
(Ord. 102, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 90.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS ANIMALS. Means and includes:
      (1)   Any mammal, amphibian, reptile or fowl which is of a species which,
due to size, vicious nature or other characteristics would constitute a danger
to human life, physical well-being, or property, including but not limited to
lions, tigers, leopards, panthers, bears, wolves, apes, gorillas, monkeys of
any species, foxes, elephants, alligators, crocodiles and snakes which are
poisonous or otherwise present a risk of serious physical harm or death to
human beings as a result of their nature or physical makeup, including all
constrictors.
      (2)   Any dog or cat having a disposition or propensity to attack or
bite, or threaten to attack or bite, any person or animal without provocation
is defined as a DANGEROUS ANIMAL.
   EXOTIC ANIMALS. Any animal other than what is listed in this section.
   HANDLER. Any person having control of an animal, whether or not by the
consent or direction of the owner.
   HOUSEHOLD. Any/all occupants/residents of the property address/legal
description.
   OWNERSHIP OF ANIMAL. The keeping, feeding, caring, sheltering or control
over an animal, whether or not the animal is licensed or titled in the name of
the owner.
(Ord. 102, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 90.03 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The ownership of animals in the village is restricted to dogs, cats,
rabbits, hamsters, guinea pigs and domesticated or caged birds (excluding
chickens, ducks and guinea hens). The ownership of any other animal is strictly
forbidden and is contrary to the intent of this chapter.
   (B)   No household may have ownership of more than any three animals in any
combination.
   (C)   All animals shall be properly housed and restricted within the
household’s boundaries unless properly leashed. Owners and handlers are
strictly liable for any animal having become a nuisance pursuant to the
village’s nuisance ordinance.
   (D)   The ownership of any animals for commercial purposes is prohibited
unless approved by the Village Council and permitted by the village zoning
ordinance. Approved commercial animal ownership is subject to all state
licensing requirements.
   (E)   The regulations set forth in this chapter are supplemental to and not
in substitution of the County Animal Control Department, any county ordinance
related thereto, or state law concerning county animal control. This chapter
shall not be construed to limit or substitute for the authority or functions of
the County Animal Control Shelter or Animal Control Department. Every owner and
handler is responsible for ensuring their animal(s) comply with all state and
county regulations.
   (F)   This chapter shall be construed to impose primary responsibility for
compliance with its provisions on the owner or on any person in control of the
animal. Both the owner and handler shall be jointly and severally liable for
the actions of any animal and any violations of this chapter.
   (G)   Except as provided in this chapter, no animal may be kept, owned or
handled in the village.
(Ord. 102, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.04 ANIMALS AT LARGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, handler or other person having charge of
any animal to be at large at any time in the village or stray beyond the
premises of such owner or household. Animals on leash or being held by the
owner or handler shall not be deemed to be running at large.
(Ord. 102, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.05 DANGEROUS ANIMALS.
   No person shall own, keep, feed, shelter or harbor any dangerous animal in
the village except as follows.
   (A)   Leash and muzzle. No person shall permit a dangerous animal to go
outside its kennel or pen unless such dangerous animal is securely leased with
a leash no longer than four feet in length. No person shall permit a dangerous
animal to be kept on a chain, rope or other type of leash outside its kennel or
pen unless a person is in physical control of the leash. Such dangerous animals
may not be leashed to inanimate objects such as trees, posts, buildings and the
like. In addition, all dangerous animals on a leash outside the animal’s kennel
must be muzzled by a muzzling device sufficient to prevent such dangerous
animals from biting persons or other animals.
   (B)   Confinement. All dangerous animals shall be securely confined indoors
or in a securely enclosed and locked pen or kennel, except when leashed and
muzzled as provided in division (A) above. Such pen, kennel or structure must
have secure sides and a secure top attached to the sides. All structures used
to confine registered dangerous animals must be locked with a key or
combination lock when such animals are within the structure. Such structure
must have a secure bottom or floor attached to the sides of the pen or the
sides of the pen must be embedded in the ground no less than two feet. All such
structures must be adequately lighted and ventilated and kept in clean and
sanitary conditions.
   (C)   Confinement indoors. No dangerous animal may be kept on a porch, patio
or in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dangerous animal to
exit such building of its own volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept
in a house or structure when the windows or screen doors are the only obstacle
preventing the dangerous animal from exiting the structure.
   (D)   Signs. All owners, keepers or handlers of dangerous animals within the
village shall, within ten days of the effective date of this chapter, display
in a prominent place on their premises a sign easily readable by the public
using the words “beware of dangerous animal”. In addition, a similar sign is
required to be posted on the kennel or pen of such animal.
   (E)   Insurance.
      (1)   All owners, keepers or handlers of dangerous animals must within
ten days of the effective date of this chapter provide proof to the Village
Clerk of public liability insurance in a single incident amount of $50,000 for
bodily injury to or death of any person or persons or for damage to property
owned by any persons which may result from the ownership, keeping or
maintenance of such animal. At the time of initial registration, the owner,
keeper or handler must present proof to the Village Clerk of the required
insurance. At the time of subsequent registration, the owner, keeper or handler
must show proof of insurance for the present registration period and proof that
there was insurance coverage throughout the period of the prior registration
year.
      (2)   In the event the liability insurance is canceled, lapsed or for any
other reason becomes unenforceable, the owner, keeper or handler shall be in
violation of the provisions of this division (E) and subject to the penalties
provided herein.
   (F)   Identification photographs. All owners, keepers or handlers of
dangerous animals must, within ten days of the effective date of this chapter,
provide to the Village Clerk two color photographs of the animal clearly
showing the color and approximate size of the animal.
   (G)   Reporting requirements. All owners, keepers or handlers of dangerous
animals must, within ten days of the below criteria being met, report the
following information in writing to the Village Clerk:
      (1)   The removal from the village or death of a registered dangerous
animal;
      (2)   The birth of offspring of a dangerous animal; and
      (3)   The new address of the dangerous animal owner should the owner
move.
   (H)   Number. No more than one dangerous animal as determined by this
chapter shall be kept on any premises within the village.
(Ord. 102, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
90.99
KENNELS AND DOMESTICATED ANIMALS
§ 90.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Village of Lakewood Club Kennel and
Domesticated Animals Ordinance”.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 90.21 PURPOSE.
   The fundamental purpose of this subchapter is to provide protection for the
public health, interests and general welfare of the village and the amount of
animals, not to exceed three animals per household without a permit for a
kennel.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 90.22 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   The application for such permit shall be made by the applicants upon blanks
to be furnished by the Village Clerk and shall contain:
   (A)   The full names and address of the applicants; and
   (B)   The business location at which such business of operating a kennel
will take place.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 90.23 ACREAGE REQUIREMENTS.
   A minimum of 26 lots shall be required for ten dogs or less. An additional
nine lots shall be required for every five dogs over ten.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.24 SETBACK REQUIREMENTS; SIGNATURES OF PROPERTY OWNERS.
   All kennel houses and pens shall have a minimum setback of 75 feet from
dwellings; a distance of 50 feet shall be required from all water wells;
applications for the aforesaid permit shall contain the signatures of 75% of
property owners within a radius of 300 feet.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.25 SANITARY REQUIREMENTS; INSPECTION.
   All sanitary requirements of the state, county, township and village must be
met. The premises shall be kept open for inspection by state, county, township
and village law officers or any other authorized officer of the village without
the formality of legal process during business hours of licensee.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.26 CREDENTIALS.
   All persons or person operating a kennel shall have the proper credentials
available, which will certify that every requirement has been met and complied
with, which the state statutes deem necessary in conducting such business.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.27 USE OF DWELLINGS.
   No dwelling shall be used for the purpose of a kennel.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.28 NUISANCE.
   No licensee shall cause the place of business to become a nuisance by reason
of smoke, dust, fumes, noxious odors, noises or conducting the place of
business in a disorderly manner, or allowing decrepit conditions or hours of
operation that would be construed as a nuisance.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994) Penalty, see §
90.99
§ 90.29 PERMIT FEE.
   The permit fee for such place of business shall be $25 for each location in
the village, payable to the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994)
§ 90.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating §§
90.01 through
90.05 shall be subject to one or more of the following penalties, as
applicable.
      (1)   Any person violating §§
90.01 through
90.05 shall be responsible for a civil infraction. Violations of §§
90.01 thorough
90.05 shall be punishable as stated in §
10.99.
      (2)   All persons found in violation of §
90.01 through
90.05 shall be subject to further injunctive or equitable relief as the village
may determine to pursue, including destruction of the animal.
   (C)   Any person, firm, association or corporation which shall operate an
establishment as a kennel, without a license or who shall violate any rule,
regulation or condition of §§
90.20 through
90.29 shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or be imprisoned in the
County Jail for a term of not to exceed 90 days, or both such fine and
imprisonment at the direction of the Court.
(Ord. 30, passed 1-3-1994; Ord. passed 1-24-2022; Ord. 102, passed 9-25-2023)
CHAPTER 91: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Nuisances, generally
   
91.02   Dangerous structure or premises
   
91.03   Littering
   
91.04   Noise
   
91.05   Abandoned refrigerators or similar items
   
91.06   Grass and noxious weeds
Blight, Junk Vehicle and Storage
   
91.20   Title
   
91.21   Purpose
   
91.22   Definitions
   
91.23   General prohibition
   
91.24   Storage requirements and prohibitions
   
91.25   Outdoor storage
   
91.26   Parking of licensed recreational equipment
   
91.27   Heavy trucks
   
91.28   Junk vehicles and inoperative vehicles
   
91.29   Motor vehicles
   
91.30   Notice of violation; removal
   
91.31   Construction
 
   
91.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Debris on roadways, see §§
93.15 through
93.17
   Disorderly conduct, see §§
130.15 and
130.16
   Special assessment for garbage collection, see §
31.31
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 NUISANCES, GENERALLY.
   Whatever annoys, injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort or repose
of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs or renders
dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake or stream; or in any way renders
the public insecure in life or property is declared to be a PUBLIC NUISANCE.
Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is forbidden by
any provision of this subchapter. No person shall commit, create or maintain
any nuisance.
(Ord. 101, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.02 DANGEROUS STRUCTURE OR PREMISES.
   No person shall maintain any structure which is a menace to the health,
morals or safety of the public. No person owning or occupying any premises
shall permit any condition to exist thereon which endangers the public health
or safety.
(Ord. 101, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.03 LITTERING.
   No person shall place, deposit, throw, scatter or leave in any street, alley
or public place, or on the private property of another, any refuse, waste,
garbage, dead animal, wash water or other noxious or unsightly material.
(Ord. 101, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.04 NOISE.
   (A)   General prohibitions. It shall be unlawful for any person to create,
assist in creating, permit, continue or permit the continuance of any
unreasonably loud, disturbing, unusual or unnecessary noise, which either
annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health, peace or
safety of others within the limits of the village.
   (B)   Specific acts prohibited. Each of the following acts is declared
unlawful and prohibited, but this enumeration shall not be deemed to be
exclusive, namely:
      (1)   The sounding, or permitting to be sounded, of any signal device on
any automobile, motorcycle, bus or other vehicle while such vehicle is not in
motion, except as a danger signal, if another vehicle is approaching apparently
out of control, or while such vehicle is in motion, except when a signal is
necessary to ensure the safety, and then only to the extent that signal is
reasonably necessary for such purpose; the use of any such vehicle upon a
public street when such vehicle is so out of repair or has such defective,
insufficient, inadequate, damaged, altered or broken parts, equipment or when
such vehicle has sustained such mechanical or other defects as to create loud
or unnecessary grating, grinding, rattling or other disturbing noises; the
sounding of a horn or signal device for purposes of repair or testing, except
within a suitably enclosed building and then only under circumstances which are
such that the sounding of the horn or other signal device cannot be a nuisance
to others; the creation by means of such signal devices of any unreasonable
loud or harsh sound; the sounding of said devices for any unnecessary and
unreasonable period of time; the use of any such vehicle upon a public street,
when such vehicle is so out of repair, or is so loaded, or when it has
sustained such mechanical or other defects as to create loud, or unnecessary
grating, grinding, rattling or other disturbing noises;
      (2)   The playing of any radio, phonograph or musical instrument of any
character in such a manner or with such volume at any time or place as to annoy
or disturb the quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, dwelling,
hotel or other type of residence or of any person in the vicinity;
      (3)   The keeping of any animal or bird which by frequent or loud or long
continued noise shall disturb the comfort and repose of any person in the
vicinity;
      (4)   The discharge into open air of exhaust of any steam engine,
compressed air machine, stationary internal combustion engine, motor vehicle or
any other machine except through a muffler or other device which will
effectively prevent loud or explosive or disturbing noises therefrom;
      (5)   The creation of a loud unnecessary noise in connection with the
loading or unloading of any vehicle or the opening and closing of destruction
of bales, boxes, crates or other containers;
      (6)   Yelling, shouting, whistling, loud talking or singing on the public
street, particularly between the hours of 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m., or at other
time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet comfort or repose of persons
in any office, dwelling, motel or any other type of residence or of any persons
in the vicinity;
      (7)   The use of any drums, loud speakers, musical devices or other
instruments or devices for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation
of noise to any performance, show or sale or display of merchandise;
      (8)   The use of mechanical loud speakers, amplifiers and public address
systems on trucks or other vehicles for any purpose whatsoever, except when
specific permit is first granted by the Village Council;
      (9)   The blowing of any steam whistle attached to any stationary boiler
or whistle operated by compressed air, except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger, or except upon request by
proper public authorities;
      (10)   The erection, excavation, demolition, alteration or repairing of
any building in a residential or business district other than between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. to 8:00 p.m. on weekdays except in case of urgent necessity, in
the interest of public safety and then only upon permission having been first
obtained from the Village Council;
      (11)   The carrying on or operation of any business, trade or occupation,
located in a residential section of the village between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. which makes an unusual loud frequent, or disturbing noise,
causing a nuisance and disturbance to any person residing in the vicinity;
      (12)   The firing of firearms (except as specifically exempted by state
law), fire crackers, air guns or other combustible substances for the purpose
of making a noise or disturbance;
      (13)   The practicing and training of any drum corps, band, orchestra or
other musical organization, or the practice by individuals on the various
musical instruments, which produce a noise or disturbance, and which annoy the
peace, repose and comfort of the residents in the vicinity thereof; and
      (14)   It shall be unlawful for any person, knowingly or wantonly, to
operate or cause to be operated, any machine, device, apparatus or instrument
of any kind whatsoever between the hours of 6:00 a.m. and 12:00 a.m., the
operation of which shall cause reasonably preventable electrical interference
with radio or reception in the village, provided, however, that x-ray pictures,
examinations or treatments may be made at any time if the machines or apparatus
used therefore are properly equipped to avoid all unnecessary or reasonably
preventable interference with radio or television reception and are not
negligently operated. This division (B)(14) shall not be construed to embrace
the regulation of any transmitting, broadcasting or receiving instrument,
apparatus or device used in interstate commerce of the operation of which
instrument, apparatus or device is licensed or authorized by or under the
provisions of any act of the Congress of the United States.
(Ord. 101, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.05 ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS OR SIMILAR ITEMS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to leave outside of any building or
dwelling in a place accessible to children any abandoned, unattended or
discarded ice box, refrigerator or any other container of any kind which has an
air-tight snap-lock or other device thereon without first removing the said
snap-lock or doors from said ice box, refrigerator or container.
(Ord. 101, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.06 GRASS AND NOXIOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   Cutting of grass and weeds. No person occupying any premises and no
person owning any unoccupied premises shall permit or maintain on any such
premises any growth of weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a greater
height than six inches on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass
or brush. No such occupant or owner shall cause, suffer or allow ivy, ragweed
or other poisonous plants or plants detrimental to health, to grow on any
premises in such manner that any part of such ivy, ragweed or other poisonous
or harmful weed shall extend upon, overhang or border any public place, or
allow seed, pollen or other particles or emanations there from to be carried
through the air into any public place.
   (B)   Duty of owner or occupant. It shall be the duty of the owner and
occupant of every premises and the owner of unoccupied premises within the
village to cut and remove or destroy by lawful means, all such weed, grass or
rank, poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter; provided that the cutting, removing or
destroying of such weeds, grass and vegetation at least once in every three
weeks between March 15 and September 15 of each year, shall be deemed to be in
compliance with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Notice of violation.
      (1)   If a violation is found, written notice shall be given to the
owner, occupier or controller of the property upon which the violation is
present by certified mail or in person, and no action shall be taken until ten
days has elapsed after the notice.
      (2)   If a violation is still found at the end of this ten-day period,
the village may immediately proceed with enforcement as prescribed by this
subchapter. Written notice under this division (C) shall constitute the notice
required by division (D) below.
   (D)   Enforcement. If the violation is not corrected within ten days of
receipt of written notice thereof, the village may enforce violations as
follows, the remedies of which are cumulative.
      (1)   The Village Ordinance Enforcer, or the Village Council in absence
of the Ordinance Enforcer, or his or her designee, may designate an independent
contractor to correct the violation set forth in the written notice.
      (2)   The Ordinance Enforcer or the independent contractor may go upon
private property to correct the violation set forth in the written notice, but
entries shall be limited to whatever action is necessary therefor. The direct
costs of this action together with a 15% surcharge for overhead and indirect
costs shall be levied against the property containing the violation, together
with the regular property taxes, and shall constitute a valid tax lien against
the premises if the same remains unpaid after seven days after the owner,
occupier or controller of the property receives the village’s invoice for
services.
      (3)   Before the village corrects the violation pursuant to this division
(D), the village shall give the owner, occupier or controller of the property
ten-day written notice, by certified mail or in person delivery, of the
impending enforcement and a reasonable opportunity to respond to the alleged
violation. Written notice under this section shall constitute the notice
required by division (C) above.
(Ord. 101, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
BLIGHT, JUNK VEHICLE AND STORAGE
§ 91.20 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Village of Lakewood Club Blight, Junk
Vehicle and Storage Ordinance”.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 91.21 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to promote health, safety and general welfare of
the village and its citizens, and further in particular, to prevent and
prohibit the storage and accumulation of equipment, vehicles and materials,
which will adversely affect property values and encourage unsightly or
environmentally or aesthetically degrading uses of the lands and structures; to
prevent, reduce, eliminate blight by the prevention or elimination of faction
and causes of blight which exist or may exist; and to regulate the storage of
motor vehicles and trailers in the village.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 91.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE. Includes any dwelling, garage, accessory or outbuilding,
or any factory, shop, store, office building, warehouse or any other structure
or part of a structure which because of fire, wind, other natural disaster or
physical deterioration is no longer habitable as a dwelling or useful for the
purpose for which it was originally intended; or is partially completed and
which is not presently being constructed under an existing, valid, building
permit issued by or under the authority of the village and if the construction
is not completed within 12 months; or is not structurally sound, weather-tight,
waterproof, vermin-proof or is otherwise dangerous.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Include, but are not limited to, sand, dirt, rock, wood,
sawdust, woodchips, lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment,
shingles, mortar, concrete or cement, nails, screws or any other materials used
in constructing a structure.
   DISPOSAL SITE. A place for storing solid waste or for storing hazardous
waste, licensed by the state under applicable law. As appropriate, the term
DISPOSAL SITE includes a licensed junk, dismantling or salvage yard, but only
for storage of reusable items such junk, junk automobiles, appliances,
machinery or reusable building materials.
   EXTRACTED STUMPS. Stumps which have been extracted, dug or removed from the
ground or a form of refuse. This term shall include the attached roots of said
tree stumps.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible waste, including animal, fruit/vegetable wastes,
discarded food of any type and any filth or offensive substances. The term
shall not include hazardous substances.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES. Waste, or combination of waste and other discarded
materials, including solid, liquid, semi-solid or contained gaseous material,
which, because of its quality, concentration or physical, chemical or
infectious characteristics, may cause or significantly contribute to an
increase in mortality or an increase in serious irreversible illness, or
serious incapacitating but reversible illness or poses substantial presence or
potential hazard to human health or the environment if improperly treated,
stored, transported, disposed of or otherwise managed.
   JUNK. Includes parts of machinery or motor vehicles, boat hulls, tires, used
stoves or other appliances stored in the open, remnants of wood, metal or any
other material or other cast-off material of any kind, whether or not the same
could be put to any reasonable use.
   JUNK MOTOR VEHICLE or JUNK VEHICLE. Any vehicle, including highway or non-
highway vehicles, trailers or mobile homes, which are not currently licensed
and registered, even if operable, or, whether or not licensed and registered,
not operable, or useable for their original purpose, or not operable or useable
for their original purpose without major repair, or partially/fully dismantled.
The said term includes wrecked, damaged, junked, dismantled, partially
dismantled, inoperable, abandoned, unlicensed, unregistered or discarded
vehicles.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is self-propelled and designed to travel
along the ground and shall include, but not be limited to: automobiles, buses,
motor bikes, motorcycles, motor scooters, trucks, tractors, go-carts, golf
carts and race cars.
   PRIVATE PROPERTY. Any real property within the village, which is privately
owned and which not “public property”, as is defined in this section.
   PUBLIC PROPERTY. Any street or highway. It shall include the entire width
between the boundary or right-of-way lines of every way publicly maintained or
capable of public maintenance for the purposes of vehicular or pedestrian
travel, and shall also mean any other publicly owned property, easement or
facility.
   RACE CAR. Any motor vehicle designed for or modified for use on racetracks.
   REFUSE. Includes the term describing any material substance or personal
property further defined herein.
   RUBBISH. Includes all cans, bottles, paper, cartons, rags, discarded
clothing, discarded utensils, containers, sweepings, glass, crockery, nails,
metal, wire, light bulb, signs, advertising matter, newspaper and similar
materials.
   SEASONAL VEHICLE. Any operative vehicle normally licensed for only part of
the year.
   TRASH. Includes discarded household appliances, dismantled boats, airplanes,
vehicles or their parts, dismantled machinery or tools, machinery parts, scrap
metal, paper, broken furniture and similar property.
   UNSECURED VACANT BUILDING. Any building which is unoccupied and which is not
securely locked, the windows glazed or of which is not securely boarded up and
protected against the elements, from vandals and from rodents and/or other
animals.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 91.23 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   No owner or occupier within the village shall:
   (A)   Store refuse, including garbage, hazardous substances, rubbish, trash,
extracted stumps, junk or junk motor vehicles, except as where permitted and in
accordance with the village. The storage of said materials in violation of this
subchapter shall be declared a nuisance. All violative refuse and junk vehicles
shall be removed and disposed of at a legally established disposal site;
   (B)   Permit the existence of any structure or part of any structure which,
because of fire, wind or other natural disaster, or physical deterioration is
no longer habitable nor useful for any other purpose of which it may have been
intended, or as may be prohibited by the State Building Code;
   (C)   Keep or permit the existence of any unsecured vacant building on
property owned, leased, rented or occupied by him or her; and/or
   (D)   Keep or permit the existence of any blighted structure on property
owned, leased, rented or occupied by him or her.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.24 STORAGE REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All garbage and rubbish must be stored in closed containers or
within a building until the time of collection.
      (2)   No garbage or rubbish may be stored for a period of more than two
weeks, or so as to cause hardship, health hazard or annoyance to adjoining
properties.
   (B)   (1)   The storage or accumulation of junk, garbage, rubbish, trash or
refuse of any kind, except domestic refuse stored as required in this
subchapter, is prohibited.
      (2)   Reusable items such as junk parts, junk vehicles, appliances and
used machinery may be stored only in a legally established storage building in
which they fit completely and are fully enclosed or in accordance with this
division (B).
   (C)   (1)   The exterior storage upon any property of building materials is
prohibited, unless there is in force an approved site plan and a valid building
permit issued by the village for construction upon said property and said
materials are intended for use in connection with such construction. Such
storage shall not exceed 90 days, unless a building inspector confirms that
longer storage is reasonable.
      (2)   Reusable building materials may be stored only in a storage
building in which they fit completely and are fully enclosed or in accordance
with this section ordinance.
   (D)   Extracted stumps shall not be stored on any premises. Extracted stumps
shall be removed to a disposal site or completely reduced to chips or firewood.
The owner shall have 30 days to remove extracted stumps off of premises, or
completely reduce to chips or firewood.
   (E)   When there are accumulated trees or brush on a parcel, the owner shall
have 90 days to remove brush and trees and clean up all residue from trees and
brush.
   (F)   No storage of any kind on vacant commercial or residential property.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.25 OUTDOOR STORAGE.
   In all commercial, industrial and residential districts, the open storage of
any permitted equipment vehicles, and materials, including waste, shall be
screened from public view, from a public street and from adjoining properties
by an enclosure with a wall or fence with a maximum height of six feet.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.26 PARKING OF LICENSED RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT.
   Parking of licensed recreational equipment outside of an enclosed structure,
including travel trailers, campers, snowmobiles, boats and similar items in any
Residential Zoning District must conform to required zoning setbacks for
accessory structures and to overall zoning limitations for lot coverage. All
recreational equipment parked in the front yard must be parked on a driveway.
Licensed and unlicensed recreational equipment may not be used for dwelling
purposes except within a licensed campground.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.27 HEAVY TRUCKS.
   Overnight parking of commercial vehicles in excess of one ton rated
capacity, including all semi-truck tractors with trailers or semi-truck
trailers separate from tractors, is prohibited within any Residential Zoning
District. Parking of semi-truck tractors without trailers is allowed. This
regulation does not apply to emergency vehicles or equipment.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.28 JUNK VEHICLES AND INOPERATIVE VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall park, store, leave and/or permit the parking, storing
or leaving of any junk vehicle or inoperative vehicle on any public or private
property within the village. The presence of such vehicle or parts thereof, on
private or public property is declared a public nuisance.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to the following vehicles, whether or not
it is a “junk motor vehicle”, as defined in §
91.99:
      (1)   Any vehicle enclosed within a legally erected storage building in
which they fit completely and are fully enclosed; or
      (2)   Any two of the following; provided said vehicle is covered by a
tarp or similar protective cover maintained in good condition, and only two of
said vehicles are located on the premises:
         (a)   Operative seasonal vehicle;
         (b)   Antique vehicle;
         (c)   Operative unlicensed vehicle; provided that the outdoor storage
of an unlicensed vehicle shall be limited to rear yard area only; and/or
         (d)   Operative race car; provided that any repairs shall adhere to §
91.29(B).
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.29 MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall park, store or place upon any
public right-of way or public property or upon any premises that is primarily
used or is zoned for any type of residential purpose within the village, any
motor vehicle, house trailer, tractor trailer or new or used parts or junk
therefrom, unless the same is contained within a fully enclosed building and
does not violate any zoning or building laws of the village, county or state,
except for the following:
      (1)   Duly licensed and operable vehicles or trailers with substantially
all main components attached with the recommendation of building and zoning
inspector and approval of the Village Council;
      (2)   Vehicles or trailers that are temporarily inoperable because of
minor mechanical failure but are not, in any manner, dismantled and have
substantially all main component parts attached, such may remain on such
private property for not to exceed 14 days; and
      (3)   Not more than one vehicle in fully operable condition such as a
stock car that has been re-constructed for a purpose other than that for which
it was manufactured; provided no building or garage is located upon the
property in which the same could be parked or stored; in no event shall any
such vehicle be parked in the front or side yard area of any such residential
premises. A vehicle qualifying under this division (A) shall count towards the
two permissible vehicles under §
91.28(B)(2).
   (B)   No repairing, re-designing, modifying or dismantling work or
operations shall be allowed upon any vehicle or trailer or parts therefor upon
any public right-of-way or public property, or more than one vehicle on any
property primarily used or zoned for any type of residential purpose for a
period in excess of 48 hours except such as shall be accomplished within fully
enclosed buildings; will not constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining
property owners or occupants, and not violate any provisions of the village
zoning ordinance. Any such work within such 48-hour period heretofore allowed
shall not, however, consist of any major repair, redesigning, modifying or
dismantling work, but only such occasional minor work as may infrequently be
required to maintain a vehicle or trailer or parts thereof in normal operation.
   (C)   In the event the foregoing regulations create any special or peculiar
hardship beyond the control of a particular violator thereof because of
unforeseen circumstances, the Building and Zoning Inspector of the village is
given the authority to grant written permission to an applicant to operate
contrary to the provisions hereof for a limited period of time not to exceed 14
days; provided no adjoining property owner or occupant is unreasonably
adversely affected thereby and the spirit and purpose of the ordinance are
still substantially observed.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.30 NOTICE OF VIOLATION; REMOVAL.
   (A)   Whenever a “refuse violation”, as defined by this subchapter, is
found, a written notice shall be delivered in person or by first class mail to
the owner or occupant of the private property upon which the refuse violation
is located. The notice shall describe the violation of this subchapter, and
shall require the removal of the violation within seven days. If the violation
is observed to exist after seven days, a civil infraction for such violation(s)
may be issued and the village may remove and impound the vehicle with
appropriate authority, such as a court order or the property owner or
occupant’s permission or failure to respond to the notice, to peaceably enter
the property to correct the violation, including removal of the refuse or
impounding the violative property at a disposal site.
   (B)   Where a “junk motor vehicle” or “junk vehicle”, as defined in this
subchapter, is found, a written notice shall be served on the owner or occupant
of the property on which the junk motor vehicle or junk vehicle is located.
Notice shall be sent to the registered owner of the vehicle, if a different
person. An additional notice shall be further affixed to a conspicuous part of
the vehicle. The notice shall describe the violation of this subchapter and
shall require the removal of the violation within seven days. If the violation
is observed to exist after seven days, a civil infraction ticket for such
violation(s) may be issued. The village may determine, with appropriate
authority, such as a court order or the property owner or occupant’s permission
or failure to respond to the notice, to peaceably enter the property to correct
the violation, including removal or impounding of the vehicle at a disposal
site. If a vehicle is removed and impounded by the village at a location where
there will be impounding fees or charges, it shall give appropriate or required
notice to the registered owner of the vehicle and the state; provided that the
notice shall not designate the vehicle is abandoned. The notice shall indicate
that the vehicle will be disposed of by sale in the event the owner fails to
redeem the vehicle by paying any charges or fees occasioned by the removal,
impounding or storage of the vehicle.
   (C)   The direct cost of any enforcement action, including a 15% surcharge
for overhead and indirect costs, shall be levied against the property
containing the noted violation or violations, which may be levied and collected
in the manner of real property taxes, and shall constitute a valid tax lien
against the said premises if unpaid.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023) Penalty, see §
91.99
§ 91.31 CONSTRUCTION.
   This subchapter shall not prevent the operation of any licensed junk yard,
salvage yard, garage, body or paint shop legally operating within a proper zone
as defined in the village zoning ordinance and shall be in addition to any
other laws or ordinance respecting rubbish, refuse, litter, trash or junk
control and regulations.
(Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   (1)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions
of §§
91.01 through
91.06 shall be responsible of a civil infraction.
      (2)   Each day violation of §§
91.01 through
91.06 shall constitute a separate and distinct offense and shall be punishable
on conviction in a manner prescribed in §
91.06.
   (C)   Any person who violates or fails to comply with the provisions of §
91.20 through
91.31 shall be responsible for a civil infraction. Each act in violation of any
of the provisions hereof shall be deemed a separate civil infraction. In
connection with and in addition to the civil infraction, violations of §§
91.20 through
91.31 are deemed a public nuisance and the village may request supplemental
relief and other remedies as available to the village. A civil infraction
issued pursuant to §§
91.20 through
91.31 shall carry a fine of $100 plus costs for the first offense; $250 plus
costs for the first repeat offense; and $500 plus costs for the second and any
subsequent repeat offense. A REPEAT OFFENSE is a violation of §§
91.20 through
91.31 within a 24-month period.
(Ord. 101, passed 9-25-2023; Ord. 103, passed 9-25-2023)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND SAFETY
Section
Open Burning
   
92.01   Purpose
   
92.02   Definitions
   
92.03   Permit requirements
   
92.04   Regulations
 
   
92.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 92.01 PURPOSE.
   The village has determined that open burning is detrimental to the
environment, posing health hazards and reducing property values. It is the
intent of this subchapter to regulate and restrict open burning, and thus
promotes the public health, safety and welfare of the residents and property
owners of the village.
(Ord. 46, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 92.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPEN BURNING. The igniting or combustion of any natural or human-made
material or item out of doors.
   YARD WASTE. Brush, limbs and tree cuttings only. For the purpose of this
subchapter, leaves and grass clippings are not considered as YARD WASTE.
(Ord. 46, passed 6-27-2011)
§ 92.03 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Open burning is authorized by permit. For open burning as permitted
under this section, a person must visit the website of the DNR at
www.dnr.state.mi.us/burnpermits. This will inform him or her if it is safe to
burn in his or her area.
   (B)   Open burning of yard waste is allowed only when weather permits.
(Ord. 46, passed 6-27-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.04 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Open burning is only allowed when weather conditions permit as
directed by the Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   A bonfire shall be allowed if such fire does not exceed six feet in
diameter by four feet high, provided the conditions of §
92.02 are also met. Fuel for bonfires shall consist only of seasoned dry
firewood and shall be ignited with a small quantity of paper or other
acceptable means.
   (C)   Open burning is prohibited on any public road right-of-way, sidewalk
or safety path.
   (D)   Open burning is prohibited on “ozone action” days to minimize
environmental impact.
   (E)   The location of open burning shall take place a safe distance from any
structure, and provisions shall be made to prevent the fire from spreading.
   (F)   Open burning shall not be used as a means for disposal of household
wastes.
   (G)   The maximum physical dimensions of the stack of materials that can be
burned are six feet in diameter by four feet high.
   (H)   The fuel shall be chosen to minimize the generation and emission of
air contaminants.
   (I)   Flammable liquids shall not be used to ignite or maintain an open
burning fire, unless approved by the Department of Natural Resources (DNR).
   (J)   The Fire Department may use their discretion to postpone or prohibit
open burning otherwise authorized under this subchapter, or as authorized by
permit. Prohibition under this section may be determined prior to, or
subsequent to ignition of the fire, by ordering extinguishing of the fire. Just
cause for any of the measures stated in this section include, but is not
limited to: fire hazard, unsafe conditions, excessive smoke, disruptive to
others (health hazard or nuisance), atmospheric conditions or when burning
would be in violation to any law or regulation administered by the State
Department of Natural Resources, or other governing body.
(Ord. 46, passed 6-27-2011) Penalty, see §
92.99
§ 92.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate §§
92.01 through
92.04 shall be guilty of a civil infraction and upon conviction thereof shall
be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 in costs to the prosecution or by
imprisonment in the County Jail not to exceed 90 days, or by both such fine and
imprisonment in the discretion of the Court.
(Ord. 46, passed 6-27-2011)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS, SIDEWALKS AND PUBLIC WAYS
Section
Damage to Village Roadways
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Definitions
   
93.03   Damage prohibited
Debris on Village Roadways
   
93.15   Purpose
   
93.16   Definitions
   
93.17   Debris prohibited
Parks and Recreation
   
93.30   Title
   
93.31   Purpose
   
93.32   Definitions
   
93.33   Authority; rules and regulations
   
93.34   Violation
 
   
93.99   Penalty
DAMAGE TO VILLAGE ROADWAYS
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to amend the code of ordinances for the
village to include regulations governing and reducing the damage inflicted upon
village roadways so as to preserve the health, safety and welfare of the
residents and guests of the village.
(Ord. 41, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 93.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DAMAGE. To erode, strip, leave vehicle hash marks, spray gravel due to
excessive speed, cut into or in any way utilize the road in such a manner as to
exceed the normal wear and tear of a roadway.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Includes any natural person, association, partnership, organization
or corporation.
      (2)   PERSON shall not include the state or a political subdivision of
the state, or an employee of the state or a political subdivision of the state
operating within the scope of his or her duties.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a village roadway, unpaved or paved, improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 41, passed 9-22-2008)
§ 93.03 DAMAGE PROHIBITED.
   Except as permitted by the Village Council no person shall make any
excavation in or cause any damage to any roadway in the village that exceeds
the normal wear and tear of the public roadway.
(Ord. 41, passed 9-22-2008) Penalty, see §
93.99
DEBRIS ON VILLAGE ROADWAYS
§ 93.15 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to amend the code of ordinances for the
village to include regulations governing and prohibiting debris deposited on
village roadways so as to preserve the health, safety and welfare of the
residents and guests of the village while traveling on village streets, roads
and walkways.
(Ord. 44, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 93.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBRIS. Includes, but is not limited to, any accumulation of snow, ice,
slush, yard waste, leaves, trash or rubbish.
   DEPOSIT. To lay down; to place; to put; to let fall or accumulate on any
village street, roadway or walkway.
   PERSON.
      (1)   Includes any natural person, association, partnership, organization
or corporation.
      (2)   PERSON shall not include the state or a political subdivision of
the state, or an employee of the state or a political subdivision of the state
operating within the scope of his or her duties.
   ROADWAY. The portion of a village roadway, unpaved or paved, improved,
designed or ordinarily used for vehicular travel.
   STREET or HIGHWAY. The entire width between boundary lines of every way
publicly maintained when any part thereof is open to the use of the public for
purposes of vehicular travel.
(Ord. 44, passed 9-28-2009)
§ 93.17 DEBRIS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall deposit any amount of debris on any street, highway or
roadway within the village, nor shall any person deposit or place snow from
public sidewalks onto public streets or roadways.
   (B)   (1)   No person shall deposit any amount of debris in such a manner as
to hinder or interfere with the ability to see pedestrian or vehicular traffic.
      (2)   In this regard, snow shall not be deposited, placed, shoveled or
plowed to exceed four feet in height on any property.
   (C)   No person shall deposit debris in such a manner as to block passage of
pedestrian traffic on public sidewalks, streets or roadways.
(Ord. 44, passed 9-28-2009) Penalty, see §
93.99
PARKS AND RECREATION
§ 93.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the “Village of Lakewood Club Parks and
Recreation Ordinance”.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 93.31 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is enacted to promote the health, safety and general welfare
of the village and its citizens, and in particular, to provide rules and
regulations for certain village owned property within the village that ensures
safe use and preserves public resources.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 93.32 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DIRECTOR OF PARKS. The Park Administrator unless otherwise designated by the
Village Council.
   PARK(S). Any public park, beach, recreational area, playground, building,
facility or land within the village which is owned or maintained by the village
whether entirely or partially in conjunction with any other municipal unit of
government, school authority or private owner, whether or not that area has
been formally dedicated to that purpose.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-24-2024)
§ 93.33 AUTHORITY; RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Director of Parks shall have the power to make rules and
regulations pertaining to the conduct and use of any parks as are necessary to
administer the parks and protect public property and in the interest of the
safety, health, morals and welfare of the public.
   (B)   Unless adopted by a majority vote of the Village Council, these rules
and regulations made herein shall not be effective for a period exceeding 30
days.
   (C)   Applicable rules and regulations shall be posted at each park, except
for unimproved or vacant land owned by the village.
   (D)   All rules and regulations for village parks shall be put on file by
the village and be available for inspection during regular business hours at
the Village Hall.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-24-2024) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.34 VIOLATION.
   No person shall occupy, use, loiter in, trespass or engage in any activity
in, or upon, any park located within the village contrary to the rules and
regulations made pursuant to this subchapter without the written consent of the
Director of Parks.
(Ord. 104, passed 6-24-2024) Penalty, see §
93.99
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.01 through
93.03 shall be deemed responsible for committing a civil infraction punishable
by up to 90 days in jail and/or up to a $500 fine. A violator shall be
responsible for a $100 police enforcement fee. Such person may also be required
to pay restitution for any damage caused to the roadway, including the cost of
labor, supplies and equipment rental.
   (C)   Any person violating any of the provisions of §§
93.15 through
93.17 shall be deemed responsible for committing a civil infraction punishable
by up to 90 days in jail and/or up to a $500 fine. A violator shall also be
responsible for a $100 police enforcement fee. Such person may also be required
to pay restitution for the removal of the debris or any damage caused to the
roadway, including but not limited to the cost of labor, supplies and equipment
rental.
   (D)   Any person found in violation of §§
93.30 through
93.34 shall, at the Director of Parks’ discretion, be trespassed from the park
for a period to be determined by the Director of Parks and shall be guilty of a
civil infraction punishable by a fine of not more than $500, or imprisonment
for a period of not more than 90 days, or both such fine and imprisonment, in
the discretion of the Court. The Director of Parks may delegate its enforcement
authority to one or more village officials or staff. Any person aggrieved by a
decision to trespass a person for violation of §§
93.30 through
93.34 shall be entitled to appeal such decision to the Village Council by
furnishing the Director of Parks with a written appeal not more than 21 days
from the date of the decision being appealed. Should an appeal be timely filed,
the Village Council shall hear arguments and consider evidence from the
appellant, who may be represented by counsel, and Director of Parks during the
next regular Village Council meeting and either uphold, overturn or modify the
decision appealed.
(Ord. 41, passed 9-22-2008; Ord. 44, passed 9-28-2009; Ord. 104, passed 6-24-
2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   LIQUOR CONTROL
      
111.   SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
      
113.   SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
CHAPTER 110: LIQUOR CONTROL
Section
   
110.01   Title
   
110.02   State Liquor Control Code
   
110.03   Enforcement
   
110.04   Inspection
   
110.05   Appropriation
 
   
110.99   Penalty
§ 110.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the “Village of Lakewood Club
Liquor Control Ordinance”.
(Ord. 9, passed - -)
§ 110.02 STATE LIQUOR CONTROL CODE.
   All alcoholic liquor traffic, including among other things, the manufacture,
sale, offer for sale, storage for sale, possession and/or transportation
thereof within the village shall comply with the provisions of the State Liquor
Control Code, being Public Act 58 of 1998, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
436.1101 et seq.
(Ord. 9, passed - -)
§ 110.03 ENFORCEMENT.
   For the purpose of the enforcement of said State Liquor Control Act within
said village, there is established a Liquor Control Enforcement Department with
full power, authority and duty to see that the provisions of said Act and the
rules and regulations of the State Liquor Control Commission, adopted pursuant
to said Act, are enforced within said village, such Department shall consist of
not less than one police officer or deputy sheriff appointed by the Village
Council, and such other personnel as the Village Council may, in its
discretion, appoint. The personnel in such Department shall be entitled to such
compensation as the Village Council may determine. Such Department or a member
thereof shall be available at all times to investigate complaints received
under this chapter, and enforce the provisions hereof.
(Ord. 9, passed - -) Penalty, see §
110.99
§ 110.04 INSPECTION.
   (A)   The Village Liquor Control Enforcement Department shall inspect not
less than monthly, all liquor establishments licensed under the State Liquor
Control Act and report the results of all inspections promptly to the Village
Council. The Village Liquor Control Enforcement Department shall further
promptly investigate all complaints received by it concerning violations of the
State Liquor Control Act, or improper operations and practices concerning
alcoholic liquor traffic within the village, and report the same to the Village
Council, and, where appropriate under the State Liquor Control Act, to the
State Liquor Control Commission for appropriate proceedings against the
violators.
   (B)   All inspectors shall carry appropriate cards issued by the Village
Clerk, clearly identifying them as Village Liquor Control Inspectors, and shall
present said cards to the owner or manager of every place inspected by them
when making an inspection, upon demand for identification by such owner or
manager.
   (C)   Inspectors shall have the right to inspect any place in the village
where alcoholic liquor is manufactured, sold, offered for sale, kept for sale,
possessed or transported. Whenever possible, all inspection reports shall be
made on liquor law enforcement inspection forms furnished by the State Liquor
Control Commission or on similar forms otherwise obtained by the Village Liquor
Control Enforcement Department.
(Ord. 9, passed - -)
§ 110.05 APPROPRIATION.
   For the purpose of carrying out the provisions of this chapter and
establishing the Liquor Control Enforcement Department herein provided for, the
Village Council appropriates all of the receipts from liquor licenses received
from the state, for such use, and is authorized and directed to annually
appropriate such an amount as will, in its discretion, be sufficient to
maintain and operate such Liquor Control Enforcement Department for the ensuing
fiscal year of the village, not exceeding, however, ten mills of the assessed
valuation of the village in any one year for vehicle, apparatus and equipment
and housing for the same, and not exceeding two and one-half mills of the
assessed valuation of the village per year for the maintenance and operation of
the Department.
(Ord. 9, passed - -)
§ 110.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, other than persons required to be licensed under the State
Liquor Control Act, who shall violate any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be guilty of a civil infraction.
   (B)   Any licensee who shall violate any of the provisions of the State
Liquor Control Act or any rule or regulation of the State Liquor Control
Commission promulgated thereunder, or who shall violate any of the provisions
of this chapter, and any person who shall prohibit or interfere with the
authorized inspection of a member of the Village Liquor Control Enforcement
Department shall be guilty of a civil infraction, punishable by imprisonment in
the county jail not more than 90 days, or by a fine of not more than $100, or
both, in the discretion of the Court. Each day that a violation continues to
exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   It is the intent of the Village Council that the Court, in imposing
punishment under the provisions of this chapter, should discriminate between
casual or slight violations and habitual sales of alcoholic liquor or attempts
to commercialize violations of this chapter or any of the rules or regulations
of the State Liquor Control Commission promulgated under the State Liquor
Control Act.
(Ord. 9, passed - -)
CHAPTER 111: SOLICITORS, PEDDLERS AND ITINERANT MERCHANTS
Section
General Provisions
   
111.01   Title
   
111.02   Purpose
   
111.03   Definitions
   
111.04   Exemption
   
111.05   Loud noises and speaking devices
   
111.06   Use of streets
   
111.07   Accessory features and equipment
Licenses
   
111.20   Required and duration
   
111.21   Application
   
111.22   Fees
   
111.23   Investigation of application; denial of license
   
111.24   Approval
   
111.25   Exhibition of license
   
111.26   Revocation
   
111.27   Appeals of denial, revocation or written complaint
 
   
111.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 111.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Solicitors, Peddlers and Itinerant
Merchants Ordinance”.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE.
   This is a chapter to adopt rules and regulations for solicitors, peddlers
and itinerant merchants, applying to and/or conducting services within the
village and to provide penalties for violation.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER or SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the village or
not, traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type
of conveyance from place to place, from house to house or from street to
street, taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares,
merchandise or personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery,
or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether or not such
individual has carried or exposed for sale a sample of the subject of such sale
or whether he or she is collecting advance payments on such sales or not. It
further includes any person who, without invitation, goes upon private
property, to request contributions of funds or anything of value, or sell goods
or services for political, charitable, religious or other noncommercial
purposes.
   PEDDLER. Any individual, whether a resident of the village or not, traveling
either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck or any other type of conveyance
from place to place, from house to house or from street to street, conveying or
transporting goods, wares, merchandise, foods or food products, offering and
exposing the same for sale, or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers, who, without traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer the
same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle or other vehicle or conveyance
and further purchasers as a part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions
of this chapter shall be deemed a peddler subject to the provisions of this
chapter. The term PEDDLER shall also include the terms HAWKER and HUCKSTER.
   PEDDLING. Includes all activities ordinarily performed by a peddler, as
indicated under the definition of “peddler” in this section.
   PERSON. A natural person or any firm, corporation, association, club,
society or other organization.
   RELIGIOUS SOLICITOR. A person who carries on the activities of a charitable
solicitor, but on behalf of a religious organization duly incorporated or
permitted to operate in the state and having one or more established locations
or places of worship.
   SOLICITATION or SOLICITING. Includes all activities ordinarily performed by
a solicitor as defined in this chapter.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT or ITINERANT VENDOR. Any person, firm or corporation
whether as owner, agent, consignee or employee, whether a resident of the
village or not, who engages in a temporary (30 days or less) business of
selling and delivering goods, wares and merchandise within the village, and
who, in furtherance of such purpose, hires or leases, any structure, motor
vehicle, tent, public room in motels or hotels, apartment shop, street, parking
lot or alley, or other place within the village for the purpose of exhibition
and sale of such goods, wares and merchandise, either privately or at a public
auction.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.04 EXEMPTION.
   (A)   Any person claiming to be legally exempt from regulations set forth in
this chapter, shall cite to the Village Zoning Administrator the statute or
other legal authority under which exemption is claimed and shall present to the
Village Zoning Administrator proof of qualification for such exemption.
   (B)   The provisions of this chapter shall not apply to:
      (1)   Any newsboy or newspaper delivery personnel;
      (2)   Veterans qualifying for a state peddlers license issued by the
County Clerk pursuant to Public Act 359 of 1921, being M.C.L.A. §§ 35.441 et
seq.;
      (3)   Farmers, truck gardeners or their employees or affiliates, selling
merchandise and farm products in established farmers’ markets;
      (4)   Persons participating or selling merchandise or food or advertising
at organized athletic events, conventions or at community celebrations or
events, or on behalf of public or private schools, or recognized youth athletic
organizations; or
      (5)   Those involved in the Boy or Girl Scouts of America.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.05 LOUD NOISES AND SPEAKING DEVICES.
   No transient merchant or itinerant vendor or any solicitor, canvasser or
peddler, nor any person on his or her behalf, shall shout, make any outcry,
blow a horn or ring a bell, or use any sound device, including any type of
sound amplifying system which would constitute a nuisance, upon any of the
streets, alleys, parks or other public places for the purpose of attracting to
any goods, wares, or merchandise which such licensee proposes to sell which
would constitute a “nuisance”, as defined in
Chapter 91.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.06 USE OF STREETS.
   No transient merchant or itinerant vendor, religious solicitor or any
solicitor, canvasser or peddler shall have an exclusive right to any location
in the public right-of-way nor shall they be permitted to operate in any
congested area where his or her operations might impede, or inconvenience the
public or present a public safety problem. For the purpose of this chapter, the
judgement of the Zoning Administrator and/or his or her designated agent,
exercised in good faith, shall be deemed conclusive as to whether the area is
congested or the public is impeded, inconvenienced or present a public safety
problem.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.07 ACCESSORY FEATURES AND EQUIPMENT.
   An applicant needs to comply with village ordinances and state laws.
Accessory features must leave with mobile unit including but not limited to,
all garbage, garbage containers, picnic tables and awnings/tents.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
LICENSES
§ 111.20 REQUIRED AND DURATION.
   It shall be unlawful for a transient merchant or itinerant vendor, religious
solicitor or any solicitor, canvasser or peddler to engage in such business
within the corporate limits of the village without first obtaining a permit in
accordance with the provisions of this chapter. The village and/or agent shall
conduct all background investigations required by the terms and conditions of
this chapter for applicants prior to the issuance of a permit. A permit shall
be good for a period of 90 consecutive days. The permit may not be renewed or
extended without the written approval of the Village Council and/or its
designated agent.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.21 APPLICATION.
   Applicants for permit under this chapter shall file a written, sworn
statement, in duplicate, with the Village Zoning Administrator, giving the
following information:
   (A)   Name and description of the applicant and each individual or entity
that will be assisting the applicant in any way;
   (B)   Permanent home and business address and full local address of the
applicant;
   (C)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to be
sold, and in the case of farm products, whether produced or grown by the
applicant;
   (D)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
   (E)   The length of time, days of week, hours and location for which the
permit is requested;
   (F)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold or orders
taken for sales thereof are manufactured or produced, where such goods or
products are located at time said application is filed and the proposed method
of delivery;
   (G)   A statement to the effect that if a permit is granted, it will not be
used or represented in any way as an endorsement by the village or by any
department or office thereof;
   (H)   A statement whether or not the applicant has been convicted of a
felony, civil infraction or ordinance violation (other than a traffic
violation), the nature of the offense or violation, the penalty or punishment
imposed, the date when and place where such offense occurred, and any other
pertinent detail thereof;
   (I)   Proof of possession of any license or permit which, under federal,
state or local laws or regulations, the applicant is required to have in order
to conduct the proposed business, or which, under such law or regulation, would
exempt the applicant from the licensing requirement of this chapter;
   (J)   Two photographs of the applicant which shall have been taken within 60
days immediately prior to the date of filing of the application. The
photographs shall measure two inches by two inches and show the head and
shoulders of the applicant in a clear and distinguishing manner;
   (K)   A driver’s license, state identification card, passport or other
government-issued identification card containing the information;
   (L)   A waiver signed by the applicant and each person peddling/soliciting
for or on behalf of applicant, allowing for the village (or agent thereof) to
perform a criminal background check;
   (M)   The motor vehicle make, model, year, color, stated license plate and
number of any vehicle which shall be used by each person peddling/soliciting;
and
   (N)   A statement that the applicant or application for renewal is in
compliance and will remain in compliance with all other village ordinances,
state and federal laws.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.22 FEES.
   At the time of the application for a permit required by this chapter is
submitted, a permit fee as currently established or as hereafter adopted by
resolution of the Village Council in accordance with this chapter, will be paid
to the Treasurer at the time of application or renewal. Application fee is set
by village resolution.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.23 INVESTIGATION OF APPLICATION; DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   Upon receipt of the application for a permit required by this chapter, the
same shall be referred to the Zoning Administrator or his or her agent, who
shall cause such investigation of such person(s) business responsibility or
moral character as defined and regulated in Public Act 381 of 1974, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 338.41 et seq. to be made as he or she deems necessary for the
protection of the public good. If as a result of the investigation, the
character and business responsibility are found to be unsatisfactory, or that
the permitting of such applicant may pose a risk to health, safety and/or
welfare of the citizens of the village, the application shall be denied. The
Zoning Administrator and/or his or her agent shall endorse on such application
his or her disapproval and his or her reasons for the same and return the same
to the Village Clerk, who shall notify the applicant that his or her
application is denied and that no permit will be issued.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.24 APPROVAL.
   If, as result of the investigation described in §
111.23, the character and responsibility of the applicant are found to be
satisfactory, and the permitting of such applicant does not appear to pose a
risk to the health, safety and/or welfare of the citizens of the village, the
Zoning Administrator and/or his or her agent shall endorse on the application
his or her approval; and upon such approval, the Village Clerk shall deliver to
the applicant the permit Such permit shall contain the signature of the issuing
village official and shall show the name, address and the photograph, of the
permittee the class of the permit issued and the kind of goods to be sold
thereunder, the fee paid, and the date of issuance, the length of time the same
shall be operative, as well as the permit number and other identifying
description of any vehicle used by the applicant. The Clerk shall keep a
permanent record of all permits issued and copies on file. The permit shall be
nontransferable.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.25 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   Transient merchants and itinerant vendors, religious solicitors or any
solicitor, canvasser or peddler are required to exhibit all licenses and
permits.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.26 REVOCATION.
   (A)   Permits issued under the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by
the village after notice and hearing by the Village Council or any following
causes:
      (1)   Fraud; misrepresentation or false statement contained in the
application for a permit;
      (2)   Fraud; misrepresentation or false statement made in the course of
carrying on his or her business;
      (3)   Any violation of this chapter and/or permit;
      (4)   Conviction of a crime or civil infraction involving moral
turpitude; or
      (5)   Conducting of business in an unlawful manner or in such a manner as
to constitute a breach of peace, safety or general welfare of the public.
   (B)   The Village Ordinance Enforcer, Zoning Administrator or Law
Enforcement officer may suspend a permit issued under the provisions of this
chapter prior to the hearing if it is determined that continued activity would
jeopardize the health, safety or well-being of the citizens of the village. If
permit is suspended, prior to hearing, said hearing shall be held no later than
30 calendar days from the date of the suspension.
   (C)   Notice of hearing for the revocation of a permit shall be given in
writing, setting forth specifically the grounds of the complaint and the time
and place of the hearing. Such notice shall be mailed, postage prepaid, to the
permittee at the address listed on the permit or at his or her last known
address at least four days prior to the date of the hearing.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017) Penalty, see §
111.99
§ 111.27 APPEALS OF DENIAL, REVOCATION OR WRITTEN COMPLAINT.
   Any person aggrieved by the action of the Village Zoning Administrator and
his or her designated agent, Ordinance Enforcer or law enforcement shall have
the right of appeal to the Village Council. Such appeal shall be taken by
filing with the Village Clerk, a written statement setting forth the grounds of
the appeal within 14 days after receiving the complaint. The Council shall set
a time and place for a hearing on such appeal, which shall be no later than the
next regular scheduled Village Council meeting held at least four days after
the filing of the application for appeal. Notice of such hearing shall be given
to the appellant in the same manner as provided in §
111.26. The decision and order of the Council on such an appeal shall be final
and conclusive.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   Any person(s) violating this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal
infraction.
(Ord. 47, passed 2-27-2017)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION SERVICE
Section
   
112.01   Definitions
   
112.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
112.03   Rate regulations promulgated by fee
   
112.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
112.05   Proprietary information
   
112.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
112.07   Tolling order
   
112.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following deadline
   
112.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
112.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
112.11   Refunds; notice
   
112.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
112.13   Rules and regulations
   
112.14   Failure to give notice
   
112.15   Additional hearings
   
112.16   Additional powers
   
112.17   Failure to comply; remedies
§ 112.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning. All other
words and phrases used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as defined
in the Act and FCC Rules.
   ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as amended
by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of 1992, Pub.
Law No. 102-385), and as may be amended from time to time.
   ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services that are subject to
regulation pursuant to 47 C.F.R. § 76.923.
   BASIC CABLE SERVICE. “Basic service”, as defined in the FCC Rules, and any
other cable television service which is subject to rate regulation by the
village pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
   FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
   FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
   INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.02 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the village.
   (B)   This chapter shall be implemented and interpreted consistent with the
Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.03 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FEE.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the village shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.04 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates in
accordance with the Act and FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as part
of its submission such information as is necessary to show that its schedule of
rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and the FCC
Rules. The cable operator shall file ten copies of the schedule or proposed
increase with the Village Clerk. For purpose of this chapter, the filing of the
cable operator shall be deemed to have been made when at least ten copies have
been received by the Village Clerk. The Village Council may, by resolution or
otherwise, adopt rules and regulations prescribing the information, data and
calculations which must be included as part of the cable operator’s filing of
the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
pursuant to division (A) above, a cable operator shall provide all information
requested by the Village President in connection with the village’s review and
regulation of existing rates for the basic service tier and associated
equipment or a proposed increase in these rates. The Village President may
establish deadlines for submission of the requested information and the cable
operator shall comply with such deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
such rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. §§ 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.05 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   In this chapter, any rules or regulations adopted by the village
pursuant to §
112.04(B), or any request for information requires the production of
proprietary information, the cable operator shall produce the information.
However, at the time the allegedly proprietary information is submitted, a
cable operator may request that specific, identified portions of its response
be treated as confidential and withheld from public disclosure.
      (2)   The request must state the reason why the information should be
treated as proprietary and the facts that support those reasons. The request
for confidentiality will be granted if the village determines that the
preponderance of the evidence shows that non-disclosure is consistent with the
provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, being 5 U.S.C. § 522. The village
shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that results in
information being withheld.
      (3)   If the cable operator requests confidentiality and the request is
denied:
         (a)   Where the cable operator is proposing a rate increase, it may
withdraw the proposal, in which case the allegedly proprietary information will
be returned to it; or
         (b)   The cable operator may seek review within five working days of
the denial in any appropriate forum.
      (4)   Release of the information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the village. The village shall weigh the policy
considerations favoring non-disclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny or
condition a request. The requesting party or the cable operator may seek review
of the decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will
be stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed as
analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests for
confidentiality including without limitation, 47 C.F.R. § 0.459.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.06 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of ten copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to §
112.04(A), the Village Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Village Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Village Clerk not later than seven days after the public notice
is published.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time and place of the meeting at which the Village Council shall first consider
the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be mailed by
first class mail at least three days before the meeting. In addition, if a
written staff or consultant’s report on the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase is prepared for consideration of the Village Council, then the Village
Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first class mail to the cable operator
at least three days before the meeting at which the Village Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.07 TOLLING ORDER.
   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rates or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under §
112.04(A) unless the Village Council (or other properly authorized body or
official) tolls the 30 days of the date of filing. The Village Council may toll
the 30-day deadline for an additional 90 days in cases not involving cost-of-
service showings and for an additional 150 days in cases involving cost-of-
service showings.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.08 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING
DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to §
112.04 and 47 C.F.R. § 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates for
the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in these
rates, the cable operator shall submit to the village any additional
information required or requested pursuant to §
112.04. In addition, the Village Council shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publish a public notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   Interested parties may appear in person, by agent or by letter at
such hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates or the
proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   Copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in rates
and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail by first class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.09 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Village President shall cause a report to
be prepared for the Village Council which shall (based on the filing of the
cable operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested from the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant’s
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the Village Council pursuant to §
112.10. The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable operator
by first class mail not less than 20 days before the Village Council acts under
§
112.10. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Village Clerk. If at least ten copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the Village Clerk within ten days after the report is mailed to
the cable operator, the Village Clerk shall forward it to the Village Council.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.10 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Village Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in such rates, denies the
existing rates or proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules; if the Village Council issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
C.F.R. § 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within 90
days of the tolling order under §
112.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall be
issued within 150 days after the tolling order under §
112.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.11 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   The Village Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in 47
C.F.R. § 76.942. Before the Village Council orders any refund to subscribers,
the Village Clerk shall give at least seven days’ written notice to the cable
operator by first class mail of the date, time and place at which the Village
Council shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity
for the cable operator to comment. The cable operator may appear in person, by
agent or by letter at such time for the purpose of submitting comments to the
Village Council.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.12 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Village Council pursuant to §
112.11 or this section shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by
the Village Council, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption.
   (B)   The Clerk shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a
newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk. In addition, the Clerk
shall mail a copy of the text of the written decision to the cable operator by
first class mail.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to §
112.04, the Village Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulation for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.14 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Village Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by this chapter shall not invalidate the decisions of
proceedings of the Village Council.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.15 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of this chapter, the Village Council may
hold additional public hearings upon such reasonable notice as the Village
Council, in its sole discretion, shall prescribe.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The village shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules,
the cable operator’s franchise and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules and this chapter shall be in
addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise. The village may take any
action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to protect the public
interest in connection with basic cable service rate regulation.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993)
§ 112.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   The village may pursue any and all legal and equitable remedies against the
cable operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a
cable operator’s consent agreement with the village) for failure to comply with
the Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter or any rules or regulations
promulgated hereunder. Subject to applicable law, failure to comply with the
Act, the FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to
this chapter, any requirements of this chapter, or any rules and regulations
promulgated hereunder, shall also be sufficient grounds for revocation or
denial of renewal of a cable operator’s consent agreement.
(Ord. 29, passed 9-27-1993) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 113: SPECIALIZED SALES AND SERVICES
Section
   
113.01   Yard and sidewalk sales
 
   
113.99   Penalty
§ 113.01 YARD AND SIDEWALK SALES.
   No sales are permitted of any kind, outdoors, without the consent of the
Village Council.
(Ord. 10, passed 4-22-1968) Penalty, see §
113.99
§ 113.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
      
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
132.   OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE AND ORDER
Section
Vandalism in Village or Publicly Owned Areas
   
130.01   Purpose
   
130.02   Unlawful acts
   
130.03   Reimbursement for damages; judgment; collections; joint convictions;
minor defendant
   
130.04   Disposition of funds
Disorderly Conduct
   
130.15   Definition
   
130.16   Acts prohibited
 
   
130.99   Penalty
VANDALISM IN VILLAGE OR PUBLICLY OWNED AREAS
§ 130.01 PURPOSE.
   The village code be and the same is amended to add regulations entitled
“Vandalism in Village or Publicly Owned Parks and Recreation Areas”.
(Ord. passed 8-24-1987)
§ 130.02 UNLAWFUL ACTS.
   It is unlawful to destroy, damage or remove any tree, shrub, wildflower or
other vegetation, or to destroy, damage, deface or remove any publicly owned
property in any publicly owned park or recreation area.
(Ord. passed 8-24-1987) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.03 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DAMAGES; JUDGMENT; COLLECTIONS; JOINT CONVICTIONS;
MINOR DEFENDANT.
   (A)   In addition to the penalties provided in this act for violating its
provisions, any person convicted of an act of vandalism shall reimburse the
village or other public entity for up to three times the amount of the damage
as determined by the Court.
   (B)   In every case of conviction for the offense, the Court before whom
such conviction is obtained, shall enter judgment in favor of the village and
against the defendant for liquidated damages in a sum as provided in division
(A) above. The village or other public entity shall, with the assistance of the
Village Attorney, collect the award by execution or otherwise. If two or more
defendants are convicted of the vandalism, the judgment for damages shall be
entered against them jointly. If the defendant is a minor, the judgment shall
be entered against his or her parents.
(Ord. passed 8-24-1987)
§ 130.04 DISPOSITION OF FUNDS.
   Upon collection, the sums shall be credited to the General Fund of the
village or other public entity and shall be used for repairs and improvements
to the parks or recreation areas.
(Ord. passed 8-24-1987)
DISORDERLY CONDUCT
§ 130.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
(Ord. 18, passed 5-22-1972)
§ 130.16 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Commit an assault, or an assault and battery on any person;
   (B)   (1)   Do any of the following:
         (a)   Be under the influence of wine, beer or intoxicating liquor in
any public place or under the influence of any narcotic drug in any public
place;
         (b)   Consume any alcoholic beverages or intoxicating liquors in any
motor vehicle, on any public street, park or other public place or place open
to public in the village;
         (c)   Have in his or her possession in any motor vehicle, upon any
public street, park or other public place, or place open to public an open
receptacle or container containing any alcoholic beverages or intoxicating
liquors;
         (d)   At any time have or possess a hypodermic syringe or needle or
any other instrument or implement adapted for the use of controlled substances
by subcutaneous injection or intracutaneous injection or any other manner or
method of introduction and which is possessed for that purpose, unless such
possession is authorized by the certificate of a licensed medical doctor or
osteopathic physician issued within the period of one year; provided that the
prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to manufacturers,
wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians, technologists, nurses,
hospital research teaching institutions, clinical laboratories, medical
doctors, osteopathic physicians, dentists, chiropodists, veterinarians,
pharmacists and embalmers in the normal, legal course of their respective
business or profession, nor to persons suffering from diabetes, asthma or any
other medical condition requiring self-injection;
         (e)   Any fraud, scheme, device, trick, deceit, misrepresentation,
subterfuge or any other form of concealment for the purpose of obtaining money
or any other thing of value by the sale, furnishing, supplying or giving away
of any substance represented to be a “controlled substance”, as described in
division (B)(2) below, when the same may or may not be the same, shall be
deemed a violation of this section; and/or
         (f)   Loiter about, frequent or live in any building, apartment,
store, automobile, boat, boathouse, airplane or other place of any description
whatsoever, where controlled substances, hypodermic syringes, needles or other
instruments or implements or empty gelatin capsules are used, sold, dispensed,
furnished, given away, stored or kept illegally.
      (2)   “Controlled substances” are deemed to be and are described as
defined in state statute.
   (C)   Drive or attempt to drive or operate any motor vehicle on any highway
within the village while showing any evidence of having drunk intoxicating
liquor;
   (D)   Discharge any firearm, air rifle, air pistol or bow and arrow in the
village, except when in connection with a regularly scheduled educational or
training program or a ceremony under adequate supervision;
   (E)   Fire, discharge, display or possess any fireworks except of the type
and under the conditions permitted by state statute;
   (F)   Engage in peeping in the windows of any inhabited place;
   (G)   Beg in any place;
   (H)   Swim or bathe in any public place without wearing proper apparel;
   (I)   Utter vile, profane or obscene language in any public place;
   (J)   Engage in fortune telling or pretend to tell fortunes for hire, gain
or reward;
   (K)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral or obscene conduct in any
public place;
   (L)   Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of his or her person;
   (M)   Print, engrave, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit or publish,
or have in his or her possession for any such purpose, any obscene, lewd,
lascivious, indecent or immodest pamphlet, paper, picture, cast statuary, image
or representation or other art fight, or quarrel in a public place;
   (N)   Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place;
   (O)   Jostle or roughly crowd persons in any street, alley, park or public
building;
   (P)   Loiter on any street or sidewalk or in any park or public building or
conduct himself or herself, in any public place so as to obstruct the free and
uninterrupted passage of the public;
   (Q)   Play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon, for
any purpose;
   (R)   Engage in any act of prostitution;
   (S)   Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any place
where prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor or where
any other illegal or immoral business or occupation is permitted or conducted;
   (T)   Engage in prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor or any other illegal or immoral business or occupation. Proof of recent
reputation for engaging in prostitution, gambling, illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor or other illegal or immoral occupation or business shall be prima-facie
evidence of being engaged or occupied therein;
   (U)   Solicit or accost any person for the purpose of inducing the
commission of any illegal or immoral act;
   (V)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
gambling is practiced, encouraged or allowed for the purpose of enabling such
person to engage in gambling or in any illegal or immoral act;
   (W)   Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming tables or any policy or pool
tickets, used for gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming tables or
any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played or sold on any
premises occupied or controlled by him or her;
   (X)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous or vulgar
conduct;
   (Y)   Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him or her to be
a resort of noisy, boisterous or disorderly persons;
   (Z)   Obstruct, resist, hinder or oppose any member of the police force, or
any peace officer in the discharge of his or her duties as such;
   (AA)   Wander about the streets, either by day or night, or loiter in any
public building without any lawful means of support or without being able to
give a satisfactory account of himself or herself;
   (BB)   Prowl about any alley or the private premises of any person in the
nighttime, without authority or the permission of the owner of such premises;
   (CC)   Spit on any sidewalk or on the floor or seat of any public
assemblage;
   (DD)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object from any
moving automobile;
   (EE)   Wrongfully throw or propel any snowball, missile or object toward any
person or automobile;
   (FF)   Willfully destroy, remove, damage, alter or in any manner deface any
property not his or her own, or any public school building, or any public
building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light, street sign, traffic
control device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter or shade tree belonging
to the village or located in the public places of the village, or mark or post
handbills on, or in any manner mar the walls of, any public building, or fence,
tree or pole within the village, or destroy, take or meddle with any property
belonging to the village or remove the same from the building or place where it
may be kept, placed or stored, without proper authority;
   (GG)   Summon, as a joke or prank or otherwise without any good reason
therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the Police or the Fire Department or any
public or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for
is not needed;
   (HH)   Disturb any school, meeting or congregation lawfully assembled,
whether religious, political or otherwise;
   (II)   With sticks, stones or in any other manner willfully break or injure,
any window, door or other parts of any building, whether such building is
occupied or not; and/or
   (JJ)   Commit the offense of petty larceny by stealing, of the property of
another, any money, goods or chattels of the value of $100 or less.
(Ord. 18, passed 5-22-1972; Ord. passed 3-26-1973; Ord. passed 6-23-1973; Ord.
passed 7-28-1975) Penalty, see §
130.99
§ 130.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who violates any provision of §§
130.01 through
130.04 is guilty of a civil infraction, and upon conviction, shall be punished
by a fine not exceeding $500 or imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 days,
or both, except whenever a specific penalty is otherwise provided.
   (C)   Any person convicted of a violation of any provisions of §§
130.15 and
130.16 shall be deemed a disorderly person and shall be punished by a fine of
not more than $500 and costs of prosecution, or by imprisonment not to exceed
90 days or both.
(Ord. passed 3-26-1973; Ord. passed 8-24-1987)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
Firearms
   
131.01   Prohibited conduct
   
131.02   Hunting game or fowl
   
131.03   Forfeit
Marihuana Possession and Use
   
131.15   Definitions
   
131.16   Prohibited acts
 
   
131.99   Penalty
FIREARMS
§ 131.01 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   No person except a police officer or other peace officer in the discharge of
his or her duty, shall fire a revolver, pistol, shotgun, rifle, air rifle, bow
and arrow, slingshot or other dangerous weapon within the village.
(Ord. 11, passed 9-24-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.02 HUNTING GAME OR FOWL.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to hunt wild game or fowl or in any
manner, carry any gun, weapon or firearm for the purpose of hunting game or
fowl within the village limits.
(Ord. 11, passed 9-24-2012) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.03 FORFEIT.
   All weapons, guns, pistols or firearms carried, possessed or used contrary
to the preceding sections are declared forfeited to the village.
(Ord. 11, passed 9-24-2012)
MARIHUANA POSSESSION AND USE
§ 131.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MARIHUANA. As defined in § 7106 of the State Public Health Code, Public Act
368 or 1978, being M.C.L.A. § 333.7106.
   THC. Delta-9-tetrahydrocannabinol acid.
(Ord. 48, passed 2-26-2019)
§ 131.16 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   The following acts within the village are prohibited.
   (A)   No person under 21 years of age shall at any time possess or consume
any marihuana plant or plant material, or any product, extract or edible items
containing THC, unless such possession is authorized by M.C.L.A. § 333.26424
and possess a valid card issued by the state.
   (B)   No person shall smoke or inhale any marihuana plant material or any
product or extract containing THC in a public place or in a place open to the
general public and where prohibited by the persons who own, occupy or manage
the property.
   (C)   No person shall possess more than two and one-half ounces of dried or
partially dried marihuana plant or plant material, two and one-half ounces of
any edible item containing THC or 15 grams of liquid or solid extract of THC
outside of his, her or their own residence.
   (D)   No person shall use butane or any other method that utilizes a
substance with a flashpoint below 100°F to extract resin from marihuana plants
or plant material in any public place, motor vehicle or within the curtilage of
any residential structure.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly sell, give or furnish any marihuana plant,
plant material or any product, extract or edible items containing THC to a
person under 21 years of age.
   (F)   No person shall cultivate marihuana plants that are visible from a
public place without the use of binoculars, aircraft or other optical aids or
outside of an enclosed area equipped with locks or other functioning security
devises that restrict access to the area or cultivate more than 12 plants per
qualified adult owning, occupying or managing the property.
(Ord. 48, passed 2-26-2019) Penalty, see §
131.99
§ 131.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §§
131.01 through
131.03 shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction.
(Ord. 11, passed 9-24-2012; Ord. passed 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES INVOLVING MINORS
Section
   
132.01   Curfew
   
132.02   Trick or treat hours
   
132.03   Furnishing or use of liquor by minors
 
   
132.99   Penalty
§ 132.01 CURFEW.
   (A)   No person under the age of 17 years old shall loiter, idle or
congregate in or on any public street, highway, alley or park within said
village between the hours often 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless exempted under
division (D) below.
   (B)   No person 17 years or older shall loiter, idle or congregate in or on
any public street, highway, alley or park within said village between the hours
of 12:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. unless exempted under division (D) below.
   (C)   Any person of the age of 17 years or over assisting, aiding, abetting,
allowing, permitting or encouraging any minor under the age of 17 years to
violate the provisions of divisions (A) or (B) above is guilty of a civil
infraction unless exempted under division (D) below.
   (D)   It is an exemption to a violation under this section that the person
engaged in the prohibited conduct while:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor’s parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor’s parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor’s residence, or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
Police Department about the minor’s presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the village, a civic
organization or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor,
or going to or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official
school, religious or other recreational activity supervised by adults and
sponsored by the village, a civic organization or another similar entity that
takes responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married, or had been married, or had disabilities of minority
removed in accordance with state law.
(Ord. 15, passed 12-18-2006) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.02 TRICK OR TREAT HOURS.
   This section restricts the hours for “Trick or Treat” to the hours from 6:00
p.m. to 8:00 p.m. within the village limits on Halloween night.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-26-1973) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.03 FURNISHING OR USE OF LIQUOR BY MINORS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      ALCOHOLIC LIQUOR. As defined in the laws of the state.
      MINORS. Persons less than 18 years of age.
   (B)   Acts prohibited.
      (1)   No person shall knowingly sell, give or furnish any alcoholic
liquor to a minor within the village, except upon authority and pursuant to a
prescription of a duly licensed physician.
      (2)   No minor in the village shall purchase or knowingly possess or
transport any alcoholic liquor, or knowingly possess, transport or have under
his or her control in any motor vehicle any alcoholic liquor unless said minor
is employed by a licensee under the State Liquor Control Code, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 436.1101 et seq., and is possessing, transporting or having such alcoholic
liquor in a motor vehicle under his or her control during regular working hours
and in the course of his or her employment.
(Ord. 21, passed 6-23-1973) Penalty, see §
132.99
§ 132.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person guilty of a civil infraction, defined in §
132.01, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 or by
imprisonment not to exceed 30 days, or both such fine and imprisonment in the
discretion of the Court.
   (C)   Any person in violation of §
132.02 shall be liable for a penalty of $100 or more, or imprisonment not
exceeding 90 days, or both, in the discretion of the Court, together with the
costs of the prosecution, and the offender on failing to pay such fine, penalty
or forfeiture and the costs of prosecution, may be imprisoned for any time not
exceeding 90 days, unless payment thereto be sooner made, and also that the
offender be kept at labor during such imprisonment.
   (D)   Any person found guilty of any offense under §
132.03 shall be guilty of a civil infraction, and shall be punished by a fine
of not more than $500 and/or imprisonment in the County Jail for not more than
90 days.
(Ord. 20, passed 3-26-1973; Ord. 21, passed 6-23-1973; Ord. 15, passed 12-18-
2006)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
      
151.   ADOPTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CODES
      
152.   SUBDIVISION CONTROL
      
153.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: BUILDING AND CONSTRUCTION
Section
General Provisions
   
150.01   Construction and usage of docks
Demolition or Removal of Condemned, Hazardous Buildings
   
150.15   Purpose
   
150.16   Regulations
Performance Guarantees and Bonds
   
150.30   Requirements
   
150.31   Improvements covered
   
150.32   Return of performance guarantee or bond
   
150.33   Withholding and partial withholding of performance bond
   
150.34   Performance bond for razing of buildings
   
150.35   Record of performance guarantees
 
   
150.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Dangerous structure or premises a civil infraction, see §
91.02
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 150.01 CONSTRUCTION AND USAGE OF DOCKS.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to regulate the construction and usage
of all docks as well as who may install docks along the shores of Fox Lake in
the village.
   (B)   The village retains the sole right to establish any docking system
where the roads under their jurisdiction terminate into the water.
      (1)   Only property owners directly abutting the lake, separated by the
platted walkway around the lake may establish a dock.
      (2)   All docks to be removed from the lake no later than October 31.
      (3)   Any docks removed for the winter shall be stored on owner’s
property.
      (4)   Only one dock per contiguous parcel as described in division (B)(1)
above.
      (5)   No docks may extend across the platted walkway.
      (6)   All docks must be constructed of treated material or any type of
manufactured dock is also acceptable.
   (C)   Any unsightly or dilapidated dock will be removed by the village after
a notice has been sent to the dock owner and 30 days have passed. The notice
will explain what is wrong with the dock. The owner will be billed for the
removal and will not be allowed to replace the dock until the bill is paid.
(Ord. 49, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. passed 10-26-2015; Ord. passed 8-26-2019)
Penalty, see §
150.99
DEMOLITION OR REMOVAL OF CONDEMNED, HAZARDOUS BUILDINGS
§ 150.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to prevent the erection and provide for
the removal of all buildings deemed unsafe. See the Village Charter Act 3 of
189; as amended—Powers of the Council, Chapter VII, Section 1.
(Ord. passed 11-28-1972)
§ 150.16 REGULATIONS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall erect or allow to deteriorate any
building or dwelling on any property or upon any premises within the village.
(Ord. passed 11-28-1972) Penalty, see §
150.99
PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES AND BONDS
§ 150.30 REQUIREMENTS.
   In authorizing a temporary permit, development permit, site plan approval,
special use permit, planned unit development approval or variance, the body or
official(s) which approves the respective request, as designated by this
subchapter, may require that a performance guarantee or bond be furnished to
ensure:
   (A)   Compliance with the requirements, specifications and conditions
imposed with the grant of such approval, permit or variance; and
   (B)   The discontinuance of a temporary use by a stipulated time; and to
provide sufficient resources for the village to complete required improvements
or conditions in the event the permit holder does not.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 150.31 IMPROVEMENTS COVERED.
   (A)   Improvements that shall be covered by the performance guarantee or
bond include, but are not necessarily limited to, streets and other roadways,
utilities, fencing, screening, landscaping, common open space improvements,
lighting, drainage and sidewalks.
   (B)   The performance guarantee shall meet the following requirements.
      (1)   Form. The performance guarantee shall be in the form of cash,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, surety bond or similar
instrument acceptable to the Village Clerk which names the property owner as
the obligor and the village as the obligee.
      (2)   Time when required. The performance guarantee or bond shall be
submitted at the time of issuance of the permit authorizing the activity of the
project. If appropriate, based on the type of performance guarantee submitted,
the village shall deposit the funds in an interest bearing account in a
financial institution with which the village regularly conducts business.
      (3)   Amount. The amount of the performance guarantee or bond should be
sufficient to cover the estimated cost of the improvements or conditions.
Additional guidelines for establishing the amount of a performance guarantee or
bond may be prescribed by resolution of the Village Council. If none are
specified or applicable to the particular use or development, the Village
Council shall, by resolution, establish a guideline which it deems adequate to
deal with the particular problem while ensuring the protection of the village
and its inhabitants.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 150.32 RETURN OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE OR BOND.
   The Zoning Administrator, upon the written request of the obligor, and
pursuant to the procedure in §
150.33, shall rebate portions of the performance guarantee upon determination
that the improvements for which the rebate has been requested have been
satisfactorily completed. The portion of the performance guarantee to be
rebated shall be in the same amount as stated in the itemized cost estimate for
the applicable improvement or condition.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 150.33 WITHHOLDING AND PARTIAL WITHHOLDING OF PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   As required improvements are completed, or when all of the required
improvements have been completed, the obligor shall send written notice to the
Zoning Administrator of completion of said improvements. Thereupon, the Zoning
Administrator shall inspect all of the improvements and shall transmit
recommendation to the Planning Commission and Village Council indicating either
approval, partial approval or rejection of the improvements or conditions with,
a statement of the reasons for any rejections. If partial approval is
indicated, the cost of the improvement or condition rejected shall be set
forth.
   (B)   The Planning Commission (or on a planned unit development, the Village
Council) shall either approve, partially approve or reject the improvements or
conditions with the recommendation of the Zoning Administrator’s written
statement and shall notify the obligor in writing of the action of the Planning
Commission within 60 days after receipt of the notice from the obligor of the
completion of the improvements. Where partial approval is granted, the obligor
shall be released from liability pursuant to relevant portions of the
performance guarantee or bond, except for that portion adequately sufficient to
secure provision of the improvements not yet approved.
   (C)   Should installation of improvements begin and fail to meet full
completion based on the approved site plan, or if the project area is reduced
in size and improvements are only partially completed or conditions only
partially met, the village may complete the necessary improvements or
conditions itself or by contract to an independent developer, and assess all
costs of completing the improvements or conditions against the performance
guarantee or bond. Any balance remaining would be returned to the applicant.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 150.34 PERFORMANCE BOND FOR RAZING OF BUILDINGS.
   The Building Official may require a bond prior to the razing or demolition
of principal structures and accessory structures having more than 120 square
feet of floor area. The bond shall be determined according to estimated cost to
raise and dispose of the structure to be razed. A bond shall be conditioned on
the applicant completing the razing within such reasonable period as shall be
prescribed in the permit and complying with such regulations as to health and
safety as the Building Official, Fire Chief or the Village Council may from
time to time prescribe, including filling of excavations and proper termination
of utility connections.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 150.35 RECORD OF PERFORMANCE GUARANTEES.
   The Village Attorney shall maintain a record of authorized performance
guarantees.
(Ord. 32, passed 5-22-2000)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person who shall violate any of the provisions of §
150.01 may be deemed guilty of a civil infraction, and upon conviction thereof,
may be subject to a fine not to exceed the sum of $500, or the imprisonment for
a period not to exceed 90 days or both, such fine and imprisonment at the
discretion of the Court.
   (C)   If the owner or occupant of any lot or premises, when required by the
Council or Board of Health to remove any unsafe building or structure, or to
cleanse, purify or drain such lot or premises, or to abate or remove any
nuisance therefrom, shall neglect so to do, and the Council shall incur any
expense in causing the same to be done, such expense may be charged upon such
lot or premises, and collected as a special assessment thereon; or such expense
may be recovered by the village in an action of debt or assumpsit against the
owner or occupant of any such lot or premises.
(Ord. passed 11-28-1972; Ord. 49, passed 11-26-2012; Ord. passed 12-12-2022)
CHAPTER 151: ADOPTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF CODES
Section
Enforcement of Codes
   
151.01   Building Code
   
151.02   Electrical Code
   
151.03   Mechanical Code
   
151.04   Plumbing Code
Uniform Code for Abatement of Dangerous Buildings
   
151.15   Purpose
   
151.16   Uniform Code for Abatement of Dangerous Buildings adopted
   
151.17   Board of Appeals
Housing and Maintenance Code
   
151.30   Adoption; amendments
   
151.31   Agency designated
   
151.32   Inspections
 
   
151.99   Penalty
ENFORCEMENT OF CODES
§ 151.01 BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Building Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, the Building Official of the village is designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the village under Act 230,
of the Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended.
   (B)   The village assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 35, passed 4-22-2002)
§ 151.02 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Electrical Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, the Electrical Official of the village is designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the village under Public
Act 230 of 1972, as amended.
   (B)   The village assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 36, passed 4-22-2002)
§ 151.03 MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Mechanical Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, the Mechanical Official of the village is designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the village under Public
Act 230 of 1972, as amended.
   (B)   The village assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 37, passed 4-22-2002)
§ 151.04 PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Plumbing Code, in accordance
with § 8b(6) of Public Act 230 of 1972, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501
through 125.1531, the Plumbing Official of the village is designated as the
enforcing agency to discharge the responsibility of the village under Public
Act 230 of 1972, as amended.
   (B)   The village assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of said Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 38, passed 4-22-2002)
UNIFORM CODE FOR ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 151.15 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to adopt the current Uniform Codes for the
Abatement of Dangerous Buildings, 1997 Edition, as published by the
International Conference of Building Officials, except as modified herein.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 151.16 UNIFORM CODE FOR ABATEMENT OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS ADOPTED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 246 of 1945, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. § 41.181, adopts by reference the 1997 edition of the Uniform Code for
the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-28-1997)
§ 151.17 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Section 205 of the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings is
replaced by the following provision: Section 204. In order of provide for
reasonable interpretation of the provisions of the Code and to hear appeals
provided for hereunder, there is created a Building Board of Appeals consisting
of three members who are qualified by experience and training to pass upon
matters pertaining to building construction and who are not employees of the
jurisdiction. The Building Board of Appeals as appointed by the President with
ratification by the Village Council for the purpose of administration of the
Uniform Building Codes, as adopted by the village shall also serve as the final
Board of Appeals for the administration of the Uniform Code for the Abatement
of Dangerous Buildings hereunder, with those duties responsibilities and powers
as provided for in the Uniform Code for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings.
(Ord. 24, passed 7-28-1997)
HOUSING AND MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 151.30 ADOPTION; AMENDMENTS.
   The National Basic Housing Property Maintenance Code, 1975 edition, is
adopted with the following amendments:
   (A)   Section H-103.2 shall be deleted and in its place shall be substituted
the following sections.
      (1)   H-103.2. Dangerous Buildings. If all or part of any building or
structure (including among others a fence, billboard or sign) or the equipment
for the operation thereof (including among others the heating plant, plumbing,
electric wiring, moving stairways, elevators and fire extinguishing apparatus)
shall be found, in the opinion of the building official, to be in an unsafe
condition - dangerous to life, limb, or property - he shall proceed to have the
same condemned pursuant to the applicable provisions contained in Sections H-
103.2.1 through H-103.2.4.
      (2)   Section H-103.2.1(a). Commencement of Proceedings. Whenever the
Building Official has inspected or caused to be inspected any building and has
found and determined that such building is a dangerous building, he shall
commence proceedings to cause the repair, vacation, or demolition of the
building.
      (3)   Section H-103.2.1(b). Notice and Order. The Building Official shall
issue a notice and order directed to the record owner of the building. The
notice and order shall contain:
         1.   The street address and a legal description sufficient for
identification of the premises upon which the building is located.
         2.   A statement that the Building Official has found the building to
be dangerous with a brief and concise description of the conditions found to
render the building dangerous under the provisions of Section H-103.2 of this
Code.
         3.   A statement of the action required to be taken as determined by
the Building Official.
            (i)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be repaired, the order shall require that all required permits
be secured therefor and the work physically commenced within such time (not to
exceed 30 days from the date of the order) and completed within such time as
the Building Official shall determine is reasonable under all of the
circumstances.
            (ii)   If the Building Official has determined that the building or
structure must be vacated, the order shall require that the building or
structure shall be vacated within a time certain from the date of the order as
determined by the building Official to be reasonable.
            (iii)   If the building Official has determined that the building
or structure must be demolished, the order shall require that the building be
vacated within such time as the Building Official shall determine is reasonable
(not to exceed 30 days from the date of the order); that all required permits
be secured therefor within 30 days from the date of the order, and that the
demolition be completed within such time as the Building Official shall
determine is reasonable.
         4.   Statements advising that if any required repair or demolition
work (without vacation also being required) is not commenced within the time
specified, the Building Official (i) will order the building vacated and posted
to prevent further occupancy until the work is completed, and (ii) may proceed
to cause the work to be done and charge the costs thereof against the property
or its owner.
         5.   Statements advising (i) that any person having any record title
or legal interest in the building may appeal from the notice and order of any
action of the Building Official to the Board of Appeals, provided the appeal is
made in writing as provided, in this Code, and filed with the Building Official
within 30 days from the date of service of such notice and order; and (ii) that
failure to appeal will constitute a waiver of all right to an administrative
hearing and determination of the matter.
      (4)   Section H-103.2.1(c). Service of Notice and Order. The notice and
order, and any amended or supplemental notice and order, shall be served upon
the record owner, and posted on the property; and one copy thereof shall be
served on each of the following if known to the Building Official or disclosed
from official public records: the holder of any mortgage or deed of trust or
other lien or encumbrance of record; the owner or holder of any lease of
record; and the holder of any other estate or legal interest of record in or to
the building or the land on which it is located. The failure of the Building
Official to serve any person required herein to be served shall not invalidate
any proceedings hereunder as to any other person duly served or relieve any
such person from any duty or obligation imposed on him by the provisions of
this Section.
      (5)   Section H-103.2.1(d). Method of Service. Service of the notice and
order shall be made upon all persons entitled, thereto either personally or by
mailing a copy of such notice ant order by certified mail, postage prepaid,
return receipt requested, to each such person at his address as it appears on
the last equalized assessment roll of the county or as known to the Building
Official. If no address of any such person so appears or is known to the
Building Official, then a copy of the notice and order shall be so mailed,
addressed to such person, at the address of the building involved in the
proceedings. The failure of any such person to receive such notice shall not
affect the validity of any proceedings taken under this Section. Service by
certified mail in the manner herein provided shall be effective on the date of
receipt, and such service way be presumed 3 days after mailing, whichever
occurs first.
      (6)   Section H-103.2.1(e). Proof of Service. Proof of service of the
notice and order shall be certified to at the time of service by a written
declaration under penalty of perjury executed by the person effecting service,
declaring the time, date, and manner in which service was made. The
declaration, together with any receipt card returned in acknowledgement cf
receipt by certified mail, if available, shall be affixed to the cony of the
notice and order retained by the Building Official.
      (7)   Section H-103.2.2. Recordation of Notice and Order. If compliance
is not had with the order within the time specified therein, and no appeal has
been properly and timely filed, the Building Official may file in the office of
the County Recorder a certificate describing the property and certifying (i)
that the building is a dangerous building and (ii) that the owner has been so
notified. Whenever the corrections ordered shall thereafter have been completed
or the building demolished so that it no longer exists as a dangerous building
on the property described in the certificate, the Building Official may file a
new certificate with the County Recorder certifying that the building has been
demolished or all required corrections have been made so that the building is
no longer dangerous, whichever is appropriate.
      (8)   Section H-103.2.3. Repair, Vacation and Demolition. Standards to be
Followed. The following standards shall be followed by the Building Official
(and by the lord of Appeals if an appeal is taken) in ordering the repair,
vacation or demolition of any dangerous building or structure:
         1.   Any building declared a dangerous building under this ordinance
shall either be repaired in accordance with the current building code or shall
be demolished at the option of the Building Official, based on the state of
deterioration.
         2.   If the building or structure is in such condition as to make it
immediately dangerous to the life, limb, property or safety of the public or
its occupants, it shall be ordered to be vacated.
      (9)   Section H-103.2.4. Notice to Vacate. Posting. Every notice to
vacate shall, in addition to being served as provided in Section H-103.2.1(c),
be posted at or upon each exit of the building and shall be in substantially
the following form:
 
   DO NOT ENTER
   UNSAFE TO OCCUPY
 
It is a civil infraction to occupy this building, or to remove or deface this
notice.
 
   Building Official
   Village of Lakewood Club
 
      (10)   Section H-103.2.11(a). Compliance. Whenever such notice is posted,
the Building Official shall include a notification thereof in the notice order
issued by him under Subsection (b) of Section H-103.2.1, reciting the emergency
and specifying the conditions which necessitate the posting. No person shall
remain in or enter any building which has been so posted, except that entry may
be made to repair, demolish or remove such building under permit. No person
shall remove or deface any such notice after it is posted until the required
repairs, demolition or removal have been completed and a Certificate of
Occupancy issued pursuant to the provisions of the Building Code. Any person
violating this Subsection shall be guilty of a civil infraction.
   (B)   Section H-105.2, Subsection two (2) shall be deleted.
   (C)   (1)   Section H-402.3, requiring living space, shall be deleted in its
entirety.
      (2)   Section H-402.4, requiring space in sleeping rooms, shall be
deleted in its entirety.
   (D) Section 1, Article 6 entitled Recovery of Cost of Demolition is to be
added with the following provisions:
      (1)   Section H-600.1 Account of expense. The Building Inspector shall
keep an itemized account of demolition expenses of any building done pursuant
to the provisions of H-103.2.1(6)3(iii). Upon completion of the work a report
shall be filed by the Building Inspector with the Clerk containing the
following information:
         1.   The names and addresses of persons entitled thereto under Section
H-103.2.1(c).
         2.   A legal description of the property.
         3.   An itemized list of the work done and cost thereof.
      (2)   Section H-602. Report Transmitted to Board - Set for Hearing. Upon
receipt of the above report, the Clerk shall present same to the Village Board
for its consideration. The Board may accept, reject or modify same, and pay the
costs of demolition from its general fund or from any special grants received
for that purpose, If any assessment of the obligation is to be made against a
property owner, then the Board shall fix a time, date and place for a hearing
on said report and any objections thereto. The Clerk shall publish notice of
the hearing in a newspaper of general circulation within said village, and
served by certified mail, addressed to the owner of the property as his name
and address appear on the last equalized assessment role of the county, or as
known to the Clerk. Such notice shall be given at least ten (10) days prior to
the hearing and shall specify the day, hour and place when the Board shall pass
upon the report and hear any objections thereto.
      (3)   Section 11-603. Hearing of Protests. Upon the day and hour fixed
for the hearing, the Board shall pass upon the report and any objections or
protests by interested parties. The Board may make such revision, correction or
modification as it deems just, and then confirm or reject the report as
submitted, corrected, revised or modified.
      (4)   Section H-604. Personal Obligation or Assessment. The Board may
order that the charge shall be a personal obligation or shall be an assessment.
If the charge is to bo a personal obligation, the Village Counsel shall be so
notified and instructed to collect same by any legal means. If the charge is
assessed against the property, the Board shall confirm the assessment and cause
same to be recorded on the assessment roll. Such assessment shall constitute a
special assessment against and a lien on the property.
      (5)   Section H-605. Authority for Installment Payment of Assessment with
Interest. The Board, in its discretion, may determine that assessments in
amounts of $500.00 or more shall be payable in not to exceed five (5) annual
installments. The allowance of installments and interest thereon shall be by
resolution prior to confirmation of the assessment.
      (6)   Section H-606. Notice and Collection of Assessment. The Board shall
cause a copy of the assessment to be filed with the Village President, Village
Treasurer and County Treasurer. The assessment shall be collected on the same
date and same manner as ordinary taxes and be subject to the same penalties,
procedure and sale in case of delinquency as ordinary municipal taxes.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1976)
§ 151.31 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   The Building Official of the village is designated as the enforcing agency
to discharge the responsibilities of the village under this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 11-22-1976)
§ 151.32 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the sale, assignment or transfer by the owner of his or
her interest in any dwelling unit in the village, the owner shall have said
dwelling unit inspected by the Building Inspection Department who shall make
said inspection, prepare a written report thereof and furnish the person
requesting said inspection report with two copies thereof within ten days after
receiving the request for said inspection.
      (2)   The inspection report is valid for 90 days.
   (B)   Upon the receipt of such inspection report, the owner, prior to the
closing of said sale, assignment or transfer, shall furnish the prospective
buyer, assignee or transferee with a true copy of such report.
   (C)   At the time of filing an application for such inspection, the person
requesting the same shall pay a fee of $10 to the village for making such
inspection and furnishing two copies of the report of such inspection to the
person requesting the same.
   (D)   Said inspection report shall be considered as advisory only and shall
not prohibit the sale of said property.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1977) Penalty, see §
151.99
§ 151.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, firm or corporation who violates, disobeys, omits,
neglects or refuses to comply with any of the provisions of the Uniform Code
for the Abatement of Dangerous Buildings as adopted in §
151.16, shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction, and upon conviction
thereof, shall be subject to a maximum fine of $500 and/or 90 days to be served
in the County Jail. The continued violation of any provision of §§
151.15 through
151.17 shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense for each and every day
such violation continues.
   (C)   Anyone who shall represent that a certificate of occupancy has been
issued for the dwelling or who shall conceal the fact that a certificate has
not been issued shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction and upon
conviction be punished by a fine of not more than $100 or by imprisonment for
not more than 90 days or both.
(Ord. passed 2-9-1977; Ord. 24, passed 7-28-1997)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION CONTROL
Section
   
152.01   Purpose, authority and conformity
   
152.02   Definitions
   
152.03   Preparation and filing of plats
   
152.04   Preliminary plat review by Planning Commission
   
152.05   Approval of final or record plat
   
152.06   Required public improvements
   
152.07   Subdivision design standards
   
152.08   Performance bond
   
152.09   Variances
   
Appendix A: Subdivision Review Flow Chart
§ 152.01 PURPOSE, AUTHORITY AND CONFORMITY.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this chapter to provide for the orderly
and efficient development of the village by providing for the coordination of
streets and other public facilities within proposed subdivisions; for the
dedication or reservation of rights-of-way, easements or sites for streets,
utilities, open space, recreation areas and other public facilities; for the
protection of historic resources and natural environment; and for the
distribution of population and which shall create conditions essential to
public health, safety and the general welfare.
   (B)   Authority. The village establishes and adopts these regulations
governing the subdivision or resubdivision of land pursuant to the authority
granted in Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293,
the Subdivision Control Act; Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
through 559.272, the Condominium Act, and other applicable general and special
statutes of the state.
   (C)   Fees. A fee shall be established for preliminary and final plat review
and shall be paid at the time of the submission of the preliminary plat.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 152.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY or SERVICE DRIVE. A passage or way affording generally a secondary
means of vehicular access to abutting properties.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, highways or ways, except alleys, and the exterior boundary or
boundaries of the subdivision.
   BMP. Best Management Practices
   IMPROVEMENTS. Streets, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, water mains, curb and
gutter and may include pavements, sidewalks, graded-out lawns, tree plantings,
street signs, gas, electric and telephone service installations.
   LOCAL STREET. A street intended to serve and to provide access to
neighborhoods.
   MAJOR STREET, HIGHWAY or PARKWAY. A street or road which serves or is
intended to serve as a major traffic way and is designated in the major street
plan.
   MASTER PLAN. The Comprehensive Plan or Development Plan which has been
adopted by the Planning Commission as specified in Public Act 168 of 1959, as
amended.
   PLAT. The map or chart on which the subdivider’s plan of subdivision is
presented and which he or she submits for approval and intends in final form to
record.
   SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract
of land by the subdivider thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of
sale, or lease of more than one year, or of building development, where the act
of division creates five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or
less in area; or five or more parcels of land each of which is ten acres or
less in area are created by successive divisions within a period of ten years.
   SUBDIVIDER or OWNER. Any individual, firm, association, syndicate,
copartnership, corporation, trust or any other legal entity commencing and
maintaining proceedings under this chapter to effect a subdivision of land
hereunder for himself or herself or for another.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 152.03 PREPARATION AND FILING OF PLATS.
   (A)   Pre-application. Persons considering the subdivision of land are
encouraged to meet informally with the village staff to learn the procedures
and standards of the village and the intent of the Master Plan in the area of
the proposed subdivision. Although such conferences are not required, they may
help to conserve time, effort and expense in preparing and submitting the
required plans and plats.
   (B)   Preliminary plat. The subdivider shall prepare eight copies of a
preliminary plat, together with improvement plans and other supplementary
material as specified below:
      (1)   Preliminary plat - existing conditions:
         (a)   The title of the proposed subdivision;
         (b)   The names, addresses and telephone numbers of the owner and/or
owners, and the surveyor preparing the plat, and the seal of such surveyor;
         (c)   A legend indicating the total acreage contained within the plan,
the total acreage and percentage in lots, road allowances, parks and other
uses, and any site proposed for parks, playgrounds, schools or other public
uses;
         (d)   The date, north arrow and a scale (not more than 200 feet to the
inch);
         (e)   An over-all area map showing the relationship of the subdivision
to surrounding areas within one-half mile; information on the area map shall
include items such as section lines and/or major streets or collector streets;
         (f)   Property lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided
land shown in relation to the tract being proposed for subdivision including
those of areas across abutting roads;
         (g)   The land use and existing zoning of the proposed subdivision and
the adjacent tracts;
         (h)   Location, widths and names of existing or prior platted streets
and private streets, and public easements within or adjacent to the tract being
proposed for subdivision, including those located across abutting roads;
         (i)   Location of existing utility lines, both above and below ground;
location sizes, elevations of existing sewer and water lines, culverts or other
subsurface structures of lines. The proposed and existing storm and sanitary
sewers and water mains, if required;
         (j)   The areas designated for storm water retention;
         (k)   Location of water bodies, streams, drainage ways, floodways;
         (l)   Existing contours, with source reference. At the smallest
interval; available from existing mapping, but not more than five feet for the
entire area to be subdivided and extended into adjoining property for a
distance of 100 feet at all points where street rights-of-way connect to the
adjoining property;
         (m)   Other rights-of-way or easements, showing the location, width
and purpose, as available;
         (n)   The location of the floodplain according to the State Department
of Natural Resources, as identified on the Flood Insurance Rate Map (FIRM) for
the village, or if the plat includes or is adjacent to such lands as may be
flooded;
         (o)   All existing structures and other physical features which
influence the layout and design of the subdivision;
         (p)   All parcels of land proposed to be dedicated to public use and
the conditions of such dedications; and
         (q)   The lot lines and dimensions and the total number of lots in
each block or other portion.
      (2)   Preliminary plan - proposed conditions:
         (a)   Location of proposed streets labeled as public or private, with
their proposed names and widths;
         (b)   Proposed street rights-of-way and improvements, including
typical cross-sections and other plans as required by the village. Adjusted
contours at two-foot intervals for the entire site;
         (c)   Location, width and designation by purpose of all proposed
easements and rights-of-way for water, storm sewer, sanitary sewer, at such
time as it may be available, gas, electric and communication system facilities;
         (d)   The location of all proposed storm drainage, open and enclosed,
with grades, inverts and sizes indicated together with a map of the drainage
area or areas tributary to the proposed storm drains;
         (e)   Lot lines and total number of lots by block, shown by numerical
order, commencing with number one and with no omissions or duplications. Also,
setback requirements and area of lots shall be shown along with any lands
reserved for public use and the conditions of dedication. The location of all
natural features or site elements to be preserved;
         (f)   Certification by a registered professional land surveyor that
all survey, deed and supporting information accurately reflects the true
conditions existing on the proposed subdivision;
         (g)   Base flood elevation data; and
         (h)   In the case where the subdivider wishes to subdivide a given
area but wishes to begin with only a portion of the total area, the preliminary
plat shall include the proposed general layout for the entire area. The part
which is proposed to be subdivided first shall be clearly superimposed upon the
over-all plan in order to illustrate clearly the method of development which
the subdivider intends to follow.
      (3)   Notice of submittal to agencies: A written statement verifying
prior submission of the preliminary plat to the Village Council and the County
Drain Commissioner, State Department of Transportation, State Department of
Natural Resources (if necessary) and all public utilities.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 152.04 PRELIMINARY PLAT REVIEW BY PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall transmit a copy of the preliminary plat
to the Village Engineer and the village’s planning consultant for technical
review and recommendation.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to send a notice by first class mail
to the owners of land immediately adjoining the property to be platted of the
presentment of the preliminary plat and the time and place of the meeting of
the Commission to consider said preliminary plat; said notice shall be sent not
less than five working days before the date of the meeting.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall review all details of the proposed
subdivision within the framework of the Zoning Ordinance, within the various
elements of the Master Plan and within the standards of this chapter.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall approve conditionally, deny or approve
the preliminary plat.
      (1)   Should the approval be a conditional approval and therefore
tentative, the preliminary plat shall not be forwarded to the Village Council
until said conditions have been satisfied by the subdivider. The subdivider
shall submit the revised preliminary plat to the Planning Commission for
review.
      (2)   Should the Planning Commission disapprove the preliminary plat, it
shall record the reasons in the minutes of the regular meeting. A copy of the
minutes shall be sent to the subdivider. The subdivider may submit a revised
preliminary plat to the Planning Commission for review.
      (3)   Should the Planning Commission find that all conditions have been
satisfactorily met, it may give approval to the preliminary plat; the
Chairperson shall make a notation to that effect on each copy of the
preliminary plat and distribute copies of same as follows:
         (a)   Return one copy to the subdivider;
         (b)   Retain one copy which shall become a matter of permanent record
in the Commission files; and
         (c)   The balance of the copies shall be filed in the office of the
Clerk.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 152.05 APPROVAL OF FINAL OR RECORD PLAT.
   (A)   Before submission of the plat in its final and permanent form, the
subdivider may submit one advance paper copy to the Village Engineer for
inspection, verification of detail and checking.
   (B)   The final plat shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for approval
within two years after final approval of the preliminary plat. Otherwise, the
approval of the preliminary plat becomes null and void unless an extension of
time is applied for and granted by the Council.
   (C)   Application for approval of the final plat shall be submitted in
writing to the Village Engineer at least two weeks prior to the meeting of the
Planning Commission at which it is to be considered.
   (D)   The final plat shall be prepared by a registered professional engineer
or a registered land surveyor, licensed to practice in the state and shall be
presented in accordance with the provisions of the Subdivision Control Act
(M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., M.S.A. §§ 26.430(101) et seq.).
   (E)   Five permanent typed copies of the final plat and other exhibits
required for approval shall be submitted.
   (F)   After the foregoing recommendations and certificates have been
received, and provided that the final plat is found to conform with the
preliminary plat as approved, and the requirements of the Subdivision Control
Act (M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., M.S.A. §§ 26.430(101) et seq.), the Planning
Commission will, within 40 days of its first meeting after receiving the final
plat, enter such approval or disapproval thereon in writing by the secretary.
The approval of the final plat by the Planning Commission shall not be deemed
to constitute or affect an acceptance by the public of the dedication of any
street or other proposed public way or open space on the plat.
   (G)   After approval by the Planning Commission, the Commission will deliver
the five copies of the final plat along with certification of title consisting
of either an attorney’s opinion or title insurance, to the Village Council for
approval and necessary action on any proposed dedications. Action by the
Council to approve or disapprove the final plat shall be taken within 30 days
after the action of the Planning Commission.
   (H)   The Council shall have final authority to approve or disapprove any
plats submitted.
   (I)   Approval of the final plat by the Council does not in and of itself
constitute acceptance for maintenance by the village of streets or other
improvements that have been made.
   (J)   Approval of the final plat shall become null and void unless the plat
is filed for record within 90 days.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 152.06 REQUIRED PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Every subdivider shall be required to install the following public and other
improvements in accordance with the conditions and specifications as follows as
well as meet all requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which
the subdivision is located.
   (A)   Monuments. Monuments shall be set in accordance with the Subdivision
Control Act of 1967, as amended, and the rules of the State Department of
Treasury.
   (B)   Streets. Roadway construction for all streets shall be constructed in
accordance with state and local requirements, as applicable. The subdivider
shall pay 100% of the installation cost. All lots must have access to a public
or private street.
   (C)   Utilities. The subdivider shall make arrangements for all distribution
lines for telephone, electric, television and other similar services
distributed by wire or cable to be placed underground entirely through the
subdivided area. Conduits, cables and gas mains shall be placed within private
easements provided to public utilities by the subdivider or within dedicated
public ways. All utilities shall be so planned so as not to conflict with each
other. All underground public utility installations, including privately owned
property, shall be protected by easements granted by the subdivider.
   (D)   Storm drainage. An adequate storm drainage system, including necessary
storm sewers, drain inlets, manholes, culverts, bridges and other
appurtenances, shall be required in all subdivisions.
   (E)   Water supply. The developer shall construct water main to service the
development and connect to the village’s existing water service, or private
wells if no municipal water supply exists, in accordance with the requirements
of the Village’s Department of Public Works and/or the County Environmental
Health Department.
   (F)   Sanitary sewer. The developer shall construct sanitary sewer service
to and within the development and connect to the village’s existing sewer
service, or private septic systems if no municipal sanitary sewer system
exists, in accordance with the requirements of the Department of Public Works.
   (G)   Street name signs. Street name signs shall be installed by the
subdivider in the appropriate locations at each street intersection in
accordance with the requirements of the village.
   (H)   Lighting. Street lights will be required to be installed at
intersections only, throughout the subdivision.
   (I)   Sidewalks. Pedestrian sidewalks may be required on both sides of the
street at a minimum width of five feet or on one side of the street at a
minimum width of ten feet.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 152.07 SUBDIVISION DESIGN STANDARDS.
   All lands included within the subdivision shall be suitable for the various
purposes proposed in the request for subdivision approval.
   (A)   Location and arrangement. Subdivision streets are to be so arranged as
to discourage their use by through traffic.
      (1)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for the continuation of
existing streets from adjoining areas into new subdivisions, unless otherwise
approved by the Planning Commission and the Village Council. Where adjoining
areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of streets and utilities in new
subdivisions shall be extended to the boundary line of the plat to provide for
the future projection of streets into adjacent areas. A one-foot reserve may be
required to be placed at the end of dead-end streets which terminate at
subdivision boundaries and between half-streets. These reserves are to be
deeded in fee simple to the village for future street purposes.
      (2)   Where a subdivision abuts or contains an arterial street, the
village may require that marginal access streets be approximately parallel to
and on each side of the right-of-way.
      (3)   Cul-de-sacs shall not be allowed.
      (4)   Half-streets shall generally be prohibited.
      (5)   Private streets and roads shall be permitted when designed in
accordance with the village standards and where the developer prepares and
records a covenant applying to all parcels on said streets accepting
responsibility for the entire cost of maintenance, and an easement for
utilities.
      (6)   Street layout shall not isolate lands from existing public streets
or roads.
      (7)   Public street, roadway and road-right-of way widths shall conform
to the rules of the village.
      (8)   The center line of streets shall continue with the center lines of
existing streets and streets shall extend to the boundary of the subdivision to
provide for proper connection with the street system.
      (9)   Street names shall not duplicate any existing street name in the
village, either by sound or sight.
   (B)   Pedestrian sidewalks. Sidewalks may be required on both sides of a
street at a minimum width of five feet or on one side of the street at a
minimum width of ten feet, or, in very low-density areas, may be excepted
entirely, according to the discretion of the Village Council based on
recommendation of the Planning Commission. Street rights-of-way shall be
sufficient to provide for sidewalks on both sides of the street.
   (C)   Streets drainage. All street drainage shall be directed to a village
approved outlet.
   (D)   Block length. No block shall be more than 1,320 feet in length, except
along major roads. In blocks 900 feet in length or more, the Planning
Commission may require a walkway or easement for public utilities at or near
the middle of the block. The number of intersecting streets along highways and
major streets shall be held to minimum.
   (E)   Lots. Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following
standards.
      (1)   The lot width, depth and area shall not be less than the particular
district requirements of the zoning ordinance except where out lots are
provided for some permitted purpose.
      (2)   Corner lots shall have extra width to permit appropriate building
setback from both streets or orientation to both streets. Lots abutting a
pedestrian mid-block crosswalk shall be treated as corner lots.
      (3)   All lots shall have access from internal streets. Driveways are not
permitted on main roads adjacent to the plat.
      (4)   Through lots are prohibited, berming and other open space options
are required in cases where lots abut or back up to other roads.
      (5)   Land subject to flooding or otherwise deemed by the Planning
Commission or Village Council to be uninhabitable shall not be platted for uses
that may increase the danger to health, life or property or increase the flood
hazard. Such land shall be set aside for parks or other open space.
   (F)   Park land and open space. Where a proposed park, playground, school or
other public use is shown on the Master Plan and is located in whole or part
within a subdivision, a suitable area for this purpose may be dedicated to the
public or reserved for public purchase. If, within two years of plat recording,
the purchase is not agreed on, the reservation may be cancelled or shall
automatically cease to exist. Where a subdivision abuts public land, public
pedestrian access shall be provided to that land.
   (G)   Natural features. Wherever possible the preservation of all natural
features which add value to the proposed subdivision and to the community at
large such as large trees, groves of trees, water-courses, vistas, historic
spots and features, wildlife habitats, ecological areas and similar
irreplaceable assets shall be required.
   (H)   Stormwater drainage. All natural water drainage ways and impoundment
areas shall be preserved at their natural gradient and shall not be filled or
interfered with except as approved or made by the Village Department of Public
Works.
      (1)   The subdivider may be required to carry away by pipe or open ditch,
in appropriate easements, any spring or surface water that might exist either
previous to or as a result of the subdivision.
      (2)   A culvert or other drainage facility to be provided in the proposed
subdivision shall, in each case, be large enough to accommodate potential
runoff from its entire upstream area whether that area is inside or outside the
subdivision. Where, in the judgment of the County Drain Commissioner, the
additional runoff resulting from development of a subdivision will overload an
existing downstream drainage facility during a ten-year storm, the plat shall
not be approved until provision has been made for improvement of said
condition.
      (3)   The village retains the right to have the developer install storm
drainage system as per the BMP’s if the Village Engineer deems it necessary.
Appropriate easements will be provided by the developer.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 152.08 PERFORMANCE BOND.
   (A)   The subdivider shall:
      (1)   Install all the required improvements prior to final approval by
the Village Council of the final plat, in accordance with the specifications
and under the supervision of the village officials having jurisdiction; or
      (2)   Put up a performance bond which shall:
         (a)   Run to the village;
         (b)   Be in an amount determined by the Village Engineer to be
sufficient to complete the improvements and installations for the subdivision
in compliance with this chapter;
         (c)   Be with surety by a company entered and licensed to do business
in the state;
         (d)   Specify the time for the completion of the improvement and
installations; or
         (e)   Put up a cash deposit in the full amount as determined by the
Village Engineer, necessary to complete the improvements and installations for
the subdivision in compliance with this chapter. Such cash deposit may be
withdrawn in direct proportion to the amount of work completed as approved by
the Council.
   (B)   The Building Inspector will not be permitted to issue a building
permit for any structure upon any lot within a subdivision until the
improvements as specified above have been completed, or satisfactory
arrangements have been made with the village for the completion of the
improvement.
   (C)   Such other certificates, affidavits, endorsements or deductions as may
be required by the Village Engineer and by the Village Council in the
enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 152.09 VARIANCES.
   (A)   Variations, exceptions, modifications to the requirements of this
chapter may be made by the Village Council where, in its opinion, the general
intent of this chapter is upheld. Variances may be made to accommodate a
planned unit development.
   (B)   Justification for variances, exceptions or modifications shall be
based upon at least one of the following:
      (1)   There are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that strict compliance to the provisions of this chapter would
deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   The variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of a
substantial property right of the proprietor; and/or
      (3)   The granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the public
welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which the property is
located.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
APPENDIX A: SUBDIVISION REVIEW FLOW CHART
CHAPTER 153: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
153.001   Short title
   
153.002   Purpose and objectives
   
153.003   Interpretation
   
153.004   Liability
   
153.005   Rules applying to the text
   
153.006   Definitions
District Regulations
   
153.020   Division of the village
   
153.021   Official zoning map
   
153.022   Interpretation of boundaries
   
153.023   Scope of regulations
   
153.024   District regulation tables
   
153.025   R-1 Medium Density Single-Family Residential District
   
153.026   R-2 Low Density Single-Family Residential District
   
153.027   R-3 Residential Multi-Family District
   
153.028   R-4 Residential: Manufactured Home Park
   
153.029   B-1 Commercial: Central Business District
   
153.030   B-2 Commercial: Regional Business District
   
153.031   I-1 Industrial: Light
   
153.032   R-4 Manufactured Housing District
General Requirements
   
153.045   Nonconformities
   
153.046   Use regulations
   
153.047   Dwelling regulations
   
153.048   Parcel regulations
   
153.049   Structure requirements
   
153.050   Off-street parking regulations
   
153.051   Off-street loading regulations
Sign Regulation
   
153.065   Purpose
   
153.066   Definitions
   
153.067   Signs prohibited
   
153.068   Sign permit required
   
153.069   Legal nonconforming signs
   
153.070   Measurement of signs
   
153.071   Applicable to all districts
   
153.072   Sign regulation by district
Special Use Permits
   
153.085   Intent, purpose and process
   
153.086   Permit procedures
   
153.087   Permit standards
   
153.088   Bed and breakfasts
   
153.089   Industrial park
   
153.090   Ministorage and individual storage facilities
   
153.091   Outdoor uses
   
153.092   Planned unit development
   
153.093   Outdoor recreational facilities, commercial
   
153.094   Restaurants with entertainment and bars
   
153.095   Recreational vehicle park, campground
   
153.096   Sexually oriented businesses
   
153.097   Soil resource extraction
   
153.098   Site plan review
   
153.099   Temporary outdoor uses
   
153.100   Wireless communication facilities
Commercial and Industrial Uses Site Plan Review
   
153.115   Situations requiring a site plan review
   
153.116   Site plan review process
   
153.117   Site plan review standards
   
153.118   Review of subdivision plans
Residential Uses Site Plan Review
   
153.130   Purpose and applicability
   
153.131   Exemptions
   
153.132   Review fees
   
153.133   Site plan submittal requirements
   
153.134   Submittal and review procedures
   
153.135   Changes to approved site plan
   
153.136   Site review standards
   
153.137   Site plan review appeals
Administration, Enforcement and Amendments
   
153.150   Involvement in zoning process
   
153.151   Administrative process
   
153.152   Administrative actions by the Zoning Board of Appeals
   
153.153   Enforcement
   
153.154   Amendment
   
153.155   Notice requirements for public hearings
 
   
153.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Commercial and Industrial Site Plan Review Flow Chart
   
Appendix B: Residential Site Plan Review Flow Chart
   
Appendix C: Zoning Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the “Village of Lakewood Club Zoning
Ordinance”.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.002 PURPOSE AND OBJECTIVES.
   (A)   It is the general purpose of this chapter to promote the public
safety, health, morals, convenience and general welfare.
   (B)   To accomplish this purpose, this chapter will address the following
objectives:
      (1)   Guide the use and development of land, buildings and natural
resources according to their suitability for particular activities;
      (2)   Protect the community’s quality of life and enhance the social and
economic stability of the village;
      (3)   Reduce congestion on public streets and highways and facilitate
safe and convenient access to buildings and land uses;
      (4)   Guide efforts to provide public services, such as water supply,
sewer, storm drainage, waste disposal, transportation, education, recreation
and public safety;
      (5)   Establish standards to guide physical development of each Zoning
District and of the village as a whole, and provide for enforcement of these
standards;
      (6)   Educate citizens and public officials about their shared
responsibilities for wise use of community resources; and
      (7)   Strive to balance one property owner’s right to the peaceful use
and enjoyment of his or her parcel with the rights of neighboring property
owners to the peaceful use and enjoyment of theirs.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.003 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be minimum
requirements, adopted to promote public health, safety, comfort, convenience
and general welfare. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul,
impair or interfere with any existing provisions of law or ordinance. Nor is it
intended to overturn any previously approved or adopted rules, regulations or
permits which relate to the use of land or buildings. Nor is this chapter
intended to interfere with, abrogate or annul any lawful easements, covenants
or other agreements.
   (B)   Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction upon the use of land
or buildings than is imposed by other laws or ordinances, or by rules,
regulations, permits, easements, covenants or agreements that may be in force,
the provisions of this chapter shall control. Where provisions of any other
ordinance or regulation of the village impose stricter requirements for the use
of land or buildings, the provisions of the other ordinance or regulation shall
govern.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.004 LIABILITY.
   The Village Zoning Administrator or any person charged with the
interpretation and enforcement of this chapter, acting in good faith and
without malice for the village in the discharge of his or her duties shall not
thereby render himself or herself liable personally and he or she is relieved
from all personal liability for any damage that may occur to persons or
property as a result of any act required or by reason of any act or omission in
the discharge of his or her duties.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.005 RULES APPLYING TO THE TEXT.
   For the purpose of this chapter, certain rules of construction apply to the
text, as follows.
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and, the
singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
   (B)   The word PERSON includes a corporation or firm as well as an
individual.
   (C)   The word STRUCTURE includes the word BUILDING.
   (D)   The word LOT includes the words PLOT, and TRACT.
   (E)   The term SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word MAY
is permissive.
   (F)   The words USED or OCCUPIED as applied to any land or structure shall
be construed to include the words INTENDED, ARRANGED OR DESIGNED TO BE USED OR
OCCUPIED.
   (G)   Any word or term not herein defined shall be used with a meaning of
common standard use.
   (H)   The term “he” shall be read as he or she.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.006 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABUT. To physically touch or border upon; to share a common property line.
   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building detached from the principal
building but located on the same parcel of land as the principal building, and
which is devoted to an accessory use. A subordinate part of a principal
building, such as an attached garage, is not an ACCESSORY BUILDING.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use clearly incidental to a building or structure and
customarily found in connection with and located on the same parcel as the
principal use to which it is related.
   ACTIVITY. See USE.
   ADJACENT. A lot or parcel of land which shares all or part of a common lot
line with another parcel of land.
   ADULT CABARET. A building or portion of a building regularly featuring
dancing or other live entertainment if the dancing or entertainment that
constitutes the primary live entertainment is distinguished or characterized by
an emphasis on the exhibition of specific sexual activities or specified
anatomical areas for observation by patrons therein.
   ADULT MEDIA. Magazines, books, slides, CD-ROMS or devices used to record
computer images, or other media that are distinguished or characterized by
their emphasis on matter depicting, describing or relating to hard-core
material.
   ADULT MEDIA STORE. An establishment that rents and/or sells media, and that
meets any of the following three tests:
      (1)   Forty percent or more of the gross public floor area is devoted to
adult media;
      (2)   Forty percent or more of the stock in trade consists of adult
media;
      (3)   It advertises or holds itself out in any form as “XXX”, “adult”,
“sex” or otherwise as a sexually oriented business other than adult media
store, adult motion picture theater or adult cabaret.
   ADULT MOTION PICTURE THEATER. An establishment emphasizing or predominately
showing sexually oriented movies.
   AGRICULTURAL RETAIL FACILITY. A booth or stall located on a farm from which
produce and farm products are sold to the general public.
   ALLEY. A service-way providing a secondary means of public access to
abutting property and not intended for general traffic circulation.
   ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction or type of
occupancy, or in the structural members of a building, such as walls or
partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as ALTERED or RECONSTRUCTED.
   APARTMENTS. A suite of rooms or a room in a multiple-family building
arranged and intended for a place of residence for a single family or group of
individuals living together as a single housekeeping unit.
   ASSEMBLY BUILDING. A building for the primary purpose of group gatherings of
50 people or more for any purpose.
   ATTACHED GARAGE. A portion of a dwelling that is used primarily for the
storage of passenger vehicles owned by the occupant of the dwelling.
   AUTOMOBILE CAR WASH. An establishment being housed in a building or portion
thereof together with the necessary mechanical equipment used for washing
automobiles and using production line methods.
   AUTOMOBILE/VEHICLE GAS/FUEL SALES. An establishment primarily engaged in the
sale of gas or other fuels for use in vehicles. The primary use must constitute
over 50% of vehicle traffic to the establishment.
   AUTOMOBILE/VEHICLE MAJOR REPAIR. An establishment primarily engaged in
engine and transmission repair that may require removal of the engine. All
repair work on the body of cars constitutes major repair. The primary use must
constitute over 50% of vehicle traffic to the establishment.
   AUTOMOBILE/VEHICLE MINOR REPAIR. An establishment primarily engaged in all
vehicle repairs other than those defined as major engine repair. The primary
use must constitute over 50% of vehicle traffic to the establishment.
   AUTOMOBILE SALES. An establishment engaged in the sale, rental or leasing of
new or used automobiles, vans or pickup trucks. The primary use must constitute
over 50% of vehicle traffic to the establishment.
   BANK. See “financial business”.
   BAR. A structure or part of a structure used primarily for the sale or
dispensing of liquor.
   BASE AREA. The area, which is the length times the width, in square feet as
of the effective date of this chapter.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade
but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the floor
is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. A
BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story.
   BEAUTY SALON. See PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS.
   BERM. A mound of earth graded, shaped and improved with grass, plant
materials and/or ground cover in such a fashion as to be used for visual and/or
audible screening.
   BED AND BREAKFAST. An owner or manager occupied dwelling, or part thereof,
in which lodging for seven consecutive nights or less is provided by the owner
or operator to one or more persons.
   BLOCK. The property abutting one side of a street and lying between the two
nearest intersecting streets, (crossing or terminating) or between the nearest
such street and railroad right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, lake, river or
live stream; or between any of the foregoing and any other barrier to the
continuity of development, or boundary lines of the village.
   BODY SHOP. See AUTOMOBILE/VEHICLE MAJOR REPAIR.
   BUILDING. Any structure erected on-site, a mobile home or mobile structure,
a premanufactured or pre-cut structure, above or below ground, intended
primarily for the shelter, support or enclosure of persons, animals or property
of any kind.
   BUILDING, FRONT LINE OF. The line that coincides with the face of the
building nearest the front of the lot. This face includes sun parlors and
enclosed porches but does not include steps. Said line shall be parallel to the
front lot line and measured as a straight line between the intersecting points
with the side yard.
   BUILDING, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance measured from the mean elevation
of the finished grade line of the ground above the front of the building to the
highest point of the roof for flat roofs; to the deck line of mansard roofs;
and to the mean height level between cave and ridges for gable, hip and gambrel
roofs.
   BUILDING INSPECTOR/OFFICIAL. An individual appointed by the Village Council
delegated to administer the Village Building Code Ordinance if any. See also
“ordinance enforcer”.
   BUILDING LINE. A line defining the minimum front, side or rear yard
requirement outside of which no building or structure may be located.
   BUILDING, PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the main or principal
use of the parcel on which it is located.
   BULK STATION. A place where crude petroleum, gasoline, naphtha, benzene,
kerosene or any other flammable liquid is stored for wholesale purposes only,
where the aggregate capacity of all storage tanks is more than 6,000 gallons.
   BUSINESS SERVICES. A business service establishment provides services to
other businesses as their primary clientele and may involve some outside
storage of equipment or vehicles, but not of inventory. BUSINESS SERVICES
include, but are not limited to, employee training, audio or visual
communication media (including broadcast antennas, sign production and
installation, equipment rental or repair, building maintenance and self-service
storage).
   CEMETERY. Property used for interring of the dead.
   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility which receives one or more children under 13
years of age for care for periods of less than 24 hours a day, and at which the
parents or guardians are not immediately available to the children. Also known
as a DAY CARE CENTER.
   CLINIC. An establishment where human patients who are not lodged overnight
are admitted for examination and treatment by a group of physicians, dentists
or similar professionals.
   CLUB. An organization catering exclusively to members and their guests, or
premises and buildings for recreational, artistic, political or social
purposes, which are not conducted primarily for gain and which do not provide
merchandise, vending or commercial activities except as required incidentally
for the membership and purpose of such CLUB.
   COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL USE. See RECREATIONAL USE, COMMERCIAL.
   COMMERCIAL SCHOOL. A commercial school is a private educational facility not
operated as a nonprofit entity and offering instruction in art, business,
music, dance, trades, continuing professional education or other subjects.
   COMMON LAND. A parcel or parcels of land together with the improvements
thereon, the use, maintenance and enjoyment of which are intended to be shared
by the owners and occupants of the individual building units in a planned unit
development.
   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
559.101 through 559.272.
   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. A portion of a building, or group of buildings, designed
for separate ownership. Common areas and facilities are owned by all the owners
on a proportional, undivided basis. A CONDOMINIUM is differentiated from other
dwelling types based on ownership and as such is not regulated as a dwelling
unit type.
   CONTRACTOR. A business establishment that provides construction services and
involves outdoor site use, such as storage of materials and/or equipment, other
than licensed motor vehicles, and fabrication or other activities that may
cause noise or vibrations.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A building wherein infirm or incapacitated
persons are furnished shelter, care, food, lodging and needed attention for
compensation.
   CONVENIENCE STORE. A retail operation selling a variety of items which are
primarily grocery products. They include items that may be required by
neighborhood residents on a day-to-day basis. Non-grocery items frequently sold
in this kind of establishment include newspapers, magazines, seasonal needs and
the like.
   COUNTRY CLUB. A land area and buildings containing recreational facilities,
clubhouse and usual accessory uses, open only to members and their guests for a
membership fee.
   COVERAGE, LOT. The percent of the plot, parcel or lot covered by the
building area.
   CUL-DE-SAC. A street with only one outlet having sufficient space at the
closed end to provide vehicular turning area.
   DEGREE OF NONCONFORMANCE. A measure of a property’s relative lack of
conformance, to be computed using whichever of the following standards applies.
      (1)   AREA. The square footage by which a building or parcel varies from
the maximum or minimum area required for its zoning district.
      (2)   PARKING. The number of off-street parking spaces which a parcel
lacks to conform with the requirements of supplementary off-street parking
regulations and with the table of off-street parking requirements, see §
153.050.
      (3)   SETBACK. The square footage of a building which lies within a
required setback area.
      (4)   USE. In the uses tables in §§
153.020 through 152.032, the number of changes in zoning districts required to
move from the district in which a use would be permitted as a use by right in
the district in which it is located.
      (5)   WIDTH or DEPTH. The distance in feet by which the width or depth of
a parcel varies from the minimum or maximum dimension for its zoning district.
   DENSITY. The number of dwelling units developed per acre of land.
   DEPTH. For the purposes of interpreting the dimensions tables, depth is the
distance from a property line to a structure.
   DEVELOPMENT. The construction of a new building or other structure on a
parcel, the relocation of an existing building on another parcel, or the use of
open land for a new use, and/or any human-made change to improved or unimproved
real estate including, but not limited to, buildings or other structures,
mining, dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavating or drilling operations.
   DISPLAY PUBLICLY. The act of exposing, placing, posting, exhibiting or in
any fashion displaying in any location, whether public or private, an item in
such a manner that it may be readily seen and its content or character
distinguished by normal, unaided vision viewing it from a street, highway or
public sidewalk, or from the property of others, or from any portion of the
premises where items and material other than adult media are on display to the
public.
   DRIVE-IN. A business establishment so developed that its retail or service
character is dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking space for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle, or within a
building on the same premises and devoted to the same purpose as the DRIVE-IN
service. DRIVE-IN is also interpreted to include “fast food” operations which
serve food in disposable containers.
   DUMPSTER. A container used to hold trash, garbage, refuse or rubbish which
is designed to be emptied into a garbage collection truck by mechanical means.
   DWELLING. A building, or portion thereof, designed for occupancy by one
family for residential purposes and having cooking facilities. The DWELLING
shall be aesthetically compatible in design and appearance with other
residences in the vicinity, with a roof overhang of at least 12 inches on all
sides. The DWELLING shall have at least two exterior doors, with the second one
being in either the rear or side of the DWELLING, and containing permanently
attached steps connected to said exterior door areas or to porches connected to
said door areas where a difference in elevation requires the same. The
compatibility design and appearance shall be determined in the first instance
by the Zoning Administrator upon review of the plans (which may include
elevational sketches or photographs) submitted for a particular DWELLING,
subject to appeal by an aggrieved party to the Zoning Board of Appeals. Any
determination of compatibility shall be based upon the character, design and
appearance of one or more residential DWELLINGS located within 2,000 feet of
the subject dwelling, where at least 20% of the lots situated within said area
have been developed with DWELLINGS, or where said area is not so developed, by
the character, design and appearance on one or more DWELLINGS.
   DWELLING TYPES. For the purposes of this chapter, dwellings are separated
into the following categories.
      (1)   MULTIPLE DWELLING. A building or portion thereof containing three
or more dwelling units.
      (2)   SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLING. A detached building containing one dwelling
unit.
      (3)   TWO-FAMILY DWELLING. A building containing not more than dwelling
units.
   DWELLING UNIT. One or more rooms including a single kitchen, in a dwelling
designed for occupancy by one family for living and sleeping purposes.
   EASEMENT. A grant of one or more property rights by a property owner to
another person or public entity.
   ENTERTAINMENT. Live performance. Video machines, billiards and the like are
not considered ENTERTAINMENT.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance of
underground surface or overhead electrical gas, water and sewage transmission
and collection systems and the equipment and appurtenances necessary for such
systems to furnish an adequate level of public service.
   EXCAVATION. Removal or recovery by any means, of soil, rock, minerals,
mineral substances or organic substances, other than vegetation, from water or
land, on or beneath the surface, whether exposed or submerged.
   EXPLICIT SEXUAL MATERIAL. Any hard-core material.
   FAMILY. An individual or two or more persons related by blood, marriage or
adoption, living together in a dwelling unit or group of not more than four
persons, who need not be related, living together in a single dwelling unit.
   FARM. A tract of land which is directly devoted to agricultural purposes. A
FARM includes cultivation of crops, and/or horticulture. A FARM does not
include establishments operated as roadside stands, greenhouses, nurseries,
orchards, chicken hatcheries, apiaries or include keeping or operating
establishments for farm animals of any kind, fur bearing animals, riding or
boarding stables, kennels, quarries or gravel or sand pits.
   FAST FOOD RESTAURANT. See DRIVE-IN.
   FENCE. A permanent or temporary partition or structure erected as a divider,
barrier or enclosure between two or more properties.
   FLAG LOT. A lot not fronting entirely on or abutting a public road and where
access to the public road is by a narrow, private right-of-way.
   FUNERAL HOME. A building used for the preparation of the deceased for burial
and the display of the deceased and ceremonies connected therewith before
burial or cremation.
   GARBAGE. Animal and vegetable waste resulting from the handling, storage,
sale, preparation, cooking and serving of foods.
   GOLF COURSE. A tract of land for playing golf, improved with tees, greens,
fairways, hazards, and which may include clubhouses and shelters.
   GOLF COURSE, MINIATURE. See RECREATIONAL USE, COMMERCIAL.
   GREENBELT. A landscaped or grassy area intended as part of a required yard
or buffer.
   GREENHOUSE. A building whose roof and sides are made largely of glass or
other transparent or translucent material and in which the temperature and
humidity can be regulated for the cultivation of delicate or out-of-season
plants for subsequent sale or personal use.
   GROSS FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the several
floors of a building measured from the exterior face of exterior walls, or from
the center line of a wall separating two buildings, but not including interior
parking spaces, loading spaces, loading space for motor vehicles, or any space
where the floor-to-ceiling height is less than six feet. For the purposes of
calculating parking and loading requirements, the GROSS FLOOR AREA is the floor
area used for service to the public. It shall not include floor area used
solely for storage or processing and packaging of merchandise.
   HARD-CORE MATERIAL. Media characterized by sexual activity that includes one
or more of the following: erect male organ; contact of the mouth of one person
with the genitals of another; penetration with a finger or male organ into any
orifice in another person; open female labia; penetration of a sex toy into an
orifice; male ejaculation; or the aftermath of male ejaculation.
   HARD SURFACE. At least four inches of reinforced concrete or two inches of
bituminous surface laid over five inches of compacted crushed stone. PAVED and
HARD SURFACE shall have the same meaning for purposes of this chapter.
   HEIGHT, MEASUREMENT OF. The height of a building at any given level is the
height above the natural grade of any portion or portions of a wall or walls
along the length of the building. NATURAL GRADE LEVEL shall be the mean level
of the ground immediately adjoining the portion or portions of the wall or
walls along the total length of the building.
   HOME OCCUPATION. Any business carried on by one or more members of a family
residing on the premises; providing it:
      (1)   Is operated in its entirety within the principal dwelling or
attached garage;
      (2)   Does not have a separate entrance from outside the building;
      (3)   Does not constitute a nuisance or annoyance to adjoining residents
for reasons of noise, smoke, odor, electrical disturbance, night lighting or
the creation of unreasonable traffic on the premises;
      (4)   Does not sell goods from the premises;
      (5)   Does not display or create outside the structure any external
evidence of the operation of the home occupation, including additional traffic,
except for one unanimated, non-illuminated wall sign having an area of not more
than two square feet; and
      (6)   Does not employ any persons other than family members residing on
the premises.
   HORTICULTURE. The cultivation of a garden or orchard.
   HOSPITAL. An institution for the diagnosis, treatment or care of aged, sick
or injured people. The term HOSPITAL shall include sanatorium, rest home,
nursing home and convalescent home, but shall not include any institution for
the care of mental disorders or the treatment of alcoholics or drug addicts.
   HOTEL. See MOTEL.
   INCARCERATION FACILITY. Any jail, prison, holding facility, work camp or
detention center of any kind.
   INDIVIDUAL STORAGE FACILITY. A structure containing separate storage spaces
of varying sizes, leased or rented on an individual basis.
   INDOOR USE. A use, of which the majority is contained within a structure.
   INSTITUTION, EDUCATIONAL. A school for kindergarten through twelfth grade or
any colleges or universities authorized by the state to award degrees.
   INSTITUTION, HUMAN CARE. A public or private facility for physical or mental
care. A HUMAN CARE INSTITUTION may include hospitals, convalescent or nursing
homes, homes for the mentally or physically impaired, mental, physical or
substance abuse rehabilitation facilities, and the like.
   INSTITUTION, RELIGIOUS. A structure or place in which worship, ceremonies,
rituals and education pertaining to a particular system of beliefs are held.
   INSTITUTION, SOCIAL. Any profit or nonprofit use or facility in which
activities for pleasure or philanthropy are carried out. Such INSTITUTIONS may
include service clubs, scout organizations, hobby clubs and veteran’s
organizations.
   JUNK/RUBBISH. A general term for solid waste, excluding food waste and
ashes, taken from residences, commercial establishments and institutions. JUNK/
RUBBISH also includes scrap materials, debris and reclaimable material
including, but not limited to, tires, vehicle parts, scrap metal, pipe, rags,
wood, glass, appliances, dismantled, wrecked or abandoned motor vehicles and
any other used material not contained within a licensed junk yard. See JUNK/
SALVAGE YARD.
   JUNK/SALVAGE YARD. A licensed open area where waste, used or second-hand
materials are bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled
or handled, including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper,
rags, rubber tires and bottles. A JUNK/SALVAGE YARD includes automobile
wrecking yards, and two or more inoperative, unlicensed vehicles located on a
single lot with or without a license. Operations with the characteristics of
SALVAGE YARDS which are called recycling centers, junk yards, scrap yards and
the like, shall be considered as SALVAGE YARDS.
   KENNEL. Any facility, on a single parcel, where more than three dogs over
four months old are kept, housed or boarded for a fee, or where such animals
are kept for breeding purposes.
   LABORATORY. A building or part of a building used for conducting scientific
research or manufacturing chemicals, medicines and the like.
   LINGERIE MODELING STUDIO. An establishment or business that provides the
services of live models modeling lingerie to individuals, couples or small
groups in rooms smaller than 600 square feet.
   LOADING BERTH/SPACE. An off-street space at least ten feet wide, 50 feet
long and 15 feet high, either within a building or outside on the same lot,
provided, maintained and available for the loading or unloading of goods or
merchandise, and having direct and unobstructed access to a public street or
alley.
   LOT. A section or part of a parcel of land as originally platted. Every LOT
shall abut upon and have permanent access to a public street.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal land area within the lot lines of the lot.
   LOT; CORNER, INTERIOR AND THROUGH.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot which has at least two contiguous sides abutting
upon a street for their full length; and provided the two sides intersect at an
angle of not more than 135 degrees.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot other than a corner lot.
      (3)   THROUGH LOT. An interior lot having frontage on two streets which
do not intersect at a point contiguous to such lot.
   LOT COVERAGE. The portion or percentage of a lot occupied by buildings or
structures.
   LOT LINE, FRONT. The lines abutting a lot as defined herein; the line
separating the lot from a street right-of-way. In the case of a corner lot or
through lot, the line separating the lot from the street upon which the
building is addressed. In the case of lots abutting the lake, the FRONT LOT
LINE will be construed to be that line separating the lot from the platted park
right-of-way.
   LOT LINE, REAR. Lot line which is opposite the front lot line. In the case
of a corner lot, the REAR LOT LINE may be opposite either front lot line, but
there shall only be one rear lot line. In the case of a lot with side lines
converging at the rear, the REAR LOT LINE shall be an imaginary line parallel
to the front lot line, not less than 20 feet long, lying farthest from the
front lot line and wholly within the lot. In the case of lots abutting the
lake, the REAR LOT LINE will be construed to be the lot line abutting the road.
   LOT LINE, SIDE. Any lot line that is not a front or rear lot line.
   LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
document or map recorded with the County Register of Deeds.
   LOT, WIDTH OF. The distance from one side lot line to the other side lot
line, measured parallel to the front lot line at the minimum building setback.
   LUMBER YARD. A business which emphasizes the sale of lumber and wood
products where material may be stored or displayed in the principal building,
or in accessory shed-type structures.
   MANUFACTURED HOME. See MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME.
   MASSAGE PARLORS. An establishment wherein a substantial or significant
portion of its business involves the administration of nontherapeutic massage,
erotic touching or fondling, including but not limited to, fondling of or
erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or breasts. A MASSAGE
PARLOR does not include medical or therapeutic massage businesses such as state
licensed chiropractors and physical therapists or other state licensed,
medically-related practitioners. All practitioners employed by such businesses
must be licensed.
   MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium project as
approved by the zoning administrator to which is attached as exhibits and
incorporated by reference, the approved bylaws for the project and the approved
condominium subdivision plan for the project.
   MASTER PLAN. A comprehensive long-range plan intended to guide the growth
and development of a community. The PLAN includes analysis, recommendations and
proposals for the community’s population, economy, housing, transportation,
community facilities and land use.
   MEDIA. Anything printed or written, or any picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture, film, video tape or videotape production, or pictorial
representation or any electrical or electronic reproduction of anything that is
or may be used as a means of communication. MEDIA includes, but shall not be
necessarily limited to, books, newspapers, magazines, movies, videos, sound
recordings, CD-ROMs, other magnetic media and undeveloped pictures.
   MEDIA SHOP. A general term, identifying a category of business that may
include sexually oriented material but that is not subject to the special
provisions applicable to adult media shops. In that context, MEDIA SHOP means a
retail outlet offering media for sale or rent, for consumption off the
premises; provided that any outlet meeting the definition of adult media shop
be treated as an adult media outlet. See special conditions in §§
153.085 through
153.100 for MEDIA SHOPS in which adult media constitute more than 10% but less
than 40% of the stock in trade or occupy more than 10% but less than 40% of the
floor area.
   MINISTORAGE. See INDIVIDUAL STORAGE FACILITY.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME. A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of
the following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long-term occupancy;
      (2)   Contains sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower
bath, and kitchen facilities with plumbing and electrical connections provided
for attachment to outside systems;
      (3)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels,
flatbed, trailer or detachable wheels; and
      (4)   Arriving at a site to be occupied as a dwelling unit complete,
meeting minimum square footage requirements of 980 square feet for single wide
homes and 1,060 square feet for double wide homes and ready for occupancy
except for minor incidental location operations.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME PARK. A parcel of land under the control of a
person upon which three or more mobile homes are located on a continual non-
recreational basis and which is offered to the public for that purpose,
regardless whether a charge is made therefore, together with any building,
structure, enclosure, street, equipment or facility used or intended for use
incident to the occupancy of a mobile home.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME SPACE. A plot or parcel of land within the mobile
home park designed to accommodate one mobile home.
   MOBILE/MANUFACTURED HOME STAND. The part of a mobile home space which has
been reserved for the placement of the mobile home, appurtenant structures or
additions.
   MOTEL. A building or group of buildings, whether detached or in connecting
units, used as individual sleeping or dwelling units designed primarily for
transients traveling by automobile. The term MOTEL shall include buildings
designed as “auto courts”, “tourist courts”, “motor courts”, “motor hotels”,
and similar names which are designed as integrated units of individual rooms
under common ownership. For the purposes of this chapter, MOTEL and HOTEL have
the same meaning.
   NONCONFORMITY. A condition of land or building, any parcel of land or any
building or other structure which does not comply with all of the district
regulations for the zoning district in which it is located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. Any use of a building, structure or land existing at the
time of enactment of this chapter, and which does not conform to the
regulations of the district or zone in which it is situated.
   NONPROFIT ORGANIZATION. An organization granted tax exempt status by the
Internal Revenue Service (IRS) and includes any church, school, governmental
agency, service club or similar organization which owns or leases property in
the village.
   NURSERY. Land or greenhouses used to raise flowers, shrubs and plants for
sale.
   OFFICE. A place of business in which professional services are rendered or
executive or managerial functions for any type enterprise, workshop or studio
are carried out.
   OPAQUE. Not pervious to light.
   OUTDOOR USE. A use, of which the majority is carried out outside of a
structure of any kind.
   PARCEL. One or more lots forming a continuous piece of land under uniform
ownership which is either vacant or is occupied or intended for occupancy by a
principal building or use and any accessory structures or uses thereto. Every
PARCEL shall abut upon and have permanent access to a public street.
   PARKING SPACE. An off-street space, exclusive of necessary driveways, aisles
or maneuvering areas suitable to accommodate one motor vehicle and having
direct unobstructed access to a street or alley.
   PAVED SURFACE. See HARD SURFACE.
   PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS. A personal service business primarily serves
needs of individual people or families, including but not limited to hair or
skin care, grooming, dry cleaning, tailoring, shoe repair and repair of small
appliances, watches or jewelry.
   PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT. An area of minimum contiguous size, as specified
by ordinance, to be planned and developed as a single entity containing one or
more residential clusters or planned unit residential developments and one or
more public, quasi-public, commercial or industrial areas in such ranges of
ratios of nonresidential uses to residential uses as specified in this chapter.
   POND. An artificially or naturally confined body of still water, excluding
pools.
   PORCH. A roofed area, which may be glassed or screened, and is attached to
or part of and with direct access to or from a building. A PORCH becomes a room
when the space enclosed is heated or air conditioned and, if glassed, when the
percentage of window area to wall area is less than 50%.
   PRIMARY LIVE ENTERTAINMENT. On-site entertainment by live entertainers that
characterizes the establishment, as determined (if necessary) from a pattern of
advertising as well as actual performances.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of
the lot on which it is located.
   PRINCIPAL USE. The main use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exist.
   PUBLIC STREET.
      (1)   Any vehicular way which:
         (a)   Is an existing state, county or municipal roadway;
         (b)   Is shown upon a plat approved pursuant to law; or
         (c)   Is approved by other official action; and includes the land
between the street or right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved.
      (2)   A public thoroughfare which affords the principal means of access
to abutting property.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department or board
fully authorized to furnish to the public electricity, gas, steam, telephone,
telegraph, transportation or water service.
   RACE TRACK. See RECREATIONAL USE, COMMERCIAL.
   RECREATIONAL USE, COMMERCIAL. Commercial recreational facilities are for
profit establishments providing recreational activities for a fee. In general,
these activities are participatory in nature. COMMERCIAL RECREATIONAL
FACILITIES include such uses as bowling alleys, roller rinks, race tracks,
arcades, indoor driving ranges and the like.
   RECREATIONAL USE, PRIVATE. A recreational use carried out entirely on
private land for the property owner and his or her guests’ pleasure. PRIVATE
RECREATIONAL USES are not open to the public or admissible by a fee.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE/EQUIPMENT. A vehicular type portable structure without
permanent foundation that can be towed, hauled or driven. It may be used for
temporary living accommodations for recreational, camping and travel use. These
vehicles include but are not limited to campers, travel trailers, truck campers
or motor homes. Other vehicles/equipment also included in this definition are
trailers of any kind, personal watercraft, off road vehicles of any kind,
snowmobiles and similar vehicles/equipment that may propel a person or is used
to transport such vehicles. All described vehicles and/or equipment must have a
valid and current license, issued by the state in prominent display to be
considered licensed.
   RESTAURANT. A commercial establishment where food and drink are prepared,
served and consumed primarily within the principal buildings.
   RESTAURANT WITH ENTERTAINMENT. Any “restaurant”, as defined above, with live
presentations of any kind.
   RETAIL. Establishments engaged in selling goods or merchandise to the
general public for personal or household consumption and rendering services
incidental to the sale of such goods.
   RETAIL, FOOD. Any establishment or section of an establishment where food
and food products are offered to the consumer and intended for off-premises
consumption.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Publicly owned property including a street, alley or other
thoroughfare or easement permanently established for passage of persons,
vehicles or utilities.
   SADOMASOCHISTIC PRACTICES. Flagellation or torture by or upon a person
clothed or naked, or the condition of being fettered, bound or otherwise
physically restrained on the part of one clothed or naked.
   SALES AREA. The area open to the public of a retail or wholesale
establishment used for the display or transaction of goods.
   SEASONAL USE. See TEMPORARY BUILDING USE and TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USE.
   SERVICE AREA. Anywhere fuel is dispensed or any service of the business is
performed.
   S.E.V. The State Equalized Valuation of the property in question. This is
presumed to be 50% of the property’s true cash value.
   SERVICE BUSINESS. An enterprise which deals in the performance of work for
hire. No outdoor activity takes place on the premises. All work is performed
either at the customer’s place of business or residence or within the building
occupied by the SERVICE BUSINESS. See also PERSONAL SERVICE BUSINESS.
   SETBACK. The distance between the street right-of-way or front lot line and
the front line of a building or any projection of the building, excluding
uncovered steps.
   SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESS. An inclusive term used to describe collectively:
adult cabaret, adult motion picture theater, video arcade, bathhouse, massage
shop and/or sex shop.
   SHOWROOM. A structure used for the display and sale of goods or merchandise.
   SIGN. A name identification, description, display or illustration which is
affixed to or represented directly or indirectly upon a building, structure or
piece of land and which is intended to direct attention to an object, product,
place, activity, person, institution, organization or business. However, a SIGN
shall not include a sign located completely within an enclosed building. For
the purpose of this chapter, the following SIGN or sign related terms are
defined.
      (1)   AREA, OR SURFACE AREA, OF SIGN. See §
153.070.
      (2)   ELECTRONIC MESSAGE BOARD. Changeable copy signs in which the copy
consists of an array of lights activated and deactivated simultaneously with a
frequency of message change of not less than 20 seconds. Signs displaying time
and temperature only may change messages with a frequency of no less than five
seconds.
      (3)   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign that provides artificial light directly or
through any transparent or translucent material.
      (4)   INTEGRAL SIGN. Names of buildings or farm, date of erection,
monumental citations, commemorative tablets and the like when made an integral
part of the walls of the structure (or roof for farm buildings).
      (5)   MARQUEE. An identification sign attached to or made a part of a
marquee, canopy or awning projecting from and supported by the building.
      (6)   MONUMENT or GROUND MOUNTED. A freestanding sign where the base of
the sign structure is on the ground or integrated into landscaping or other
solid structural features other than support poles.
      (7)   NON-DWELLING USE SIGN. A sign located on a parcel that does not
have a dwelling as its principal structure and is located in the R-1 or R-
2 District. Examples of the uses that may be associated with non-dwellings in
these districts include but are not limited to subdivisions, schools, religious
institutions, public buildings and cemeteries.
      (8)   POLITICAL CAMPAIGN SIGNS. Signs announcing candidates for public
political office and other data pertinent to an upcoming election.
      (9)   PORTABLE SIGN. A display, informational sign, banner, pennants,
pinwheels, ribbons, streamers, strings of light bulbs or similar devices
intended for a limited period of display, including any sign which can be
physically lifted, pulled, carried or wheeled from one location to another.
      (10)   ROOF LINE. Either the high point of the roof or the top of the
parapet, whichever forms the top line of the building silhouette and where a
building has several roof levels, this roof or parapet shall be the one
belonging to that portion of the building on whose wall the sign is located.
      (11)   STREET BANNERS. Fabric signs, suspended across public streets
advertising a public entertainment or event. The location and contents of each
STREET BANNER must be specially approved by the Village Road Administrator.
      (12)   WALL SIGN, FLAT. One affixed directly to or otherwise inscribed on
an exterior wall and confined within the limits thereof of any building and
which projects from that surface less than 18 inches at all points.
   SITE, AREA. The total area within the property lines excluding rights-of-
way, easements and the like.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM. See PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   SITE PLAN. A plan, to scale, showing uses and structures proposed for a
parcel of land as required by the regulations of this chapter. Its purpose is
to show how the intended use relates to the major landscape features and
surrounding area.
   SPECIAL USE. The term applies to a use which may be permitted by the
issuance of a special use permit by the Village Planning Commission. Specified
procedures and requirements, as outlined in cited sections must be complied
with prior to final issuance of said permit.
   SPECIFIED ANATOMICAL AREAS.
      (1)   Less than completely and opaquely covered: human genitals, pubic
region, buttock and/or female breast below a point immediately above the top of
the areola; and/or
      (2)   Human male genitals in a discernibly turgid state, even if
completely and opaquely covered.
   SPECIFIED SEXUAL ACTIVITIES. Human genitals in a state of sexual stimulation
or arousal or acts of human masturbation, sexual intercourse, sodomy or
fondling or other erotic touching of human genitals, pubic region, buttock or
female breast.
   STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A private residence licensed by the
state to receive not more than six aged, emotionally disturbed, developmentally
disabled or physically handicapped adults who require ongoing supervision but
not continuing nursing care. Note that the licensee must be a member of the
household and an occupant of the residence. Note also that none of the
following may be construed to be a STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY: a
“nursing home, home for the aged or hospital”, as defined by Public Act 368 of
1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.; a “hospital for the mentally ill”, as
defined by Public Act 258 of 1974; a “county infirmary”, as defined by Public
Act 280 of 1939; “a child caring institution, children’s camp, foster family
home or group home”, as defined by Public Act 116 of 1973, being M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 through 722.128; a “Veterans’ facility”, as defined by Pubic Act 152 of
1885; nor an alcohol or substance abuse rehabilitation center, a residential
facility for persons released from or assigned to adult correctional
institutions, a maternity home, a hotel or a rooming house, nor a residential
facility licensed by the state to care for four or fewer minors.
   STORY, HEIGHT OF. The vertical distance from the top surface of one floor to
the top surface of the next above. The HEIGHT OF THE TOPMOST STORY is the
distance from the top surface of the floor to the top surface of the ceiling
joints.
   STREET LINE. The legal line of demarcation between a street right-of-way
line and land for service, benefit or enjoyment.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ORDINANCE. An ordinance enacted by the Village Council
to regulate subdividing of land pursuant to Public Act 288 of 1967 as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293.
   TATTOO AND PIERCING PARLOR. An establishment whose principle business
activity, either in terms of operation or as conveyed to the public, is the
practice of one or more of the following:
      (1)   Placing designs, letters, figures, symbols or other marks upon or
under the skin of any person, using ink or other substances that result in the
permanent coloration of the skin by means of the use of needles or other
instruments designed to contact or puncture the skin; and/or
      (2)   Creation of an opening in the body of a person for the purpose of
inserting jewelry or other decoration.
   TEMPORARY BUILDING USE. A use in a temporary or permanent structure,
established for a fixed period of time with the intent to discontinue such use
upon the expiration of the time period granted in the special use permit.
   TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USE. A use carried out in an open area or uncovered or
temporary structure, which is disbanded when the designated time period,
activity or use for which the temporary structure was erected, has ceased.
   TRACTOR. A vehicle that may be separated from a trailer, but is principally
used to haul a trailer and or machinery used in agriculture or construction.
   TRAILER. A structure, standing on wheels, towed or hauled by another vehicle
and used for short term occupation, carrying materials, goods or objects or for
use as a temporary office.
   TRUCK TERMINAL. An area and buildings where cargo is stored and where trucks
are loaded and unloaded on a regular basis.
   USE. The employment or occupation of a building structure or land for
service, benefit or enjoyment.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter granted
when strict enforcement thereof would cause undue hardship owing to
circumstances unique to the specific property on which the modification is
granted by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
   VETERINARIAN. One qualified and authorized to treat diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VIDEO VIEWING BOOTH or ARCADE BOOTH. Any booth, cubicle, stall or
compartment that is designed, constructed or used to hold or seat patrons and
is used for presenting motion pictures or viewing publications by any
photographic, electronic, magnetic, digital or other means or media (including
but not limited to film, video or magnetic tape, laser disc, CD-ROM, books,
magazines or periodicals) for observation by patrons therein. A VIDEO VIEWING
BOOTH shall not mean a theater, movie house, playhouse or a room or enclosure
or portion thereof that contains more than 600 square feet.
   VILLAGE BOARD. The Board of Trustees of the village.
   VISUAL SCREEN. A method of shielding or obscuring one abutting structure or
use from another by fencing, walls, berms or densely planted vegetation.
   WAREHOUSE. A building used primarily for the storage of goods and materials.
   WHOLESALE BUSINESS. A wholesale business is an enterprise which buys and/or
repackages products for sale to retail businesses. Inventory of a WHOLESALE
BUSINESS is stored within an enclosed building.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any animal not domesticated by humans or any animal which a
person is prohibited from possessing by law, absent a license or permit to
possess. WILD ANIMALS shall include, but not be limited to, the following
family groups: Alligators, deer, opossum, badger, dog (wild family), primate
(excluding human), bear, wolf, wolf-dog interbred, raccoon, ferret, skunk, cat
(wild family), lemur, poisonous spider, coyote, poisonous lizard, weasel,
marten.
   YARD. An open space on the same lot with a building, which may not be
occupied by buildings, structures or parking areas, except as otherwise
provided. The measurement of a YARD shall be construed as the minimum
horizontal distance between the lot line (property line) and the building line.
   YARD, FRONT. A yard between the front lot line and the nearest point of the
main building.
   YARD, REAR. A yard between the rear lot line and the nearest point of the
main building.
   YARD, SIDE. A yard between the nearest point of the main building and any
side line.
   ZONING ADMINISTRATOR. An individual or consulting firm appointed or hired by
the Village Council to administer the village zoning ordinance.
   ZONING DISTRICT. Those areas of the community within which similar land use
activities are permitted and for which the regulations contained within this
chapter are the same.
(Ord. passed 6-26-2017; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 153.020 DIVISION OF THE VILLAGE.
   (A)   For the purposes of this chapter, all land within the village, with
the exception of streets and alleys, is divided into the following zoning
districts.
   (B)   Generally speaking, the following zoning classifications, for uses
permitted by right, are listed in order of least restrictive to most
restrictive:
      (1)   R-1   Residential: Single-Family Medium Density;
      (2)   R-2 Residential: Single-Family Low Density;
      (3)   R-3 Residential: Multiple-Family Medium Density:
      (4)   R-4 Residential: Manufactured/Mobile Home Park;
      (5)   B-1 Commercial: Central Business District;
      (6)   B-2 Commercial: Regional Business District; and
      (7)   I-1 Industrial: Light.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.021 OFFICIAL ZONING MAP.
   (A)   The boundaries of Zoning Districts are defined and established as
shown on the map below entitled “Zoning District Map, Village of Lakewood
Club”.
   (B)   This map, with all explanatory matter thereon, is made a part of this
chapter. The official zoning map shall be kept and maintained by the Village
Clerk or his or her designee.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.022 INTERPRETATION OF BOUNDARIES.
   Where uncertainty exists with respect to the boundaries of any of the
districts indicated on the official Zoning Map, the following rules shall
apply.
   (A)   Boundaries indicated, as approximately following streets or highways
shall be presumed to follow the center line of said roadways.
   (B)   Boundaries indicated as approximately following village boundary lines
or property lines shall be presumed to follow said lines.
   (C)   Boundaries indicated approximately parallel to the center lines of
streets or highways shall be interpreted as being parallel thereto and at such
distance therefrom as indicated by given distance or scaled dimension.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.023 SCOPE OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No building or structure or part thereof shall be hereafter erected,
moved, constructed or altered, and no new use or change in use of a parcel
shall be made unless it conforms to the provisions of this chapter, including
the regulations for the zoning district in which it is located. The regulations
applying to zoning districts include specific limitations on the use of land
and structures, height and bulk of structures, parcel area and dimensions,
setback of structures from public thoroughfares and neighboring properties and
area of a parcel that can be covered by structures.
   (B)   The Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power to classify a use
which is not specifically mentioned by this chapter. Said use shall be treated
in a like manner with a comparable permitted or prohibited use for the purpose
of clarifying the district regulations of any zoning district.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.024 DISTRICT REGULATION TABLES.
   Regulations for all zoning districts are contained together in §§
153.025 through
153.031. Each section specifies a related set of information for the specific
zoning district cited. These sections do not include §§
153.045 to
153.051; thus, the reader is urged to become familiar with all ordinance
provisions before making any decisions regarding use of a parcel or structure
in the village.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.025 R-1 MEDIUM DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This district is intended for single-family
residential uses together with compatible uses. The purpose of this zone is to
encourage a residential environment of high-density dwellings.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and/or buildings in the R-1 Residential
District may be used for the following purposes as uses permitted by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory structures;
      (3)   Home occupation;
      (4)   Cemeteries;
      (5)   Ponds;
      (6)   Public buildings;
      (7)   Public service installations; and
      (8)   State licensed residential facility.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. Land and/or buildings in the R-
1 Residential District may be used for the following purposes following review
by the Planning Commission as a special land use, as regulated by this chapter:
      (1)   Bed and breakfast;
      (2)   Day nurseries;
      (3)   Private recreational use; and
      (4)   Religious, social, educational and human care institutions.
   (D)   Site development standards for R-1 Residential: Single-Family Medium
Density. No main building or principal structure, nor enlargement of any main
building or principal structure shall be hereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement.
Corner lot, street minimum        30 feet
Corner lot, other minimum         30 feet
Coverage, maximum percent         25%
Front yard setback                40 feet
Height, stories                   2.5
Housing unit, minimum dimension   24 feet across any side, front or rear
                                  elevation
Housing unit, minimum square feet 1,060 square feet
Minimum lot area                  20,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                 100 feet on road frontage
Rear yard setback                 20 feet
Side yard minimum 1 side          13 feet
Side yard minimum total           26 feet
 
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.026 R-2 LOW DENSITY SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This district is intended for single-family
residential uses together with compatible uses. The purpose of this zone is to
encourage a residential environment of medium density dwellings.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and/or buildings in the R-2 Residential
District may be used for the following purposes as uses permitted by right:
      (1)   Single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Accessory structures;
      (3)   Home occupation;
      (4)   Cemeteries;
      (5)   Ponds;
      (6)   Public buildings;
      (7)   Public service installations; and
      (8)   State licensed residential facilities.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. Land and/or buildings in the R-
2 Residential District may be used for the following purposes following review
by the Planning Commission as a special land use, as regulated by this chapter.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast;
      (2)   Day nurseries;
      (3)   Planned unit development;
      (4)   Golf courses; and
      (5)   Religious, social, educational and human care institutions.
   (D)   Site development standards for R-2 Residential: Single-Family Low
Density. No main building or principal structure, nor enlargement of any main
building or principal structure shall be hereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement.
Corner lot, street minimum        50 feet
Corner lot, other minimum         50 feet
Coverage, maximum percent         25%
Front yard setback                40 feet
Height, stories                   2.5
Housing unit, minimum square feet 1,400 square feet on the first floor
Housing unit, minimum dimension   24 feet across any side, front or rear
                                  elevation
Minimum lot area                  30,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                 100 feet on road frontage
Rear yard setback                 30 feet
Side yard minimum 1 side          20 feet
Side yard minimum total           40 feet
 
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.027 R-3 RESIDENTIAL MULTI-FAMILY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of this district is to
provide a variety of housing styles, design and cost to meet the needs of
existing and potential residents while promoting the development and
preservation of neighborhoods of higher density than in the R-1 District, but
with equivalent quality.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and/or buildings in the R-3 Residential
District may be used for the following purposes as uses permitted by right:
      (1)   Uses permitted in R-1 and R-2;
      (2)   Accessory structures;
      (3)   Home occupation;
      (4)   Multiple-family dwellings; and
      (5)   Two-family dwellings.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. Land and/or buildings in the R-
3 Residential District may be used for the following purposes following review
by the Planning Commission as a special land use, as regulated by this chapter.
      (1)   Bed and breakfast;
      (2)   Day nurseries; and
      (3)   Planned unit development.
   (D)   Site development standards for R-3 Residential: Multiple-Family Medium
Density. No main building or principal structure, nor enlargement of any main
building or principal structure shall be hereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement.
Corner lot, street minimum        50 feet
Corner lot, other minimum         50 feet
Coverage, maximum percent         25%
Front yard setback                40 feet
Height, stories                   2.5
Housing unit, minimum square feet
   One story                   960 square feet per unit
   One and a half story        800 square feet on the first floor, 400
                                  square feet on second
   Two story units             600 square feet on the first floor, and not
                                  less than 1,200 square feet per unit in total
Minimum lot area                  40,000 square feet
Minimum lot width                 150 feet on road frontage
Rear yard setback                 30 feet
Side yard minimum total           50 feet
Side yard minimum 1 side          25 feet
 
(Ord. passed 2-23-2009; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.028 R-4 RESIDENTIAL: MANUFACTURED HOME PARK.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This district is intended to preserve the
interests of alternate types of residential developments and to protect the
residents of any manufactured home type development.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and/or buildings in the R-4 Residential
Manufactured Home Park District may be used for the following purposes as uses
permitted by right:
      (1)   Manufactured home parks, subject to the requirements established
and regulated by the Mobile Home Commission rules, and the provisions of this
subchapter;
      (2)   Clubhouse, swimming pool, playgrounds, common areas and recreation
facilities for the use of mobile home park residents;
      (3)   Accessory uses or structures such as the park business office,
laundry; and
      (4)   Public service installations.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. None.
   (D)   Site development standards for R-4 Residential Manufactured/Mobile
Home Park. See §
153.031.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.029 B-1 COMMERCIAL: CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this district to
provide neighborhood shopping areas to meet the day-to-day convenience
shopping, service and professional needs of area residents.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and/or buildings in the B-1 Central
Business District Commercial may be used for the following purposes as uses
permitted by right:
      (1)   Accessory uses;
      (2)   Commercial schools;
      (3)   Funeral homes;
      (4)   Gas sales;
      (5)   Minor vehicle repair;
      (6)   Residential above ground floor;
      (7)   Personal services;
      (8)   Professional and administrative offices and services, banks;
      (9)   Public buildings;
      (10)   Religious, social, educational and human care institutions;
      (11)   Restaurants, excluding restaurants with entertainment;
      (12)   Retail food, clothing, goods;
      (13)   Retail service/repair; and
      (14)   Utility service installations.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. Land and/or buildings in the B-
1 Central Business District Commercial may be used for the following purposes
following review by the Planning Commission as a special land use, as regulated
by this chapter:
      (1)   Assembly buildings;
      (2)   Bars;
      (3)   Bed and breakfast;
      (4)   Car wash;
      (5)   Commercial recreational facilities;
      (6)   Passenger terminals;
      (7)   Planned unit development;
      (8)   Restaurants with entertainment;
      (9)   Retail and outlet mall;
      (10)   Temporary outdoor uses;
      (11)   Veterinary hospitals;
      (12)   Major auto repair; and
      (13)   Moving truck rentals.
   (D)   Site development standards for B-1 Commercial: Central Business
District. No main building or principal structure, nor enlargement of any main
building or principal structure shall be hereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement.
Corner lot, street minimum        25 feet
Corner lot, other minimum         N/A
Coverage, maximum percent         N/A
Front yard setback                N/A
Height, maximum feet              40 feet (a)
Height, stories                   3
Housing unit, minimum dim.        N/A
Housing unit, minimum square feet N/A
Minimum lot area                  N/A
Minimum lot width                 N/A
Rear yard setback                 25 feet, (b)
Side yard minimum 1 side          20 feet, (c, d)
Side yard minimum total           20 feet, (b)
Notes to Table:
(a) For uses permitted, structures may be erected in excess of 40 feet
provided front, side and rear yard setbacks are increased one foot for each
foot above 40 feet
(b) On a parcel of three acres or more, side and rear yard setbacks shall be
60 feet in depth when abutting a residential district
(c) In the B-1 and B-2 districts, side yards are only required on sides
abutting residential districts
(d) Off-street parking shall be permitted in a side yard setback
 
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.030 B-2 COMMERCIAL: REGIONAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this district to
provide essential service needs to the highway traveler and to accommodate
businesses serving a regional market.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and/or buildings in the B-1 Central
Business District Commercial may be used for the following purposes as uses
permitted by right:
      (1)   Uses permitted in B-1;
      (2)   Auto sales;
      (3)   Auto service and repair;
      (4)   Building supply and equipment showrooms;
      (5)   Commercial recreation;
      (6)   Contractors;
      (7)   Day nurseries;
      (8)   Drive-in establishments;
      (9)   Hotel/motel;
      (10)   Miniature golf;
      (11)   Outdoor sales; and
      (12)   Wholesale establishments.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. Land and/or buildings in the B-
1 Central Business District Commercial may be used for the following purposes
following review by the Planning Commission as a special land use, as regulated
by this chapter:
      (1)   Uses permitted in B-1;
      (2)   Car wash;
      (3)   Golf driving range;
      (4)   Industrial park;
      (5)   Ministorage;
      (6)   Mobile home sales/service;
      (7)   Outdoor assembly;
      (8)   Planned unit development;
      (9)   Race track;
      (10)   Recreational vehicle parks; and
      (11)   Wireless communication.
   (D)   Site development standards for B-2 Commercial: Regional Business
District. No main building or principal structure, nor enlargement of any main
building or principal structure shall be hereafter erected unless the following
requirements are met and maintained in connection with such building, structure
or enlargement.
Corner lot, street minimum        25 feet, (d)
Corner lot, other minimum         N/A
Coverage, maximum percent         N/A
Front yard setback                Parking lot requirements limit this
Height, maximum feet              40 feet (a)
Height, stories                   3
Housing unit, minimum square feet N/A
Housing unit, minimum dim.        N/A
Minimum lot area                  30,000
Minimum lot width                 Parking lot requirements limit this
Rear yard setback                 25 feet, (b, d)
Side yard minimum 1 side          20 feet, (c, d)
Side yard minimum total           20 feet, (b, d)
Notes to Table:
(a) For uses permitted, structures may be erected in excess of 40 feet;
provided front, side and rear yard setbacks are increased one foot for each
foot above 40 feet
(b) On a parcel of three acres or more, side and rear yard setbacks shall be
60 feet in depth when abutting a residential district
(c) In the B-1 and B-2 districts, side yards are only required on sides
abutting residential districts
(d) Multiple family uses above the ground floor in the B-1 zone are subject to
the unit size and parking requirements of the R-2 zone
 
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.031 I-1 INDUSTRIAL: LIGHT.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. This district is intended for light industrial
uses with a few nuisance characteristics, but also permits non-retail
commercial and service establishments. It is designed to permit manufacturing,
production, processing, assembling, packaging and treatment of products from
previously prepared materials. The purpose of this district is to promote
industrial areas which are protected from incompatible uses.
   (B)   Uses permitted by right. Land and/or buildings in the I-1 Industrial:
Light may be used for the following purposes as uses permitted by right:
      (1)   Commercial schools;
      (2)   Laboratories;
      (3)   Manufacturing of molded products, electron/electrical devices;
      (4)   Production, processing, assembling, treatment or packaging of
goods;
      (5)   Public utility installations;
      (6)   Soil resource extraction; and
      (7)   Warehouse and storage.
   (C)   Uses permitted by special land use. Land and/or buildings in the B-
1 Central Business District Commercial may be used for the following purposes
following review by the Planning Commission as a special land use, as regulated
by this chapter:
      (1)   Industrial park;
      (2)   Sexually oriented business; and
      (3)   Wireless communication.
   (D)   Site development standards for I-1 Industrial: Light. No main building
or principal structure, nor enlargement of any main building or principal
structure shall be hereafter erected unless the following requirements are met
and maintained in connection with such building, structure or enlargement.
Corner lot, street minimum        25 feet
Corner lot, other minimum         N/A
Coverage, maximum percent         N/A
Front yard setback                N/A
Height, maximum feet              40 feet (a, d)
Height, stories                   N/A
Housing unit, minimum dim.        N/A
Housing unit, minimum square feet N/A
Minimum lot area                  N/A
Minimum lot width                 N/A
Rear yard setback                 40 feet, (b)
Side yard minimum 1 side          20 feet, (c)
Side yard minimum total           20 feet, (b)
Notes to Table:
(a) For uses permitted, structures may be erected in excess of 40 feet
provided front, side and rear yard setbacks are increased one foot for each
foot above 40 feet
(b) On a parcel of three acres or more, side and rear yard setbacks shall be
60 feet in depth when abutting a residential district
(c) Off-street parking shall be permitted in a side yard setback
(d) In the I-1 district, height restrictions apply only when the parcel abuts
a residential district
 
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.032 R-4 MANUFACTURED HOUSING DISTRICT.
   (A)   Compliance with Mobile Home Park Commission. No manufactured home park
shall be established within the R-4 District unless the park complies with the
rules of the Mobile Home Commission.
   (B)   Greenbelt buffer. Within the premises upon which a manufactured home
park is located there shall be constructed a greenbelt buffer. After approval
as a part of the preliminary plan review process, there shall be no requirement
that the buffer be changed due to future development.
      (1)   The greenbelt buffer shall be 20 feet wide on all side and rear lot
lines abutting adjoining property. Existing manufactured housing developments
are not required to buffer between the existing development and any new
adjacent development that did not exist at the time the preliminary plan was
approved.
      (2)   (a)   If the mobile home park abuts an existing residential
development, screening shall be required in the buffer zones. Screening shall
be with plants of six feet in height at the time of planting, which shall
obscure 50% of the view of the park, or a solid fence eight feet in height
obscuring 100% of the view, or any combination of the above may be used to meet
the intent of this chapter, to screen the mobile home park from abutting
developed residential use district classifications, or residences, and also
from any previously existing adjoining single-family residence, regardless of
the zone in which the latter residence is located.
         (b)   All the screening shall obscure 100% of the view at maturity.
Property owners are allowed flexibility in material selection as long as these
standards are met. If a wood fence is used, the materials shall be pressure-
treated lumber. If a masonry fence is used, it shall have a foundation of at
least 42 inches deep in the ground. Trees, shrubs and all planted vegetation
within the buffer, must be appropriate to the climate and provided further,
that they are not infested with pests, insects or diseases. The buffer shall be
landscaped in such fashion as to assure that it will not erode and shall be
landscaped with grass or groundcover appropriate for the climate.
         (c)   Screening shall be maintained in a condition very similar to the
condition at the time of installation. This means fences shall be straight and
broken boards shall be replaced. Dead trees, bushes, shrubs and vegetation
shall be replaced with new, live, smaller plants which will grow to the same
height as the dead plant being replaced. Masonry fences shall have all cracks
repaired and maintained by pointing.
         (d)   The Planning Commission shall be authorized to grant an
exception from the foregoing screening requirements where the screening would
serve no useful practical purpose in providing peace and quiet for the
occupants of the adjoining premises and may grant any exception during the
preliminary plan review process.
      (3)   The greenbelt buffer, whether utilizing a fence, or trees and
plantings, or both, shall in any event be compatible with the surrounding
environment.
   (C)   Streets, sidewalks and public ways. Every manufactured/mobile home
park shall be provided with a network of streets with access points to adjacent
public ways, at least as set forth hereinafter.
      (1)   Where adverse topographic conditions of entry streets are
encountered, a second entry street must be provided. Such adverse conditions
might be, but are not limited to, a stream, swamp and/or steep grade. The
purpose of the second entry street is to provide adequate access to the
community in cases of emergencies, poor weather or heavy traffic conditions.
      (2)   All streets within the mobile home park shall be paved with a hard
surface in accordance with the most recent edition of the Standard
Specifications for Construction that includes Construction Details of the State
Department of Transportation.
      (3)   Two-way streets within the mobile home park shall have a minimum
traveled width of 21 feet of pavement with no parking. One-way streets shall
have a minimum traveled width of 13 feet with no parking. Notwithstanding the
foregoing, all streets and street rights-of-way shall be of adequate width to
allow for snow storage and removal. In the event that parking is permitted on
any street within the mobile home park, the minimum width of each street, in
addition to the traveled portion, shall be ten feet wide for each parallel
parking lane and 16 feet wide for each diagonal parking lane. If a parking lane
is not provided, “no parking” signs will be installed and enforced on the side
of the street.
      (4)   Each street intersection within the mobile home park shall have an
adequate safe sight distance. No object or planting shall be allowed in a yard
or corner lots closer than 30 feet from the intersection or taller than three
feet from the center line elevation of the street.
      (5)   Each intersection within the mobile home park shall be designated
by a reflective street name sign, located at the intersection, identifying each
street by name.
      (6)   If curbing is used, it shall be concrete with the exception of
integral valley curb and gutter (gravity drains) that may be either concrete or
asphalt.
   (D)   Off-street parking and driveways.
      (1)   All mobile home sites within the mobile home park shall be provided
with not less than two hard-surfaced parking spaces. If the parking spaces are
off-street, they shall be hard-surfaced and shall be sized to accommodate at
least one full-sized vehicle. All off-street parking shall be connected to an
adjacent mobile home park street by hard-surfaced driveway at least ten feet in
width. Parking may also be provided on-street; provided that the parking lane
width requirements are complied with. Driveways shall also be provided for
access to service entrances and buildings for delivery and collection points
for fuel, refuse and other materials and elsewhere as needed. Every driveway
entrance shall have a flare or radii in horizontal alignment necessary for safe
and convenient ingress and egress.
      (2)   A minimum of one parking space for every three mobile home sites
shall be provided for visitor parking. Each visitor parking site shall be
located within 500 feet of the mobile home site it is intended to serve.
      (3)   In addition to the foregoing, a separate parking area may be
provided for vehicles that cannot be accommodated within the parking areas set
forth above, such as recreational vehicles, travel trailers, snow mobiles and
the like.
   (E)   Illumination. All streets and sidewalk and areas open to travel by
mobile home park residents shall be illuminated as follows.
      (1)   Access points to public thoroughfares shall be lighted. If the
public thoroughfare is lighted, the illumination level shall not exceed the
average illumination level of an adjacent illuminated public thoroughfare.
      (2)   At all street intersections and designated pedestrian crosswalks
the minimum illumination shall be not less than 0.15-foot candles.
      (3)   All streets, parking bays and sidewalks shall be illuminated at no
less than 0.05-foot candles.
      (4)   If a central park mailbox or park directory or both are provided,
they shall be illuminated by not less than 3.15 horizontal foot candles.
      (5)   All outdoor recreational facilities shall be provided with
illumination adequate to facilitate their intended use.
      (6)   All lighting shall be located and shielded so as to direct the
light away from premises abutting the mobile home park.
   (F)   Water supply, fire hydrants and sanitary system. Each mobile home park
shall be connected to a common water supply and sanitary sewage disposal
system. Adequate water supply shall be provided for firefighting purposes.
Water supply shall be designed and installed and sewer service provided in
accordance with the State Department of Public Health Engineering Standards and
the Safe Drinking Water Act, § 325.1105, administrative rules and shall be
properly maintained and readily accessible for immediate use at all times. Fire
hydrants shall be situated within the mobile home park in such locations and at
such intervals such that no lot shall be more than 300 feet measured parallel
to the street from a fire hydrant. Each fire hydrant shall be located within
ten feet of the edge of the street paving surface. If the central water system
cannot support fire hydrants, “dry” fire hydrants shall be installed. When the
property is more than 150 feet along a public right-of-way from either
municipal water or sewer supply lines or sewers, a private system may be
installed as approved by the County Health Department. Otherwise, each mobile
home park shall be connected to the village water and/or sanitary sewage
disposal systems, if available, and each mobile home site shall be connected.
   (G)   Solid refuse, garbage and recyclables. The disposal of solid refuse
shall comply with all township and other government requirements for refuse
disposal.
   (H)   Utilities. All local distribution lines for telephone and electric
services, exclusive of main supply and perimeter feed lines shall be placed
entirely underground throughout the mobile home park.
   (I)   Open space. An open space dedicated to use by mobile home park
residents as a recreation area, playground or gathering area, including, at the
option of the owner/developer, clubhouses, swimming pools and the like, shall
be provided. The areas shall consist of not less than 2% of the park’s gross
acreage but not less than 25,000 square feet. The areas shall not be included
in the border greenbelt buffer and shall not be swamp or another marshland.
This open space requirement shall not apply to mobile home developments with
less than 50 sites. If a development is built in stages, when the fifty-first
site is developed, this requirement shall apply to all the sites in both stages
of the development.
   (J)   Mobile home installation. Installation of mobile homes upon each
mobile home site shall be accomplished in accordance with Part 6 of the
Manufactured Housing Commission rules. All mobile homes shall be connected to
utilities and shall be skirted and anchored in accordance with Part 6 of the
Manufactured Housing Commission rules.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 153.045 NONCONFORMITIES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   It is the intent of this section to permit the continuation of any
lawful use of a building, structure or land existing as of the effective date
of this chapter or any amendments added to this chapter. However, it is
declared that nonconformance with the provisions of this chapter is not in the
best interests of the village and ought to be discontinued as circumstances
permit.
      (2)   Any nonconforming building, structure or use shall not be enlarged
or expanded and may be changed, repaired or reconstructed only as prescribed by
this section.
   (B)   Historic properties. Any nonconforming property in the village which
is listed on the State or National Register of Historic Places is specifically
excluded from any requirement of this section which would damage the historic
character of the property. When any such property is the subject of any
administrative decision, the input of the State Historic Preservation Officer
shall be requested in writing not less than 30 days before any regulatory
action may take effect.
   (C)   Legality of nonconformities. Nonconformities will be classified as
“legal” or “illegal” based on the following guidelines. Regulation of
nonconformities will vary based on their legality.
      (1)   ILLEGAL NONCONFORMITIES are those that have been developed in
conflict with zoning regulations.
      (2)   LEGAL NONCONFORMITIES are those that meet each applicable
criterion, listed below. Note that temporary signs are not considered legal
nonconforming structures.
         (a)   The nonconformity existed legally before the effective date of
this chapter or any amendments to this chapter.
         (b)   The nonconformity complied with the district regulations of the
previous zoning ordinance or existed legally through a special use permit or
variance.
         (c)   Nonconforming setback or lot size only: The nonconformity
resulted from land acquisition by a government agency, such as for a road
right-of-way.
         (d)   Nonconforming buildings or structures only: The building or
structure does not extend into a public right-of-way or over a neighboring
property line.
   (D)   Loss of legal nonconforming status. If a nonconforming use of land or
structure ceases for any reason or has been abandoned for a period of six
consecutive months or more, any reuse of the land or structure must conform to
all requirements of this chapter.
   (E)   Expansion of nonconformity prohibited. No structure may be enlarged or
structurally altered in such a way as to increase its nonconformity. A
reduction of the degree of nonconformance in one respect is not permitted to
offset an increase in the degree of nonconformance in another respect. Thus,
square footage may not be “traded” from one portion of a building to another.
Nor may one nonconforming use be replaced by another unless the degree of
nonconformance is reduced in some way.
   (F)   Reconstruction and restoration. Any lawful nonconforming use that is
damaged may be restored, rebuilt or repaired; provided that such restoration
does not exceed 50% of its assessed value, as determined by the assessing
officer, exclusive of foundations; provided that said use be the same or more
nearly conforming with the provisions of the district in which it is located.
   (G)   Repair. Nothing in this chapter shall prohibit the repair, improvement
or modernizing of a lawful nonconforming building to correct deterioration,
obsolescence, depreciation or wear; provided that such repair does not exceed
an aggregate cost thereby increasing the assessed value by more than 30% as
determined by the assessing officer unless the subject building is changed by
such repair to a conforming use. No repair may enlarge or structurally alter
the structure in such a way as to increase the nonconformity.
   (H)   Changing uses.
      (1)   If no structural alterations are made, the Board of Appeals may
authorize a change from one nonconforming use to another nonconforming use;
provided the proposed use would be more suitable to the zoning district in
which it is located, than the nonconforming use which is being replaced.
      (2)   Whenever a nonconforming use has been changed to a more nearly
conforming use or conforming use such use shall not revert or be changed back
to a nonconforming or less conforming use.
   (I)   Prior construction approval. Nothing in this section shall prohibit
the completion of construction and use of a legal nonconforming building for
which a building permit has been issued prior to the effective date of this
chapter; provided that all terms of the permit are fully complied with.
   (J)   District changes. Whenever changes occur in the boundaries of zoning
districts, the provisions of this section shall apply to any uses or parcels
that become nonconforming as a result of the boundary changes.
   (K)   Nonconforming lots. In any district in which single-family dwellings
are permitted, a single-family dwelling and the accessory buildings may be
erected on any single legal lot of record at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter. Yard dimensions shall conform to the regulations for
the district in which the lot is located.
   (L)   Regulation of nonconformities.
      (1)   Table. This table prescribes actions to address various types of
nonconformities in several situations. It is presumed that each of these
situations will result in an application for a building or zoning permit and
that sufficient information will be obtained to determine the legality of the
nonconformity before any action will be taken by village officials.
      (2)   Interpretation. Should any question arise concerning the
interpretation of any provision of the regulation of nonconformities table, or
if a situation is encountered which was not anticipated by the table, the
question shall be submitted to the Zoning Board of Appeals for its
interpretation which shall be final.
   (M)   Regulations of nonconformities table.
     If           If Damaged More If Damaged Less Change in Use  Remodeling,
Type Discontinued than S.E.V.     than S.E.V.     (Including New Maintenance,
     for 6 Months                                 Buildings)     Code Work
              If           If Damaged     If Damaged Less Change in Use  Remodeling,
Type          Discontinued More than      than S.E.V.     (Including New Maintenance,
              for 6 Months S.E.V.                         Buildings)     Code Work
                           Building must  May repair, but
Illegal                    be rebuilt to  must reduce     New use and    Permitted, but
nonconforming              fully comply   degree of       new building   may not create
dimensions or N/A          with           nonconformance; must adhere to any greater
setback of                 applicable     requires a      all district   degree of
building                   district       variance        regulations    nonconformance
                           regulations
Illegal                                   Structure must  Structure must Permitted, but
nonconforming                             comply with all comply with    may not create
dimensions or N/A          Structure must district        all district   any greater
setback of                 be removed     regulations     regulations.   degree of
structure                                 (may need to be (may need to   nonconformance
                                          removed)        be removed)
Illegal                                                   Not permitted  Property must
nonconforming N/A          N/A            N/A             unless use is  be kept in
parcel                                                    conforming     safe condition
Legal                                                     Permitted, but Property must
nonconforming N/A          N/A            N/A             requires a     be kept in
parcel                                                    variance       safe condition
Illegal                                                   Not permitted
nonconforming May not be   Use must stop  Repairs allowed unless use     Permitted so
use of        resumed      and may not be if use is not   becomes        long as use is
building or                resumed        expanded        conforming     not expanded
structure
Illegal                                                   Not permitted  Property must
nonconforming May not be   N/A            N/A             unless use     be kept in
use of land   resumed                                     becomes        safe
                                                          conforming     condition.
Legal                      May rebuild,                                  Permitted, but
nonconforming              but must       May repair to   Permitted, but may not create
dimensions or N/A          reduce degree  pre-damage      requires a     any greater
setback of                 of             status          variance       degree of
building or                nonconformance                                nonconformance
structure
Legal                      May rebuild if                 Permitted, but
nonconforming May not be   all plans meet May repair to   must reduce    Permitted so
use of        resumed      All other      pre-damage      degree of      long as use is
building or                district       status          nonconformance not expanded
structure                  regulations
Legal                                                     Permitted, but Property must
nonconforming May not be   N/A            N/A             must reduce    be kept in
use of land   resumed                                     degree of      safe condition
                                                          nonconformance
 
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.046 USE REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Building permits required.
      (1)   Any construction related to any type of zoning administrative
approval shall be commenced only after a building permit has been obtained from
the Building Inspector. Construction involving minor repairs or alterations and
which has a value of less than $500 and does not conflict with this chapter
shall not require a building permit.
      (2)   If the Building Inspector finds that the structure or work being
performed is in violation of this chapter, the building permit shall be
revoked, and all work immediately stopped. A notice of this action will be
posted on the premises and the owner, agent or contractor shall be notified in
writing by the Building Inspector that the structure or work being performed is
in violation of this chapter. If the said person or persons shall fail or
refuse to comply with this order and make the necessary corrections, then all
work on the parcel shall stop immediately.
   (B)   Prior building permits. Any building permit issued prior to the
effective date of this chapter shall be valid, even though not conforming to
the provisions of this chapter; provided that construction is commenced within
180 days after the date the permit was issued and that the building is
completed according to the plans filed with the permit application within one
year of the date of issuance.
   (C)   Occupancy permit. Upon completion of a structure and all required site
improvements per approved site plan, and before moving into a building in any
district, an occupancy permit is required.
   (D)   Accessory uses. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit
the following accessory uses:
      (1)   Customary refreshment and service uses and buildings which are
incidental to the recreational use of any park or recreational area;
      (2)   Buildings or structures necessary for provision of essential
services;
      (3)   Gardens, garden ornaments and usual landscape features within
required yard space;
      (4)   Fences, walls and screens within required yard space;
      (5)   Retaining walls;
      (6)   Public playgrounds;
      (7)   Off-street parking for licensed automobiles, recreational vehicles
and other motor vehicles not including trucks over one-ton rated capacity;
      (8)   Home occupation;
      (9)   Use of premises as a voting place;
      (10)   Storage sheds, playhouses and shelters for transit or school bus
passengers;
      (11)   Radio or television antennas;
      (12)   Swimming pools; and
      (13)   Front yard handicap access facilities in residential districts
when proof of need is shown.
   (E)   Required water supply and sanitary sewage facilities. No structure
shall be erected, altered or moved upon any parcel for regular occupation or
use by humans or animals unless it is provided with a safe, sanitary and
potable indoor water supply and with a safe and effective means of collection,
treatment and indoor disposal of human, domestic, commercial and industrial
waste. All such installations and facilities shall conform with all
requirements of the village and applicable state agencies. No outside toilet or
privy shall be constructed on any premises. Portable toilets shall be permitted
during construction of a structure or for special events on a temporary basis
only.
   (F)   Exterior lighting. All lighting for parking areas or for the external
illumination of buildings or for the illumination of signs shall be directed
away from and shall be shielded from adjacent districts and shall also be
arranged so as to not adversely affect driver visibility on adjacent
thoroughfares.
   (G)   Corner clearance. No fence, wall, shrubbery, sign or other obstruction
to vision above the height of three feet from the established street grades
shall be permitted within the triangular area formed at the intersection of any
street right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between said right-of-way
lines at a distance along each line of 30 feet from their point of
intersection.
   (H)   Fences. This includes walls and non-botanical screens.
      (1)   Fences on all lots of record, in residential districts which
enclose property, are permitted in any yard, subject to the following
conditions. These restrictions apply only to fences located in areas of the
village zoned residential.
      (2)   No fence may be constructed until:
         (a)   A permit application and appropriate permit fee is submitted to
the Village Office; and
         (b)   A site plan is submitted to the Village Office and approved.
      (3)   The site plan shall include:
         (a)   Setback lines from main structures;
         (b)   Lot dimensions in relation to building structure;
         (c)   Side, front and back yards; and
         (d)   Closest point from house to road with measured footage.
      (4)   All fences shall be maintained in good condition as determined by
the Village Ordinance Enforcer.
      (5)   Fences shall not exceed four feet in height with 50% visibility, or
three feet in height if less than 50% visibility, if erected in the front yard
where the property abuts a lake, stream or street, or where the front is the
yard on the lake, stream or street side. All other fences shall not exceed six
feet in height.
      (6)   Fences shall not extend into the street right-of-way at the front
property line. Exceptions: for the consideration of fence construction only,
the front property line is deferred as the front line of record (address) and
where the front yard abuts a lake or stream.
      (7)   Fences shall not obstruct vision at intersections.
      (8)   Fences on platted lots of record shall not contain barbed wire,
electric current, charge of electricity, broken glass, bottle caps or chain
link type fences with sharp wire edges upwardly exposed. Exception: Fences
enclosing domesticated animals may use barbed wire, electric current or other
materials necessary.
      (9)   No plantings, fences, walls, hedges, berms or screens shall be
established or maintained on any lot which will obstruct the view of any
vehicle driver approaching the intersection of public roads, private streets or
any combination thereof. The Building Inspector may require a distance of more
than ten feet of unobstructed vision, if necessary, to provide for a clear
vision area.
      (10)   All fence heights shall be measured at the vertical distance from
the average elevation of the finished grade within 20 feet of the fence to the
highest point of the fence.
      (11)   Fences which enclose public or institutional parks, playgrounds or
public landscaped areas shall not exceed nine feet in height.
      (12)   Fences that are erected on the property line shall have the good
side facing the street. Fences that are erected off the property line by two
feet or more may have the good side facing the property owner.
      (13)   The enforcement of this chapter and penalty for violations shall
be pursuant to §
153.153. Each day on which any such violation shall continue shall constitute a
separate offense.
   (I)   Storage of equipment and materials. In all commercial and industrial
districts, the open storage of any equipment, vehicles and all materials, shall
be screened from public view, from a street and from adjoining properties by an
enclosure consisting of a wall equal in height to the equipment, vehicles and
all materials to be stored. In no instance shall said wall be less in height
than four feet, six inches measured from the surface of the adjacent building
flooring, or greater than eight feet.
   (J)   Parking of licensed recreational equipment. Parking of licensed
recreational equipment outside of an enclosed structure, including travel
trailers, campers, snowmobiles, boats and similar items in any Residential
Zoning District must conform to required setbacks for accessory structures and
to overall limitations for lot coverage. All recreational equipment parked in
the front yard must be parked on a driveway. Licensed and unlicensed
recreational equipment may not be used for dwelling purposes except within a
licensed campground.
   (K)   Heavy trucks. Overnight parking of commercial vehicles in excess of
one ton rated capacity, including all semi-truck tractors with trailers or
semi-truck trailers separate from tractors, is prohibited within any
Residential Zoning District. Parking of semi-truck tractors without trailers is
allowed. This regulation does not apply to emergency vehicles or equipment.
   (L)   Glare and radioactive materials. Glare from any process (such as or
similar to arc welding or acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful rays
shall be performed in such a manner as not to extend beyond the property line,
and as not to create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines. Radioactive
materials and wastes, and including electromagnetic radiation such as X-ray
machine operation, shall not be emitted to exceed quantities established as
safe by the U.S. Bureau of Standards, when measured at the property line.
   (M)   Fire and explosive hazards. The storage, utilization of or manufacture
of materials, goods or products ranging from free or active burning to intense
burning, as determined by the Fire Chief, is permitted subject to compliance
with all other yard requirements and performance standards previously
mentioned, and providing that the following conditions are met.
      (1)   Said materials or products shall be stored, utilized or produced
within completely enclosed buildings or structures having incombustible
exterior walls, which meet the requirements of the Building Code of the
municipality.
      (2)   All such buildings or structures shall be set back at least 40 feet
from lot lines and all such buildings or structures shall be protected
throughout by an automatic sprinkler system complying with installation
standards prescribed by the National Fire Association.
      (3)   The storage and handling of flammable liquids, liquefied petroleum,
gases and explosives shall comply with the state rules and regulations as
established by Public Act 207 of 1941 as amended.
   (N)   Garage/yard sales. Garage/yard sales may take place on any parcel for
purposes of selling personal household goods and effects not including
machinery or vehicles of any kind. A garage/yard sale requires a permit from
the Clerk of the village. A fee for such permit will be charged at a rate
established by the Village Council. Sales may take place between the hours of
8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. Each sale may last no more than two days. No more than
two sales may take place on any one parcel in any 12-month period. All
advertisement for such sale(s) must be removed immediately following the close
of the sale.
(Ord. passed 4-25-2005; Ord. passed 5-8-2005; Ord. passed 7-27-2015; Ord.
passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.047 DWELLING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Must comply with code requirements. Every dwelling must comply with
all pertinent housing, fire and construction codes. This includes meeting or
exceeding all applicable roof snow loads and strength requirements. If the
dwelling is a mobile home, all construction, insulation, plumbing or electrical
apparatus shall conform to the “Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards”
of the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development. Pursuant to the
provisions of Public Act 3 of 1895, as amended, the village adopts by reference
the State Building Code, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 et seq., except where
otherwise provided in this chapter.
   (B)   Manufactured/mobile home installation. In the event that a dwelling is
a mobile home, it must be installed pursuant to the manufacturer’s setup
instructions with the wheels removed. It also must be secured to the ground by
an anchoring system or device complying with the current State Building Code
and the rules and regulations of the State Mobile Home Commission. Each
manufactured/mobile home must have a perimeter wall of block or brick which has
the same dimensions as the dwelling. No manufactured/mobile home shall have any
towing mechanism, under carriage or chassis exposed.
   (C)   Use of manufactured/mobile home for temporary dwelling. A temporary
zoning permit may be issued for placement and occupancy of a manufactured/
mobile home which meets the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development’s
“Mobile Home Construction and Safety Standards” and the manufacturer’s
specifications for its installation, subject to the conditions in division (D)
below.
   (D)   Situations in which temporary dwellings are allowed. Use of a
manufactured/mobile home for a temporary dwelling may be authorized under the
following circumstances, within the limitations listed.
      (1)   Single-family home under construction by owner. One manufactured/
mobile home, housing only the owner(s) of a parcel and their immediate family
members, may be placed on any parcel in any zoning district which conforms to
all dimensional requirements of this chapter during the construction of a
single-family home to be occupied by the parcel owner(s). Said temporary permit
shall be valid for up to six months, and may be renewed not more than once for
the same period by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Repair of damaged conforming single-family dwelling. One
manufactured/mobile home may be placed temporarily, as noted, on any parcel in
the R-1 or R-2 Zoning Districts which conforms to all dimensional requirements
of this chapter. Said manufactured/mobile home may house only the owner(s) of
the parcel and immediate family members during the repair of a single-family
home which conformed to all dimensional requirements of this chapter and which
they had occupied up to the date on which it was damaged to the degree that it
cannot be occupied. Said temporary permit shall be valid for up to three months
and may be issued by the Zoning Administrator under emergency conditions. The
permit may be renewed not more than once for the same period by the Zoning
Administrator.
      (3)   Additional requirements. Both of the following requirements must be
met before any temporary zoning permit may be issued for placement and
temporary occupancy of a manufactured/mobile home.
         (a)   Building permit. A building permit must have been issued to the
parcel owner(s) for construction or repair of a single-family home on the
parcel.
         (b)   Comply with district regulations. Placement of the manufactured/
mobile home must comply with all setback and lot coverage requirements for the
applicable zoning district.
   (E)   Structures to be of uniform quality. Any additions, rooms or other
areas of a dwelling must be constructed using workmanship and materials similar
in quality to the original structure. Such additions, rooms or other areas must
be permanently attached to the principal structure and must be supported by a
foundation as required herein.
   (F)   Aesthetically compatible. Dwelling must be aesthetically compatible in
design and appearance with other residences in the vicinity, with either a roof
overhang of not less than six inches on all sides and contain steps connected
to said exterior door areas where a difference of elevation requires the same.
   (G)   Maintenance. A dwelling must be properly maintained and protected
against deterioration and damage from the elements or the passage of time by
prompt and appropriate repairs, surfacing, coating and any other necessary
protective measures.
   (H)   One single-family dwelling per parcel. Unless the structure is part of
an approved planned unit development, only one single-family detached dwelling
will be allowed to be erected on a parcel.
   (I)   Foundation. All single-family dwellings, except mobile homes located
in mobile home parks, must be firmly attached to a permanent foundation meeting
the State Building Code requirements for such dwellings, the walls of which
have the same perimeter dimensions as the dwelling.
   (J)   Dimensions. All single-family dwellings must have a minimum width
across any front, side and rear elevation of 24 feet and comply in all respects
with the State Code, excluding minimum heights for habitable rooms, regulated
by Manufactured Home Construction and Safety Standards, as amended for ceiling
height of habitable rooms.
   (K)   Roof. All one- or two-family dwellings, other than mobile homes
located inside mobile home parks, must have a pitched roof, the principal
portion of which has a slope of no less than one vertical unit to four
horizontal units. The eaves of this roof must project no less than six inches
beyond the walls.
   (L)   Exterior doors. Every single-family dwelling must have exterior doors
on not less than two sides with steps and porches connected to said doors where
required due to a difference in elevation.
   (M)   Garages in residential zoning districts. The total square footage of
garages may not exceed 850 square feet. Garages for any dwelling units may
provide storage for no more than the number of vehicles noted below.
      (1)   Single-family dwellings. Three vehicles, including not more than
one commercial vehicle with a load capacity of no more than one ton.
      (2)   All other dwellings. Two vehicles, including not more than one
commercial vehicle with a load capacity of no more than one ton.
   (N)   Accessory building not for dwelling use. No portion of an accessory
building in an R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Zoning District is to be used as a
dwelling.
   (O)   Accessory building size.
      (1)   Parcels totaling or greater than 30,000 square feet shall be
permitted accessory buildings totaling 1,600 square feet and 20 feet in height.
Parcels less than 30,000 square feet shall be permitted accessory buildings
totaling 1,280 square feet and 20 feet in height.
      (2)   No accessory structure may be located in the front yard. The front
of the accessory building may be at the front building line of the principal
building. All accessory buildings must be located at least ten feet from all
other buildings. The side yard setback shall be six feet and the backyard
setback shall be six feet.
   (P)   Attached garage yard requirements. Attached garages shall be
considered part of the principal building for the purpose of computing required
yards.
   (Q)   State licensed residential facility. No state licensed residential
facility for six people or less shall be located within 1,000 feet of another
state licensed residential facility.
   (R)   Ponds. Ponds of less than one acre in area may be constructed as a
landscaping enhancement to residential uses in the R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-
4 districts after plan review and issuance of a building permit by the village.
Soils excavated for creation of these ponds may not be taken off the parcel
site. The pond may only be located in a rear yard, have a surface area of 15%
or less of the parcel and must meet all setback requirements of principal
structures in the district in which it is located.
   (S)   Home occupation. A HOME OCCUPATION is any business carried on by one
or more members of a family residing on the premises; providing it:
      (1)   Is operated in its entirety within the principal dwelling or
accessory structure;
      (2)   Does not have a separate entrance from outside the building;
      (3)   Does not involve alteration or construction not customarily found
in dwellings or accessory structures;
      (4)   Does not use any mechanical equipment except that which is used
normally for purely domestic or household purposes;
      (5)   Does not use more than 25% of the total actual floor area of the
dwelling, or 50% of the total actual floor area of the accessory structure,
with a maximum total area for the home occupation of 500 square feet;
      (6)   Does not display, or create outside the structure any external
evidence of the operation of the home occupation, including additional traffic,
except for one unanimated, nonilluminated, wall sign having an area of not more
than two square feet;
      (7)   Does not employ any persons other than family members residing on
the premises; and/or
      (8)   Is not conducted such that it requires parking in excess of that
required for the residential structure in which it is located.
   (T)   Moving structures. Structures intended to be moved into the village
must first have an approved site plan and necessary permits. All aspects of
this chapter and the Building Code must be complied with prior to the structure
being moved into the village.
   (U)   Razing buildings/burying debris.
      (1)   Intent. The intent of this division (U) is to:
         (a)   Prevent the burying of any building materials or debris
associated with the building construction of any portion of residence, fence,
garage, outbuildings, in-ground swimming pool or commercial endeavor;
         (b)   Prevent the burying of any demolition materials or debris
associated with the demolition, razing or deconstruction of any residence,
fence, garage outbuilding, in-ground swimming pool or commercial endeavor; and
         (c)   This division (U) is not intended to prohibit the construction
of a basement below ground surface level, or any in-ground swimming pool.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (U), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         BUILDING. Any structure or portion of a structure whether constructed
for commercial, residential, storage or entertainment purposes.
         BUILDING MATERIAL. Any material in any form used for, or part of, the
construction or razing of any building, foundation, fence or in-ground swimming
pool.
         BURYING. Placing any building material debris or demolition material
debris, regardless of intent, under or partially under the surface of the soil
or under a building or foundation regardless of intent. BURYING does not apply
to the construction of a basement below ground surface level or any in-ground
pool.
         RAZING. The demolition or deconstruction of any building, part of
building, foundation, in-ground swimming pool or fence.
      (3)   Burying building material/debris.
         (a)   It shall be unlawful to bury any building material or debris
associated with the building of a structure.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful to bury any building materials or debris
associated with razing, demolition or deconstruction of a structure or part of
a structure.
      (4)   Enforcement and sanctions. The illegal burying of debris as set
forth in this division (U) shall constitute a civil infraction.
   (V)   Demolition/razing.
      (1)   Intent. The intent of this division (V) is to provide for a permit
for the demolition of any demolition/deconstruction or razing of any building,
part of building, foundation or in-ground swimming pool.
      (2)   Definitions.   Refer to division (U)(2) above.
      (3)   Regulation. 
         (a)   Permit. Any demolition of any building or portion of building
shall require the property owner to obtain a demolition permit before
demolition begins.
         (b)   Fee. The permit application fee as set from time to time by
governing body.
         (c)   Location. The permit application shall be available at the
Village Hall, 6681 Automobile Road.
      (4)   Penalties. Failure to obtain a permit for demolition shall result
in a stop order on the demolition and an established fine for each day the
homeowner is without a permit.
   (W)   Tents, travel trailers and motor coaches.
      (1)   Purpose. The village enacts this division (W) to secure the public
peace, health, safety and welfare of the residents and property owners of the
village. The purpose of this division (W) is designed to regulate and limit the
use and occupancy of tents, travel trailers and motor coaches as places of
dwelling or residency within the village limits to protect the property values
of the village, the aesthetic value of the village and the overall health and
welfare of the village residents.
      (2)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (W), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ADJOINING. In actual contact; touching, bordering.
         DOMICILE. A place of residence; a permanent dwelling place.
         DWELLING. A building or place used as the residence or sleeping place
for one or more persons for a period exceeding seven days in a month.
         INHABITED. Having inhabitants, such as a permanent resident in a
place, as distinguished from a transient lodger or visitor.
         MOTOR COACHES. Any structure with a single or double axle that can be
moved or driven from one site to another.
         TENT. Any fabric, tarp or temporary structure that is used for
sleeping purposes or as a shelter utilized as a temporary form of housing.
         TRAILER. A structure, standing on wheels, towed or hauled by another
vehicle and used for short term occupation, carrying materials, goods or
objects or for use as a temporary office.
      (3)   Regulations. The village restricts occupying tents, trailers or
motor coaches within the village limits as follows.
         (a)   1.   Occupying tents, trailers or motor coaches is only allowed
for 14 days within a 12-month period on residential property that has a
domicile equipped with running water, toilet, bathing facilities and trash
removal service.
            2.   Occupying tents, trailers or motor coaches may be permitted on
vacant residential property; provided:
               a.   The vacant property is adjoining to residential property
having a domicile equipped with running water, toilet, bathing facilities and
trash removal service; and
               b.   The owner of the vacant property is the same owner as the
adjoining domiciled property.
         (b)   Tent, trailer or motor coaches may be allowed on residential
private property as stated in division (W)(3)(a) above.
         (c)   No person shall park or cause to be parked, any trailer, tent or
motor coach overnight on any street, alley, highway or other public right-of-
way or public area of the village.
(Ord. passed 8-22-2005; Ord. 43, passed 10-25-2010; Ord. passed 7-27-2015; Ord.
passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.048 PARCEL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Minimum lot frontage. The front lot lines of all parcels shall abut a
public street and shall have a contiguous permanent frontage at the front lot
line equal to the required parcel width. Flag lots are not permitted. In the
case of a cul-de-sac, parcel width is measured at the front yard setback line.
   (B)   Access to a street. All parcels created after the effective date of
this chapter shall have access to a public street. Also, any parcel in a
commercial zoning district, or with access points to a street with curb and
gutter, shall have a hard-surfaced approach to a public street.
   (C)   Space used once. Any yard or other open space provided around any
building or structure for the purpose of complying with the provisions of this
chapter shall not again be used as a yard or other required open space for
another building or structure except where one is to be demolished upon
completion of the other.
   (D)   Additional front setback. Where the current right-of-way width of an
arterial or collector street is less than its future right-of-way width as
determined by the village, an additional front yard setback from said street is
required. The front yard setback for properties fronting on such a street shall
be measured from a line which lies a distance of one-half of the future right-
of-way width from the center line of the current right-of-way. This line shall
be used for computing the front yard setback only. The current parcel
dimensions shall be used for all other purposes under this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.049 STRUCTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Permitted yard encroachments. The following items shall be considered
to be accessory structures, even though they may be attached to a principal
building, and may project into required side or rear yards for the principal
building. Setbacks for accessory structures, as defined in the dimension tables
in §§
153.020 through
153.032 must be adhered to, as well as any requirements listed herein:
      (1)   (a)   Open porches, open decks, paved terraces and patios, provided
the following restrictions apply. Enclosed porches are considered to be part of
the principal building, subject to all yard, setback and area requirements.
            1.   The highest finished elevation of the paved area or porch is
not over three feet above the average surrounding finished grade.
            2.   If roofed, a porch is unenclosed, and the roof is no higher
than one story. A roofed area may not exceed 10% of the required side or rear
yard and must meet required side and/or rear yard setbacks.
            3.   If unroofed, paved areas or porches may have non-continuous
windbreaks or walls
not over six feet high and not enclosing more than one-half the perimeter of
the paved area or porch.
            4.   If unroofed, decks may project a maximum of eight feet into
the front yard or side yard setback area, and may project a maximum of 12 feet
into a rear setback area.
      (2)   Structural elements such as cornices, sills, chimneys, gutters and
similar features projecting a maximum of two and one-half feet;
      (3)   Fire escapes, outside stairways and balconies, if of open
construction, projecting a maximum of five feet into the yard; and
      (4)   Signs, subject to provisions of §§
153.065 through
153.072.
   (B)   Permitted height exceptions. The following exceptions shall be
permitted to height limitations in the dimension tables of §§
153.020 through
153.032, subject to an approved site plan. These permitted exceptions shall not
be for human occupancy or dwelling.
      (1)   Appurtenances to mechanical or structural functions, such as
elevator and stairwell penthouses, ventilators, heating or air conditioning
equipment, water storage tanks and safety equipment shall be permitted to a
maximum height of 55 feet in any commercial zoning district and 60 feet in any
industrial zoning district.
      (2)   Special structures, such as chimneys or smoke stacks, or microwave
relay towers shall be permitted to a maximum height of 175 feet in the
Commercial Zoning District or in any industrial zoning district.
      (3)   Residential television antennas or flagpoles shall be permitted to
a maximum height of 45 feet in any residential zoning district. However, in no
case shall the height of such antenna or flagpole exceed the height of the roof
peak by more than 15 feet.
      (4)   Flagpoles in any B or I zoning district are permitted to a maximum
height of 60 feet.
   (C)   Trailers or other temporary structures. Trailers or other temporary
structures may not be used for commercial uses, except as allowed by special
use permit in conjunction with temporary outdoor uses.
   (D)   Roof and surface drainage. If a building is equipped with gutters or
other means for collection of roof water, the downspouts and/or roof water
conductor pipes shall be discharged on unpaved ground or paved surface at a
distance of at least three feet from the building wall. Furthermore, the grade
line at the building wall shall be sloped away from the wall at the rate of at
least one inch per foot (for a minimum of five feet. Where settlement of the
ground has occurred at the building wall, then the property owner is required
to add fill to correct the condition to conform with this requirement.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2016; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.050 OFF-STREET PARKING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. This section is intended to balance the need for efficient
performance of streets with the need for efficient use of land. It also seeks
to prevent adverse environmental impacts of large paved areas.
   (B)   (1)   Parking requirements where hard-surfaced parking is required.
This table is used to determine the number of parking spaces required for fixed
levels of various activities. Note: Every land use that has employees working
on the site, must have one parking space for each employee in addition to the
parking required for a use of its type. zoning districts in which these
requirements apply are listed for reference only. Identification of a zoning
category using only its letter designation means that all similar districts are
included, such as “R” for all residential districts. The following requirements
are in addition to employee parking.
Land Use Spaces Per Activity
Land Use                               Spaces Per Activity
Animal boarding                        1 per 8 animals boarded
Barber/beauty                          2 per chair
Bed and breakfast                      1 per bedroom
Bowling alley                          4 per lane
Church, theater, stadium               1 per 6 seats or 6 feet of auditorium
                                       bench or pew length
College/technical school               1 per 8 students
Doctor/dentist/veterinarian            1 per exam or treatment room
Drive-in restaurant                    1 per 50 square foot gross floor area
Funeral homes                          1 per 100 square feet of public area
Gas station, truck stop                2 per gas pump (12- by 70-foot truck)
Hall, community center, skating, bingo 1 per 5 persons, or Fire Code capacity
High school                            1 per 20 students
Hospital, doctors                      1 per staff member
Hospital, visitors                     1 per 5 beds
Hotel/motel                            1 per guest room
Industry/wholesale                     1 per 1,500 square foot gross floor area
Laundromats                            1 per 5 washing machines
Library, museum, gallery               1 per 1,000 square foot gross floor area
Mobile home park, multi-family         2 per dwelling unit
Nursing homes                          1 per 6 beds
Post office                            1 per 30 boxes
Private club                           1 per 2-member families
Restaurant/bar                         1 per 4 seats
Retail/office/bank                     1 per 300 square foot of public area
Service business not listed            1 per 100 square foot of public area
Vehicle sales                          1 per 1,000 square foot of sales area
Vehicle service/wash                   1 per stall, rack, pit, washer
 
      (2)   Parking requirements where gravel surface parking is allowed. The
following requirements are in addition to employee parking.
Land Use Spaces Per Activity
Land Use                        Spaces Per Activity
Campground/RV park              1 per campsite
Cemetery                        None
Driving range                   1 per tee
Miniature golf                  2 per hole
Park, golf course, outdoor uses 1 per 5 acres
Picnic area                     1 per picnic table
Team sports                     10 per court or field
Tennis                          1 per court
 
   (C)   Calculations. To calculate the total number of spaces required for any
parcel, add the requirements for each existing or proposed activity. Read down
the “land use” column, identifying all uses which apply to the parcel. For each
use identified, determine the number of activity units involved and calculate
the required number of parking spaces to serve that many units. Finally, add
the requirements for all uses to find the total number of spaces.
      (1)   Uses not listed. Requirements for any use not listed shall be the
same as for the most similar use which is listed. This is determined by the
Zoning Administrator, with any disagreements submitted to the Zoning Board of
Appeals.
      (2)   Additions. Added parking spaces must be provided in proportion to
any changes in floor area or use on a parcel.
      (3)   Availability of spaces. Parking spaces may count toward the
requirement for a parcel if they are located on it or on an adjoining parcel
where the farthest space is not over 500 feet from the nearest public entrance
to the principal building, with a continuous paved walkway between the parcel
and entrance.
   (D)   Reductions in parking requirements. Parking requirements may be
reduced in the following situations.
      (1)   Mixed uses. In the case of mixed uses, where each occupies at least
20% of the floor area of a building and the operating schedules of any two such
uses vary by a total of three hours in a typical day, the parking requirement
for the building, as determined using the tables in division (B) above, may be
reduced by 10%.
      (2)   Joint provision of off-street parking. Where two or more abutting
parcels in any B or I zoning district provide paved driveways and sidewalks
between parking areas, allowing travel between parcels without use of a public
street, the number of parking spaces required for each parcel may be reduced by
10%, in addition to reductions allowed by other provisions of this section.
      (3)   Reductions for further public benefits. In any B or I zoning
district, the parking requirement for a parcel which fronts on a county primary
or state highway, other than an expressway, may be reduced by 10% if any three
of the following conditions are met. This is in addition to other reductions
allowed by this section:
         (a)   No driveways open onto the major road;
         (b)   There are no freestanding signs in the front yard setback area;
         (c)   The principal building is set back at least 100 feet from the
major road right-of-way;
         (d)   At least 25% of the parcel is devoted to natural woodlands,
wetlands or landscape plantings;
         (e)   Sidewalks, including barrier free curb cuts, are provided along
the full length of all road frontages on the parcel, with at least one walkway
connection between any such frontage and the building’s main entrance; and
         (f)   A service drive is provided along the entire major road frontage
and connecting to parking areas on adjoining properties. Entrances to this
drive from any public street may not be located within 200 feet of any
intersection, unless said entrance is configured as a fourth leg of a “T”
intersection.
   (E)   Front yard parking. No part of any front yard shall be used for any
accessory building, garage or other structure, nor shall any motor vehicle be
parked in any front yard except upon a regularly constructed driveway. In
addition, on a corner lot, no motor vehicle shall be parked in the side yard
abutting a public street except upon a regularly constructed driveway. In the
case of driveways formed by a portion of a circle with two access points on the
street, the portion of the driveway closest to the structure must be outside of
the required front yard. Parking in the front yard is allowed for a period of
24 hours or less to accommodate necessary parking for a special event taking
place on that parcel.
   (F)   Residential location. Required residential off-street parking spaces
shall consist of a parking bay, driveways or combination thereof, and shall be
located on the premises they are intended to serve. Parking shall be
constructed to minimize the amount of pavement necessary.
   (G)   Alley access. If permanent access is provided to the rear of the
property by a public alley or a driveway, the side yard requirement may be
waived except as otherwise specified in applicable building codes; provided
that if walls of structures facing interior side lot lines contain windows, or
other openings, side yards of not less than 20 feet shall be provided.
   (H)   Parking development and construction requirements.
      (1)   Permit. A site plan for all parking improvements is required, prior
to the issuance of a building permit. A building permit is required for
construction of any new, or expansion of any existing parking lot.
      (2)   Size of spaces.
         (a)   Standard. Parking spaces must be ten feet wide by 20 feet long.
         (b)   Handicapped. Designated handicapped spaces must meet ADA Rules
and state and federal regulations.
         (c)   Other. Spaces for special vehicles, such as vehicles with boat
trailers, must conform to dimensions as noted in the tables in division (B)
above.
      (3)   Handicapped spaces. Off-street parking facilities required for
buildings shall be provided in accordance with the following table and
identified by signs as being reserved for handicapped persons. Signs shall be
located approximately six feet above grade. Where a curb exists between a
parking lot surface and a sidewalk surface, an inclined approach or a curb cut
with a gradient not more than one foot in 12 feet and a width of not less than
four feet shall be provided for wheelchair access. Parking spaces for the
physically handicapped shall be located as close as possible to walkways and
entrances. Signs shall be provided when necessary, indicating the direction of
travel to an accessible entrance.
Total Spaces in Parking Lot Required Number of Handicap Accessible Spaces
Total Spaces in Parking Lot Required Number of Handicap Accessible Spaces
Up to 25                    1
26 to 50                    2
51 to 75                    3
76 to 100                   4
101 to 150                  5
151 to 200                  6
201 to 300                  7
301 to 400                  8
401 to 500                  9
500 to 1,000                2% of total
Over 1,000                  20, plus 1 for each 100 over 1,000
 
      (4)   Surface.
         (a)   Gravel. Whereas the tables in division (B) above allow parking
areas to be gravel surfaced, this surface must be of a material that provides a
durable, smooth and dustless parking lot which is graded to properly drain and
dispose of storm water.
         (b)   Paved (hard surfaced). Where the tables in division (B) above
require parking areas to be paved, this pavement must consist of at least six
inches of reinforced concrete or two inches of bituminous surface laid over six
inches of compacted crushed stone, or per current building and fire code
specifications. Hard surface must be in place within one year of occupancy.
         (c)   Mix of surface types. If some gravel surfaced spaces are to be
built, they must be constructed as a separate parking lot, located farther from
the principal building than any paved spaces. Access to the gravel lot may be
only from the paved lot, not from any public street. If all spaces are paved,
the total number of spaces may be reduced by up to 10%.
         (d)   No parking on front lawn. No portion of a residential front lawn
area may be used for parking.
      (5)   Parking area design, driveways and aisles. In any required parking
area larger than two spaces, no space may be situated so that vehicles enter it
directly from a public street. Driveways and aisles must be clearly identified
and meet the following requirements.
         (a)   Driveway. Each driveway opening to a public street must be
approved by the agency having jurisdiction over the street. If the public
street is paved, the driveway must be paved for at least the length required
for “stacking area”, as defined in division (H)(5)(b) below. Lanes for entering
and exiting traffic shall be clearly marked on the pavement. Each driveway
shall intersect a public street at a 90-degree angle.
         (b)   Stacking area. Each driveway shall include on-site stacking
area, which does not function as an access aisle for parking spaces, equivalent
to at least 5% of the spaces in the parking area.
         (c)   Aisles. Parking lot aisles shall be at least 20 feet wide.
         (d)   Clear vision area. All driveways shall have a clear vision area,
unobstructed by accessory structures or plantings, within 30 feet of any public
street right-of-way, for a sight distance of 100 feet along the near edge of
the pavement in either direction.
         (e)   Striping. Except for parallel parking, all parking spaces shall
be clearly striped and maintained on paved parking.
         (f)   Landscaping. Off-street parking shall be permitted to occupy
required front, side and rear yards after approval of the parking plan layout;
provided that there shall be maintained a minimum landscaped setback of ten
feet between the nearest point of the off-street parking area, exclusive of
access driveways, and the nearest right-of-way line.
      (6)   Driveway spacing. Each parcel shall have no more than one driveway
entrance and exit opening to any public street for each 300 feet of frontage,
or fraction. Where more than one driveway is allowed, they shall be located at
least 150 feet apart. No driveway shall be located within 50 feet of a street
intersection.
      (7)   Lighting. Off-street parking areas provided for any multiple-family
housing, business, industrial or institutional use must be provided with
sufficient lighting to allow safety for users at any time. Lighting fixtures
shall comply with height and setback standards for accessory structures for the
applicable zoning district. No direct rays from said fixtures shall be directed
at adjacent properties or public streets.
      (8)   Setbacks. Parking areas must be set back at least 20 feet from any
public street and conform to side or rear yard setbacks for accessory
structures. Parking spaces shall be no closer than five feet to any principal
building. Bumper guards or curbs shall be installed to prevent yard
encroachment.
      (9)   Screening for residential. Any parking area larger than ten spaces
must have a visual screen not less than five feet high running the full length
of any side which adjoins a parcel in the R-3 or R-4 Zoning Districts.
   (I)   Roadside stand or temporary outdoor use. Parking areas for such uses
shall be so arranged that vehicles are not required to encroach upon the right-
of-way with any portion of the vehicle when parked, or to back onto the right-
of-way in reverse gear.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.051 OFF-STREET LOADING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. This section is intended to provide adequate access for
commercial vehicles to businesses that generate truck traffic and to minimize
traffic interference caused by trucks parked for loading or unloading.
   (B)   Dimensions of loading space. Each loading space must be at least ten
feet wide and 30 feet long. If roofed, it must have at least 15 feet of
vertical clearance. Where it is expected that semi-trucks will make daily
deliveries, the loading space must be at least 60 feet long.
   (C)   Hard surface. Loading spaces must be paved with a surface providing
the equivalent load strength of five inches of concrete. Hard surface must be
in place prior to occupancy.
   (D)   Location and setbacks. A loading space must be located within a side
or rear yard, or adjacent to the building it serves and arranged so that trucks
entering or using the space do not block any portion of a public street or
alley. Loading spaces must conform to setbacks for accessory structures for the
applicable zoning district.
   (E)   Solid waste collection facilities. Loading areas for “dumpsters”
present a different set of conditions than standard off-street loading spaces.
These rules are intended to prevent unhealthy or unsightly solid waste handling
facilities. They apply to any solid waste container so large that a mechanical
device is required to empty it.
      (1)   Screening and enclosure. Each container must be obscured from view
from any adjoining parcel by a visual screen which is at least as high as the
container. Containers are to be protected by a fenced enclosure with a lockable
gate, unless each container has a lid which is kept locked when waste is not
being deposited or removed.
      (2)   Paving (hard surface). Each container site and an approach area for
trucks shall be paved with reinforced concrete not less than five inches thick.
      (3)   Siting. Containers shall be located inside rear yards and meet all
setback requirements for accessory structures. Trucks collecting waste shall
not conflict with the orderly flow of traffic onto or through the parcel or any
parking areas thereon, nor block any portion of a public street or alley.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
SIGN REGULATION
§ 153.065 PURPOSE.
   It is necessary to regulate the location, size, placement and certain
features of signs in the village to enable the public to locate goods, services
and facilities without difficulty and confusion, to encourage the general
attractiveness of the community, and to protect property values therein.
Accordingly, it is the intention of this section to establish regulations
governing the display of signs which will:
   (A)   Promote and protect the public health, safety, comfort, morals and
convenience;
   (B)   Enhance the economy and the business and industry of the village by
promoting the reasonable, orderly and effective display of signs, and thereby
encourage increased communication with the public;
   (C)   Restrict signs and lights which overload the public’s capacity to
receive information or which increase the probability of traffic congestion and
accidents by distracting attention or obstructing vision;
   (D)   Reduce conflict among signs and light and between public and private
property;
   (E)   Protect appropriately identified usages from too many and too large
signs; and
   (F)   Promote signs which are compatible with their surroundings, are
appropriate to the type of activity to which they pertain, and are expressive
of the identity of proprietors and other persons displaying signs.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.066 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED SIGN. Any sign which no longer identifies or advertises a
currently operating business, service, owner, product or activity and/or for
which no legal owner can be found.
   ALTERATION. Any change in a sign; including, but not limited to, any change
in a sign’s dimensions, shape, area, height, number or orientation of sign
faces, structural support, location on the property, materials or lighting. A
change solely in the wording of the copy of a sign shall not constitute an
ALTERATION for purposes of this section, unless the result of the change would
cause the sign to be reclassified to a type of sign subject to different or
more restrictive regulation (e.g., a change from an on-premises to an off-
premises sign).
   AWNING. Any retractable or fixed shelter constructed of non-rigid materials
on a supporting framework that projects from the exterior wall of a building.
   AWNING SIGN. Any sign affixed flat against the surface of an awning.
   BALLOON SIGN. Any sign composed of a non-porous bag of material filled with
air or gas.
   BANNER SIGN. Any fabric, plastic or other sign made of non-rigid material
without an enclosing structural framework.
   BILLBOARD. Any sign directing attention to a use, activity or product not
located, sold, manufactured or processed on the premises on which the sign is
located.
   BUSINESS CENTER. An area designated for multiple businesses that are located
within the same principal building on one parcel, such as a mall or plaza.
These areas typically utilize one main entrance/exit.
   BUSINESS SIGN. Any sign, including a sign on the wall of a business, on
which lettered, figured or pictorial material is displayed for advertising a
business, service, entertainment or other enterprise conducted on the land
where the sign is located, or products primarily sold, manufactured, processed
or fabricated on such land.
   COMMUNITY SPECIAL EVENT SIGN. Any temporary sign erected for 30 days for the
purpose of calling attention to special events of interest to the general
public and which are sponsored by governmental agencies, schools or other
nonprofit groups whose purpose is of a public, charitable, philanthropic,
religious or benevolent nature. COMMUNITY SPECIAL EVENT SIGNS shall be removed
within 30 days after the event.
   CONSTRUCTION SIGN. Any sign which identifies the owners, financiers,
contractors, architects and engineers of a project under construction.
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. Any sign which displays names and/or location of occupants
or users of a premises.
   DIRECTORY SIGN. Any sign which displays names and/or location of occupants
or users of a premises.
   ELECTION CAMPAIGN SIGN. Any temporary sign erected for a limited period of
time for purposes of political campaigns for public office, for elections on
public questions or otherwise relating to public meetings held for the purpose
of voting on or for public offices or public questions.
   ELECTRONIC READER OR CHANGEABLE MESSAGE SIGN. Any permanent sign on which
copy changes manually, mechanically or electronically, including any
electronically displayed sign.
   FREESTANDING SIGN. Any sign not attached to a building or wall and which is
supported by one or more poles or braces which rests on the ground or on a
foundation that rests on the ground.
   GARAGE/YARD/ESTATE SALE SIGN, RESIDENTIAL. Any temporary sign that
identifies the location and/or occurrence of a RESIDENTIAL GARAGE/YARD/ESTATE
SALE.
   GOVERNMENTAL SIGN. Any sign erected or required to be erected by the
village, the county, the state or the federal government.
   GROUND SIGN. Any sign resting directly on the ground or on a foundation, or
supported by short poles not attached to a building or wall, the bottom of
which is no more than 24 inches above the finished grade.
   IDENTIFYING SIGN. Any sign on the same premises which serves only to tell
the name or use of any public or semipublic building or recreation area, club
lodge, church or institution, hotel, motel or similar business enterprise; or
to inform the public as to the use of a parking lot.
   ILLEGAL SIGN. Any sign which does not meet the requirements of this
subchapter and which does not have a legal nonconforming status.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. Any sign that identifies street address, entrances and
exits, safety precautions, identifying logos without text and other such
incidental information, and which sets forth no other advertisement, including
trespass signs or no hunting.
   MEMORIAL SIGN. Any sign, tablet or plaque memorializing a person, event,
structure or site.
   MURAL. Any design or representation painted or drawn on a wall which does
not advertise an establishment, product, service or activity.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. A sign which was legally erected prior to the effective
date of this subchapter and does not have a legal nonconforming status.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign which relates to or advertises an establishment,
product, merchandise, good, service or entertainment which is not located,
sold, offered, produced, manufactured or furnished at the property on which the
sign is located (including, but not limited to, billboards).
   ON-PREMISES SIGN. Any sign which pertains solely to the use of the property
on which it is located such as to an establishment, product, merchandise, good,
service or entertainment which is located, sold, offered, produced,
manufactured or furnished at the property on which the sign is located.
   PORTABLE SIGN. Any sign that is not permanent or affixed to a building or
structure and by its nature may be or is intended to be moved from one location
to another, whether rented or owned, including “A” frame signs or signs
attached to or painted on vehicles parked and visible from the public right-of-
way, unless the vehicle is used for vehicular purposes in the normal day-to-day
operations of the business.
   PROJECTING SIGN. Any sign which projects from and is supported by a wall of
a building at any angle to the wall to which it is attached and does not extend
beyond, into or over the street right-of-way.
   READ BOARD. Any portion of a sign on which copy is changed manually.
   REAL ESTATE SIGN. Any temporary sign advertising the real estate upon which
the sign is located as being available for sale, rent or lease.
   RESIDENTIAL IDENTIFICATION SIGN. Any permanent sign identifying or otherwise
stating the name of a platted subdivision, site condominium development,
manufactured home park, multiple-family development or other similar
residential development.
   ROOF LINE. The top edge of a roof or parapet wall, whichever is higher, but
excluding any cupolas, chimneys or other minor projections.
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign erected upon and above the roofline of a building.
   SIGN. Any device, structure, fixture or placard using graphics, symbols and/
or written copy designed specifically for the purpose of advertising or
identifying an establishment, product, service, commodity or activity, or
displaying or depicting other information.
   SIGN OWNER. The owner of a premises upon which a sign is located is presumed
to be the owner of the sign unless facts are submitted to the village showing
other ownership.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. Any sign erected for a specified period of time with the
intent of being discontinued at the end of the designated time period.
   WALL SIGN. Any sign painted or attached directly to and parallel to the
exterior wall of a building extending no greater than 12 inches from the
exterior face of the wall to which it is attached.
   WINDOW SIGN. Any sign installed inside a window and intended to be viewed
from the outside.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.067 SIGNS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   The following types of signs are expressly prohibited:
      (1)   Signs that have flashing, moving, oscillating or blinking lights,
any visible moving part, visible revolving parts or visible mechanical movement
of any description or other apparent visible movement achieved by electrical,
electronic or mechanical means, including intermittent electrical pulsations or
by action of natural wind currents, or that revolve or have other visible
moving parts (excluding time temperature and barber shop poles signs);
      (2)   Any sign or sign’s structure which is structurally unsafe, or
constitutes a hazard to safety or health by reason of inadequate maintenance,
dilapidation or abandonment; or is not kept in good repair; or is capable of
causing electrical shocks to persons likely to come in contact with it;
      (3)   Any sign which, by reason of its size, location, content, coloring
or manner of illumination, constitutes a traffic hazard or a detriment to
traffic safety by obstructing the vision of drivers or by obstructing or
detracting from the visibility of any traffic sign or control device on public
streets or roads;
      (4)   Any sign which obstructs free ingress to or egress from a required
door, window, fire escape or other required exit way;
      (5)   No sign shall be placed in, upon or over any public right-of-way,
alley or other public place, except as may be otherwise permitted by this
subchapter;
      (6)   No light pole, utility pole or other supporting member shall be
used for the placement of any sign unless specifically designed and approved by
permit for that use;
      (7)   Trailers, vehicles or other mobile objects that are clearly used
for advertising purposes;
      (8)   No wall sign shall extend beyond the edge of the wall to which it
is affixed or extend above the roofline of a building;
      (9)   Roof signs are prohibited;
      (10)   Signs which make use of works such as “stop”, “look”, “danger” or
any other words, phrases, symbols or characters, in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead or confuse traffic;
      (11)   Any sign or other advertising structure containing any obscene
matter;
      (12)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected or maintained; and
      (13)   Any other signs not expressly permitted by this subchapter.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator or his or her agent may confiscate and retain
any/all signs/banners/flags determined to be noncompliant to this subchapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.068 SIGN PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   A sign permit shall be required for the erection, use, construction or
alteration of all signs, except for those exempted by the terms of this
subchapter. For purposes of this section, alteration of a sign shall mean any
substantial change therein, but shall not include normal maintenance or repair
thereof.
   (B)   An application for a sign permit shall be made to the Zoning
Administrator and shall include submission of such fee as may be required by
resolution or other action by the township Board. The application shall include
the following:
      (1)   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant and the person,
firm or corporation erecting the sign;
      (2)   Address or permanent parcel number of the property where the sign
will be located;
      (3)   Name, address, telephone number and signed authorization of
property owner where sign is to be erected.
      (4)   When approval of all adjoining property owners or businesses, on
the same side of street of proposed new “off-premises” sign installation,
within 100 feet of the proposed sign installation, must be submitted by entity
proposing the new “off-premises” sign;
      (5)   A sketch showing the location of the building, structure or parcel
of land upon which the sign is to be attached or erected and showing the
proposed sign in relation to buildings and structures, together with the depth
of the parcel and setback from lot lines;
      (6)   Two scaled blueprints or drawings of the plans and specifications
for the sign and information on the method of construction and attachment to
structures or the ground;
      (7)   Electrical specifications and diagrams as applicable; and
      (8)   Identification of the zoning district in which the sign is to be
located, together with any other information which the Zoning Administrator may
require in order to determine compliance with this subchapter.
   (C)   All signs requiring electrical service shall be reviewed for
compliance with the current Village Electrical Code.
   (D)   The Zoning Administrator shall issue a sign permit if all provisions
of this subchapter and other provisions of this chapter and other applicable
village ordinances are satisfied. A sign authorized by such a permit shall be
installed or shall be under construction within six months of the date of
issuance of the sign permit or the permit shall expire. A new permit may be
issued upon the filing of a new application and payment of required fee.
   (E)   Except as specifically excused hereinafter, no sign shall be
constructed, erected, attached to a building, installed, structurally altered
or relocated prior to the issuance of a permit therefore by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (F)   No permit shall be required for any of the following:
      (1)   Normal maintenance and repair;
      (2)   Change of lettering or display panels;
      (3)   Real estate signs;
      (4)   Highway signs erected by the United States of America, the state,
the county or the township;
      (5)   Governmental-use signs erected by governmental agencies to
designate hours of activity or conditions for use for parks, parking lots,
recreational areas, other public areas or for governmental buildings;
      (6)   Flags and banners shall not exceed 35 square feet attached to the
principal structure or flag pole. No more than ten shall be displayed for each
special event. Shall be limited to the 21 days immediately preceding the
special event that is being advertised and shall be removed within 48 hours of
the conclusion of the special event that is being advertised;
      (7)   Directional signs erected in conjunction with private, off-street
parking areas; provided this sign does not exceed four square feet in area and
is limited to traffic control functions only;
      (8)   Historic signs designating sites recognized by the State Historical
Commission as Centennial Farms and Historic Landmarks;
      (9)   Signs posted to control or prohibit hunting or trespassing within
the village not to exceed three square feet;
      (10)   Essential public service signs denoting utility lines, railroad
lines, hazards and precautions;
      (11)   Memorial signs or tablets which are either cut into the face of a
masonry surface or constructed of bronze or other incombustible material when
located flat on the face of a building;
      (12)   One construction sign per project, of no more than 32 square feet
in area, denoting architects, engineers or contractors connected with the work
under construction;
      (13)   Signs for political advertising;
      (14)   Community special event signs;
      (15)   Menu and order boards for drive-through facilities; provided such
signs shall be located on the interior of the lot and not legible from adjacent
properties. The placement, size, content, manner of illumination and sound
level of such signs shall not constitute a traffic or pedestrian hazard. Such
signs shall be limited to four per establishment. Any proposal for signage not
meeting these requirements shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for a
decision;
      (16)   Permanent signs on vending machines, gas pumps or ice containers;
      (17)   Legal notices, licenses, permits and other signs required to be
displayed by law; and/or
      (18)   Any flag, banner or sign erected by the village.
   (G)   Signs for political advertising are permitted in all zoning districts;
provided they are temporary, not illuminated and do not exceed 32 square feet
in area per sign face. Such signs shall be removed within seven days after the
election with which the political sign is concerned.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.069 LEGAL NONCONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Continuance. Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter to
the contrary, a permanent sign which was erected legally and which lawfully
exists at the time of the enactment of this chapter, but which does not conform
to the height, size, area or location requirements of this chapter, is deemed
to be nonconforming and may continue to be used subsequent to that time, as
provided by this section.
   (B)   Loss of legal nonconforming status. A legal nonconforming sign shall
immediately lose its legal nonconforming designation if:
      (1)   The sign is altered in any way in structure or copy (see definition
of “alteration” in §
153.066, which tends to or makes the sign less in compliance with the
requirements of this subchapter than it was before the alteration;
      (2)   The sign is relocated to a position making it less in compliance
with the requirements of this subchapter;
      (3)   The sign is replaced; or
      (4)   On the happening of any one of divisions (B)(1) through (B)(3)
above, the sign shall be immediately brought into compliance with this
subchapter with a new permit secured therefore, or shall be removed.
   (C)   Legal nonconforming sign maintenance and repair. Routine repair to
maintain a nonconforming sign in a safe and aesthetic condition exactly as it
existed at the time of the enactment of this chapter and so as to continue the
useful life of the sign shall not constitute an alteration for purposes of this
chapter. If damaged, a legal nonconforming sign may be restored to the
condition exactly as it existed immediately prior to the damage or destruction
if the estimated cost of restoration does not exceed 50% of the estimated
replacement cost as determined by the village; based on a written estimate from
a licensed sign contractor. If the estimated cost of restoration exceeds 50% of
the estimated replacement cost, the right to continue using the nonconforming
sign shall thereupon terminate and the sign shall be brought into full
compliance with all applicable provisions and requirements of this chapter
prior to further use.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.070 MEASUREMENT OF SIGNS.
   (A)   The area of a sign shall be measured as the area within a single,
continuous perimeter composed of any straight-line geometric figure which
enclosed the extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem, logo or any
other figure of similar character, together with any frame or other material or
color forming an integral part of the display or used to differentiate the sign
from the background against which it is placed, excluding only the structure
necessary to support the sign.
   (B)   The area of freestanding, ground or projecting sign that has two or
more faces shall be measured by including the area of all sign faces, except if
two faces are placed back-to-back and are equal size, the area of the two back-
to-back faces shall be counted as one face. If the two back-to-back faces are
of unequal size, the larger of the two sign faces shall be counted as the one
face.
   (C)   The height of a sign shall be measured as the vertical distance from
the highest point of the sign to the grade of the adjacent street or the
average grade of the ground immediately beneath the sign, whichever is less.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.071 APPLICABLE TO ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following sign regulations are applicable to all districts.
   (A)   All ground, wall and freestanding signs may include reader boards.
   (B)   Any sign, including awnings to which are affixed or displayed; not
resting directly on the ground shall maintain a minimum clear space of eight
feet from the bottom of the sign to the ground. Real estate signs shall be
removed within five days after completion of the sale or lease of the property.
   (C)   Construction signs are permitted within any district, subject to the
following restrictions.
      (1)   Construction signs shall be no larger than 32 square feet and not
exceed eight feet in height.
      (2)   Construction signs shall not be erected until a building permit has
been issued for the project that is the subject of the proposed sign and
construction activity has begun.
      (3)   Construction signs shall be removed immediately upon the issuance
of any occupancy permit for the building or structure that is the subject of
the conduction sign.
   (D)   Community special event signs sponsored by government or nonprofits,
including banner signs, are permitted in any district, subject to the following
restrictions.
      (1)   No more than ten signs shall be displayed for each special event.
The signs may be located either on or off the lot on which the special event is
held.
      (2)   The display of the signs shall be limited to the 28 days
immediately preceding the special event that is being advertised.
      (3)   The signs shall have a maximum size of 32 square feet in area, and
a maximum height of five feet and shall be set back from any side or rear
property line a minimum of 15 feet.
      (4)   The signs shall be removed within 48 hours of the conclusion of the
special event that is being advertised.
   (E)   Directional signs are permitted subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   A directional sign may contain a logo of an on-premises
establishment, but no advertising copy.
      (2)   No sign shall exceed six square feet in area or four feet in
height.
      (3)   Directional signs shall be limited to traffic control functions
only; the number and location of signs shall be determined by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (F)   Garage sale, yard sale, basement sale, estate sale, open house and
similar signs relating to residential use are permitted subject to the
following restrictions.
      (1)   Three signs per sale is permitted and set back a minimum of five
feet from any property line.
      (2)   The sign shall not exceed six square feet in area.
      (3)   The sign shall be removed within one day after the completion of
the sale.
   (G)   Temporary and portable signs are authorized through an approved
village permit, and subject to the following restrictions.
      (1)   No more than one sign shall be displayed on the premises. Any sign
shall be located on the same lot as the business to which the sign pertains.
      (2)   The display of signs shall be limited to seven days in any 30-day
period and no more than 14 days in any six-month period.
      (3)   Signs shall have a maximum size of 32 square feet in area, and a
maximum height of six feet and shall be set back from any property line a
minimum of 15 feet.
      (4)   Signs shall not be located in any required parking space or located
so as to interfere with the vision of motorists or pedestrians, as determined
by the Zoning Administrator.
   (H)   Signs shall be maintained free of peeling paint or paper, fading,
staining, rust or other conditions that impairs legibility. Broken or damaged
parts of signs shall be repaired as soon as possible after the damage has
occurred.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.072 SIGN REGULATION BY DISTRICT.
   (A)   Table of regulations. Signs in each district shall be subject to the
following regulations (requirements are maximum requirements unless otherwise
stated):
Permitted Signs Number Size Location Height
Permitted Signs Number          Size            Location        Height
B-1, B-2 Districts - Permitted Signs
                                One-half square Minimum of 10
                                foot of sign    feet from any
                1 per lot or    area for each   property line   At least 8 feet
-               parcel or       linear foot of  and separated   to the bottom
                business        one road        from any other  of the sign
                                frontage not to sign by a
                                exceed 200      minimum of 10
                                square feet     feet
                                                                Maximum height
Freestanding                                    Minimum of 5    of 20 feet with
signs           1 per property  16 square feet  feet from       an 8-foot
                                                property line   minimum
                                                                clearance
Real estate                                     Minimum of 5
signs           1 per property  16 square feet  feet from       Maximum 8 feet
                                                property line
                1 per street    10% of the wall On wall of
Wall signs      frontage or     area facing the building facing
                parking lot     street          street and/or
                frontage                        parking area
R-1, R-2, R-3 and R-4 Districts - Permitted Signs
Ground signs
for residential
subdivisions,
private street
entrances to
public streets
when serving
more than three                                 Minimum of 5
dwelling units, 1 per major                     feet from any
manufactured    entrance of the 32 square feet  property line   6 feet
home parks,     development                     or road right-
multiple-family                                 of-way
complexes,
farms, private
schools or
other
nonresidential
uses allowed in
the districts
                                32 square feet
                                (Must be        Minimum of 5
Political signs                 removed within  feet from any   8 feet
                                7 days after    property line
                                election)
                                                5 feet from any
Wall signs for                                  property line
home            1 per lot or                    and road right-
occupations and parcel          4 square feet   of-way or on
ground signs                                    the wall of a
                                                dwelling facing
                                                the street
                                                On wall of
                                                building facing
Wall signs for                                  street not
nonresidential  1 per street                    exceeding 10%
uses            frontage                        of the front
                                                wall area, not
                                                to exceed 200
                                                square feet
 
   (B)   Industrial District: sign regulation. No sign shall be erected or
maintained on the Industrial Park except in conformity with the following.
      (1)   Signs visible from the exterior of any building may be lighted, but
no signs or any other contrivance shall be devised or constructed as to rotate,
gyrate, blink or move in any animated fashion.
      (2)   All signs attached to the building shall be flush mounted.
      (3)   Only one single faced or double-faced sign shall be permitted per
street frontage. No sign or combination of signs shall exceed one square foot
in area for each 600 square feet of total site area. However, no sign shall
exceed 200 square feet in area per face. An additional 20 square feet shall be
allowed for each additional business conducted on the site.
      (4)   No ground signs shall exceed five feet above grade in vertical
height. Also, ground signs in excess of 100 square feet in area (single face)
shall not be erected in the first 20 feet, as measured from the property line,
of any street side setback area.
      (5)   A wall sign with the individual letters applied directly shall be
measured by a rectangle around the outside of the lettering and/or the
pictorial symbol and calculating the area closed by such a line.
(Ord. passed 10-25-2010; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
SPECIAL USE PERMITS
§ 153.085 INTENT, PURPOSE AND PROCESS.
   (A)   Intent. In contrast to the clear cut and objective process desired for
most zoning decisions, the special use permit process is intended to be at
least partly subjective. It relies upon the judgment of the Planning
Commissioners, the sincerity of the applicant and the opinions or feelings of
people who live or own property near the site of a proposed special use. The
special uses which are designated for a particular zoning district are
generally complementary to the uses permitted by right. However, because of
their unique characteristics or more intensive natures, these uses require
special consideration of the welfare of adjacent properties and the community
as a whole.
   (B)   Purpose. This subchapter provides procedures and standards for
regulating activities identified as “special use permit” for each zoning
district in the use tables found in §§
153.020 through
153.032. Special uses represent a middle range between uses that are clearly
permitted and uses that are clearly denied in any zoning district. The purpose
of designating special uses is to allow practical latitude for a property owner
or developer to use a parcel of land while maintaining protection of the
health, safety, comfort, convenience and general welfare of neighbors and the
community at large.
   (C)   Process. Regulation of special uses includes two separate steps. First
is the review of the site plan for the proposed use. Second is the decision of
whether a special use permit will be granted.
      (1)   Standards. During the special use permit process, various
considerations will be explored before approval of the site plan or the special
use permit. Some of these are defined in this subchapter as additional site
plan review standards for various special uses. These standards are intended to
reduce the impact of a special use on surrounding properties. They are minimum
requirements which must always be met.
      (2)   Conditions. The Planning Commission may attach additional
conditions to the approval of the site plan or the special use permit. These
conditions must be based on requirements or concerns defined by this chapter.
      (3)   Precaution. No person should think that compliance with the
standards defined by this subchapter automatically grants them the right to
establish a special use in a given zoning district. Rather, the privilege of
establishing a special use is granted or denied by the Planning Commission
following the process outlined in this subchapter. This process includes
notification of nearby residents and property owners who may voice their
opinions at a public hearing before a decision is made to grant a special use
permit. Since special uses generally impose physical, visual or psychological
impacts on neighboring parcels, the input of neighboring residents or property
owners is a legitimate factor for the Village Council to consider when deciding
whether to allow such uses.
      (4)   Permanence. Note that once a special use permit has been granted,
it may only be revoked if the conditions mentioned above, or other requirements
of this chapter, have been violated. Otherwise, the special use permit “runs
with the land” and is one of the rights that is transferred when the parcel is
rented or sold. Therefore, this chapter does not provide for placement of any
time limit on a special use permit, except that the special use permit may be
revoked.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.086 PERMIT PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission of application. The application package is to be submitted
to the Village Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Contents. The application package consists of a special use permit
application form completed in full by the applicant, a site plan and the fee as
established by the Council.
      (2)   Application deadline. The complete application package must be
submitted to the Zoning Administrator at least 30 days before the Planning
Commission meeting at which it will be considered.
   (B)   Simultaneous consideration of rezoning and special use permit. In the
event that allowance of a desired use requires both a rezoning (change in
zoning district designation for the parcel) and a special use permit, both
requests may be submitted jointly and considered at a single meeting of the
Planning Commission, subject to the following requirements.
      (1)   Separate. The rezoning shall be considered separately from the
special use permit.
      (2)   Procedures. The ordinance procedures for each decision shall be
followed as specified. However, any special use permit approval must be
conditioned upon adoption of the rezoning by the Board.
      (3)   Standards. All standards required by this subchapter shall be
observed for each action.
      (4)   Public hearings. The public shall be given the opportunity for
input on both the rezoning and special use decisions. Thus, two separate public
hearings shall be held at the same meeting.
   (C)   Village Council review and hearing. The special use permit application
package shall be the subject of both a site plan review and a public hearing
conducted by the Planning Commission. If the applicant wishes to have the site
plan review and special use permit considered at a single Village Council
meeting, the following process occurs.
      (1)   Public hearing on special use. The Village Council shall hold a
public hearing on the application as part of the meeting in which the special
use permit is considered.
         (a)   Notice. A notice of public hearing shall be mailed to all
parties specified by law and published in a newspaper of general circulation in
the village not less than five nor more than 15 days before the date of such
hearing.
         (b)   Delay at applicant’s request. If a site plan for a special use
has been denied, the applicant may ask for consideration of the special use
permit, including the public hearing to be postponed. However, postponing the
hearing requires an additional notification of neighboring property owners and
newspaper publication of another notice. Therefore, the applicant will be
required to pay an additional application fee to offset the Commission’s added
cost.
      (2)   Consideration of special use permit. Following the close of the
public hearing, consideration of the special use permit shall take place.
         (a)   Open meeting. Note that the Open Meetings Act requires this vote
to take place in an open public meeting.
         (b)   Prompt decision. In the interest of fairness and a timely
response for all concerned parties, the Village Council shall render their
decision on the special use permit during the same meeting in which the public
hearing is held, unless further information must be obtained before a decision
can be made. In such cases, action upon the special use permit may be tabled to
a public meeting of the Village Council to be held on a specific date which is
identified in the motion to table.
         (c)   Issuance of zoning permit. Only upon approval of a special use
permit by the Village Council may a zoning permit for the proposed use be
issued by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Site plan review. The Village Council shall conduct a site plan
review for the proposed use. The Village Council may approve the site plan as
presented, approve it with conditions, deny it or table approval of it to a
specific meeting date.
         (a)   Public input. The site plan review may be completed before
public input is heard on the question of granting the special use permit. This
is because the site plan review process is intended to be an objective review
of factual information to determine whether precise standards have been met.
However, the Village Council may choose to accept public comments or questions
relating only to design considerations of the site plan.
         (b)   If the site plan is denied. In the event the site plan is
denied, consideration of the special use permit shall still occur, including
the public hearing. The special use permit may still be approved with the
condition that site plan approval must be obtained before the special use
permit is valid.
   (D)   Reapplication. An application for a special use permit which has been
denied, may not be resubmitted until one year after the date of denial has
passed.
   (E)   Terms of permit. A special use permit issued pursuant to this chapter
consists of a zoning permit which specifies the special use which is to be
allowed and any conditions which were attached by the Village Council. If a use
established under a special use permit is discontinued for a period of one
year, the special use permit shall expire. To reestablish the use after such
expiration will require granting a new special use permit, starting with a new
application.
   (F)   Revocation. The privilege of a special use permit is subject to all
the conditions that have been attached to it during the process described
above. Except as noted in division (E) above, the permit remains valid as long
as all of those conditions are met. However, the village, via the Village
Council, shall revoke any special use permit after it has been proven that the
permit conditions have been violated. The special use permit is a condition of
the approval of the zoning permit, and revocation of it shall void the zoning
permit.
      (1)   First notice. The Zoning Administrator shall send written notice of
a violation to the holder of the zoning permit by certified mail. The notice
shall state that correction must be made within 30 days or the Village Council
will revoke the special use permit and order the use to cease.
      (2)   Considered nonconforming. From the time the Zoning Administrator’s
notice of violation is issued, until compliance with all special use permit
conditions is restored, the use in question shall be treated as an unacceptable
nonconforming use. Actions specified by the regulation of nonconformities table
in §
153.045(M) shall be taken whenever they apply.
      (3)   Village Council action. The Zoning Administrator shall notify the
Village Council of the violation of conditions of the special use permit at the
next regular Village Council meeting, and revocation of the special use permit
shall be considered then. The Village Council’s meeting will usually take place
before the 30-day period for the first notice has expired. In that case, the
resolution to revoke the special use permit should be worded so that it takes
effect only if compliance with all requirements is not restored. It shall also
include authorization for the Zoning Administrator to order the permit holder
to cease the permitted use if the violations are not corrected by the end of
the first notice period.
      (4)   Second notice and order. After expiration of the 30-day period, the
Zoning Administrator shall notify the permit holder by certified mail that the
special use permit has been revoked, and the use for which the permit was
granted must cease within 60 days from the date of this second notice.
      (5)   Enforcement of order. Failure to comply with the order to cease an
activity for which a special use permit has been revoked is a violation of this
chapter, subject to all penalties thereof.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.087 PERMIT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Standards attached to site plan review. Before approving or denying a
special use permit application, the Village Council reviews the site plan for
said use, to establish that all applicable standards are satisfied. The site
plan review shall determine compliance with the applicable district
regulations, the site plan review standards and any applicable standards from
this chapter. For standards, see tables in §§
153.020 through
153.032
   (B)   Additional conditions. The Village Council may stipulate any
additional conditions or safeguards deemed necessary to achieve the objectives
of this chapter. These may be defined during the site plan review process or
during consideration of whether to grant the special use permit. All conditions
attached to the approval of the site plan are also conditions of the special
use permit. These conditions, and the reasoning behind them, must be documented
in the Village Council’s minutes, written on the site plan itself, and
communicated to the applicant in writing. The permit will not take effect until
the conditions of approval are accepted by the applicant, signified by the
signatures on the site plan itself, of both the applicant and the Village
Council President.
   (C)   Enforcement of conditions. The breach of any condition shall be cause
for the Village Council to revoke a special use permit.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.088 BED AND BREAKFASTS.
   (A)   Authorization. Due to the growing popularity of bed and breakfast
establishments in single-family dwellings, it is of evermore importance that
any potentially adverse impacts resulting from such developments be properly
addressed. It is the intent of the village to permit such operations when
developed in a way which emphasizes the prevention of detrimental change in the
single-family character of any site proposed for a bed and breakfast operation.
   (B)   Development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter,
shall be complied with.
      (1)   The residence is the principal single-family detached dwelling unit
on the property and is owner occupied at all times.
      (2)   The rooms utilized for the transient sleeping area are part of the
primary residential use and not specifically constructed or significantly
remodeled or altered for rental purposes.
      (3)   The maximum stay for any occupants of bed and breakfast operations
shall be seven days.
      (4)   Hard-surfaced parking shall be provided at a ratio of spaces to
bedrooms as set by this chapter.
      (5)   Occupancy of any bed and breakfast operation is limited to eight or
fewer guests, and the use is further limited to not more than two rental
sleeping rooms.
      (6)   Each operator shall keep a list of names of all persons staying at
the bed and breakfast operation. Such a list shall be available for inspection
by village officials at any time.
      (7)   Breakfast is the only meal that may be served to overnight bed and
breakfast guests, and this meal shall comply with restrictions of the State and
County Health Departments for nonresidential uses. There shall be no separate
cooking facilities for use by the bed and breakfast guests.
      (8)   A minimum lot width of 100 feet will be required for all bed and
breakfast operations.
      (9)   Bed and breakfast operations shall not be permitted on any premises
where there exists any violation of a village ordinance or in any building or
on any parcel of land which does not conform to the requirements of this
chapter and adopted construction codes of the current State Building Code
      (10)   No bed and breakfast operation shall be established without prior
approval by the Village Council, in accordance with the special use permit
requirements of §§
153.085 through
153.100. Two sets of floor plans of the establishment, drawn to a scale of not
less than one-eighth inch per foot shall also be submitted to the Zoning
Administrator. One set shall remain on file in the village offices, and one set
shall be filed with the Fire Department.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.089 INDUSTRIAL PARK.
   (A)   Permitted uses in industrial park. Uses primarily engaged in research
and light manufacturing activities:
      (1)   Uses are allowed that do not have or create external noise, light
or effluents. Uses that meet these requirements are at the determination of the
Village Council;
      (2)   Distribution and warehousing plants;
      (3)   Administrative professional and business offices associated with
and accessory to a permitted use; and/or
      (4)   Cafeteria, café, restaurant or auditorium accessory with and
incidental to any of the foregoing uses.
   (B)   Development standards; setbacks. No building shall be located on any
one or more lots nearer to the front lot line or nearer to the side lot line
than the minimum setback set forth below:
      (1)   Front yard setback: 85 feet, except that unsupported roofs or sun
screens may project six feet into the setback area;
      (2)   Side yard setback: 40 feet; provided that a single building is
constructed on two or more building sites. No fences shall be constructed
within the required side yard; and
      (3)   Rear yard setback: no rear yard setback is required except where a
lot abuts a residential district, the rear yard shall be 50 feet.
   (C)   Site coverage. Maximum building coverage of 50% of a site is allowed.
Parking structures shall not be calculated as a building area; however, said
structures shall be used only for the parking of company vehicles, employee’s
vehicles or vehicles belonging to persons visiting the subject firm.
   (D)   Building height. The maximum building height shall be 35 feet.
   (E)   Buildings per parcel. One building, other than a parking structure
shall be erected on any one parcel, unless the erection and use of more or less
than one building on any one parcel is specifically approved and consented to
by the village in writing.
   (F)   Building construction and materials.
      (1)   All buildings shall create a credible and acceptable appearance on
all four sides. Buildings, including ancillary buildings, shall be constructed
of a material other than unfinished galvanized steel or sheet aluminum for
exterior walls. All appurtenant equipment, including roof mounted units, shall
be screened from view from any public street.
      (2)   The owner must comply with the County Soil Erosion and
Sedimentation Control Regulations as per the County Drain Commission.
   (G)   Parking.
      (1)   Each owner of a parcel shall provide adequate off-street parking to
accommodate all parking needs for the parcel. Required off-street parking shall
be provided on the parcel of the use served, or on a contiguous parcel or
within 800 feet of the subject parcel. Where parking is provided on other than
the parcel concerned, a recorded document shall be filed with the village and
signed by the owners of the alternate parcel stipulating to the permanent
reservation of the use of the parcel for said parking.
      (2)   The following guide shall be used to determine parking
requirements:
         (a)   Office, manufacture, research and assembly: one space for each
full-time employee (per shift) and one space per 2,000 square feet of total
office space (excluding such areas as pedestrian corridors, restrooms, elevator
shafts, equipment areas); and
         (b)   Warehouse: one parking space for each full-time employee (per
shift).
   (H)   Landscaping. To provide a visual barrier, the front yard setback area
of each site shall be landscaped with an effective combination of street trees,
trees, ground cover and shrubbery. All unpaved areas not utilized for parking
shall be landscaped in a similar manner. The entire area between the right-of-
way and a point ten feet in back of the front property line shall be
landscaped, except for any access driveway in said area.
      (1)   Side and rear yard setback areas not used for parking or storage
shall be landscaped utilizing ground cover and/or shrub and tree materials.
      (2)   Undeveloped areas proposed for future expansion shall be
maintained.
   (I)   Loading areas. No loading shall be allowed which is visible from
adjacent streets. Street side loading shall be allowed provided the loading
dock is set back a minimum of 70 feet from the street right-of-way line, or 110
feet from the street center line, whichever is greater. Said loading area must
be screened from view from adjacent streets.
   (J)   Storage areas. No outdoor storage shall be allowed.
   (K)   Refuse collection areas. All outdoor refuse collection areas shall be
visually screened from access streets, freeways and adjacent property by a
complete opaque screen made of materials compatible with the building’s
materials used in the principal structure. No refuse collection areas shall be
permitted between a frontage street and building line.
   (L)   Lighting. All employee, public and loading entrances shall be lighted.
Lights shall be deflected in such a way as to not create a traffic hazard.
   (M)   Telephone and electrical service. All on-site electrical lines and
telephone lines shall be placed underground. Transformer or terminal equipment
shall be visually screened from street view and adjacent properties.
   (N)   Nuisances. No portion of the park shall be used in such a manner as to
create a nuisance to adjacent sites, such as but not limited to vibration,
sound, electromechanical disturbance, radiation, air or water pollution or dust
emission of odorous, toxic or noxious matter. The result of every action or
omission whereby any restriction or covenant in this document is violated in
whole or in part is declared to be a nuisance.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.090 MINISTORAGE AND INDIVIDUAL STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   District regulations. All district regulations of the B-2 District
(regional) shall apply to individual storage facilities/ministorage.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. Multiple buildings on one site must be at
least 15 feet apart. All internal circulation must be on hard surfaces, at
least 15 feet in width.
   (C)   Setbacks. The minimum front, side and rear yards shall conform to all
district regulations. All sites abutting residential uses shall be developed so
that access to storage facilities on the sides abutting residential uses face
the interior of the site. No access to the rear of the building, by vehicle,
shall be allowed on sides abutting residential uses. Where lights from vehicles
can shine on residential uses from anywhere on the site, the residential use
shall be screened by a completely obscuring fence, berm or landscaping, at
least four feet in height by the developer.
   (D)   Use of building. All individual storage/ministorage must be entirely
contained within the building and in no way visible or otherwise apparent from
outside the building. No retail commercial, manufacturing or rehearsing
operations of any kind may be carried out inside or outside of the building.
   (E)   Materials allowed to be stored. No hazardous, toxic, flammable or
refrigerated products may be stored inside or outside the building, excluding
gas tanks attached to and intended to fuel vehicles and tanks of propane or
kerosene, intended as fuel for appliances attached to the vehicle.
   (F)   Lighting. All access points to each storage space and driveway must be
lighted.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.091 OUTDOOR USES.
   Standards in this section shall apply to all of the following uses in zoning
districts where they are identified as special uses in the uses tables in §§
153.020 through
153.032. These uses are: outdoor assembly, assembly buildings, mobile home
sales and service and race tracks.
   (A)   Driveways remote from intersections. All points of entrance or exit
for motor vehicles shall be located no closer than 200 feet from the
intersection of any two streets or highways.
   (B)   Sight distance. All vehicles shall have a clear vertical and
horizontal sight distance approaching a public street within 100 feet of the
street for a sight distance of 500 feet in either direction along the street.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.092 PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Intent. This section is intended to encourage innovation in land use
patterns and variety in design for development of large parcels as well as
encouraging economy and efficiency in provision of public services, the use of
land, natural resources and energy. These regulations provide flexibility for
developers while protecting public values.
   (B)   Applicability. Planned unit developments are identified as special
uses in the R-2, R-3, B-1 and B-2 Zoning Districts. This section provides
additional standards used in the special use permit process. Note that site
condominiums, one type of planned unit development, are permitted only in the
R-2 or R-3 Zoning Districts.
   (C)   Permitted uses and standards.
      (1)   A planned unit development (PUD) may include all uses by right and
special uses listed for the zoning district which applies to its site, and for
the zoning districts which immediately precede and follow it in the uses tables
in §§
153.020 through
153.032, excluding all uses in the Industrial District. For example, a PUD
proposed for a parcel zoned R-3 could include all uses identified for the R-
2 and B-1 Zoning Districts.
      (2)   When a use is listed only as a special use for the applicable
zoning districts, all special use permit standards for said use will apply.
When a use is listed as a special use in one of the applicable zoning
districts, and as a use by right in another, it may be treated as a use by
right for the PUD.
   (D)   Use density and parcel coverage. Parcel coverage limits for the
applicable zoning district must be met overall, with the following additions.
      (1)   Residential coverage in commercial zoning districts. For a PUD
located in the B-1 or B-2 Zoning Districts, up to 50% of the allowable parcel
coverage may be devoted to structures for residential uses.
      (2)   Nonresidential coverage in residential zoning districts. For a PUD
located in the R-2 Zoning Districts, up to 20% of the allowable parcel coverage
may be devoted to structures for nonresidential uses.
   (E)   Dimensional requirements. Front yard setback requirements for the
applicable zoning district shall apply to all boundaries of the PUD. Building
height limitations and minimum yards between dwelling structures shall be as
specified for the B-1 Zoning District by the dimension tables in §§
153.020 through
153.032.
   (F)   Buffering for residential uses. When any PUD contains a mix of
residential and other uses, the following provisions shall be enforced: In any
PUD, a building devoted to nonresidential use must be separated from adjacent
residential buildings by a yard area not less than 30 feet across, developed as
landscaped open space and not used for parking or circulation of motor
vehicles. This area may apply toward satisfaction of the PUD’s open space
requirement, as noted in division (G) below.
   (G)   Open space. At least 20% of any parcel containing a PUD must be
devoted to landscaped open space. Forest, wetland or other unique environmental
areas may be left in a natural state. Cropland may not be counted as landscaped
open space, nor may yard areas of individual residential lots be included.
However, landscaped yard areas for multiple dwellings or nonresidential uses
may be included. If the PUD includes multiple dwellings, it must have at least
1,000 square feet of open space per dwelling unit.
   (H)   Signs. Sign regulations as described in §§
153.065 through
153.072 shall apply for the PUD.
   (I)   Parking and circulation. Parking for uses in a PUD shall conform to
the requirements of individual uses as required in §§
153.045 through
153.051. Roadways in a PUD are intended to be public streets, and must be built
to the standards of the applicable public agency.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.093 OUTDOOR RECREATIONAL FACILITIES, COMMERCIAL.
   Standards in this section shall apply to all of the following uses in zoning
districts where they are identified as special uses in the use tables in §§
153.020 through
153.032. These uses are: public or private golf courses and driving range. This
section does not include uses that are accessory uses to a residential use.
   (A)   Site location. Site location should be allowed which enhances the
natural environment.
   (B)   Development requirements. The following standards shall be applicable
as basic requirements for the use of land or for the erection, reconstruction
or alteration of permitted structures.
      (1)   Minimum site shall be one acre and access shall be so designed as
to provide all ingress and egress directly onto or from an arterial or
principal collector thoroughfare.
      (2)   Lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so arranged
and maintained as to direct the light away from all residential lands which
adjoin the site.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.094 RESTAURANTS WITH ENTERTAINMENT AND BARS.
   (A)   Site location principles. The following principles shall be utilized
to evaluate the proposed location of any restaurant within a permitted
district. The principles shall be applied by the Planning Commission as general
guidelines to help assess the impact of the use upon the district in which such
use is proposed.
      (1)   Uses should be developed on sites where areas of ecological
significance such as bogs, swamps and marshes will not be disturbed.
      (2)   Restaurants should be located on sites which will not significantly
increase the noise, air pollution and traffic congestion levels of a
neighborhood.
   (B)   Site development requirements. The following requirements for site
development together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter
shall be complied with.
      (1)   Access drives. No more than one driveway approach shall be
permitted directly from any major or minor thoroughfare and not more than one
driveway approach from any minor street, each of which shall not exceed 35 feet
in width at the property line. Drive-in restaurants shall be allowed no more
than two driveways per site. All other developments shall be allowed one
driveway per site.
         (a)   The driveways shall be located as far from the street
intersection as practicable, but no less than 50 feet.
         (b)   Joint access and parking shall be provided with business to
business adjacent properties whenever physically possible.
      (2)   Curbing and paving. A raised curb at least six inches in height
shall be erected along all of the street property lines, except at driveway
approaches. The entire service area shall be paved with a permanent surface of
concrete, asphalt or hard surfaced.
      (3)   Fencing. An opaque fence or wall, a minimum of five feet in height,
shall be erected along all property lines abutting any lot within a residential
district.
      (4)   Lighting. Exterior lighting shall be arranged so that it is
deflected away from adjacent properties and streets as set forth in §§
153.045 through
153.051.
      (5)   Landscaping. The front yard setback area of each site shall be
landscaped with an effective combination of street trees, trees, ground cover
and shrubbery. All unpaved areas not utilized for parking shall be landscaped
in a similar manner. The entire area between the right-of-way and a point ten
feet in back of the front property line shall be landscaped, except for any
access driveway in said area.
         (a)   Side and rear yard setback areas not used for parking or storage
shall be landscaped utilizing ground cover and/or shrub and tree materials.
         (b)   Undeveloped areas proposed for future expansion shall be
maintained.
   (C)   Drive-through establishments.
      (1)   Uses that may be permitted. Accessory drive-through uses to
financial institutions, fast food businesses, automatic teller machines, dry
cleaners, convenience stores or other uses as may be determined by the Village
Council.
      (2)   Development requirements. The following requirements for site
development, together with any other applicable requirements of this chapter,
shall be complied with.
         (a)   The drive designated for the drive-through shall have a minimum
width of 12 feet and a minimum length of 100 feet. Said drive length shall not
interfere with on-site traffic flow or parking arrangements.
         (b)   Curbing of at least seven inches in height and/or steel concrete
bumper poles must be installed between the drive-through lane and any
structure.
         (c)   All pedestrian walkways crossing the drive shall be accessible
to handicapped persons, properly painted and posted with signs warning drivers
of pedestrians.
         (d)   Lighting shall be installed so as to provide adequate
illumination of any walkways intersecting with said drive.
         (e)   An opaque fence or wall a minimum of five feet in height shall
be erected along all property lines where a drive-through lane or associated
structure are within 40 feet of any residential district or property.
         (f)   No drive-through lane may be closer than five feet to any
residential property or district.
         (g)   Drive-through lane shall not result in an additional curb cut
unless approved by the Village Council as necessary to ensure the safety of
motorists and/or pedestrians.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.095 RECREATIONAL VEHICLE PARK, CAMPGROUND.
   (A)   Temporary occupancy only. Spaces in RV parks or campgrounds may be
used by motor homes, travel trailers, campers, tents or other short-term
housing or shelter arrangements. Spaces shall be rented by the day or week
only, and no occupant of such spaces shall remain in the same park or
campground more than 60 days.
   (B)   Resident manager. Each RV park or campground shall be directly
supervised by a resident manager who may share such duties with other members
of his or her family. Management shall be accessible to park tenants at all
times 24 hours when park spaces are rented. The manager’s residence shall
include the business office for the park and at least 1,000 square feet of
living area for the manager’s family.
   (C)   Regulatory compliance required. RV parks or campgrounds must maintain
compliance with all regulations of the State Health Department and the State
Department of Natural Resources which apply to such enterprises. Failure to
comply with any such regulation shall constitute a violation of this chapter,
subject to enforcement action as provided by §§
153.150 through
153.155.
   (D)   Greenbelt, fence and setback. Further, there shall be a greenbelt
planting strip not less than 15 feet wide around the entire site. Said
greenbelt shall contain at least one straight or staggered row of deciduous or
evergreen trees, spaced not more than 20 feet apart and at least two rows of
deciduous or evergreen shrubs which will grow to an ultimate height of at least
six feet planted not more than six feet apart. All individual campsites are to
be setback at least 75 feet from any street right-of-way or neighboring
property line.
   (E)   Access and circulation. Each park shall be served by not more than one
point of access to each abutting street or road. Clear vision areas shall be
maintained for drivers, extending 150 feet in each direction on any abutting
road and for 25 feet on the park entrance road. Roadways within the park shall
be hard-surfaced, dust-free and at least 24 feet wide for two-way traffic or 12
feet wide for one-way traffic. Parking shall not be permitted on these
roadways, and they shall be posted for a maximum speed of ten mph.
   (F)   Personal care facilities. Each RV park or campground shall include
men’s and women’s restroom and bathing facilities in all-weather, heated
structures. These facilities shall include adequate water outlets, wash basins,
toilets, showers and waste containers. These facilities shall be provided
uniformly throughout the park at a ratio not less than one toilet and sink for
each eight camping or RV sites. These facilities shall be kept in good working
order and each structure shall be cleaned thoroughly daily.
   (G)   Other public facilities. Each RV park or campground shall provide at
least one public telephone for each 40 sites. Also, each park shall have waste
pump-out facilities for recreational vehicles which shall have an approved
connection to a municipal sewage collection and treatment system or shall have
waste removed by a licensed waste hauler for treatment at a municipal treatment
facility. Each park shall be served by a commercial solid waste disposal
service, providing on-site storage container(s) large enough to accommodate a
three-day accumulation of solid waste with all sites in the park occupied. Said
service shall provide pick up of waste at least weekly when the park is
operating and frequently enough to ensure that said container(s) are never
overloaded. Finally, at least 20% of the site, not including the “greenbelt and
setback areas”, as defined in this section, shall be devoted to shared open
space uses, including, but not limited to, playgrounds, picnic areas, court or
field sports or natural areas. This shall not include parking and vehicle
circulation areas.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.096 SEXUALLY ORIENTED BUSINESSES.
   (A)   Intent. There are some uses that, because of their very nature, are
recognized as having serious objectionable operational characteristics,
particularly when several of them are grouped. Such uses may have deleterious
effects upon the adjacent areas. Special regulation of these uses is necessary
to ensure that these adverse effects will not contribute to blighting or
downgrading the surrounding neighborhood. These special regulations are
itemized in this section. The primary control or regulation is for the purpose
of preventing a concentration of these uses in any one area or next to
residential zones or certain institutional uses.
   (B)   Distance restrictions.
      (1)   Sexually oriented businesses or adult media stores shall not be
permitted to be established within 1,000 feet of each other. This distance
shall be measured from the property lot line of one sexually oriented business
or adult media store to the property lot line of the other sexually oriented
business or adult media store.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful to hereafter establish any sexually oriented
business or adult media store, as defined, within 1,500 feet of any
agriculturally or residentially zoned property or within 1,500 feet of any
religious or educational institution, library, day care centers, public park or
recreational land use. This distance shall be measured from the property lot
line of the sexually oriented business to the property lot line of the
agriculturally or residentially zoned property or the property lot line of any
religious or educational institution, public park or recreational land use.
   (C)   Signs and public or exterior display.
      (1)   Window displays, signs and decorative or structural elements of
buildings shall not include or convey specific examples of actual adult uses,
and are limited to the sign provisions of this subchapter.
      (2)   No sexually oriented business or adult media store shall be
conducted in any manner that permits the observation of any material depicting,
describing or relating to “specific sexual activities”, “specified anatomical
areas”, or “sexually oriented toys or novelties”, (as defined in this section)
from any public way or from any property not licensed as a sexually oriented
business or adult media store. This provision shall apply to any display,
decoration, sign, show window, structural element or other opening.
   (D)   Precautionary note to the Zoning Board of Appeals. When considering
any appeal from a sexually oriented business or adult media store for reduction
of spacing or separation standards established herein, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall address each of the following issues and include the findings
regarding each point in their minutes.
      (1)   Intent. The proposed use shall not be contrary to the intent and
purpose of this section, or injurious to nearby properties.
      (2)   Blighting influence. The proposed use shall not enlarge or
encourage the development of a concentration of such uses or blighting
influences.
      (3)   Neighborhood conservation. The proposed use shall not be contrary
to any program of neighborhood conservation, revitalization of urban renewal.
      (4)   Other standards. The proposed use, and its principal building,
shall comply with all other regulations and standards of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.097 SOIL RESOURCE EXTRACTION.
   (A)   Scope of regulations. This section regulates extraction, filling or
repositioning of soil, sand, gravel, clay or other geologic deposit involving
disturbance of more than 1,000 cubic yards of material, when such disturbance
is not related to construction of a building, structure or parking lot. This
Section also applies to artificial ponds created by soil excavation or
intervention in watercourses, surface drainage or groundwater aquifers,
regardless of size and whether the creation of the pond is an end in itself or
merely a by-product of soil extraction activity. Ponds created by embankments
or dams across streams or watercourses are not permitted in the village.
Finally, oil wells are specifically exempted from this section, and are solely
regulated by the State Department of Natural Resources.
   (B)   Additional information required for site plan. The site plan for any
activity regulated by this section must include the following additional
information.
      (1)   A profile of the proposed excavation, illustrating elevations and
changes in slope, with elevations noted in five-foot intervals. If water is
expected to accumulate in the excavation, the projected water level must also
be shown.
      (2)   A soil evaluation report describing the excavation site and any
needed drainage or seepage corrections.
      (3)   The specifications for any spillway or drain for a proposed pond,
including the proposed methods of foundation preparation or fill placement.
   (C)   Excavation site requirements.
      (1)   Avoid sites of ecological significance, such as wetlands or mature
forest. If wetlands are to be affected, a state permit may be needed.
      (2)   Excavations which create ponds should be located to minimize the
chance of pollution from sources such as feedlots, corrals or septic tanks.
      (3)   Excavations may be no closer than 50 feet, measured horizontally,
to a power line, and may not be within a public utility or transportation
easement.
   (D)   Construction and operation requirements.
      (1)   An excavation should not change surface drainage or underwater
aquifers so as to adversely impact neighboring uses.
      (2)   Any pond banks shall have a maximum slope of one foot vertical to
four feet horizontal which extends below the projected low water surface
elevation to a depth of at least eight feet.
      (3)   Minimum designed water depth of a pond must be 15 feet to ensure
proper aeration and circulation of the water.
      (4)   All required environmental permits shall be obtained and obeyed,
including the soil and sedimentation control permit under Part 91, Soil Erosion
and Sedimentation Control of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection
Act 451 of 1994.
      (5)   Any excavated material not removed from the site shall be graded to
a continuous slope which does not exceed one foot vertical to three feet
horizontal and arranged to prevent runoff from impacting adjacent properties.
Said fill shall blend visually with the surrounding landscape.
      (6)   By October 15 of each year, the completed portion of an excavation
and any disturbed area around it, shall be graded and seeded.
      (7)   No machinery or equipment shall operate, and no trucks, trailers or
other conveyances shall arrive at any excavation site before 7:00 a.m. or after
8:00 p.m.
      (8)   Proper measures shall be taken to minimize the nuisance of traffic
noise and flying dust or soil while a site is being excavated.
      (9)   When two or more dwellings are located within 200 feet of the edge
of any water body on an excavation site or on any parcel, said water body shall
be enclosed by a fence at least four feet high with a lockable gate.
      (10)   Ponds constructed for recreational purposes must be located behind
the principle structure and outside of the rear and side yards.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.098 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   The standards that apply to the following special uses are those required as
a result of the site plan review. These uses are: accessory uses to the
principal use, commercial recreational facilities, day nurseries, religious,
social, educational and human care institutions in the R-1 District, retail
malls, two-family dwellings in the R-3 District and veterinary hospitals.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.099 TEMPORARY OUTDOOR USES.
   (A)   Exempt activities. School fundraising or nonprofit activities are
exempt from the special use permit requirements of this section. Private garage
and yard sales in any R district are exempt from the special use permits
requirements of this section.
   (B)   Evidence of ownership or permission. Evidence of ownership, lease or
permission for use of any site for which a temporary permit or approval is
sought, must accompany all permit requests.
   (C)   Length of permit. A temporary permit may be granted by the Village
Council for a maximum of three consecutive months. Additional temporary permits
for the same proponent on the same site may be granted no sooner than one month
following the expiration of the previous permit. The total time period for all
temporary permits granted to one proponent shall not exceed six months in one
calendar year.
   (D)   Structures-outdoor uses. Structures for the display of outdoor sales
items are allowed provided they are not used for human shelter. Structures may
not be used for an indoor sales area. One structure for storage of sales items
is allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   It is no larger than 150 square feet;
      (2)   There is no foundation;
      (3)   No portion of the structure may become unattached or move as a
result of wind;
      (4)   It is anchored to withstand 30 pounds per square foot wind stress
factor; and
      (5)   Structures of any kind must be removed prior to expiration of the
permit.
   (E)   Structures - indoor uses. Structures for the display of indoor sales
items are allowed provided they are not used for human shelter. One structure
for sales items is allowed under the following conditions:
      (1)   There is no foundation;
      (2)   No portion of the structure may become unattached or move as a
result of wind;
      (3)   It is anchored to withstand 30 pounds per square foot wind stress
factor; and
      (4)   Structures of any kind must be removed prior to expiration of the
permit.
   (F)   Uses requiring an official site plan and Village Council review. If
the use is for greater than three days, within a 30-day period, a site plan, in
conformance with the requirements outlined in §§
153.115 through
153.118, must be submitted to the Village Council, and all other provisions of
this section must be followed, but no fee is required. The owner of the
property on which the temporary use is located is responsible for providing the
site plan showing the temporary indoor or outdoor use and its conformance with
ordinance requirements. This site plan may be an addition to the original plan
for the property. Any violations of the temporary use are the responsibility of
the owner of the property on which it is located.
      (1)   Overnight residing on temporary site prohibited. The temporary site
may not be occupied for more than 12 hours per day. In no event shall overnight
occupation be permitted without a permit from the Village Council.
      (2)   Portable signs. Portable signs shall be allowed, by permit, for a
total of 30 days in any six-month period. A total of two portable sign permits
may be granted for one parcel in a year.
      (3)   Sanitary facilities. Sites selling items for human consumption must
have access to hand washing and toilet facilities. Sites selling items not for
human consumption must have access to toilet facilities only.
      (4)   Display of goods. Display and sale of goods may not be within the
required yards for the zoning district.
   (G)   Uses not requiring an official site plan or Village Council approval.
Private temporary outdoor uses and those associated with nonprofit
organizations meeting the definition of “nonprofit organizations” in §
153.006, may be granted temporary use permits by the Zoning Administrator/
Building Inspector, at no cost to the organization if:
      (1)   The use is for three days or less within a 30-day period;
      (2)   A drawing of the site and description of activity is provided;
      (3)   No structures for display, sale or storage remain on the site other
than during the hours of operation;
      (4)   The organization agrees by signature, to consent to the conditions
outlined by the Zoning Administrator for this temporary outdoor use;
      (5)   As a result of the addition of a temporary use, the number of
parking spaces shall not be reduced below the required number of parking spaces
for the temporary use and permanent use combined;
      (6)   The temporary use location must meet all yard requirements of the
zone in which it is located; and
      (7)   Overnight residing on a temporary site is prohibited. The temporary
site may not be occupied for more than 12 hours per day. In no event shall
overnight occupation be permitted without a permit from the Village Council.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.100 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. The intent and purpose of these regulations is to
accommodate the communications needs of people while protecting the public
health, safety and general welfare of the community. These regulations will:
      (1)   Facilitate the provision of wireless telecommunication services to
the residents and businesses of the village;
      (2)   Minimize adverse visual effects of towers through design and siting
standards;
      (3)   Avoid potential damage to adjacent property from tower failure
through structural standards and setback requirements; and
      (4)   Maximize the use of existing approved towers and buildings to
accommodate new wireless telecommunication facilities in order to reduce the
number of towers necessary to serve the community.
   (B)   District regulations. A wireless communication facility shall require
a building permit in all instances and may be permitted as follows.
      (1)   A wireless service facility (all districts) may locate on any
existing guyed tower, lattice tower, monopole, electric utility transmission
tower, fire tower or water tower; provided that the installation of the new
facility does not increase the height of the existing structure except as
provided in the height regulations in this chapter. Such installations shall be
permitted by right in all zoning districts and be permitted through the site
plan review process by the Village Council.
      (2)   Towers in residentially zoned areas are only allowed if they are:
         (a)   Towers supporting amateur radio antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this chapter shall be allowed in the rear yard of
parcels; and
         (b)   Towers supporting commercial antennas and conforming to all
applicable provisions of this chapter shall be allowed only in the following
locations by right and shall be permitted through the site plan review
procedures outlined in this chapter:
            1.   Church sites, when camouflaged as steeples or bell towers;
            2.   Park sites, when compatible with the nature of the park;
            3.   Government, school, utility and institutional sites, according
to the statement of priority of users and minimum requirements for use of
village-owned properties;
            4.   Wireless telecommunication antennas on roofs, walls and
existing towers may be approved by the village staff; provided the antennas
meet the requirements of this section after submittal of a final site plan and
a report prepared by a licensed, professional engineer indicating the existing
structure or tower’s suitability to accept the antenna and the proposed method
for affixing the antenna to the structure. Complete details of all fixtures and
couplings and the precise point of attachment shall be indicated;
            5.   Towers in commercially or industrially zoned areas are allowed
by right if they qualify as towers allowed by right in residentially zoned
areas; and
            6.   Newly constructed towers in commercially or industrially zoned
areas are allowed by special use permit in a wireless communication facility
overlay zone which will be shown on the village’s most recently adopted zoning
map under the following situations.
      (3)   Telecommunications equipment planned for the proposed tower cannot
be accommodated on an existing or approved tower or building within a two-mile
radius of the proposed tower location due to one or more of the following
reasons:
         (a)   The planned equipment would exceed the structural capacity of
the existing or approved tower or building, as documented by a qualified and
licensed engineer, and the existing or approved tower cannot be reinforced,
modified or replaced to accommodate planned or equivalent equipment at a
reasonable cost;
         (b)   The planned equipment would cause interference materially
impacting the usability of other existing or planned equipment at the tower or
building as documented by a qualified and licensed professional engineer and
the interference cannot be prevented at a reasonable cost;
         (c)   Existing or approved towers and buildings within the search
radius cannot accommodate the planned equipment at a height necessary to
function reasonable as documented by a qualified and licensed professional
engineer; and
         (d)   Other unforeseen reasons make it infeasible to locate the
planned telecommunications equipment upon an existing or approved tower or
building.
      (4)   A tower structure built by other than a licensed carrier may not be
constructed until at least two carriers have been secured to occupy the
structure. Contracts with such carriers will be required by the village as
proof that two carriers will occupy the structure.
      (5)   (a)   Licensed carriers shall share wireless service facilities and
sites where feasible and appropriate, thereby reducing the number of wireless
service facilities that are stand-alone facilities. All applicants for a
special use permit for a wireless service facility shall demonstrate a good
faith effort to collocate with other carriers. Such good faith effort includes:
            2.   Contact with all the other licensed carriers for commercial
mobile radio services operating in the county; and
            3.   Sharing information necessary to determine if collocation is
feasible under the design configuration most accommodating to collocation.
         (b)   In the event that collocation is found to be infeasible, a
written statement of the reasons for the lack of feasibility shall be submitted
to the village. The village may retain a technical expert in the field of RF
engineering to verify if collocation at the site is not feasible or is feasible
given the design configuration most accommodating to collocation. The cost for
such a technical expert will be at the expense of the applicant. The village
may deny a special use permit to an applicant that has not demonstrated a good
faith effort to provide for collocation.
      (6)   Any proposed commercial wireless telecommunication service tower
shall be designed, structurally, electrically and in all respects to
accommodate both the applicant’s antennas and comparable antennas for at least
two additional users. Towers must be designed to allow for future rearrangement
of antennas upon the tower and to accept antennas mounted at varying heights.
Towers shall be constructed to ANSI EIA TIA-222-G “Structural Standards for
Steel Antenna Towers and Antenna Supporting Structures” (or current version)
and National Building Code construction standards for steel structures.
      (7)   Proposed or modified towers and antennas shall meet the following
design requirements:
         (a)   Towers and antennas shall be designed to blend into the
surrounding environment through the use of color and camouflaging architectural
treatment, except in instances where the color is dictated by federal or state
authorities such as the Federal Aviation Administration.
         (b)   Commercial wireless telecommunication service towers shall be of
a monopole design unless the Village Council determines that an alternative
design would blend better into the surrounding environment.
         (c)   All utility cabinets, buildings and structures accessory to a
transmission structure shall be architecturally designed to blend in with the
surrounding environment and shall meet the minimum setback requirements of the
underlying zoning district. Ground-mounted equipment shall be screened from
view by suitable vegetation, except where a design of nonvegetative screening
better reflects and complements the architectural character of the surrounding
neighborhood.
      (8)   Towers shall conform with each of the following minimum setback
requirements.
         (a)   Towers shall meet the setbacks of the underlying zoning district
with the exception of industrial zoning districts, where towers may encroach
into the rear setback areas; provided that the rear property line abuts another
industrially zoned property and the tower does not encroach upon any easements.
         (b)   Towers shall be set back from planned public rights-of-way as
shown on the village’s Master Plan by a minimum distance equal to the height of
the tower including all antennas and attachments.
         (c)   Towers shall not be located between a principal structure and a
public street, with the following exceptions.
            1.   In industrial zoning districts, towers may be placed within a
side yard abutting an internal industrial street.
            2.   On sites adjacent to public streets on all sides, towers may
be placed within a side yard abutting a local street.
         (d)   Tower’s setback may be reduced or its location in relation to a
public street varied, at the discretion of the Village Council to allow the
integration of a tower into an existing or proposed structure such as a church
steeple, light standards, power line support device or similar structure.
         (e)   Towers and associated structures, including fencing, may not be
constructed within 500 feet of a dwelling unit, except where they are being
collocated on existing towers or structures.
      (9)   In all zoning districts, the maximum height of any tower, including
antennas and other attachments, shall not exceed 175 feet except as granted by
the Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (10)   Towers shall not be illuminated by artificial means and shall not
display strobe lights unless such lighting is specifically required by the
Federal Aviation Administration or other federal or state authority for a
particular tower. When incorporated into the approved design of the tower,
light fixtures used to illuminate ball fields, parking lots or similar areas
may be attached to the tower.
      (11)   The use of any portion of a tower for signs or other forms of
advertising other than warning or equipment information signs are prohibited.
      (12)   Abandoned or unused towers or portions of towers shall be removed
as follows.
         (a)   All abandoned or unused towers and associated facilities shall
be removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at the site unless a
time extension is approved by the Zoning Administrator. A copy of the relevant
portions of a signed lease which requires the applicant to remove the tower and
associated facilities upon cessation of operations at the site shall be
submitted at the time of application. In the event that a tower and associated
facilities is not removed within 12 months of the cessation of operations at a
site, the tower and associated facilities may be removed by the village and the
costs of removal assessed against the property.
         (b)   Unused portions of towers above a manufactured connection shall
be removed within six months of the time of antenna relocation. The replacement
of portions of a tower previously removed requires the issuance of a new
special use permit.
      (13)   No new or existing telecommunications service shall interfere with
public safety telecommunications. The Village Council may request an
intermodulation study which provides a technical evaluation of existing and
proposed transmission and indicates all potential interference problems. Before
the introduction of new service or changes in existing service,
telecommunication providers shall notify the village at least ten calendar days
in advance of such changes and allow the village to monitor interference levels
during the testing process.
      (14)   A modification of a wireless service facility may be considered
equivalent to an application for a new wireless service facility and will
require a special use permit when the following events apply:
         (a)   The applicant and/or co-applicant wants to alter the terms of
the special use permit by changing the wireless service facility in one or more
of the following ways:
            1.   Change in the number of facilities permitted on the site; and/
or
            2.   Change in the technology used for the wireless service
facility.
         (b)   The applicant and/or co-applicant wants to add any equipment or
additional height not specified in the original design filing.
      (15)   Site plan submission requirements.
         (a)   General filing requirements:
            1.   Name, address and telephone number of applicant and any co-
applicants as well as any agents for the applicant or co-applicants;
            2.   Co-applicants may include the landowner of the subject
property, licensed carriers and tenants for the personal wireless service
facility; and
            3.   Original signatures for the applicant and all co-applicants
applying for the special use permit. If the co-applicant or co-applicant will
be represented by an agent, original signature authorizing the agent to
represent the applicant and/or co-applicant. Photo reproductions of signatures
will not be accepted.
         (b)   Location filing requirements:
            1.   Identify the subject property by including the town and range
as well as the name of the locality, name of the nearest road or roads, and
street address, if any;
            2.   Tax map and parcel number of subject property;
            3.   Zoning district designation for the subject parcel; and
            4.   A line map to scale showing the lot lines of the subject
property and all properties within 300 feet and the location of all buildings,
including accessory structures, on all properties shown.
         (c)   Siting filing requirements:
            1.   One inch equals 40 feet vicinity plan showing the following:
               a.   Property lines for the subject property;
               b.   Property lines of all properties adjacent to the subject
property within 300 feet;
               c.   Tree cover on the subject property and adjacent properties
within 300 feet, by dominant species and average height, as measured by or
available from a verifiable source;
               d.   Outline of all existing buildings, including purpose (e.g.,
residential buildings, garages, accessory structures and the like) on subject
property and all adjacent properties within 300 feet;
               e.   Proposed location of antenna, mount and equipment shelter
(s);
               f.   Proposed security barrier, indicating type and extent as
well as point of controlled entry;
               g.   Location of all roads, public and private, on the subject
property and on all adjacent properties within 300 feet including driveways
proposed to serve the personal wireless service facility;
               h.   Distances, at grade, from the proposed personal wireless
service facility to each building on the vicinity plan;
               i.   All proposed changes to the existing property, including
grading, vegetation removal and temporary or permanent roads and driveways; and
               j.   Representations, dimensioned and scale, of the proposed
mount, antennas, equipment shelters, cable runs, parking areas and any other
construction or development attendant to the personal wireless service
facility.
            2.   Siting elevations, or views at grade from the north, south,
east and west for a 50-foot radius around the proposed personal wireless
service facility plus from all existing public and private roads that serve the
subject property. Elevations shall be at either one-fourth inch equals one foot
or one-eighth inch equals one foot scale and show the following:
               a.   Antennas, mounts and equipment shelter(s), with total
elevation dimensions and AGL of the highest point;
               b.   Security barrier. If the security barrier will block views
of the personal wireless service facility, the barrier drawing shall be cut
away to show the view behind the barrier;
               c.   Any and all structures on the subject property;
               d.   Existing trees and shrubs at current height and proposed
trees and shrubs at proposed height at time of installation, with approximate
elevations dimensioned;
               e.   Design filing requirements:
                  i.   Dimensions of the personal wireless service facility
specified for all three directions: height, width and breadth. These shall be
provided for the antennas, mounts, equipment shelters and security barrier, if
any;
                  ii.   Landscape plan including existing trees and shrubs and
those proposed to be added, identified by size of specimen at installation and
species; and
                  iii.   If lighting of the site is proposed, the applicant
shall submit a manufacturer’s computer “generated point-to-point printout,
indicating the horizontal foot candle levels at grade, within the property to
be developed and 25 feet beyond the property lines. The printout shall indicate
the locations and types of luminaries proposed.
               f.   Radio frequency radiation (RFR) filing requirements. The
Village Council reserves the right to request RFR requirements in the form of a
certification that the following studies have been completed. The applicant
shall provide a statement listing the existing and maximum future projected
measurements of RFR from the proposed personal wireless service facility, for
the following situations:
                  i.   Existing, or ambient: the measurements of existing RFR;
                  ii.   Existing plus proposed personal wireless service
facilities: maximum estimate of RFR from proposed personal wireless service
facility plus existing RFR environment; and
                  iii.   Certification, signed by a RF engineer, stating that
RFR measurements are accurate and meet FCC Guidelines.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL USES SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 153.115 SITUATIONS REQUIRING A SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   Various provisions of this chapter require review of site plans before
certain types of administrative approval may be granted. This section defines
the procedures and standards to be used for such a review.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission must review and approve site plans
before granting approval to special use permits, including those for planned
unit developments, or subdivision plats.
   (B)   All new commercial and industrial development requires a site plan
review by the Planning Commission or a village appointed firm.
   (C)   In the case of existing development, a site plan review is required
when:
      (1)   The project includes an increase of the building footprint;
      (2)   The project involves expansion of an acceptable nonconforming use,
building or structure. Unacceptable nonconforming uses may not expand; and/or
      (3)   The project is a special use.
   (D)   All accessory structures, sheds and additions require a site plan.
   (E)   At no time shall a site plan review be required as a part of the
decision process for a rezoning. This is because the decision to rezone
property should be based on consideration of its effects on long range plans
for the village, and on the merits of the proposed zoning district, and the
uses it would allow, as they relate to the subject property and surrounding
area.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2016; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.116 SITE PLAN REVIEW PROCESS.
   (A)   Application deadlines. If a zoning application requires a site plan
review by the Planning Commission, a complete application package must be
received at least 30 days before the date of a Planning Commission meeting in
order to be reviewed at said meeting. If a site plan review is being conducted
for a special use permit or subdivision plat, the application timetable
specified for that process will apply.
   (B)   Application material. Applications requiring site plan review, must be
accompanied by a fee as established by the Village Council and by at least four
copies of a site plan which meets the following site plan requirements. The
application will not be reviewed until the complete application package has
been submitted, including the fee.
   (C)   Site plan requirements. All applicants shall complete the site plan
review checklist. The site plan review checklist is available at the village
office. Site plans shall conform to the provisions approved on the checklist.
All site plans must bear the stamp of a licensed engineer or architect with
civil engineering or architecture qualifications. Note that any proposed
construction, landscaping, retention of natural features or other property
conditions depicted in the site plan submission will be relied upon by the
Planning Commission in its review. Therefore, these conditions become
requirements for approval of the site plan. Failure to abide by such conditions
constitutes a violation of the terms of the occupancy permit issued pursuant to
site plan approval, and is subject to the enforcement provisions of this
chapter.
      (1)   Scale. The site plan must be drawn to a consistent scale of not
less than one inch equals 50 feet for sites of three acres or less, or one inch
equals 200 feet for larger sites.
      (2)   Identification. The applicant’s name, address and telephone number
and the name and address of the firm(s) responsible for preparation of the site
plan must be included. If the applicant does not own the property, the owner
must be identified and must sign a statement certifying that the applicant is
acting on the owner’s behalf.
      (3)   Property information. The site plan must accurately depict the
subject property and land adjacent to and across any thoroughfare from it,
including all existing and proposed easements or rights of way. Zoning of the
site, and of adjacent properties, must be identified. A legal description and
computation of the area of the property must accompany the site plan. Where
more than one description exists for a parcel of land, the legal description on
file with the County Register of Deeds will be the legal description upon which
a site plan decision is based.
      (4)   Site features. The site plan should depict existing environmental
conditions, including the locations of wooded areas or isolated trees over six
inches in diameter, topography, drainage features showing the type and
direction of flow, wetlands, any existing structures, including those proposed
for removal, and other significant conditions. The approximate location and use
of structures and the location of the nearest driveways on adjacent or opposing
parcels should be shown.
      (5)   Transportation features. The site plan must show the location and
surface type of all existing and proposed public and private roads, access
drives, internal vehicle circulation areas, parking lots (including number and
location of handicapped parking spaces), sidewalks, loading areas or docks,
truck bays and refuse pickup stations.
      (6)   Utilities. The site plan must show the location and size of all
existing and proposed public utilities. Water line information shall include
locations of existing and proposed fire hydrants and valves. Sanitary sewer
information shall include location of any pumping stations and approximate
location of manholes. Storm drainage information shall include any enclosed
drains, flow restrictors and on-site retention. The site plan must also include
any existing or proposed private utilities, such as natural gas, electricity,
telephone and cable television.
      (7)   Structures. The site plan must show the location and dimensions,
including height, of all proposed buildings, accessory structures and related
features. For multi-family housing developments, the number of units in each
building must be identified. Schematic plans and elevations of all structures
exceeding 5,000 square feet of total floor area must be included. The site plan
should also show the location, arrangement, dimensions and type of proposed
signs, lighting, landscaping, dumpsters, screening, fences and decorative
walls.
      (8)   Supplementary material. The site plan shall be complemented by any
additional information which, in the Building Inspector’s discretion, is
important for the site plan review process. This could include, but not be
limited to, an assessment of the proposed project’s impact on environmental,
historic, social or economic conditions; traffic studies; or proposed measures
to control or mitigate such impacts as noise, smoke, particulates, vibration,
odors or fire hazards.
   (D)   Staff review of site plan.
      (1)   Persons involved. Before the site plan is reviewed by the Planning
Commission, the Village Building Inspector, Engineer or contracted engineering
services and Fire Chief, or their designees, shall be given an opportunity to
review and comment upon it. In addition, the Building Inspector may submit the
site plan to any other department of village government that he or she believes
would have an interest in some aspect of the proposed project. Staff members
wishing to comment upon the site plan must transmit their comments in writing
to the Building Inspector at least five days before the Planning Commission
meeting at which the site plan is to be reviewed. After receiving any staff
comments, the Building Inspector shall recommend to the Planning Commission
what action should be taken.
      (2)   Standards to be used. Reviewers shall address the considerations
identified by the review standards. If a site plan review is being conducted
for a proposed special use permit, the additional special use permit review
standards listed for the particular use and zoning district shall be considered
also.
   (E)   Planning Commission review of site plan. The Planning Commission shall
address the site plan review at a public meeting. A public hearing will be held
only if any party submits a written request to the Village Clerk prior to the
Planning Commission meeting at which the site plan is to be considered. In such
cases, the public shall be heard before the Planning Commission acts upon the
site plan. However, a site plan review does not require either a public hearing
or special notification of anyone. The findings of a staff review of the site
plan and any public comments shall be taken into consideration by the Planning
Commission, but are not binding upon it in any way. In the interest of
providing a timely response to the applicant, the Planning Commission must take
one of the following actions at the meeting during which the site plan review
is conducted.
      (1)   Approval. An affirmative vote of the majority of Planning
Commission members present at the meeting is necessary to approve a site plan.
The site plan must then be forwarded to the Village Council for final approval.
      (2)   Conditional approval.
         (a)   The Planning Commission may elect to attach conditions to its
approval of a site plan. Conditions must be justified by one or more
requirements of this chapter, or by provisions of other local, state or federal
laws. These conditions, together with the regulatory authority and reasoning
which justifies them, must be identified in the motion for site plan approval
and communicated to the applicant in writing. The site plan must then be
forwarded to the Village Council for final conditional approval. The conditions
shall become a part of the site plan, as inseparably as if they were part of
the applicant’s original submission and shall be reflected in any occupancy
permit granted for the project.
         (b)   If a site plan must also receive approval from other public
agencies, their approval must be obtained before seeking a site plan review.
This shall include any variances which must be issued by the Village Zoning
Board of Appeals. Approval of a variance for conditions which differ from those
depicted on the site plan must be obtained prior to site plan review by the
Planning Commission.
      (3)   Denial with explanation. Failure to comply with one or more of the
review standards is the only justification for denial of a site plan. The vote
of a majority of Planning Commission members presents at the meeting in which
the site plan is reviewed is required to deny it. The motion to deny must state
which of the review standards was not met by the site plan, and how the plan
failed to meet the standard. The motion to deny may also suggest methods by
which the shortcoming might be corrected. The site plan must then be forwarded
to the Village Council for final denial or approval. The applicant shall be
notified in writing of the Planning Commission’s and/or the Village Council’s
denial of the site plan, with the full text of the motion to deny reproduced in
the communication.
   (F)   Deviations from approved site plan.
      (1)   It is recognized that unforeseen circumstances can necessitate
changes in a project during its development. Therefore, minor deviations from
an approved site plan are permitted if the Building Inspector determines that
all site plan review standards have been complied with. These deviations shall
be documented.
      (2)   However, if the Building Inspector finds that a deviation from the
approved site plan does not comply with the Review Standards, he or she shall
notify the permit holder immediately, the Village Building Inspector and the
Planning Commission, in writing that the site plan approval has been suspended.
The permit holder’s notice shall be delivered by certified mail. If
construction has begun, a stop work order shall be issued by the Building
Inspector, affecting that portion of the project which is not in compliance
with the site plan review standards.
      (3)   Once a site plan approval for a project has been suspended, the
permit holder has the option of changing the project plans to conform with the
review standards, or of restarting the site plan review process. When the issue
has been resolved, the Building Inspector shall send a written notice to the
permit holder and the Planning Commission that the project’s site plan has
again been approved. A copy of the written notice shall be kept on file with
the Planning Commission, the Building Inspector, the Zoning Administrator and
the Village Clerk.
      (4)   This provision should not be construed to prohibit phased
development of a project, provided that each phase complies with the
requirements of the review standards and with the approved site plan.
      (5)   If any deviations from an approved site plan are made, an “as
built” version of the site plan shall be provided to the Building Inspector
before the Building Inspector issues final approval for the project and before
any performance guarantee attached to the occupancy permit may be fully
refunded.
   (G)   Record to be maintained. The record relating to any approved site plan
shall be maintained by the Building Inspector together with the records
pertaining to the occupancy permit for said project. This record shall include
an official copy of the final site plan as it was approved by the Planning
Commission, dated and signed by the permit holder, the Planning Commission
Chairperson and the Building Inspector. The record shall also include
documentation of any conditions attached to the site plan approval and evidence
of the satisfaction of the same. It shall also include documentation of any
allowed deviations from the approved site plan, dated and signed by the permit
holder and the Building Inspector.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.117 SITE PLAN REVIEW STANDARDS.
   All site plan reviews shall use only the following set of standards to judge
whether the site plan should be approved or denied. No offsite improvements can
be required as conditions for site plan approval, unless the applicant had
volunteered to construct such improvements as documented by his or her original
site plan drawing(s). However, if the lack of such offsite improvements will
create unacceptable conditions, said lack is sufficient justification for
denial of a site plan.
   (A)   District regulations. The project must comply with the applicable
district regulations regarding use, dimensions, off-street parking and any
other aspects. (When the site plan review is being conducted as part of the
consideration process for a special use permit or a planned unit development,
the use of the site will be addressed after the site plan review. Therefore, it
must be presumed for this purpose that the use of the site will conform to the
district regulations.)
   (B)   Supplementary regulations. The project must comply with any and all of
the supplementary regulations that may apply to it.
   (C)   Special use permit standards. If the site plan review is being
conducted for a proposed special use permit, any special use standards relating
to the proposed use must be shown on the site plan.
   (D)   Building arrangements. Site plans will be evaluated on the basis of
scale, circulation of air, provisions of adequate access to and around
buildings for police and fire protection services, establishment of pleasant
vistas, arrangements conducive to enhancing the environmental quality of the
site when developed, minimizing the extent of impervious ground cover and
minimizing the destruction of natural features which contribute to
environmental quality.
   (E)   Transportation. Transportation facilities serving the parcel must be
sufficient to provide safe and efficient access to the parcel and circulation
within it. Consideration shall be given to road rights-of-way, surface type,
number of lanes, driveway design and location, vehicular circulation within the
parcel, parking, snow removal from transportation facilities, public transit,
pedestrian circulation, emergency vehicle access and accessibility for
handicapped persons.
   (F)   Driveways. All driveways serving customer or employee parking lots
shall provide two-way traffic, unless otherwise part of a one-way entrance and
exit system. All driveways shall be a minimum of 20 feet wide. A lesser width
may be permitted if it can be proven that the driveway will be increased to 20
feet due to a joint arrangement with an adjacent property owner. Driveways must
have a raised curb that continues to the edge of the travel portion of the
public street if curbing is in place or planned for the public right-of-way.
Except for large parking lots, driveways shall be limited to one per
development.
   (G)   Shared access.
      (1)   The Planning Commission must require shared access between and
among uses where feasible, excluding single-family residential uses.
Feasibility is determined with respect to the physical design of the site and
not the effort or costs involved with achieving joint access. This requirement
applies to driveways and access drives associated with site redevelopment or
new construction. In the case of new development, a joint driveway agreement
must be signed by all property owners involved prior to a construction permit
being issued.
      (2)   Driveways must be designed to allow joint access in the future,
where feasible, and an agreement to allow future use of the drive for joint
access must be signed at the time of site plan approval. Shared drives must be
shown on site plans at the time of review by the Planning Commission. Refusal
to design a site with provisions for joint access or refusal to participate in
a joint access agreement is justification for site plan denial by the Planning
Commission.
   (H)   Utilities. Public utilities, including water, sewer and storm drainage
facilities, must be adequate to serve the proposed use, or sufficient
provisions shall be made to provide these services on the site. Private utility
services, including electricity, telephone, natural gas and cable television,
must also be sufficient to serve the needs of the project. When the adequacy of
any public utility service to the site is in question, the input of the
appropriate public utility provider shall be sought.
   (I)   Signs and lighting. Lighting is intended to illuminate parking and
vehicular areas for the purpose of increasing the safety of the users.
Appropriate lighting should be located adjacent to the parking lot or vehicular
use areas.
   (J)   Fire protection. The proposed project must comply with applicable fire
safety regulations. Also, current township Fire Department personnel and
equipment must be sufficient to serve the project. Location, number and
capacity of fire hydrants must be adequate to serve fire suppression needs.
   (K)   Environment.
      (1)   Natural features of the landscape should be retained wherever
practicable to furnish a buffer between the project and adjoining property(ies)
or help to control erosion, contain storm water runoff, absorb noise, deflect
wind currents, reduce glare or otherwise benefit the general health, safety or
appearance of the neighborhood.
      (2)   Any buildings, fences, lighting, vegetation or other features that
are introduced into the landscape should be designed to complement the site’s
surrounding environment and enhance the positive features of the project.
      (3)   The site plan should be developed with the goal of controlling any
negative impacts the project may have, such as noise, smoke, vibration, odor,
glare, heat or dust so that they will not be discernible beyond the property
boundaries. Further, projects shall fully adhere to applicable environmental
regulations promulgated by the State Department of Natural Resources or other
agencies.
   (L)   Storm drainage. Surface drainage, otherwise referred to as sheet
drainage, to the right-of-way, or adjacent properties is unacceptable.
   (M)   Consistency with ordinance intent. The site plan should be generally
consistent with the purpose and objectives of this chapter, as stated in §
153.002, and with the purpose of the district in which the subject parcel is
located, as expressed in the purpose tables in §§
153.020 through
153.032.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.118 REVIEW OF SUBDIVISION PLANS.
   See
Chapter 152 for subdivision control provisions.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
RESIDENTIAL USES SITE PLAN REVIEW
§ 153.130 PURPOSE AND APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   In order to promote and ensure compliance with the intent as well as
the letter of the regulations, it is deemed prudent and necessary to exercise
site planning controls that will encourage good development and minimize
undesirable effects on surrounding properties and upon transportation systems,
utilities and other public facilities.
   (B)   The purpose of this chapter also includes the expressed intent to
maintain all existing trees to the greatest extent possible in residential
areas and to encourage a variety of housing styles, sizes and types in
residential areas. The purpose of such controls is to protect the public
health, safety and general welfare of the community.
   (C)   The provisions of this chapter shall apply only in the following
circumstances:
      (1)   Any change in the current use of any parcel within the village;
      (2)   Any new construction of a residential use (for subdivisions, see
Chapter 152); and
      (3)   Any new additions, out buildings and parking for residential use
requires a site plan.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2016; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.131 EXEMPTIONS.
   Exemptions to site plan review: A site plan review for which an existing
structure does not change by more than a 25% increase in height or in footprint
may be reviewed by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
request any site plan review to be performed by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. passed 9-26-2016; Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.132 REVIEW FEES.
   Review fees shall be established for “site plan reviews” and “site plan
review appeals” by resolution of the Village Council upon adoption of this
chapter, and annually thereafter with adoption of the village fiscal budget.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.133 SITE PLAN SUBMITTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Information required. Each site plan submitted shall contain an
accurate plot plan, drawn to a minimum of one inch to 50 feet scale. The plot
plan must show all of the following items. However, the Zoning Administrator
may waive one or more of these information requirements if such a requirement
would be an unnecessary hardship:
      (1)   Property boundaries, dimensions and north arrow;
      (2)   Location, size and use of all buildings;
      (3)   Location of public and private streets, drives, alleys, easements,
pedestrian walkways and loading areas;
      (4)   Location and quality of parking areas, as specified in this
chapter. Also, the location of exterior lighting;
      (5)   The location of all existing and proposed landscaping and
vegetation, including the number of trees and shrubs. Also, the location,
height and type of existing and proposed fences, walls and retaining walls;
      (6)   The location and size of all existing and proposed drainage
facilities, and any wetlands or bodies of water;
      (7)   A topographic map showing existing contour lines at one-foot
intervals. Where excavation, fill or re-contouring of the site is involved,
final contours shall also be shown. Spot elevation on a 50-foot grid may be
substituted for contours on the map;
      (8)   Deed restrictions or other covenants affecting the land; and
      (9)   Any additional information that is deemed reasonably necessary to
evaluate the project and its effect on the village.
   (B)   Site plan submission.
      (1)   The site plan, including additional or related information required
by the Zoning Administrator shall be presented to the Village Clerk by the
applicant or property owner or his or her designated agent, in four copies,
(working copy, record copy, Building Inspector’s copy and applicant’s copy).
      (2)   When a change to an approved site plan is requested, four copies of
the site plan shall be presented to the Village Clerk by the applicant or
property owner or his or her designated agent. The Village Clerk may request
that the applicant supply additional copies.
   (C)   Fee. All site plans must be accompanied by the site plan review fee
upon submission.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.134 SUBMITTAL AND REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Review procedure. The Zoning Administrator shall have the
responsibility and authorization to approve, disapprove or approve subject to
conditions, the subject site plan in accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   Resolution. The resolution of the Zoning Administrator shall state the
basis relied upon in approving a site plan or denial thereof, and any
conditions imposed.
   (C)   Approved site plan. When approved, by either the Zoning Administrator
or Planning Commission, two copies of the approved site plan shall be signed
and dated by the Zoning Administrator. One copy of the approved site plan shall
be kept on file with the Village Clerk, and one copy shall be returned to the
applicant. A site plan, as approved by the Zoning Administrator, shall become
part of the record of approval.
   (D)   Resubmittal. Any application, which has been denied in whole or
approved subject to conditions by the Zoning Administrator, may be resubmitted
with the payment of a new site plan review fee.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.135 CHANGES TO APPROVED SITE PLAN.
   Changes to an approved site plan must be reviewed by the Zoning
Administrator.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.136 SITE REVIEW STANDARDS.
   (A)   Purpose. The following standards shall be utilized by the Zoning
Administrator in reviewing all site plans. These standards are intended to
provide a frame of reference for the applicant in the preparation of site plans
as well as for the reviewing authority in making judgments concerning them.
These standards will not be regarded as inflexible requirements. They are not
intended to discourage creativity, invention or innovation.
   (B)   Dimensional requirements. The dimensional arrangement of buildings and
structures conforms to the required yards, setbacks and height restrictions of
the Building Code.
   (C)   Building arrangement. The proposed buildings and structures should
have a harmonious relationship to the site terrain, landscaping, open space and
the other buildings and structures, existing and proposed. The bulk, location
and height of proposed buildings and structures as well as the general
character of the development should minimize any adverse effect to other
private development in the surrounding area and should not impose undue burdens
on the public facilities that can be avoided by modification in the plan. A
proposed residential building should have an architectural character different
from other residences located within 500 feet of the property lines, on the
same street of the proposed building site. Buildings, which are mirror images
or which have minor facial differences compared with another residential
building within the 500 feet distance, are considered to be identical or
similar in architectural character and shall be considered inconsistent with
the intent of this requirement.
   (D)   Surface water drainage. Attention shall be given to proper site
surface drainage so that discharge of surface waters will not adversely affect
neighboring properties, the public right-of-way or storm drainage facilities.
   (E)   Vehicular access. The provisions for vehicular loading and unloading
and parking, and for vehicular and pedestrian circulation on the site and onto
adjacent public streets and rights-of-way shall not create hazards to safety,
nor impose a significant burden upon public facilities which could be avoided
by modifications in the plan.
   (F)   Pedestrian access. Pedestrian movement along the street right-of-way
should not be hindered by rocks, boulders, fences or other obstructions.
   (G)   Exterior lighting. Exterior lighting shall not create undue hazards to
motorists traveling on adjacent public streets nor damage the value and
diminish the usability of adjacent properties. Lighting should be adequate for
the safety of occupants or users of the site.
   (H)   Landscaping. The landscaping shall be preserved in its natural state
insofar as practicable. Tree and soil removal should be minimized, however as a
minimum there shall be at least one tree for every 3,000 square feet of
property. The trees considered for meeting this standard shall be healthy, with
a minimum caliper size of three inches measured four feet above the ground. The
spacing and species of the tree shall be subject to review and approval of the
Zoning Administrator. Plant materials should be used to enhance the appearance
of the site, to screen unsightly or harsh elements and to provide visual relief
from large monotonous features such as parking lots. Any grade changes should
be in keeping with the general appearance of neighboring developed areas.
   (I)   Special features. Storage areas, mechanical areas, service areas,
truck loading areas, utility buildings and structures, and similar features
should be located and/or screened so as to be unobtrusive and not interfere
with access to or circulation within the site or detract from the visual
impression of the site.
   (J)   Emergency access. All buildings and structures are to be accessible to
emergency vehicles.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.137 SITE PLAN REVIEW APPEALS.
   (A)   Appeal time period. An applicant for a site plan review may appeal the
decision(s) of the Zoning Administrator to the Zoning Board of Appeals for
consideration. The appeal request must be submitted to the Village Clerk within
30 days after the site plan has been either denied or approved with conditions
or modifications by the Zoning Administrator.
   (B)   Contents of appeal. The appeal must be submitted in writing, and must
clearly state the reason(s) for the appeal. It should include all supporting
documentation and a site plan review appeal fee. The Village Clerk shall place
the appeal on the agenda for the next scheduled Zoning Board of Appeals
meeting.
   (C)   Appeal procedure. An applicant may appeal the decision(s) of the
Zoning Board of Appeals to the Circuit Court.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
ADMINISTRATION, ENFORCEMENT AND AMENDMENTS
§ 153.150 INVOLVEMENT IN ZONING PROCESS.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be carried out by the Planning
Commission, the Zoning Board of Appeals, the Village Council and the Village
Zoning Administrator in conformance with applicable state enabling legislation.
   (A)   Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   The Village Council shall employ staff and a Building Inspector to
carry out day to day administration and enforcement of this chapter. The
Village Council may designate the Building Inspector as the Zoning
Administrator. Conditions of the Zoning Administrator’s employment, including
compensation, shall be established by the Village Council. Additional staff may
be employed, under the supervision of the Zoning Administrator, to assist with
administration and enforcement of this chapter.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator’s duties shall include the following items
and any other tasks that may be assigned by the Village Council or provisions
of this chapter.
         (a)   Accept and record applications, issue and record permits. All
applications for site plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator who
shall keep a record of all applications which have been submitted and their
disposition. When all applicable provisions of this chapter have been met
regarding any application, the Zoning Administrator shall issue a zoning permit
for the proposed use. When conditions are not met, the Zoning Administrator
shall consult with the applicant to determine the proper course of action. The
Zoning Administrator shall maintain a record of all applications and related
zoning permits, including documentation for each. All applicable documentation
shall be kept on file with the Village Office.
         (b)   Issue written denial. When any application for a use is denied,
the Zoning Administrator shall provide the applicant with a written denial,
stating the reasons for the denial.
      (3)   Notice of hearings. Whenever a zoning matter is the subject of a
public hearing before the Planning Commission or the Zoning Board of Appeals,
the Village Clerk shall prepare notices of the hearing and disseminate said
notices as required by this chapter.
      (4)   Inspections. The Zoning Administrator shall be empowered to make
inspections of buildings or premises to carry out enforcement of this chapter.
      (5)   Record nonconforming uses. The Zoning Administrator shall record
all nonconforming uses existing at the effective date of this chapter.
      (6)   Record special uses. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record
of all special use permits issued under the terms of this chapter.
      (7)   Record interpretations of chapter. The Zoning Administrator shall
maintain a concise record of all interpretations of this chapter rendered by
the Zoning Board of Appeals. Interpretations of the ordinance do not include
dimensional or administrative issues. This record shall be consulted whenever
questions arise concerning interpretation of any provision of this chapter to
determine whether any applicable precedents have been set.
      (8)   Public information. The Village Clerk shall respond to inquiries
and dispense information or copies of this chapter to make the public aware of
and familiar with the provisions of this chapter. Public awareness and
acceptance of the zoning ordinance will help to maintain compliance with it.
      (9)   Respond to complaints. The Zoning Administrator shall respond
within five business days, whenever possible, to any complaint regarding an
alleged violation of the terms or conditions of this chapter or any permit
issued pursuant to it. The Zoning Administrator shall provide a report at each
regular Village Council meeting summarizing the nature and disposition of
complaints that have been received. A written record of all complaints,
responses and dispositions of the complaint will be maintained by the Clerk.
      (10)   May not change chapter. Under no circumstances is the Zoning
Administrator permitted to make changes in this chapter or to vary the terms of
this chapter.
   (B)   Planning Commission/Village Council.
      (1)   Membership. The Planning Commission/Village Council shall be
composed of at least five and no more than nine members, appointed by the
President with the approval of the Village Council.
      (2)   Terms of office. The term of service for each member shall be three
years. Rotation of membership is encouraged.
      (3)   Rules of procedure. The Planning Commission/Village Council shall
adopt its own rules of procedure as may be necessary to conduct its meetings
and carry out its function. The Planning Commission shall choose its
Chairperson, Vice Chairperson and Secretary.
      (4)   Meetings. The Planning Commission/Village Council shall meet
monthly and by resolution shall determine the time and place of meetings. All
meetings shall be properly noticed and open to the public.
      (5)   Per diem or expenses. Members of the Planning Commission/Village
Council may be compensated for their services as provided by the Village
Council. The Planning Commission/Village Council may make and administer
regulations relative to compensation for the travel of its members and
employees when engaged in the performance of activities authorized by the
Planning Commission/Village Council.
      (6)   Development plan. The Planning Commission/Village Council shall
make and adopt a basic plan as a guide for the development of the village. Plan
contents, adoption, amendment, approval by the Village Council, hearing and
publication shall be according to the City and Village Zoning Act, Public Act
207 of 1921 as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 through 125.590.
      (7)   Zoning ordinance. The Zoning Ordinance shall be based on a plan
designed to promote the public health, safety and general welfare of the
residents.
      (8)   Administration and enforcement. The Planning Commission/Village
Council shall be responsible for the following administrative and enforcement
activities under this chapter.
         (a)   Site plan approval. The Planning Commission/Village Council
shall review site plans relative to special uses, commercial and/or industrial
and issue its approval, conditional approval or denial of the same.
         (b)   Special use permits. The Planning Commission/Village Council
shall conduct a public hearing on any application for a special use permit.
Following a public hearing, the Planning Commission/Village Council shall
review and approve or deny said application. The Planning Commission/Village
Council shall also take any necessary action to revoke a special use permit.
         (c)   Rezoning or amendment. The Planning Commission/Village Council
shall conduct public hearings for proposals to rezone property or amend the
text of this chapter. Following a public hearing, the Planning Commission/
Village Council shall make its recommendation regarding the proposed rezoning
or text change to the Village Council. The Planning Commission/Village Council
may initiate a text change or rezoning, subject to the requirements for notice,
hearing and Village Council approval.
   (C)   Zoning Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Establishment. The Village Council, exercising the authority of
Public Act 207 of 1921, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 through 125.590,
provides that a Village Zoning Board of Appeals be established. Upon adoption
of this chapter, the Zoning Board of Appeals established under the terms of the
previous zoning ordinance shall remain in office, including all members
thereof.
      (2)   Membership. The Village Zoning Board of Appeals shall consist of at
least three members. The first member of the Board of Appeals shall be a member
of the Planning Commission, and two members shall be property owners within the
village. An elected officer of the village may not serve as chairperson of the
Zoning Board of Appeals. An employee or contractor of the Village Council may
not serve as a member or employee of the Zoning Board of Appeals. Members of
the Board of Appeals shall be removable by the Village Council for
nonperformance of duty or misconduct in office upon written charges and after
public hearing.
      (3)   Terms of office. Terms of Zoning Board of Appeals members shall be
for three years, except for members serving because of their membership on the
Planning Commission or Village Council, whose terms shall be limited to the
time they are members of said bodies and the period stated in the resolution
appointing them, A successor shall be appointed not more than one month after
the term for the preceding member has expired. All vacancies for unexpired
terms shall be filled for the remainder of the term. Rotation of membership is
encouraged.
      (4)   Rules of procedure. The Board of Appeals may adopt its own rules of
procedure as may be necessary to conduct its meetings and carry out its
function. The Board shall choose its chairperson, and in the chairperson’s
absence, an acting chair may be appointed.
      (5)   Meetings. Meetings shall be held at the call of the chairperson and
at such times as the Board of Appeals may determine. A simple majority of the
membership of the Board of Appeals shall constitute a quorum and may conduct
any items of business brought before the Board. All meetings of the Board shall
be open to the public. The Board may declare any meeting, or part of any
meeting, a study meeting to pursue matters of business without comment or
interruption from the public in attendance.
      (6)   Records. Minutes shall be recorded of all proceedings which shall
contain evidence and dates relevant to every case considered together with the
votes of the members and the final disposition of each case. Such minutes shall
be filed in the office of the Village Clerk and shall be public records.
      (7)   Decisions. The Zoning Board of Appeals shall return a decision upon
each case within 30 days of the filing of a request or appeal unless a further
time is agreed upon by the parties concerned. Any decision of the Zoning Board
of Appeals shall not take effect until the expiration of five days after the
date of said decision, unless the Board of Appeals certifies on the record that
the decision must be given immediate effect for the preservation of property or
personal rights. No zoning permit authorized by such a decision shall be issued
until the decision has taken effect.
      (8)   Majority vote. The concurring vote of a majority of the membership
of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be necessary to decide upon any issue
brought before the Board. For example, if three members are present, out of a
total of five members, all three must concur to pass a motion.
      (9)   Conflict of interest. A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
disqualify himself or herself from discussion and voting in which the member
has a conflict of interest. Failure of a member to disqualify himself or
herself from a vote in which the member has a conflict of interest shall
constitute misconduct in office.
      (10)   Duties. The Village Zoning Board of Appeals shall have the power
to act on those matters where this chapter provides for an administrative
review, interpretation or variance as defined in this section. The Board of
Appeals shall not have the power to alter or change the zoning district
classification of any property, or to make any change in the terms or intent of
this chapter.
         (a)   Administrative review. The Board of Appeals shall hear and
decide appeals where it is alleged by the appellant that there is an error in
any order, requirement, permit, decision or refusal made by the Zoning
Administrator or by any other official administering or enforcing provisions of
this chapter.
         (b)   Interpretation. The Board of Appeals shall have the power to
interpret, upon request, the provisions of this chapter in such a way as to
carry out the intent and purpose of this chapter as defined by §
153.117(M).
         (c)   Variances. The Board of Appeals shall have the power to
authorize variances from any quantifiable requirements of this chapter where
practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships prevent carrying out the strict
letter of this chapter. Creation of nonconforming lots is prohibited.
         (d)   Village Council. On recommendation of the Planning Commission,
the Village Council shall adopt the zoning ordinance, making it the enforceable
policy of village government. Likewise, the Village Council may amend the text
of this chapter or the boundaries of zoning districts (rezoning). The Village
Council may review all zoning decisions of the Planning Commission. The Village
Council shall, by resolution, set fees to be charged for any administrative
action under this chapter. The Council may also act to waive any fee.
   (D)   Table: procedural requirements for special zoning decisions.
                                   Published                             Body to
Type   Parties  Body     Public    Notice(s)                             Which
of     Who May  Making   Hearing   - Number  Mailed Notice to Owners and Applicant
Action Initiate Decision Required? of Days   Occupants Within 300’     May
       Action                      Before                                Appeal a
                                   Hearing                               Denial
                                                  Published                              Body to
               Parties Who   Body       Public    Notice(s)                              Which
Type of Action May Initiate  Making     Hearing   - Number   Mailed Notice to Owners and Applicant
               Action        Decision   Required? of Days    Occupants Within 300’     May
                                                  Before                                 Appeal a
                                                  Hearing                                Denial
Actions by the Planning Commission
               Applicant,    P.C.                 Once, not                              P.C.
Development    P.C. or       recommends           less than                              after 1
plan or map    Village       to Village Yes       15 days    Not required                year or
change         Council       Council              before                                 Circuit
                                                  date                                   Court
Fee waiver     Applicant     Village    No        Not        Not required                Circuit
                             Council              required                               Court
                                                  Once,                                  P.C.
Planned unit   Applicant or                       between 5- Once, between 5-15 days     after 1
development    administrator P.C.       Yes       15 days    before date                 year, or
                                                  before                                 Circuit
                                                  date                                   Court
                                                  Once, not
                             P.C.                 less than  Once, not less than 15 days P.C.
                             recommends Yes       15 days    before date                 after 1
               Applicant,    to                   before                                 year
Rezoning       P.C. or                            date
               Village                  If        Once,
               Council       Village    requested between 5-                             Circuit
                             Council    by any    15 days    Not required                Court
                                        party     before
                                                  date
                                                                                         P.C.
Site plan      Applicant or                       Not                                    after 1
approval       administrator P.C.       No        required.  Not required                year, or
                                                                                         Village
                                                                                         Council
                                        If
                                        requested Once,                                  P.C.
Special use    Applicant or             by        between 5- Once, between 5-15 days     after 1
permit         administrator P.C.       property  15 days    before date                 year, or
                                        owner     before                                 Circuit
                                        within    date                                   Court
                                        300 ft.
                                                  Once, not
                             P.C.                 less than  Once, not less than 15 days P.C.
                             recommends Yes       15 days    before date                 after 1
Zoning         Applicant,    to                   before                                 year.
ordinance or   P.C. or                            date
zoning map     Village                  If        Once, not
text change    Council       Village    requested less than                              Circuit
                             Council    by any    15 days    Not required                Court
                                        party     before
                                                  date
Actions by the Zoning Board of Appeals
               Any aggrieved
Appeal of      party or      Zoning     No.                                              Circuit
administrative state,        Board of   Meeting   Reasonable Reasonable notice           Court
decision       officer,      Appeals    open to   notice                                 only
               board bureau             public
               or dept.
                             Zoning     No.                                              Circuit
Interpretation Applicant or  Board of   Meeting   Reasonable Reasonable notice           Court
               administrator Appeals    open to   notice                                 only
                                        public
                             Zoning     No.                                              Circuit
Variance       Applicant or  Board of   Meeting   Reasonable Reasonable notice           Court
               administrator Appeals    open to   notice                                 only
                                        public
 
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.151 ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS.
   (A)   Building permit required. The issuance of a building permit, showing
compliance with the zoning ordinance, signifies compliance with the
requirements of this chapter. A zoning permit must be obtained from the Zoning
Administrator before any of the following activities may legally take place:
      (1)   Occupancy and use of vacant land (including parking lot
construction);
      (2)   Any change in the use of a parcel of land or a building, including
any construction or structural alteration of a building which requires issuance
of a building permit by the Village Building Inspector (a zoning permit must be
obtained before a building permit may be issued. When erected at the same time
as the principal building, accessory buildings shall not require a separate
zoning permit);
      (3)   Any use of land or a building which would be identified as a use by
special use permit for the zoning district in which the parcel is located; and/
or
      (4)   Any change of a nonconforming use or building.
   (B)   Application for building permit. Application for a building permit
shall be made ten days before construction of a new or enlarged building or
structure, or a new or enlarged use of a parcel, is intended to begin. Form and
content of the application package shall be as specified by the following
material.
      (1)   Applicants for a building permit shall submit a zoning application
form with all requested information completely filled in. When a building
permit is also required, application for a zoning permit may be made at the
same time. If the Village Building Inspector also acts as Zoning Administrator,
the Inspector may elect to accept information submitted for a building permit
without duplicating it on the building application form.
      (2)   The building application form must be accompanied by a copy of a
property survey, deed or tax records sufficient to allow identification of the
parcel in the township assessor’s property maps. When the applicant is anyone
other than the property owner identified by the assessor’s records, evidence of
the owner’s concurrence or a change in ownership must also be submitted.
      (3)   The building application form must also be accompanied by a plot
plan drawn at size and scale sufficient to clearly identify the exact
dimensions of the parcel, all abutting streets, alleys or easements, and the
size, position and height of all existing and proposed buildings or structures
thereon. The Zoning Administrator may also require any other information deemed
necessary for the proper enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   Application review process. On submission of an application for a
zoning permit, the Zoning Administrator will review the application material as
described by the review process table in §
153.150(D), which accompanies this section. Whenever possible, it is desirable
for this review to be conducted with the applicant present to facilitate any
necessary explanation. If all requirements have been met, the Zoning
Administrator shall issue a zoning permit. When failure to meet any standard
prohibits issuance of a permit, the problem shall be identified and the
applicant advised of his or her options. In all cases, a full review shall be
conducted to identify all potential obstacles to issuance of a zoning permit.
   (D)   Record maintained. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a record of
each application for a zoning permit which has been submitted, including the
disposition of each one. This record shall be a public record, open for
inspection upon request.
   (E)   Validity of building permit. A building permit remains in effect for a
period of one year from the date it is issued. By that time, the activity
authorized by the zoning permit must have begun. This means that any use of
land or of an existing building must be underway, or a building permit for any
new construction must have been issued and construction commenced. The validity
of a zoning permit may be extended by the Zoning Administrator not more than
one time, for a period not to exceed one additional year. Said extension must
be requested in writing by the permit holder before the expiration of the
initial permit period.
   (F)   Voiding of a building permit.
      (1)   If the permit holder fails to initiate the activity authorized by
the zoning permit by the end of the one year extension, the zoning permit is
automatically null and void. Any additional rights associated with the zoning
permit which have been granted by the Planning Commission/Village Council or
the Zoning Board of Appeals, such as special use permits or variances, expire
together with the zoning permit.
      (2)   Any performance guarantee shall be refunded to the permit holder
unless the failure to initiate activity has resulted in costs to the village
which were to be covered by the guarantee. If any amount of the guarantee
remains after said costs are satisfied, the balance of the guarantee shall be
released and returned to the permit holder.
      (3)   Reissuance of a building permit which has expired requires a new
building application form to be filed with the Zoning Administrator and
processed without consideration of any previous action.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.152 ADMINISTRATIVE ACTIONS BY THE ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Duties of the Board of Appeals. The Board of Appeals may only hear
requests for a variance, administrative review or interpretation of the
ordinance or zoning map as defined in this division (A) and divisions (B) and
(C) below. Circumstances resulting from an act of the applicant, after adoption
of this chapter, shall not be allowed to be heard by the Board of Appeals.
      (1)   Variance. The Zoning Board of Appeals is empowered to grant
variances to such requirements as lot area and width regulations, yard and
depth regulations, and off-street parking and loading space requirements. Any
requirement of this chapter which can be expressed in terms of numbers may be
brought before the Zoning Board of Appeals to be considered for a variance.
      (2)   Administrative review. The Zoning Board of Appeals is empowered to
review and reverse or modify any order, decision or determination made by an
administrative official charged with enforcing or administering this chapter.
The Board is not empowered to overturn decisions of the Planning Commission/
Village Council regarding special use permits, including such permits for
planned unit developments. The Board may not overturn the denial of a site plan
in connection with any special use permit proceedings.
         (a)   Requests for administrative review. An administrative review by
the Zoning Board of Appeals may be requested by any person aggrieved, or by any
officer, department or board of the local government. Any such request must be
made in writing not more than ten days after the date of the Zoning
Administrator’s decision. The request shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall specify the grounds for the review. The Zoning
Administrator shall immediately transmit to the Chairperson of the Board of
Appeals any papers constituting the record upon which the action being reviewed
was taken.
         (b)   Stay. An administrative review shall stay all proceedings in
furtherance of the action being reviewed, except as follows; if a Zoning
Administrator certifies in writing to the Zoning Board of Appeals, after a
request for an administrative review has been filed, that a stay would cause
imminent peril to life or property, the proceedings shall not be stayed unless
a restraining order is issued by the Zoning Board of Appeals or by court
action.
      (3)   Interpretation. The Zoning Board of Appeals may interpret
provisions of this chapter as outlined below. Each such interpretation shall
establish the precedent for future treatment of the issue being addressed. To
achieve the objective of consistent enforcement of this chapter, whenever an
interpretation question arises which has been addressed previously by the
Zoning Board of Appeals, the earlier interpretation shall apply without
requiring further action by the Board. Interpretation issues do not include
dimensional variance issues. The Zoning Administrator shall keep a concise
record of all interpretations made by the Zoning Board of Appeals to facilitate
such reference.
         (a)   The Board may determine the precise location of the boundary
lines between zoning districts.
         (b)   The Board may classify any activity which is not specifically
mentioned in the uses tables in §§
153.020 through
153.032 for any zoning district as a use by right or special use within at
least one zoning district; provided that said classification shall be
consistent with the classification of similar uses and with the purpose and
intent of each zoning district.
         (c)   The Board may determine the off-street parking and loading space
requirements of any use for which these requirements are not determinable using
the information provided for this purpose.
         (d)   The Board may interpret any portion of this chapter when the
Zoning Administrator is unable to clearly determine its intent or effect.
   (B)   Conditions for granting a variance. A variance may be granted when any
one of the following special conditions can be demonstrated clearly.
      (1)   There are practical difficulties or unnecessary hardships which
prevent carrying out the strict letter of this chapter. These hardships or
difficulties shall not be deemed economic, but shall be evaluated in terms of
the use of a particular parcel of land.
      (2)   There are exceptional circumstances or physical conditions such as
narrowness, shallowness, shape or topography of property involved. Or, due to
the intended use of the property, that will not apply to other property or uses
in the same zoning district. Circumstances resulting from an act of the
applicant, after the adoption of this chapter, shall not be allowed a variance.
      (3)   Variation is necessary for the preservation of a substantial
property right possessed by other properties in the same zoning district.
   (C)   Fees. A fee, as established by the Village Council, shall be paid to
the Village Treasurer at the time of filing application with the Board of
Appeals. The purpose of such fee is to cover, in part, the necessary
advertisements, investigations and other expenses incurred by the Board of
Appeals in connection with the appeal.
   (D)   Rules for Zoning Board of Appeals actions.
      (1)   A public hearing must be held by the Zoning Board of Appeals prior
to making a decision on a variance, an administrative review or interpretation
which relates to a specific parcel. Mailed notice shall be given not less than
five days nor more than 15 days before the date of the meeting at which the
action will be considered. The contents and distribution of said notice shall
be as specified by this chapter.
      (2)   Any decision by the Zoning Board of Appeals must not be contrary to
the public interest or to the intent and purpose of this chapter.
      (3)   In no way may a variance, site plan approval or finding of an
administrative review be construed to allow the establishment within a zoning
district of any use which is not permitted by right or by special use permit
within that zoning district. The Zoning Board of Appeals may only expand the
list of permitted uses for any zoning district as a result of an interpretation
regarding a use that is not listed anywhere in the uses tables in §§
153.020 through
153.032.
      (4)   Prior to any decision by the Board of Appeals, the Planning
Commission/Village Council may comment on the issue before the Board and
provide a written recommendation of action.
      (5)   In making any decision, the Zoning Board of Appeals must endeavor
to avoid causing a substantial adverse effect upon property values in the
immediate vicinity of the subject property, nor shall such actions have the
effect of substantially impacting property values for land in the Zoning
District in which the subject property is located.
      (6)   Any action brought before the Zoning Board of Appeals may relate
only to a single parcel which must be under control of the applicant. If the
applicant is not the owner of the property, evidence must be provided that the
owner concurs with the request for Zoning Board of Appeals action.
      (7)   Approval by the Zoning Board of Appeals of any request may not be
granted simply to prevent an economic loss. Improving an owner’s chance to
profit from sale of a parcel is not an objective of this chapter.
      (8)   Any request which has been denied wholly or in part by the Zoning
Board of Appeals may not be resubmitted for a period of one year from the date
of the last denial. However, if new evidence or changed conditions are found,
the Board may elect to rehear a case, subject to all notice requirements
defined by the table in §
153.150(D).
      (9)   The Board of Appeals may attach any reasonable conditions to the
approval of any request to secure the objectives and purposes of this chapter.
The breach of any such condition shall automatically invalidate any zoning
permit granted pursuant to the Zoning Board of Appeals action. When it attaches
any conditions to the approval of a request, the Board of Appeals may require
that a bond of ample sum be furnished to ensure compliance with the conditions
imposed.
      (10)   A variance must be necessary to overcome practical difficulties or
unnecessary hardships which prevent carrying out the strict letter of this
chapter. These hardships or difficulties are to be evaluated in terms of the
applicant’s ability to physically locate a permitted use on the particular
parcel of land. Creation of a nonconforming lot is prohibited.
      (11)   When a variance is being considered to overcome unique
circumstances or physical conditions regarding the configuration of the
property involved, these circumstances or conditions must not have resulted
from any act of the applicant or of the property owner subsequent to the
adoption of this chapter.
      (12)   A variance granted under the provisions of this chapter becomes a
condition of the zoning permit granted pursuant to the variance or approval. If
a zoning permit issued pursuant to such action is allowed to expire under the
provisions of this chapter, any rights granted by the action expire together
with the zoning permit.
      (13)   The minutes of the Zoning Board of Appeals meeting at which any
decision was made regarding a variance, administrative review or interpretation
shall include the grounds used by the Board in making said decision, and any
conditions that may have been attached to authorization for issuance of a
zoning permit.
      (14)   If the specific conditions relating to a certain class of property
are so general or recurrent in nature as to make similar variances a perennial
issue for the Board of Appeals, the Board shall suggest a general regulation
for such conditions for the Planning Commission’s/Village Council’s
consideration.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.153 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Responsibility. The Ordinance Enforcer shall enforce the provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   Violations and penalties. Violations of any provisions of this chapter
are declared to be a nuisance per se. Any and all building or land use
activities which are considered to be possible violations of the provisions of
this chapter, and which are observed by or communicated to a village official
or employee, shall be reported to the Zoning Administrator.
      (1)   Inspection of violation. The Ordinance Enforcer shall inspect each
alleged violation he or she observes or is made aware of and shall order
correction, in writing, of all conditions found to be in violation of this
chapter.
      (2)   Correction period. All violations shall be corrected within a
reasonable time period determined by the Ordinance Enforcer, but not to exceed
30 days.
      (3)   Action by Village Attorney. A violation not corrected within this
period shall be reported to the Village Attorney, who shall initiate procedures
to eliminate such violation. Once a violation has been referred to the Village
Attorney, any legal action which the attorney deems necessary to restore
compliance with all terms and conditions of this chapter is authorized.
      (4)   Penalties. Every person, whether as principal agent, servant,
employee or otherwise, including the owners of any building, structure or
premises or part thereof where any violation of this chapter shall exist or
shall be created, who shall violate or refuse to comply with any of the
provisions of this chapter, shall be guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se
and upon conviction thereof shall be punished by a fine and imprisonment,
within the discretion of the Court. For each and every day the violation
continues beyond the correction, a separate offense shall be declared.
Additionally, the proper court shall have power and authority to issue an
injunctive order in connection with any violation of the provisions of this
chapter.
      (5)   Cumulative rights and remedies. The rights and remedies provided
herein are cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (C)   Conflicting regulations. In the interpretation, application and
enforcement of the provisions of this chapter, whenever any of the provisions
or limitations imposed or required by this chapter are more stringent than any
other law or chapter, then the provisions of this chapter shall govern;
provided also that whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance impose
more stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this chapter, the
provisions of such other law or ordinance shall govern.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023) Penalty, see §
153.999
§ 153.154 AMENDMENT.
   (A)   Village Council may amend. The regulations and provisions stated in
the text of this chapter and the boundaries of zoning districts shown on the
Zoning District Map may be amended, supplemented or changed by ordinance by the
Village Council in accordance with the applicable enabling legislation of the
state.
   (B)   Initiation of amendments. Proposals for amendments, supplements or
changes may be initiated by the Village Council of its own action, by the
Planning Commission or by petition of one or more persons having an interest,
by ownership or option to purchase, in property to be affected by the proposed
amendment.
   (C)   Amendment procedure.
      (1)   Petition to Village Clerk and payment of fee. Each petition by one
or more owners or their agents, for an amendment shall be submitted upon an
application of standard form to the Village Clerk. A fee as established by the
Village Council shall be paid at the time of application to cover costs of
necessary advertising for public hearings and processing of the amendment
request. The Village Clerk shall transmit the application to the Village
Council for recommended action.
      (2)   Recommendation. The Planning Commission shall consider each
proposed amendment in terms of the likely effect of such a proposal upon the
development plans for the community as well as in terms of the merits of the
individual proposal. The Village Council may recommend any additions or
modifications to the original amendment petition.
      (3)   Public hearing. Before voting on any proposed amendment to this
chapter, the Planning Commission shall conduct a public hearing, with notice
being given as specified by the following section.
      (4)   Notice requirements for public hearing. Preparation, publication
and distribution of notices for the public hearing shall be the responsibility
of the Village Clerk.
         (a)   Content. Every notice of said hearing shall contain all
information required by §
153.134.
         (b)   Distribution.
            1.   Published. Notice shall be given by one publication in a
newspaper of general circulation in the community, printed not less than 15
days before the date of such hearing.
            2.   Certified mail. Not less than 20 days’ notice shall also be
given by certified mail or certified mailing list to each public utility
company servicing the community, at the mailing address identified by each
company for the purpose of receiving such notice, if they request notification.
            3.   Other mailed notice. In any instance involving the rezoning of
one or more parcels, or when the owner or other party having an interest in any
parcel has requested a text change, notice of the proposed amendment shall be
mailed to the owner of the property in question and to all persons residing,
doing business or owning property within 300 feet of the premises in question.
            4.   Affidavit of mailing. An affidavit of mailing, identifying all
parties to whom notice has been sent, shall be prepared and filed with other
material relating to the proposed amendment prior to the Planning Commission/
Village Council meeting at which the hearing is to be conducted.
            5.   County Planning Committee/Village Council. Following the
conclusion of the public hearing and review by the Planning Commission, the
proposed amendment and any applicable zoning district map may be submitted to
the County Planning Commission for their review. The approval of the County
Planning Commission shall be presumed, conclusively, unless such Commission
notifies the Village Council of its approval or disapproval within 30 days of
its receipt of the amendment.
            6.   Amendment to conform with court decree. An amendment for the
purpose of conforming a provision of the zoning ordinance to the decree of a
court of competent jurisdiction as to any specific lands may be adopted by the
Village Council and the notice of the adopted amendment published without
referring the amendment to any other board or agency provided for in this
chapter.
            7.   Village Council change. The Village Council may deny or adopt
the amendment with or without changes, by a majority vote of its membership,
following the Council’s standard procedures for adoption of ordinances.
            8.   Resubmittal. No application for a rezoning which has been
denied by the Village Council shall be resubmitted for a period of one year
from the date of the last denial, except on grounds of newly discovered
evidence or proof of changed conditions which, upon inspection by the Village
Council, are found to be valid.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.155 NOTICE REQUIREMENTS FOR PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   (A)   Content. Each notice for any public hearing required by this chapter
shall include the following information:
      (1)   Identification of the applicant, if any;
      (2)   Identification of the property which is the subject of the request;
      (3)   Nature of the matter to be considered;
      (4)   Identification of the public body which will be conducting the
public hearing and will decide upon the matter;
      (5)   Date, time and place of the public hearing;
      (6)   The places and times at which any proposed text and/or map
amendment to the Zoning Ordinance may be examined; and
      (7)   Statement of where and when written comments will be received
concerning the request.
   (B)   Notification of residents, businesses or property owners within 300
feet. Whenever provisions of this chapter require mailing of public hearing
notices to persons who reside, do business or own property within 300 feet of a
certain parcel, the mailing list shall be compiled from the following sources:
      (1)   The owner(s) of property for which approval is being considered;
      (2)   All persons to whom real property is assessed where any part of
their parcel lies within 300 feet of the boundary of the property in question;
and
      (3)   Occupants of all structures where any part of the structure lies
within 300 feet. Each dwelling unit or rental area within said structures shall
receive one notice. However, separate notices need not be sent for accessory
structures where the primary structure also lies within the 300 foot distance.
If the name of the occupant is not known, the term “occupant” may be used in
making notification. In the case of a single structure containing more than
four dwelling units or other distinct areas, the notice may be mailed to the
manager or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post the notice at
the primary entrance of the structure.
(Ord. passed 10-23-2023)
§ 153.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99 of this code of ordinances.
   (B)   Any person, owner, resident, occupant, firm or corporation who
violates any provisions of §
153.047(W) shall be deemed guilty of a civil infraction, and upon conviction
thereof be subject to a fine of not less than $100 and not more than $500 and/
or up to 93 days in jail. The continued violated of any provision of §
153.047(W) shall be deemed to constitute a separate offense each and every day
such violation shall continue.
(Ord. 43, passed 10-25-2010; Ord. passed 7-27-2015)
APPENDIX A: COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL SITE PLAN REVIEW FLOW CHART
APPENDIX B: RESIDENTIAL SITE PLAN REVIEW FLOW CHART
APPENDIX C: ZONING MAP
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cite Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cite             Code Section
35.441 et seq.            111.04
41.181                    151.16
117.3(k)                  10.01
125.1501 et seq.          153.047
125.1501 through 125.1531 151.01 
                          151.04
125.581 through 125.590   153.150
257.1 to 257.923          71.01
324.11501 et seq.         71.01
324.82119                 71.01
333.1101 et seq.          153.006
333.7106                  131.15
333.26424                 131.16
338.41 et seq.            111.23
436.1101 et seq.          110.02;
                          132.03
559.101 through 559.272   152.01;
                          153.006
560.101 et seq.           152.05
560.101 through 560.293   152.01;
                          153.006
722.111 through 722.128   153.006
                          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
                     110.01 
9        - -         110.05;
                     110.99
14       - -         71.01
10       4-22-1968   113.01
18       5-22-1972   130.15;
                     130.16
                     150.15;
-        11-28-1972  150.16;
                     150.99
-        3-26-1973   130.16;
                     130.99
20       3-26-1973   132.02;
                     132.99
-        6-23-1973   130.16
21       6-23-1973   132.03;
                     132.99
-        7-28-1975   130.16
-        11-22-1976  151.30;
                     151.31
-        2-9-1977    151.32;
                     151.99
81-2     9-28-1981   30.15
                     130.01 
-        8-24-1987   130.04;
                     130.99
39       3-16-1992   31.15 
                     31.30
29       9-27-1993   112.01 
                     112.17
                     90.20 
30       1-3-1994    90.29;
                     90.99
                     151.15 
24       7-28-1997   151.17;
                     151.99
32       5-22-2000   150.30 
                     150.35
35       4-22-2002   151.01
36       4-22-2002   151.02
37       4-22-2002   151.03
38       4-22-2002   151.04
-        4-25-2005   153.045
-        5-8-2005    153.045
-        8-22-2005   153.047
33       8-22-2005   30.01
40       11-28-2005  31.31
15       12-18-2006  132.01;
                     132.99
                     93.01 
41       9-22-2008   93.03;
                     93.99
-        2-23-2009   153.025 
                     153.027
                     93.15 
44       9-28-2009   93.17;
                     93.99
45       9-28-2009   30.02
-        10-25-2010  153.072
43       10-25-2010  153.047;
                     153.999
                     92.01 
46       6-27-2011   92.04;
                     92.99
                     131.01 
11       9-24-2012   131.03;
                     131.99
49       11-26-2012  132.99
49       11-26-2012  150.99
                     153.045;
-        7-27-2015   153.047;
                     153.999
-        10-26-2015  132.99
                     153.049;
-        9-26-2016   153.115;
                     153.130;
                     153.131
                     111.01 
                     111.07;
47       2-27-2017   111.20 
                     111.27;
                     111.99
-        6-26-2017   153.006
48       2-26-2019   131.15;
                     131.16
-        8-26-2019   132.99
                     70.01 
50       4-26-2021   70.05;
                     70.99
51       8-31-2021   31.01
-        1-24-2022   90.99
-        12-12-2022  131.99
-        12-12-2022  150.99
100      9-25-2023   10.99
                     91.01 
101      9-25-2023   91.06;
                     91.99
                     90.01 
102      9-25-2023   90.05;
                     90.99
                     91.20 
103      9-25-2023   91.31;
                     91.99
-        10-23-2023  152.01 
                     152.09
                     153.001 
                     153.006;
                     153.020 
                     153.032;
                     153.045 
                     153.051;
                     153.065 
-        10-23-2023  153.072;
                     153.085 
                     153.100;
                     153.115 
                     153.118;
                     153.130 
                     153.137;
                     153.150 
                     153.155
                     93.30 
104      6-24-2024   93.34;
                     93.99
                    
 
 
