VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-14 Supplement contains local legislation current through
Ord. 13.07, passed 8-26-24
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
VILLAGE OFFICIALS
OF
LAKE ORION, MICHIGAN
VILLAGE COUNCIL
Teresa Rutt, President
Stan Ford, President Pro Tem
Carol Cyrowski
Michael Lamb
Nancy Moshier
Alex Comparoni, Jr.
George Dandalides
                        
ADMINISTRATIVE STAFF
VILLAGE MANAGER         Darwin McClary
VILLAGE CLERK/TREASURER Sonja Stout
CHIEF OF POLICE         Mark Amundson
FIRE CHIEF              Ryan Allen
PUBLIC WORKS DIRECTOR   Wesley Sanchez
DDA EXECUTIVE DIRECTOR  Matt Gibb
DDA ASSISTANT DIRECTOR  Janet Bloom
 
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. A-1
ENACTING AS AN ORDINANCE, A CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
REVISING, AMENDING, RESTATING, CODIFYING, AND COMPILING CERTAIN EXISTING
GENERAL ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE DEALING WITH THE SUBJECTS EMBRACED IN SAID
CODE.
WHEREAS, the present general ordinances of the Village of Lake Orion are
incomplete and inadequate and the manner of arrangement, classification and
indexing thereof is insufficient to meet the immediate needs of the Village;
and
WHEREAS, the Acts of the State Legislature of the State of Michigan empower and
authorize the Village Legislative Body of this Village to revise, amend,
restate, codify and to compile any existing ordinance or ordinances and all new
ordinances not heretofore adopted or published and to incorporate said
ordinances into one ordinance in book form; and
WHEREAS, the Legislative Body of the Village of Lake Orion has authorized a
general compilation, revision and codification of the ordinances of the Village
of a general and permanent nature and publication of such ordinances in book
form.
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Legislative Body of the Village of Lake
Orion that:
SECTION 1: The general ordinances of the Village of Lake Orion as herein
revised, amended, restated, codified, and compiled in book form are adopted as
and shall constitute the “Code of Ordinances of the Village of Lake Orion.”
SECTION 2: Said Code as adopted in Section 1 shall consist of the following
titles, to-wit:
         Title I         General Provisions
         Title III         Administration
         Title V         Public Works
         Title VII      Traffic Code
         Title IX      General Regulations
         Title XI      Business Regulations
         Title XIII      General Offenses
         Title XV      Land Usage
         Tables of Special Ordinances
         Parallel References
         Index
SECTION 3: All prior ordinances pertaining to the subjects treated in said Code
shall be deemed repealed from and after the effective date of said Code except
as they are included and reordained in whole or in part in said Code; provided
such repeal shall not affect any offense committed or penalty incurred or any
right established prior to the effective date of said Code, nor shall such
repeal affect the provisions of ordinances levying taxes, appropriating money,
annexing or detaching territory, establishing franchises or granting special
rights to certain persons, authorizing public improvements,
authorizing the issuance of bonds or borrowing of money, authorizing the
purchase or sale of real or personal property, granting or accepting easements,
plat or dedication of land to public use, naming or vacating or setting the
boundaries of streets, alleys or other public places, nor to any other
ordinance of a temporary or special nature or pertaining to subjects not
contained therein.
SECTION 4: A synopsis of this Ordinance shall be published in accordance with
the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion and this Ordinance shall become
effective immediately upon the publication of said synopsis.
Made and passed this 25th day of March, 1996.
                                    VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
                                    By: Harry K. Stephens /s/
                                    President
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Village Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. A-2
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING THE 1996 S-1 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION WHICH WAS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO ORDINANCE
NO. A-1.
THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION ORDAINS:
WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1996 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Lake
Orion, which Supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the Adoption of the Original Code of Ordinances of this municipality,
pursuant to Ordinance A-1, which was made and passed on the 25th day of March,
1996; and
WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Michigan Code; and
WHEREAS, said Supplement, 1996 S-1, includes the following Ordinances: A-1,
2.23, 7.08, 14.16, 18.14, 18.15, 18.16, 18.17, 18.18 and 36.03 and includes a
cover sheet identified as 1996 S-1, Current through Ordinance 18.18, passed 6-
24-96 and sheets identified as 1996 S-1 and 1996 S-1 Repl.
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Michigan;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of Lake
Orion, State of Michigan:
SECTION 1.      That the 1996 S-1 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Lake Orion, State of Michigan as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same
is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2.      A synopsis of this Ordinance shall be published in accordance
with the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion and this Ordinance shall become
effective immediately upon the publication of said synopsis.
Made and passed by the Village Council of the Village of Lake Orion this 12th
day of November, 1996.
                                    VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
                                    By: Harry K. Stephens /s/
                                    President
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Village Clerk
   CERTIFICATION
I, Arlene M. Nichols, Clerk of the Village of Lake Orion, Michigan do hereby
certify that the foregoing Ordinance A-2 was adopted at a Regular Meeting of
the Village Council for the Village of Lake Orion held on the 12th day of
November 1996, and that a synopsis thereof was published in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion in The Lake Orion
Review, a newspaper circulated in the Village of Lake Orion, on the 20th day of
November, 1996, said publication having been made within 15 days after the
adoption of this Ordinance.
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Village Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. A-5
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING THE 1997 S-2 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION WHICH WAS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO ORDINANCE
NO. A-1.
THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION ORDAINS:
WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 1997 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Lake
Orion, which Supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the Adoption of the Original Code of Ordinances of this municipality,
pursuant to Ordinance A-1, which was made and passed on the 25th day of March,
1996; and
WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Michigan Code; and
WHEREAS, said Supplement, 1997 S-2, includes the following Ordinances: A-2, A-
3, A-4, 7.09, 12.01, 12.02, 14.18, 18.19, 25.03, 25.04 and includes a cover
sheet identified as 1997 S-2, Current through Ordinance 7.09, passed 6-23-97
and sheets identified as 1997 S-2.
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Michigan;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of Lake
Orion, State of Michigan:
SECTION 1.      That the 1997 S-2 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Lake Orion, State of Michigan as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same
is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2.      A synopsis of this Ordinance shall be published in accordance
with the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion and this Ordinance shall become
effective immediately upon the publication of said synopsis.
Made and passed by the Village Council of the Village of Lake Orion this 14th
day of October, 1997.
                                    VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
                                    By: Harry K. Stephen /s/
                                    President
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Clerk
   CERTIFICATION
I, Arlene M. Nichols, Clerk of the Village of Lake Orion, Michigan do hereby
certify that the foregoing Ordinance A-5 was adopted at a Regular Meeting of
the Village Council for the Village of Lake Orion held on the 14th day of
October 1997, and that a synopsis thereof was published in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion in The Lake Orion
Review, a newspaper circulated in the Village of Lake Orion, on the 22nd day of
October, 1997, said publication having been made within 15 days after the
adoption of this Ordinance.
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. A-6
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING THE 2000 S-3 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION WHICH WAS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO ORDINANCE
NO. A-1.
THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION ORDAINS:
WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2000 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of Lake
Orion, which Supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature enacted
since the Adoption of the Original Code of Ordinances of this municipality,
pursuant to Ordinance A-1, which was made and passed on the 25th day of March,
1996; and
WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Michigan Code; and
WHEREAS, said Supplement, 2000 S-3, includes the following Ordinances: A-5,
2.24, 2.25, 2.26, 2.27, 2.28, 6.10, 16.12, 16.13, 16.14, 16.15, 18.20, 18.21,
18.22, 19.01, 19.02, 23.30, 38.02, corrections to Chapter 53, Sections 53.05,
53.08 and corrections to Chapter 155.
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Michigan;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of Lake
Orion, State of Michigan:
SECTION 1.   That the 2000 S-3 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Lake Orion, State of Michigan as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same
is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2.   A synopsis of this Ordinance shall be published in accordance with
the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion and this Ordinance shall become
effective immediately upon the publication of said synopsis.
Made and passed by the Village Council of the Village of Lake Orion this 11th
day of December, 2000.
                                    VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
                                    By: Charles L. Viers /s/
                                    President
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Clerk
   CERTIFICATION
I, Arlene M. Nichols, Clerk of the Village of Lake Orion, Michigan do hereby
certify that the foregoing Ordinance A-6 was adopted at a Regular Meeting of
the Village Council for the Village of Lake Orion held on the 11th day of
December 2000, and that a synopsis thereof was published in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion in The Lake Orion
Review, a newspaper circulated in the Village of Lake Orion, on the 20th day of
December, 2000, said publication having been made within fifteen (15) days
after the adoption of this Ordinance.
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Clerk
ORDINANCE NO. A-7
AN ORDINANCE ENACTING AND ADOPTING THE 2007 S-4 SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF
ORDINANCES OF THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION WHICH WAS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO ORDINANCE
NO. A-1.
THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION ORDAINS:
WHEREAS, the American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio has
completed the 2007 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the Village of
Lake Orion, which Supplement contains all ordinances of a general nature
enacted since the Adoption of the Original Code of Ordinances of this
municipality, pursuant to Ordinance No. A-1, which was made and passed on the
25th day of March, 1996; and
WHEREAS, said American Legal Publishing Corporation has recommended the
revision or addition of certain sections of the Code of Ordinances which are
based on or make references to sections of the Michigan Code; and
WHEREAS, said Supplement, 2007 S-4, includes the following Ordinances: A-6,
2.29, 2.30, 2.31, 6.11, 6.12, 6.13, 7.10, 7.11, 8.04, 12.03, 12.04, 14.19,
16.16, 16.17, 18.23, 18.24, 18.25, 23.31, 23.32, 31.21, 31.22, 31.23, 31.24,
31.25, 33.02, 33.03, 36.04, corrections to Chapter 51, Section 51.04 and 51.05
corrections to Chapter 53, Section 53.04 of the Code of Ordinances, Resolutions
regarding Sections 3.2, 5.3 and 5.4 of the Village Charter.
WHEREAS, it is the intent of the Village Council to accept these updated
sections in accordance with the changes of the law of the State of Michigan;
NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT ORDAINED by the Village Council of the Village of Lake
Orion, State of Michigan:
SECTION 1.      That the 2007 S-4 Supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
Village of Lake Orion, State of Michigan as submitted by American Legal
Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, and as attached hereto, be and the same
is hereby adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
SECTION 2.      A synopsis of this Ordinance shall be published in accordance
with the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion and this Ordinance shall become
effective immediately upon the publication of said synopsis.
Made and passed by the Village Council of the Village of Lake Orion this 10th
day of December, 2007.
                                    VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
                                    By: Robert Reetz /s/
                                    Robert Reetz, President
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Arlene M. Nichols, Clerk
   CERTIFICATION
I, Arlene M. Nichols, Clerk of the Village of Lake Orion, Michigan do hereby
certify that the foregoing Ordinance A-7 was adopted at a Regular Meeting of
the Village Council for the Village of Lake Orion held on the 10th day of
December 2007, and that a synopsis thereof was published in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion in The Lake Orion
Review, a newspaper circulated in the Village of Lake Orion, on the 19th day of
December, 2007, said publication having been made within fifteen (15) days
after the adoption of this Ordinance.
                                    Arlene M. Nichols /s/
                                    Arlene M. Nichols, Clerk
 
THE CHARTER
OF THE VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
   TABLE OF CONTENTS
Section
Preamble
Chapter 1: Boundaries and Subdivisions of the Village
   
1.1   Boundaries
Chapter 2: General Municipal Powers
   
2.1      Powers of the village
   
2.2      Exercise of powers
   
2.3      Division of powers of government
Chapter 3: Governmental Organization
   
3.1   Village legislative body
   
3.2   Terms of office
   
3.3   Judge of qualifications of members
   
3.4   Remuneration of members of the Council
   
3.5   Selection of President and President pro tem
   
3.6   Duties of President
   
3.7   Village Manager
   
3.8   Functions of the Village Manager
   
3.9   Other administrative officers
   
3.10   Appointment of administrative officers and employees of the village
   
3.11   Appointment of other officers, heads of departments, and employees
   
3.12   Duties of administrative officers
   
3.13   Village officers and employee benefits
Chapter 4: Elections and Appointments
   
4.1   Eligibility for office in village
   
4.2   Nepotism
   
4.3   Vacancies in offices
   
4.4   Resignations
   
4.5   Filling vacancies
   
4.6   Term of office cannot be shortened or extended
   
4.7   Increase or decrease of compensation
   
4.8   Oath and bond of office
   
4.9   Surety bonds
Chapter 5: Village Elections
   
5.1   Election procedure
   
5.2   Qualifications of electors
   
5.3   Primary election
   
5.4   Regular village election
   
5.5   Special elections
   
5.6   Election precincts
   
5.7   Election Commission
   
5.8   Notice of election
   
5.9   Voting hours
   
5.10   Nomination petitions
   
5.11   Approval of petitions
   
5.12   Public inspection of petitions
   
5.13   Form of ballots
   
5.14   Canvass of votes
   
5.15   Recount
   
5.16   Recall
   
5.17   Tie vote
Chapter 6: Functions of the Council
   
6.1   Public health and safety
   
6.2   Police Department
   
6.3   Fire Department
   
6.4   Health
   
6.5   Meetings of the Council
   
6.6   Intergovernmental contracts
   
6.7   Licenses
   
6.8   Streets and alleys
   
6.9   Public highways, grounds; procedure to vacate
   
6.10   Rights as to property
   
6.11   Investigations
   
6.12   Restriction on the Council
   
6.13   Prohibited interest in village business
Chapter 7: Village Legislation
   
7.1   Ordinance enactment
   
7.2   Penalties
   
7.3   Ordinance; effective date
   
7.4   Technical codes
   
7.5   Compilation
   
7.6   Initiative and referendum
   
7.7   Petitions
   
7.8   Council procedure
   
7.9   Submission to electors
   
7.10   Ordinance suspended
Chapter 8: General Finance
   
8.1   Fiscal year
   
8.2   Budget procedure
   
8.3   Budget document
   
8.4   Budget hearing
   
8.5   Adoption of budget, tax limit
   
8.6   Transfer of appropriations
   
8.7   Budget control
   
8.8   Depository
   
8.9   Independent audit
Chapter 9: Taxation
   
9.1   Power to tax and secure revenue
   
9.2   Subjects of taxation
   
9.3   Assessments
   
9.4   Time for making assessments rolls
   
9.5   [Repealed]
   
9.6   [Repealed]
   
9.7   [Repealed]
   
9.8   [Repealed]
   
9.9   Clerk to certify tax levy
   
9.10   Village tax roll
   
9.11   Tax roll certified for collection
   
9.12   Taxes lien on property
   
9.13   Taxes due; notification
   
9.14   Collection of village taxes
   
9.15   Delinquent tax roll to County Treasurer
   
9.16   Protection of village lien
Chapter 10: Municipal Borrowing Power
   
10.1   General power to borrow
   
10.2   Unissued bonds
Chapter 11: Public Improvements, Contracts, Utilities
   
11.1   Village may perform public work
   
11.2   Purchasing and contractual procedure
   
11.3   Nuisances and hazards
   
11.4   Cost of acquired property added
   
11.5   Sidewalks, curbs, and gutters
   
11.6   Condemnation
Chapter 12: Assessments
   
12.1   General power relative to special assessments
   
12.2   Procedure in providing for special assessments
   
12.3   Disposition of excessive special assessments
   
12.4   Additional assessments; correction of invalid special assessments
   
12.5   Lien and collection of special assessments
   
12.6   Special assessment accounts
   
12.7   Contested assessments
   
12.8   Additional procedure may be provided by ordinance
   
12.9   Failure to mail notice
Chapter 13: Public Utility Franchises
   
13.1   Right of regulation
   
13.2   Use of streets by utility
   
13.3   Franchises
   
13.4   Licenses and franchises remain in effect
   
13.5   Control and revocation
   
13.6   Provisions stated not to be exclusive
   
13.7   Regulation of rates
   
13.8   Revocable permits
Chapter 14: Municipal Owned Utilities
   
14.1   General powers respecting utilities
   
14.2   Management of municipality owned utilities
   
14.3   Rates
   
14.4   Utility rates and charges — collection
   
14.5   Disposal of utility plants and property
   
14.6   Utility accounts
Chapter 15: Miscellaneous
   
15.1   Notice to village of claim for injuries
   
15.2   Limitation on dedication of streets
   
15.3   Publication
   
15.4   No estoppel by representative
   
15.5   Village records
   
15.6   Prior village ordinances and regulations
   
15.7   Tense
   
15.8   Headings
   
15.9   Effect of illegality of any part of Charter
   
15.10   Amendments
Schedule
   
1.   Election of Charter
   
2.   Form of ballot
   
3.   Village President and Trustees
   
4.   Village obligations
   
5.   First officers of the village under Charter
   
6.   Interim
   
7.   Number of trustees during interim
   
8.   Effective date
   
9.   Status of schedule chapter
   Resolution of Adoption
   Resolution of the Charter Commission
   Election Notice
VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
COUNTY OF OAKLAND
STATE OF MICHIGAN
PREAMBLE
   To the end that the people of the Village of Lake Orion may enjoy to the
fullest extent the advantages and benefits of local self-government as
authorized by the constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, they hereby
establish this Charter.
CHAPTER 1: BOUNDARIES AND SUBDIVISIONS OF THE VILLAGE
Section 1.1 BOUNDARIES.
   The following described territory, together with all territories that may
hereafter be annexed thereto, shall continue and remain a body corporate under
the official name and title of “Village of Lake Orion,” and shall be subject to
the municipal control of said village:
   Beginning at the Northeast corner of the West one-half of the Southwest one-
quarter of Section one, Town four North, Range ten East, Orion Twp., Oakland
Co., Mich. and running thence Westerly along Center line (one-quarter line) of
Sections one, two and three to the Northwest corner of the East one-half of the
Southeast one-fourth of Section three; thence Southerly along the Easterly
north and south 1/8 line of Sec. 3 to the Southwest corner of the Northeast
one-fourth of the Northeast one-fourth of Section 10; thence Easterly along the
South line of the N.E. 1/4 of the N.E. 1/4 to the Section line between Sections
10 and 11; thence Southerly along said Section line to the S.W. corner of the
N. W. 1/4 of Sec. 11; thence Easterly along the Center line (1/4 lines of
Sections 11 and 12) to the Southeast corner of the West one-half of the
Northwest one-fourth of Sec. 12; thence Northerly along the westerly north and
south 1/8 line to the Southerly right-of-way line of Atwater Street in Wm.
Winter's Subdivision thence Easterly along said R.O.W. line to its intersection
with the Southwesterly right-of-way line of Orion-Rochester Road (so-called);
thence Northwesterly along said right-of-way line to its intersection with the
Westerly north and south 1/8 line of Section one; thence Northerly along said
1/8 line to the point of beginning.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 2: GENERAL MUNICIPAL POWERS
Section 2.1 POWERS OF THE VILLAGE.
   All powers, privileges, and immunities not inconsistent with the provisions
of this Charter, possessed by the Village of Lake Orion by virtue of its
incorporation as such and enumerated in Act. No. 3, P. A. 1895, the former
Charter of the village which is hereby superseded, are hereby expressly
retained by the village and shall constitute a part of the police power of the
village even though not expressly enumerated herein. Further, unless otherwise
provided or limited in this Charter, the Village of Lake Orion and its officers
shall be vested with any and all powers, privileges and immunities, expressed
and implied, which villages and their officers are, or hereafter may be,
permitted to exercise or to provide for in their Charters under the
constitution and laws of the State of Michigan, and of the United States of
America, including all the powers, privileges, and immunities which villages
are permitted to or may provide in their Charters by the Michigan Home Rule Act
for Villages, being Act. No. 278 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended, as
fully and completely as though those powers, privileges, and immunities were
specifically enumerated in and provided for in this Charter, and in no case
shall any enumeration of particular powers, privileges, or immunities in this
Charter be held to be exclusive, it being the intent of the Charter Commission
in framing this Charter, and of the people of the village in adopting it, to
include all such powers, privileges, and immunities within the scope of the
powers, privileges, and immunities granted to the Village of Lake Orion by the
provisions of this Charter.
   The village and its officers shall have the power to exercise all municipal
powers in the management and control of municipal property and in the
administration of the municipal government whether such powers be expressly
enumerated or not; to do any act to advance the interests of the village, the
good government and prosperity of the municipality and its inhabitants, and
through its regular constituted authority, to pass and enforce all laws,
ordinances and resolutions relating to its municipal concerns, subject to the
constitution and general laws of the state and the provisions of this Charter.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 2.2 EXERCISE OF POWERS.
   Where no procedure is set forth in this Charter for the exercise of any
power granted to or possessed by the village and its officers, resort may be
had to any procedure set forth in any statute of the State of Michigan which
was passed for the government of villages or townships, or in any other statute
of the State of Michigan. If alternate procedures are to [be] found in
different statutes, then the Council shall select that procedure which it deems
to be most expeditious and to the best advantage of the village and its
inhabitants. Where no procedure for the exercise of any power of the village is
set forth either in this Charter or in any statute of the State of Michigan,
the Council may prescribe by ordinance a reasonable procedure for the exercise
thereof.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 2.3 DIVISION OF POWERS OF GOVERNMENT.
   All of the powers of municipal government possessed by the village are
hereby divided into two (2) general divisions, i. e., legislative or policy
forming and administrative. No person or body belonging to or being part of one
(1) such division shall exercise powers imposed by this Charter upon or
properly belonging to another. It shall be the duty of every officer of the
village to preserve the two (2) divisions of the village government distinct
and separate.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 3: GOVERNMENTAL ORGANIZATION
Section 3.1 VILLAGE LEGISLATIVE BODY.
   All legislative or policy forming powers of the village shall be vested in,
exercised, and determined by a Council of seven (7) members who shall be
designated and known as Councilmen. In all cases where the word “Council” is
used in this Charter, the same shall mean and shall he synonymous with the
terms “Commission,” “common council,” “board of aldermen,” “governing body,” or
“legislative body,” or any other synonymous term, as the same may be used in
any state or federal law in referring to legislative or governing bodies of
villages.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.2 TERMS OF OFFICE.
   At each regular village election there shall be elected by and from the
village at large four (4) Councilmen, the three (3) receiving the highest
number of votes shall hold office for two (2) years and the one (1) who shall
receive the fourth highest number of votes shall hold office for one (1) year.
The term of office of each Councilman shall commence on and date from the
Monday next following the date of the regular village election at which they
are elected.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Editor’s Note:
   The 2004 amendments to the Michigan Election Law take precedence over
Section 3.2 of the village Charter. Per those amendments, a Village Council
Resolution was adopted on November 22, 2004, to provide that the terms of
Village Council members be changed from one and two year staggered terms to two
and four year staggered terms, continuing the Charter provision for the
election of four Council members at each election, with the three candidates
receiving the highest number of votes elected for four year terms and the
candidate receiving the fourth highest number of votes elected for a two-year
term. Any Council member terms that expire prior to the next regular village
election shall be extended to the Monday following that election when the new
terms shall begin.
Section 3.3 JUDGE OF QUALIFICATIONS OF MEMBERS.
   The Council shall be the judge of the eligibility and qualification of its
own members, subject only to review by the courts.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.4 REMUNERATION OF MEMBERS OF THE COUNCIL.
   The President and each Councilman shall receive as remuneration for his
service to the village the sum of ten (10) dollars per regular or special
meeting for the Council actually attended by him, but not to exceed in total
three hundred sixty (360) dollars per year, excepting the president shall
receive an additional one hundred (100) dollars annually. Such salaries shall
be payable annually, and shall constitute the only salary or remuneration which
may be paid for services performed by the President or any Councilman for the
discharge of any official duty for or on behalf of the village during their
term of office. Upon authorization of the Council, reasonable expense may be
allowed when actually incurred on behalf of the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.5 SELECTION OF PRESIDENT AND PRESIDENT PRO TEM.
   The Council shall at its first regular meeting following each regular
village election, elect one (1) of its members to serve as President and one
(1) to serve as President Pro Tem. The President Pro Tem, shall perform the
duties of the President when, on account of absence from the village,
disability, or otherwise, the President is temporarily unable to perform the
duties of his office, and in case of vacancy in the office of President, until
such vacancy is filled by the Council. The President Pro Tem shall preside over
the meetings of the Council at the call of the President. In the event of a
vacancy occurring in the office of President or President Pro Tem, the Council
shall appoint one of its elected members to fill such vacancy.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.6 DUTIES OF PRESIDENT.
   (a)   Insofar as required by law, and for all ceremonial purposes, the
President shall be recognized as the executive head of the village and shall
preside over Council meetings. He shall have an equal voice and vote in the
proceeding of the Council, but shall have no veto power.
   (b)   He shall be a conservator of the peace, and may exercise within the
village the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress disorder, and shall have
the power to command the assistance of all able-bodied citizens to aid in the
enforcement of the ordinances of the village, and to suppress riot and
disorderly conduct.
   (c)   He shall authenticate by his signature such instruments as the
Council, this Charter, or the laws of the State of Michigan or of the United
States shall require.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.7 VILLAGE MANAGER.
   All administrative powers, duties, and functions of the village shall be
vested in the Village Manager, except as otherwise provided in this Charter. He
shall be elected by the Council on the basis of training and ability in work
which would qualify him for the position of Village Manager, and shall hold
office at the pleasure of the Council. He need not be a resident of the village
at the time of his appointment but shall, unless excused by the Council, become
a resident of the village within ninety
(90) days after his appointment and so remain throughout his tenure of office.
The Village Manager may, with the approval of the Council, designate an
administrative officer or employee of the village to perform the duties of the
Village Manager during his temporary absence or incapacity. The Council shall
designate a qualified person to perform the duties of Village Manager during a
vacancy in the office. No person acting as Village Manager in a temporary
capacity, whether during the absence or disability of the Village Manager or
during a vacancy in that office, shall make any change in the administrative
officers of the village without the consent of the Council. No person who holds
or has held an elective village office shall be eligible for appointment as
Village Manager, nor shall any such person perform the duties of the Village
Manager during a vacancy in that office, until one (1) year has elapsed
following the expiration of the term for which he was elected.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.8 FUNCTIONS OF THE VILLAGE MANAGER.
   The Village Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the village
government. He shall carry out the policies formulated by the Council. He is
charged with the responsibility of supervision and management of all of the
services of the village and with responsibility for the enforcement of the
ordinances of the village, this Charter, and applicable laws of the State. He
shall make the reports to the Council required by this Charter, and such others
as may be required of him by ordnance or by resolution of the Council, and, in
addition thereto, any which he may deem advisable. He shall prepare the budget
of the village for consideration by the Council, as in the Charter provided,
and upon the adoption thereof by the Council, he shall administer the budget so
adopted and keep the Council at all times informed as to the financial affairs
of the village. He shall have the right to take part in the discussion of all
matters coming before the Council, but shall have no vote. In addition to the
duties prescribed by this Charter, he shall perform such other duties as may be
required of him by ordinance or by resolution of the Council.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.9 OTHER ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   In addition to the Village Manager, and subordinate to him in the
performance of the duties of their several offices, except the Clerk and
Village Attorney insofar as their duties as clerk of and attorney for the
Council are concerned, the administrative officers of the village shall be the
Clerk, the Treasurer, the Assessor, the Village Attorney, the Police Chief, the
Fire Chief, the Health Officer, and other officers included in the
administrative plan approved by the Council. The Council may, by resolution,
combine any administrative offices in any manner which is not inconsistent with
the provisions of State Law. No combination of administrative offices one with
another shall abolish the office of Village Manager or diminish any of the
duties or responsibilities of that office as set forth in this Charter.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.10 APPOINTMENT OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEES OF THE
VILLAGE.
   All administrative officers of the village, except the Village Manager, the
Clerk, and the Village Attorney, shall be appointed by the Council upon the
recommendation of the Village Manager and shall serve at the pleasure of the
Village Council, who shall set their salaries in accordance with budget
appropriations and upon recommendations of the Village Manager.
   The Village Manager, Clerk, and Village Attorney shall hold office by virtue
of election by the Council, which body shall also set their salaries. They
shall hold office at the pleasure of the Council.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.11 APPOINTMENT OF OTHER OFFICERS, HEADS OF DEPARTMENTS, AND
EMPLOYEES.
   The Village Council shall appoint such other officers, as may be required by
ordinance or resolution of the Council. Every election or appointment of an
administrative office shall be for an indefinite term and shall be at the
pleasure of the Council.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.12 DUTIES OF ADMINISTRATIVE OFFICERS.
   All administrative officers of the village shall perform such duties as are
provided for such officers by state law, this Charter, the village ordinances,
and the administrative directives of the Village Manager. Unless the Council
shall otherwise provide by ordinances, specifying another officer of the
village, the Clerk shall be the chief accountant and auditor of the village and
he, or such other officer as shall be so designated by the Council, shall,
subject to the direction of the Village Manager, maintain a system of accounts
which conform to such uniform system as may be required by state law. In the
exercise of such duties, each village officer shall exercise and possess all of
the powers, privileges, and immunities granted to village and township officers
exercising the same duties for villages and townships generally under the
general laws of the state.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 3.13 VILLAGE OFFICERS AND EMPLOYEE BENEFITS.
   The Council may provide by ordinance for a merit system of personal
management for employees, and may provide for the pensioning of its appointive
officers and employees and for any recognized standard plan of group life,
hospital, health, or accident insurance.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 4: ELECTIONS AND APPOINTMENTS
Section 4.1 ELIGIBILITY FOR OFFICE IN VILLAGE.
   No person shall be elected or appointed to any office who is in default to
the village, or has been convicted of a felony. The election or appointment of
any such defaulter or person shall be void. No person shall be eligible to any
elective office of the village, other than that of Village Manager and Village
Attorney, unless he shall be of legal age, a registered elector in and the
owner of real property assessed for village taxes in his name, or shall be the
lawful husband or wife of such a person, and shall have been a resident of the
village for at least two (2) years immediately prior to the date of his
election to any such office.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.2 NEPOTISM.
   Relatives by blood or marriage of any Councilman, or the Village Manager,
within the second degree of consanguinity or affinity, shall be disqualified
from holding any appointive office, or from being employed by the village
during the term of office of such Councilman or Village Manager, except and
unless said relatives are bona fide appointive officers or employees of the
village at the time of the election of such officer or appointment of such
Village Manager. If the status of relationship between any employee of the
village and any officer of the village changes to a relationship prohibited
hereby after one (1) year following the employment of such person or election
or appointment of such officer, the provisions of this section shall not apply.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.3 VACANCIES IN OFFICES.
   Every village office shall become vacant upon the happening of any of the
following events before the expiration of the term of such office;
   (a)   For any reason specified by state law as grounds for creating a
vacancy;
   (b)   If any officer of the village shall absent himself continuously from
the village for more than sixty (60) days without the permission of the
Council;
   (c)   In the case of the President and other members of the Council, where
such officer shall miss four (4) consecutive regular meetings of the Council,
or twenty-five (25) per cent of such meetings in any fiscal year of the
village, unless such absences shall in each case be excused by the Council and
the reason therefor entered in the proceedings of the Council;
   (d)   If the officer shall be convicted of any act constituting misconduct
in office under the provisions of this Charter.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.4 RESIGNATIONS.
   Resignations of all elected officers shall be made in writing and filed with
the Clerk and shall be presented to the Council at its next regular meeting
following receipt thereof by the Clerk. A resignation submitted by an official
shall be deemed to be considered as an unconditional resignation and shall
become effective upon acceptance by the Council. No such resignation shall be
accepted by the Council at the same meeting at which it is received, unless by
the unanimous vote of all members of the Council. Resignations of appointed
officers shall be made in writing to the Village Manager, and shall be acted
upon by him.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.5 FILLING VACANCIES.
   If a vacancy occurs in any elective office, except that of Village Manager,
the Council shall, within thirty (30) days after such vacancy occurs, elect a
person who possesses the qualifications required of holders of the office in
which the vacancy exists to fill such vacancy. If the vacancy shall be in the
office of Councilman, any person so elected shall hold office until the Monday
next following the next village election, at which election the vacancy shall
be filled for the balance of the term of the person whose office is so filled.
In the event of a vacancy in the office of Village Manager, the Council shall
fill such vacancy within ninety (90) days after such vacancy occurs.
   If a vacancy occurs in any appointive office, the Village Manager shall,
within thirty (30) days thereafter, appoint a qualified person to fill such
vacancy in the manner required for making the original appointment.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.6 TERM OF OFFICE CANNOT BE SHORTENED OR EXTENDED.
   Except by procedures provided in this Charter, the terms of the officials of
the village elected for a definite term shall not be shortened. The terms of
officers of the village may not be extended beyond the period for which any
such officer was elected except that an elected officer of the village shall,
after his term has expired, continue to hold office until his successor is
elected and has qualified.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.7 INCREASE OR DECREASE OF COMPENSATION.
   The Council shall not grant or authorize extra compensation to any village
officer, elected or appointive, or to any employee, after the service has been
rendered. Nor shall the salary of any village officer, elected or appointive,
be increased or decreased after his election or appointment during any fixed
term of office for which he was elected or appointed. Nor shall the Council
grant or authorize extra compensation to any agent or contractor after service
has been rendered or the contract has been entered into without the approving
vote of all (each and every) member of the Council.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.8 OATH AND BOND OF OFFICE.
   Every officer, elected or appointed, before entering upon the duties of his
office, shall take the oath of office prescribed by Section 2 of Articles XVI
of the Constitution of the State and shall file the same with the Clerk,
together with any bond which he may be required by this Charter or by the
Council to give. The oath and bond of the Clerk shall be filed with and kept by
the Treasurer. In case of failure to comply with the provisions of this section
within ten (10) days from the date of the notice to him of the election or
appointment, such officer shall be deemed to have declined the office and such
office shall thereupon become vacant unless the Council shall, by resolution,
extend the time in which such officer may qualify as above set forth.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 4.9 SURETY BONDS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, all officers of the village
whose duties involve the custody of public property or the handling of public
funds, either by way of receipt or disbursement or both, and all other officers
and employees so required by the Council, shall, before they enter upon the
duties of their respective offices, file with the village an official bond in
such form and amount as the Council shall direct and approve. Such official
bond of every officer and employee shall be conditioned that he will faithfully
perform the duties of his office, and will on demand deliver over to his
successor in office, or other proper officer or an agent of the village, all
books, papers, monies, effects and property belonging thereto, or appertaining
to his office, which may be in his custody as an officer or employee; and such
bonds may be further conditioned as the Council prescribe. The official bond of
every office whose duty it may be to receive or pay out money, besides being
conditioned as above required, shall be further conditioned that he will, on
demand, pay over or account for to the village or any proper officer or agent
thereof, all monies received by him as such officer or employee. The
requirements of this paragraph may be met by the purchase of one or more
appropriate blanket surety bonds covering all, or a group of, village employees
and officers.
   All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums thereon
shall be paid by the village. All bonds of all officers or employees shall be
filed with the Clerk, except that any bond pertaining solely to the Clerk,
shall be filed with the Treasurer. No bond shall be issued for a term exceeding
two (2) years.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 5: VILLAGE ELECTIONS
Section 5.1 ELECTION PROCEDURE.
   The general election laws of the state shall apply to and control, as near
as may be, all procedures relating to registration for and the conduct of
village elections, except as such general laws relate to
political parties or partisan procedure, or require more than one (1)
publication of notice, and except as otherwise provided by this Charter.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.2 QUALIFICATIONS OF ELECTORS.
   Each person who has the constitutional qualifications at the next ensuing
regular or special village election, shall be entitled to register as an
elector of the Village of Lake Orion in the voting district in which he
resides.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.3 PRIMARY ELECTION.
   A non-partisan village primary election shall be held on the third Monday of
February of each year. If, upon the expiration of the time for filing
nomination petitions for the officers of the village with respect to which
elections are to be held at the next regular village election, it appears that
petitions have been filed for no more than twice the number of candidates for
each such office, then no primary election shall be held and the Clerk shall
publish notice of such fact. It is the intent of this section that if a primary
is required for any office, it shall be held for all offices which are to be
filled at the next regular village election. The candidates for nomination for
each village office to be filled at the next village election, in number equal
to twice the number of persons to be elected to such village office, receiving
the highest number of votes at any such village primary election shall be
declared the nominees for election to the respective offices for which they are
candidates for election and their names, and the names of persons filing
petitions, or in whose behalf petitions have been filed in cases where no
primary election was held, shall be certified to the election commission to be
placed upon the ballot for the next subsequent regular village election. No
person whose name is not printed on the primary election ballot, but whose name
is written on or appears on the ballot on a sticker pasted thereon at such
election, except such stickers as have been placed thereon by the election
commission as provided by law, shall be nominated for election to any office,
unless he receives at least twenty-five (25) votes nominating him for such
office.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Editor’s Note:
   The 2004 amendments to Michigan Election Law take precedence over Section
5.3 of the Village Charter and abolished the Village primary election as
confirmed in a Village Council Resolution adopted on November 8, 2004.
Section 5.4 REGULAR VILLAGE ELECTION.
   The village's regular election shall be held on the general election date in
November of even numbered years, commencing in 2013, such elections to be
conducted by the Village Clerk.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Am. Res. adopted 11-8-04; Am. Res. adopted 11-13-12; Am. Res.
adopted 11-10-14)
Section 5.5 SPECIAL ELECTIONS.
   Special village elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
Council at least forty (40) days in advance of such election, or when required
by this Charter or statute. Any resolution calling a special election shall set
forth the purpose of such election. The Council shall not call more special
elections within any year than the number permitted by statute.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.6 ELECTION PRECINCTS.
   The Council shall, by ordinance, establish convenient election precincts
which shall comply with the provisions of state law.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.7 ELECTION COMMISSION.
   An election commission is hereby created, consisting of the members of the
Council. The President shall be chairman. The commission shall have charge of
all activities and duties required of election commissions in villages by state
law and this Charter, relating to the conduct of elections in the village. The
compensation of election personnel shall be determined in advance by the
Council. In any case where election procedure is in doubt, the election
commission shall prescribe the procedure to be followed.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.8 NOTICE OF ELECTION.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any village election and of the
officers to be nominated or elected and the questions to be voted upon, shall
be given by the Clerk by publication at least once in some legal newspaper of
general circulation in the village, and if deemed advisable by the Council, by
posting in two (2) or more conspicuous places in the village not less than ten
(10) days prior to such election.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.9 VOTING HOURS.
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by law for the opening and closing of polls at state elections.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.10 NOMINATION PETITIONS.
   Persons desiring to qualify as candidates for nomination for any elective
office under this Charter shall file a petition therefor with the Clerk signed
by not less than twenty-five (25) nor more than fifty (50) registered electors
of the village not later than 4:00 P.M. on the seventh Wednesday prior to the
date of the regular village primary election. Official blank petitions in
substantially the same form as required by state law for state and county
officers, except for references to party, shall be prepared and furnished by
the Clerk. Before the Clerk shall furnish any nomination petitions to any
person, he shall enter thereon in ink the name of the person desiring to become
a candidate for office in the village, or the person in whose behalf the
petition is to be circulated, and the name of the office for which he is a
candidate. Nomination petitions for the purpose of filling a vacancy shall so
state in connection with the name of the office for which the petition is to be
circulated. The Clerk shall publish notice of the last day and time for filing
nomination petitions at least one (1) week before, and not more than three (3)
weeks before that date. No person shall sign his name to a greater number of
petitions for any one office than there will be persons elected to said office.
Where any name appears on more petitions than there are candidates to be
elected to said office, the signatures for that name, if they bear the same
date, shall not be counted upon any petition, and if they bear different dates
shall be counted in the order of their priority of date for only so many
candidates as there are persons to be elected.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 3-12-84)
Section 5.11 APPROVAL OF PETITIONS.
   The Clerk shall accept for filing only nomination petitions on official
blanks, furnished by him, containing the required number of signatures for
candidates having those qualifications required for elective village officers
by this Charter. When petitions are filed by persons other than the person
whose name appears thereon as a candidate, they may be accepted for filing only
when accompanied by the written consent of the person in whose behalf the
petition or petitions were circulated. The Clerk shall, within five (5) days
after the final day and hour for receiving nomination petitions, determine the
sufficiency of the signatures on each petition filed, and if he finds any
petition does not contain the required number of legal signatures of registered
electors, he shall immediately notify the candidate in writing, by registered
mail with return receipt requested, of the insufficiency of his petition. Each
petition which is found by the Clerk to contain the required number of
signatures of registered electors shall be marked “In Order,” with the date
thereof, and he shall so notify the candidate whose name appears thereon, in
writing.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.12 PUBLIC INSPECTION OF PETITIONS.
   All nomination petitions shall be open to public inspection in the office of
the Clerk beginning five (5) days after the final filing date for such
petitions.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.13 FORM OF BALLOTS.
   The form of the ballot used in any village election shall conform as nearly
as may be to that prescribed by the general laws of the state for non-partisan
elections. The names of candidates for nomination or of qualified nominees, as
the case may be, for each office shall be listed in a single column and shall
be rotated on the ballots. In all other respects the printing and numbering of
ballots shall conform to the general laws of the state relating to elections.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.14 CANVASS OF VOTES.
   (a)   The Council shall be the board of canvassers to canvass the votes cast
at all elections under this Charter. The Council shall meet on the first
Thursday after each village election and publicly canvass the returns of such
election, and shall determine the vote upon all questions and propositions, and
declare whether the same have been adopted or rejected and what persons have
been nominated or elected at such election. The person, or persons, where more
than one are to be nominated for or elected to the same office, who shall
receive the greatest number of votes shall be declared to be nominated or
elected, as the case may be.
   (b)   CERTIFICATION. The Village Clerk shall file in his office and preserve
the original statement and determination of the Village Board of Canvassers of
the results of the elections and shall forthwith execute and cause to be
delivered to the persons thereby declared to be elected to village offices, a
certification of election certified by him.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.15 RECOUNT.
   A recount of the votes cast at any village election for any office, or upon
any proposition, may be had in accordance with the general election laws of the
state.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.16 RECALL.
   Any elective official may be removed from office by the electors of the
village in the manner provided by the general laws of the state. A vacancy
created by the recall of any elective official shall be filled in the manner
prescribed by law.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 5.17 TIE VOTE.
   If, at any village election, there shall be no choice between candidates by
reason of two (2) or more persons having received an equal number of votes,
then the Council shall name a date for the appearance of such persons for the
purpose of determining the election of such candidate by lot as provided by
state law. Should any person or persons fail or refuse to appear, in person or
by representative, after notice to each of such candidates of a place and time
therefor, to determine the
result of any tie election at the time and place named by the Council, such
determination shall be made by lot in his or their absence and under the
supervision of the Council. Such determination shall, in any event, be final.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 6: FUNCTIONS OF THE COUNCIL
Section 6.1 PUBLIC HEALTH AND SAFETY.
   Through the established departments and agencies of the village government,
together with any such departments or agencies as may be created under
authority of this Charter, the Council shall provide for the public peace and
health and for the safety of persons and property.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.2 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The Council shall maintain, within the administrative division of the
village, a village police force which shall be under the direction of the
Village Manager, to enforce all law and ordinances which are in force in the
village and to preserve peace and good order in the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.3 FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Council shall be authorized to enact such ordinances and codes deemed
appropriate for the protection of persons and property in the village from the
damages and destructive force of fire. The Council shall be further authorized
to provide for the services of a fire department through services rendered by
the Charter Township of Orion, funded by a township-wide millage, or by
entering into a contract with another entity for such services, or by
establishing, organizing and maintaining a fire department of the village, or
by a combination of such means.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 12-9-85)
Section 6.4 HEALTH.
   The Council together with the Village Manager, who shall be its Secretary
and Executive Officer, will constitute the Board of Health of the village. The
Board of Health shall adopt rules and regulations for their own government and
it and its officers and agents shall possess all powers, privileges, and
immunities granted to boards of health by state law. The Board of Health shall
have supervision of all matters relating to the sanitary condition of the
village and preservation of the life and health of its inhabitants. The
President shall be the chairman of the Board of Health.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.5 MEETINGS OF THE COUNCIL.
   (a)   The regular meetings of the Council shall be held at 7:30 p. m. on the
second and fourth Monday of each month in the Village Hall. Change in time and
place shall be permitted upon proper legal notifications. If any time set for
the holding of a regular meeting of the Council shall be a holiday, then such
regular meeting shall be held on the next secular day which is not a holiday.
   (b)   Special meetings of the Council shall be called by the Clerk on the
written request of the President or of any two (2) members of the Council, on
at least twenty-four (24) hours written notice to each member of the Council,
designating the time, place and purpose of any meeting and served personally or
left at his usual place of residence by the Clerk or someone designated by him.
Notwithstanding the foregoing requirements for the calling of special meetings,
any special meeting of the Council at which all members of the Council are
present or have, in writing, waived the requirement that notice be given at
least twenty-four (24) hours prior to the time specified for the holding of
such meeting and at which a quorum of the Council is present, shall be a legal
meeting.
   (c)   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the Council
unless the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting. However, if all
the members of the Council are present at any special meeting of the Council,
then any business which might lawfully come before a regular meeting of the
Council may be transacted at such special meeting.
   (d)   All regular and special meetings of the Council shall be open to the
public and the rules of order of the Council shall provide that citizens shall
have a reasonable opportunity to be heard.
   (e)   Four (4) members of the Council shall be a quorum for the transaction
of business at all meetings of the Council, but, in the absence of a quorum,
the President or any three (3) members may adjourn any regular or special
meeting to a later date.
   (f)   Except that there shall be no standing committees of the Council, the
Council shall determine its own rules and order of business and shall keep a
journal of all of its proceedings in the English language which shall be signed
by the President and the Clerk. The vote upon the passage of all ordinances,
and upon the adoption of all resolutions shall be taken by “Yes” and “No” votes
and entered upon the record, except that where the vote is unanimous, it shall
only be necessary to so state. Each member of the Council who shall be recorded
as present shall vote on all questions decided by the Council unless excused by
the unanimous consent of the other members present. Any citizen or taxpayer of
the village shall have access to the minutes and records of all regular and
special meetings of the Council at all reasonable times.
   (g)   The Council may, by vote of not less than three (3) of its members,
compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the village at its
regular and special meetings and enforce orderly conduct therein; and any
member of the Council or other officer of the village who refuses to attend
such meetings or conduct himself in an orderly manner thereat shall be deemed
guilty of misconduct in office. The Chief of Police or a member of the Lake
Orion Police Force designated by him when it is necessary for the Chief of
Police to be absent, shall serve as Sergeant at Arms of the Council in the
enforcement of the provisions of this section.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.6 INTERGOVERNMENTAL CONTRACTS.
   The village may join with any governmental unit or agency, or with any
number or combination thereof, by contract or otherwise as may be permitted by
law to perform jointly, or by one or more, for or on behalf of the other or
others, any power or duty which is permitted to be so performed by law or which
is possessed or imposed upon each such governmental unit or agency.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.7 LICENSES.
   The Council shall by ordinance prescribe the terms and conditions upon which
licenses may be granted, suspended, or revoked; and may require and exact
payment of such reasonable sums for any licenses as it may deem proper. The
persons receiving the licenses shall, before the issuing thereof, execute a
bond to the village, when required by any ordinance, in sum and with such
securities as prescribed by such ordinance, conditioned for the faithful
observance of the Charter of the village, and the ordinance under which the
license is granted.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.8 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   Except, insofar as limited by state law and the provisions of this Charter,
the Council shall have power to establish and vacate and use, and to control
and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges, and public places
(whether such public places be located within or without the limits of the
village) and the space above and beneath them. Such power shall include, but
not be limited to, the proper policing and supervision thereof; to the
licensing and regulation, or the prohibition of the placing of signs, awnings,
awning posts, and other things which are of such nature as to impede or make
dangerous the use of sidewalks or streets, upon or over the sidewalks or
streets of the village; and the licensing and regulation of the construction
and use of openings in the sidewalks or streets, and of all vaults, structures,
and excavations under the same.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.9 PUBLIC HIGHWAYS, GROUNDS; PROCEDURE TO VACATE.
   When the council shall deem it advisable to vacate, discontinue, or abolish
any highway, street, lane, alley or public ground or any part thereof, they
shall by resolution so declare, and in the same resolution shall appoint a time
not less than four (4) weeks thereafter when they will meet and hear objections
thereto; notice of such meeting, with a copy of said resolution shall be given
in such manner as shall be prescribed by ordinance or resolution. Objections to
such proposed action of the council may be filed with the Clerk in writing, and
if any such shall be filed, the street, alley or public ground, or any part
thereof shall not be vacated or discontinued except by the affirmative vote of
five councilmen.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.10 RIGHTS AS TO PROPERTY.
   The Council shall have the power to acquire for the village by purchase,
gift, land contract purchase, condemnation, lease, construction or otherwise,
either within or without the Village of Lake Orion, property of every type and
nature which may be required for or incidental to the present or future
exercise of the purpose, powers, and duties of the village government
established by this Charter and may build thereon, and on any other property
owned or leased by the village, such buildings or structures as may be
necessary to carry out the purposes for which such land is owned or leased.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.11 INVESTIGATIONS.
   The Council, or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office, or
officer of the village and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and
for that purpose may subpoena witnesses, administer oaths, and compel the
production of books, papers and other evidence. Failure on the part of any
officer of the village to obey such subpoena or to produce books, papers, or
other evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section shall constitute
misconduct in office. If such failure shall be on the part of any employee of
the village, the same shall constitute a misdemeanor.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 6.12 RESTRICTION ON THE COUNCIL.
   (a)   Except for the purpose of inquiry, and in case of emergency during the
temporary absence or disability of the Village Manager, the Council and its
members shall deal with the administrative service solely through the Village
Manager and neither the Council nor any member thereof shall give orders to any
subordinate of the Village Manager, either publicly or privately; neither shall
any member of the Council direct or request: (1) except for the election of
those administrative officers required to be elected by the Council, the
appointment of any person to, or the removal of, any person from any employment
or office for which the Village Manager is responsible; nor (2) except at
public meetings and in cases of letting of contracts, the purchase of any
specific materials, supplies or equipment. It is not the intention of this
provision to prevent frank discussion of the business of the village between
the Village Manager and the Council or any member of the Council at any time,
but to prevent the personal favoritism or prejudice of any member of the
Council from hampering the administration of the village government as set
forth in this Charter.
   (b)   The Council shall not have the power to make any contract with or give
any official position to any person who is in default to the village. No real
estate shall be sold, nor leased, in excess of three (3) years, without first
being appraised by at least one qualified appraiser within sixty (60) days
prior to the proposed sale or lease; which proposed sale or lease to be on a
bid basis pursuant to public notice. The Council shall reserve the right to
reject any and all bids. The Council shall not sell any park, cemetery or any
part thereof, or any property bordering on a water front, nor shall the Council
engage in any business enterprise requiring an investment of money in excess of
Twenty-five Hundred ($2,500) Dollars unless approved by a majority vote of the
electors of the village voting thereon. Except as otherwise provided in this
Charter, no ordinance or resolution shall be adopted or passed except by the
affirmative vote of at least four (4) members of the Council.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 3-12-84)
Section 6.13 PROHIBITED INTEREST IN VILLAGE BUSINESS.
   No member of the Council, nor any officer of the village, unless approved by
the unanimous vote of the remaining members of the Council, shall be
interested, directly or indirectly, in any contract made, or service to be
performed, for or on behalf of the village. The approval herein required shall,
in each instance, be spread upon the records of the Council and published in
full when the minutes of the meeting at which such approval was given are
published. Any violation of this provision shall constitute misconduct in
office.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 7: VILLAGE LEGISLATION
Section 7.1 ORDINANCE ENACTMENT.
   (a)   The Council is empowered to adopt, continue, amend or repeal village
ordinances.
   (b)   All legislation of the Village of Lake Orion shall be by ordinance or
by resolution. The word “Resolution” as used in this Charter shall be the
official action of the Council in the form of a motion, and such action shall
be limited to matters required or permitted to be done by resolution by this
Charter or by state or Federal law and to makers pertaining to the internal
affairs or concerns of the village government. All other acts of the Council,
and all acts carrying a penalty for the violation thereof, shall be by
ordinance. Each ordinance shall be identified by a number and a short title.
Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed form, and,
except for emergency ordinances, a synopsis published not less than fifteen
(15) days prior to its enactment in some legal newspaper of general circulation
in the village. All ordinances, when enacted shall be immediately recorded by
the Clerk in a book called “The Ordinance Book”; and it shall be the duty of
the President and Clerk to authenticate such record by their official
signatures thereon. The style of all ordinances passed by the Council shall be,
“The Village of Lake Orion Ordains.”
   (c)   The Council is empowered to pass an emergency ordinance so as to be
given immediate effect. Such ordinance shall contain a declaration of such
emergency and the reasons therefor and can be passed only upon the affirmative
vote of five (5) councilmen. Any such ordinance shall be limited to be
effective for a period of not more than sixty (60) days from the adoption
thereof and any such ordinance shall not be effective beyond such sixty (60)
day period unless such emergency ordinance has been enacted as a regular
ordinance in accordance with the provisions of this Charter.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 7.2 PENALTIES.
   The Council shall provide in each ordinance for the punishment of those who
violate its provisions. No punishment for the violation of any village
ordinance or for the commission by any officer of the village of any act
declared by this Charter to constitute misconduct in office shall exceed a fine
of five hundred ($500) dollars, payment of court costs, or imprisonment for
ninety (90) days, or all of these in the discretion of the court, except that
any officer of the village found guilty of any act declared by this Charter to
constitute misconduct in office shall, in addition to such fine, payment of
court costs, or imprisonment, or all of these, forfeit his office.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 3-12-84)
Section 7.3 ORDINANCE; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   A synopsis of each ordinance passed by the Council shall be published at
least once in some legal newspaper of general circulation in the village within
fifteen (15) days after its adoption by the Council. All ordinances of the
village shall become effective immediately upon the publication of said
synopsis after having been passed, unless a date upon which an ordinance shall
become effective, which is subsequent to the date of the publication of said
synopsis is specifically provided in the ordinance itself.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 3-12-84)
Section 7.4 TECHNICAL CODES.
   The Council may adopt any provision of state law or any plumbing code,
electrical code, or building code which has been promulgated by the State of
Michigan or by any department, board, or other agency thereof, or by any
organization or association which is organized and conducted for the purpose of
developing any such code or codes by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance
and without publishing any such code in full; provided that said code is
clearly identified in said ordinance and that the purpose of said code shall be
published with the adopting ordinance and that printed copies thereof are kept
in the office of the Clerk, available for inspection, or distribution at cost,
to the public at all times; provided further that the publication shall contain
a notice to the effect that a complete copy of said code is available for
public use and inspection at the office of the Clerk. Any amendment to or
revision of such adopted code or detailed technical ordinance may be published
in the same manner.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 7.5 COMPILATION.
   (a)   Copies of all ordinances enacted and amendments to the village Charter
adopted after the effective date of this Charter shall be available at the
office of the Clerk.
   (b)   Within two (2) years after the adoption of this Charter and at least
once in every five (5) years the Council shall direct and complete the
compilation or codification and the publication of the Charter and of all
ordinances of the village then in force, in loose leaf or pamphlet form, and
may provide for a reasonable charge for copies thereof. No further publication
of any such compilation or codification shall be required for the validity
thereof. In case the compilation or codification of the ordinances of the
village shall have been maintained current and up-to-date during any five (5)
year period, no recompilation or recodification of the ordinances of the
village shall be required during or at the end of such period.
   The copies of ordinances and of any compilation, code, or codes referred to
in this Charter may be certified by the Clerk, and, when so certified, shall be
competent evidence in all courts and legally established tribunals as to the
matters contained therein.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 7.6 INITIATIVE AND REFERENDUM.
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum or an ordinance
enacted by the Council may be had, by a petition, as hereinafter provided.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 7.7 PETITIONS.
   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by not less than
fifteen (15) per cent of the registered electors of the village who have signed
said petition within six (6) months before the date of filing the petition with
the Clerk. Before being circulated for signatures, all such petitions shall be
approved as to form by the Clerk. No such petition need be on one paper, but
may be the aggregate of two (2) or more petition papers. Each signer of a
petition shall sign his name in ink or indelible pencil, and shall place
thereon, after his name, the date and his place of residence by street and
number, or by other customary designation. To each petition paper there shall
be attached a sworn affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of
signers thereto and that each signature is that of the person whose name it
purports to be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant. Such
petition shall be filed with the Clerk who shall, within ten (10) days, canvass
the signatures thereon to determine the sufficiency thereof. If found to
contain an insufficient number of signatures of registered electors of the
village, or to be improper as to form or compliance with the provisions of this
section, the Clerk shall notify forthwith the person filing such petition and
ten (10) days from such notification shall be allowed for the filing of
supplemental petition papers. When found sufficient and proper, the Clerk shall
present the petition to the Council at its next regular meeting.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 7.8 COUNCIL PROCEDURE.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk, the
Council shall, within thirty (30) days after publication in accordance with
Section 7.1, either:
   (a)   If it be an initiatory petition, adopt the ordinance as submitted in
the petition or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the
village.
   (b)   If it be a referendary petition, repeal the ordinance to which the
petition refers or determine to submit the proposal to the electors of the
village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 7.9 SUBMISSION TO ELECTORS.
   Should the Council decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it shall
be submitted at the next election held in the village for any other purpose,
or, in the discretion of the Council, at a special election. The result shall
be determined by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon, except in
cases where otherwise required by the constitution or laws of the State of
Michigan.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 7.10 ORDINANCE SUSPENDED.
   The certification by the Clerk of the sufficiency of a referendary petition
within thirty (30) days after the passage of the ordinance to which such
petition refers shall not suspend the operation of the ordinance in question
pending repeal by the Council or final determination by the electors as the
case may be. An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory
proceedings may not be amended or repealed by the Council for a period of two
(2) years after the date of the election at which it was adopted. Should two
(2) or more ordinances, adopted at the same election, have conflicting
provisions, the one receiving the highest vote shall prevail as to those
provisions.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 8: GENERAL FINANCE
Section 8.1 FISCAL YEAR.
   The fiscal year of the village shall begin on the first day of July and end
on the 30th day of June of the following year. Such year shall constitute the
budget year of the village government.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.2 BUDGET PROCEDURE.
   On or before the first Monday in March, each village officer shall submit to
the Village Manager an itemized estimate of the expenditures for the next
fiscal year, for the department or activities under his control. The Village
Manager shall prepare a complete itemized budget proposal for the next fiscal
year and shall submit it to the Council at its first regular meeting in April.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.3 BUDGET DOCUMENT.
   The budget document shall present a complete financial plan for the ensuing
fiscal year. It shall include at least the following information:
   (a)   Detailed estimates of all proposed expenditures for each department
and office of the village showing the expenditures for corresponding items for
the current and last preceding fiscal year, including contingent, miscellaneous
or other similar fund expenditures, with reasons for increases and decreases
recommended, as compared with appropriations for the current year.
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the village,
showing the debt redemption and interest requirement, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated income of the village from
sources other than taxes and borrowing, with a comparative statement of the
amounts received by the village from each of the same or similar sources for
the last preceding and current fiscal year;
   (d)   A statement of the estimated balance or deficit, as the case may be,
for the end of the current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with income from other sources, will be necessary to meet the proposed
expenditures and commitments of the village government during the ensuing year;
   (f)   Such other supporting schedules as the Council may deem necessary.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.4 BUDGET HEARING.
   A copy of the budget proposal shall be on file and available to the public
in the office of the Clerk during regular office hours for a period of not less
than one (1) week prior to the adoption of the budget by the Council. Notice of
the requirement that the budget proposal is so required to be filed shall be
published by the Clerk in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the
village not less than fifteen (15) days prior to the adoption of the budget by
the Council; provided, however, that failure to give such notice shall not
invalidate the adoption of any budget.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.5 ADOPTION OF BUDGET, TAX LIMIT.
   Not later than the first regular meeting in May, the Council shall, by
resolution, adopt the budget for the next fiscal year and shall, in such
resolution make an appropriation of the money needed for municipal purposes
during the ensuing fiscal year of the village and provide for a levy of the
amount necessary to be raised by taxes upon real and personal property for
municipal purposes, which levy
shall not exceed two (2) per cent of the assessed valuation of all real and
personal property subject to taxation in the village. The levy so provided
shall be known and referred to as the Charter tax rate of the Village of Lake
Orion and shall be subject to all provisions of State law and the Michigan
Constitution pertaining thereto.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.6 TRANSFER OF APPROPRIATIONS.
   After the budget has been adopted, no money shall be drawn from the treasury
of the village nor shall any obligation for the expenditure of money be
incurred, except pursuant to the budget appropriations. The Council may
transfer any unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof, from
one department, fund, or agency to another. The balance in any appropriation
which has not been encumbered at the end of the fiscal year shall revert to the
general fund and be reappropriated during the next fiscal year.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.7 BUDGET CONTROL.
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the Council, the Village Manager shall submit to the
Council data showing the relation between the estimated and actual income and
expenses to date; and if it shall appear that the income is less than
anticipated, the Council may reduce appropriations, except amounts required for
debt and interest charges to such a degree as may be necessary to keep
expenditures within the cash income.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.8 DEPOSITORY.
   The Council shall designate the depository or depositories for village
funds, and shall provide for the regular deposit of all village moneys. The
Council shall provide for such security for village deposits as is authorized
or permitted by the general laws of the state, except that personal surety
bonds shall not be deemed proper security.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 8.9 INDEPENDENT AUDIT.
   An independent audit shall be made of all accounts of the village government
at least annually and more frequently if deemed necessary by the Council. Such
audit shall be made by public accountants experienced in municipal accounting.
The results of such audit shall be made public by publishing in condensed form
in some legal newspaper of general circulation in the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 9: TAXATION
Section 9.1 POWER TO TAX AND SECURE REVENUE.
   In order to carry out the purposes, powers, and duties of the village
government established by this Charter, the village may assess, levy, and
collect taxes, rents, tolls, and any other taxes as may be authorized by state
law.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.2 SUBJECTS OF TAXATION.
   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same
as for state, county and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by this Charter, village taxes shall be levied, collected,
and returned in the manner provided by state law.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.3 ASSESSMENTS.
   Unless otherwise provided by State law, the thirty-first day of December in
each year shall be the assessment day for both real and personal property in
the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.4 TIME FOR MAKING ASSESSMENTS ROLLS.
   The Assessor shall make and complete an assessment roll of the village in
the manner and form provided in the general tax law of the state, not later
than the first Monday in March of each year, on which date he shall file such
roll with the Clerk for public inspection during the normal office hours of the
Clerk until the date of the convening of the Board of Review, on which date the
Clerk shall turn such assessment roll over to the Board of Review.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.5 [Repealed].
Section 9.6 [Repealed].
Section 9.7 [Repealed].
Section 9.8 [Repealed].
Section 9.9 CLERK TO CERTIFY TAX LEVY.
   Within three (3) days after the Council has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the Clerk shall certify to the Assessor the total amount which
the Council determines shall be raised by general tax; all amounts of special
assessments which the Council requires to be assessed or re-assessed upon any
property or against any person; and all other amounts which the Council may
determine shall be charged, assessed, or re-assessed against any person or
property.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.10 VILLAGE TAX ROLL.
   After the last day for the meeting of the Board of Review, the Assessor
shall, upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to be raised, as
provided in the preceding section, proceed forthwith to spread upon the
assessment roll the several amounts determined by the Council to be charged,
assessed, or re-assessed against persons or property; and shall also proceed to
spread the amounts of the general village tax according to and in proportion to
the several valuations set forth in said assessment roll. For the purpose of
avoiding fractions in computation the Assessor may add to the amount of the
several taxes to be raised not more than one (1) per cent; said excess shall
belong to the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.11 TAX ROLL CERTIFIED FOR COLLECTION.
   After extending the taxes aforesaid and not later than the 15th day of June
in each year, the Assessor shall certify said tax roll, and the President shall
annex his warrant thereto, directing and requiring the Treasurer to collect
from the several persons named in said roll the several sums mentioned therein
opposite their respective names as a tax or assessment, and granting to him,
for the purpose of collecting the taxes, assessments, and charges on such roll,
all the power and immunities possessed by township treasurers for the
collection of taxes under the general laws of the state.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.12 TAXES LIEN ON PROPERTY.
   The village taxes thus assessed shall become at once a debt due to the
village from the persons to whom they are assessed, and the amounts assessed on
any interest in real property shall on the first of July become a lien upon
such real property, and the lien for such amounts and for all interest and
other charges thereon shall continue until payment thereof. All personal taxes
shall also be a first lien, prior, superior, and paramount, upon all personal
property of the persons so assessed from and after the first day of July in
each year and shall so remain until paid, which said tax liens shall take
precedence over all other claims, encumbrances and liens upon said personal
property whatsoever, whether created by chattel mortgage, execution, levy,
judgment, or otherwise, and whether arising before or after the assessment of
said personal taxes, and no transfer of personal property assessed for taxes
thereon shall operate to divest or destroy such lien except where such personal
property is actually sold in the regular course of retail trade.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.13 TAXES DUE; NOTIFICATION.
   The Treasurer shall not be required to call upon the persons named in the
village tax roll, nor to make personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he
shall give notice to the tax payers of the village, by publication in a legal
newspaper of general circulation in the village at least once, which
publication of notice shall be made at least ten (10) days prior to the first
day of July in each year, of the time when said taxes will be due for
collection and shall give such notice of the time when said taxes will be due
for collection by first class mail addressed to the owners of the property upon
which taxes are assessed according to the names of such owners and their
addresses as indicated on the tax roll, which notice shall be deemed sufficient
for the payment of all taxes on said tax roll. Failure on the part of the
Treasurer to give said notices shall not invalidate the taxes on said tax roll
nor release the person or property assessed from any penalty or interest
provided in this chapter in case of nonpayment of the same.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 9.14 COLLECTION OF VILLAGE TAXES.
   Village taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of July of each year
and may be paid at the Office of the Village Treasurer during the regular
business hours of the Village Office until and including August 31. To all
taxes paid after August 31, there shall be added a penalty, and to all taxes
paid after said date, there shall also be added interest for each month or
fraction of a month intervening between said date and the date of payment, or
the last day of February immediately following, whichever date shall first
occur. The amount of such penalty and interest shall be up to the maximum
amount authorized by law, with the specific amounts to be established by
ordinance which shall be duly adopted and effective prior to the due date of
the tax in question, such ordinance to remain effective until duly amended. The
added penalties and interest herein provided shall belong to the village and
shall constitute a charge and shall be a lien against the property to which the
taxes themselves apply, collectible in the same manner as the taxes to which
they are added.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 12-9-85)
Section 9.15 DELINQUENT TAX ROLL TO COUNTY TREASURER.
   If the Treasurer has been unable to collect any of the village taxes on said
roll on real property before the first day of March following the date when
said roll was received by him, it shall be his duty to return all such unpaid
taxes on real property to the county treasurer in the same manner and with like
effect as returns by township treasurers of township, school, and county taxes.
Such returns shall be made upon a delinquent tax roll to be prepared by the
Treasurer and shall include all the additional charges and fees hereinbefore
provided, which charges shall, in such return, be added to the amount assessed
in said tax roll against each description. The taxes thus returned shall be
collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to the county treasurer
are collected under the provisions of the general laws of the state and shall
be and remain a lien upon the lands against which they are assessed, until
paid.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 12-9-85)
Section 9.16 PROTECTION OF VILLAGE LIEN.
   The village shall have power, insofar as the exercise thereof shall not
conflict with or contravene the provisions of any general law of the State, to
acquire by purchase any premises within the village at any tax or other public
sale, or by direct purchase from the State of Michigan or the fee owner when
such purchase is necessary to protect the lien of the village for taxes or
special assessments, or both, on said premises and may hold, lease, or sell the
same solely for the purpose of securing therefrom the amount of such taxes or
special assessments, or both, together with any incidental expenses incurred in
connection with the exercise of this power. Any such procedure exercised by the
village in the protection of its tax lien shall be deemed to be for a public
purpose.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 10: MUNICIPAL BORROWING POWER
Section 10.1 GENERAL POWER TO BORROW.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of state law and this Charter, the
Council, by proper ordinance or resolution, may authorize the borrowing of
money for any purpose within the scope of the powers vested in the village and
the issuance of bonds of the village or other evidence of indebtedness
therefor, and may pledge the full faith, credit, and resources of the village
for the payment of the obligation created thereby; provided that the net bonded
indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall not at any time exceed ten
(10) per centum of the assessed value of all real and personal property in the
village. The village shall also have power to issue special assessment,
mortgage, revenue, or other types of bonds, beyond the debt limits fixed by law
for the issuance of bonds or other evidence of indebtedness which are a general
obligation of the village, in the manner and for the purpose permitted by the
Charter, the Constitution, and the general laws of the State of Michigan,
including Act. No. 278, P. A. 1909, under which the village is incorporated.
Bonds issued in anticipation of the payment of special assessments may be an
obligation of the special assessment district or may be both an obligation of
the special assessment district and a general obligation of the village. All
collections on special assessment rolls shall be set apart in a special fund
and shall be used only for the purpose or purposes for which they were levied
and for the payment of the principal and interest of any bonds issued in
anticipation of the payment of such special assessments. If there be any
deficiency in the special assessment fund to meet the payment of any such
principal and interest, monies shall be advanced from the general funds of the
village to meet such deficiency and shall be replaced in such general fund when
the special assessment fund shall be sufficient therefor. Bonds issued by the
village shall bear interest, as determined by the Council, up to the maximum
amount allowed by law and the Constitution; provided, however, no bond shall
bear interest at a rate higher than 1% above the highest rate paid on a bond of
the County of Oakland issued during the 12 month period immediately preceding
the date the interest rate on the bond is determined.
(Adopted 3-13-67; Amended 12-9-85)
Section 10.2 UNISSUED BONDS.
   No unissued bonds of the village shall be issued or sold to secure funds for
any purpose other than that for which they were specifically authorized, and if
any such bonds are not issued or sold within five (5) years after
authorization, such authorization shall, as to such bond, be null and void.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 11: PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS, CONTRACTS, UTILITIES
Section 11.1 VILLAGE MAY PERFORM PUBLIC WORK.
   The Council shall have power to do any public work or make any public
improvement by the employment of the necessary labor and the purchase of the
necessary supplies and materials with separate accounting as to each
improvement so made, or to do such work by contract duly let after competitive
bidding. Where competitive bids are secured, the village, or any village
department qualified to do the work, may enter a bid on an equal footing with
other bidders. The Council shall also have the power to do any public work or
make any public improvement under any legally constituted plan under which the
labor is furnished by any other governmental unit, department, or agency of the
United States or the State of Michigan, or which is wholly or in part financed
by them or either of them.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 11.2 PURCHASING AND CONTRACTUAL PROCEDURE.
   Before making any purchase or contract for supplies, materials, equipment,
or contractual services, opportunity shall be given for competition, under such
rules and regulations, and with such exceptions as the Council may by ordinance
prescribe. All expenditures for supplies, materials, equipment, or contractual
services involving more than one thousand dollars ($1000.00) shall be made on
written contract, and such contract shall be awarded to the lowest competent
bidder meeting specifications and whose bid is most advantageous to the village
after such public notice and competition as may be prescribed by ordinance;
provided, however, that the Council shall have the power to reject all bids and
advertise again. The Council shall provide, by ordinance, for the ordinary
purchasing procedure to be followed in purchasing village supplies.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 11.3 NUISANCES AND HAZARDS.
   When any lot, building, or structure within the village, because of
accumulation of refuse or debris, the uncontrolled growing of weeds, or age or
dilapidation, or because of any other condition or happening, becomes, in the
opinion of the Council, a public hazard or nuisance which is dangerous to the
health or safety of the inhabitants of the village or of those of them residing
or habitually going near such lot, building, or structure, the Council may,
after investigation, give notice to the owner of the land upon which such
hazard or nuisance exists, or to the owner of the building or structure itself,
specifying the nature of the nuisance, to promptly have it eliminated within a
time to be specified by the Council which shall be commensurate with the nature
of the nuisance. If, at the expiration of the time limit in said notice, said
owner has not complied with the requirements thereof, or in any case where the
owner of the land or of the building or structure itself is not known, the
Council may order such hazard or nuisance abated by the proper department or
agency of the village which is qualified to do the work required and the cost
of such abatement, assessed against the lot, premises, or description of real
property upon which such hazard or nuisance was located. Procedure to be
followed to make this section fully effective shall be established by
ordinance.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 11.4 COST OF ACQUIRED PROPERTY ADDED.
   Whenever any property is acquired by condemnation, or otherwise, for the
purpose of any public improvement, the cost thereof, and of the proceedings
required to acquire such property, may be added to the cost of such
improvement.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 11.5 SIDEWALKS, CURBS, AND GUTTERS.
   The Council may prescribe that sidewalks, except crosswalks, shall be built
by the owners of lands within the village which abut upon such sidewalks in the
manner and within the time prescribed by ordinance; provided that in case of
failure of any such owner to comply with the provisions of such ordinance, the
village may build or cause to be built such sidewalk and assess the cost
thereof against such owner and against the land improved thereby, in the manner
prescribed by the Council by ordinance.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 11.6 CONDEMNATION.
   (a)   Private property may be taken and appropriated for public use by the
Village of Lake Orion, either within or without its limits, for the purposes of
opening, widening, altering and extending streets, alleys and avenues; for the
construction of bridges, for public buildings and for other public structures;
for public grounds, parks, market places and spaces; for the improvement of
water courses; for the providing of water and utilities; for the acquisition
and improvement of property for the public parking of motor vehicles; for
sewers, drains and ditches; for public hospitals, pest houses, quarantine
grounds and public cemeteries; for jails and firehalls and other lawful and
necessary public uses.
   (b)   If it shall become necessary to take and appropriate private property
for the public uses for the purposes specified in the preceding section, the
right to occupy and hold the same and the ownership therein and thereto, may be
acquired by the village in the manner and with like effect, as provided by any
of the general laws, statutes or Constitution of this State relating to the
taking of private property for public use by cities and villages.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 12: ASSESSMENTS
Section 12.1 GENERAL POWER RELATIVE TO SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The Council shall have the power to determine by resolution that the whole
or any part of the expense of any public improvement be defrayed by special
assessment upon the property especially benefited in proportion to the benefits
derived or to be derived.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.2 PROCEDURE IN PROVIDING FOR SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   (a)   No resolution determining to proceed with any public improvement to be
defrayed by special assessment shall be enacted until cost estimates have been
prepared and a public hearing has been held on the advisability of so
proceeding, which hearing shall be held not less than ten (10) days after
notice thereof has been published and sent by first class mail to all property
owners in the proposed district as shown by the current assessment roll of the
village.
   (b)   Such resolution shall state the nature of the public improvement, the
estimated cost thereof, the portion of the cost to be paid by special
assessment and the portion to be paid from the general funds of the village,
shall designate the district or lands and premises upon which such special
assessments shall be levied and shall direct the method of determining the
benefits upon the property in the district.
   (c)   The Assessor shall thereupon prepare a special assessment roll and
shall enter and describe thereon all of the lands and premises to be assessed,
together with the names of the persons, if known, owning such lands and
chargeable with the assessment thereon, and shall assess the cost of such
improvements against said lands and premises in the manner directed by the
foregoing resolution. When such roll has been completed, it shall be endorsed
by the Assessor and filed with the Clerk.
   (d)   A public hearing shall be held by the Council for the purpose of
correcting and reviewing such roll, which hearing shall be held not less than
ten days after notice thereof has been published and sent by first class mail
to all property owners in the proposed district as shown by the current
assessment
roll of the village. At such hearing the Council shall review said roll and
hear all objections thereto and may correct the roll and may then, or at a
later date, confirm the roll as reported or corrected. It is provided, however,
that no original special assessment roll shall be confirmed except by the
affirmative vote of five (5) members of the Council if prior to such
confirmation written objections to the proposed improvement have been filed by
the owners of property which will be required to bear more than fifty (50) per
cent of the amount of such special assessment.
   (e)   No public improvement to be financed in whole or part by special
assessment shall be made before the confirmation of the special assessment roll
for such improvement.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.3 DISPOSITION OF EXCESSIVE SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   The excess by which any special assessment proves larger than the actual
cost of the improvement and expenses incidental thereto may be placed in the
general fund of the village if such excess is five (5) per cent or less of the
assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than necessary by more than
five (5) per cent the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro rata basis to
the owners of the property assessed as shown by the current assessment roll of
the village. Such refunds shall be made by credit against future unpaid
installments to the extent such installments then exist and the balance of such
refund shall be in cash. No refunds may be made which contravene the provisions
of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured in whole or part by such
special assessment.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.4 ADDITIONAL ASSESSMENTS; CORRECTION OF INVALID SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Additional pro rata assessments may be made when any special assessment roll
proves insufficient to pay for the improvement for which it was levied and the
expenses incident thereto; provided that the additional pro rata assessment
shall not exceed twenty-five (25) per cent of the assessment as originally
confirmed unless a meeting of the Council be held to review such additional
assessment, for which meeting notices shall be published and mailed as provided
in the case of review of the original special assessment roll.
   Whenever any special assessment shall, in the opinion of the Council, be
invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the proceedings, or if any
court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge such assessment to be illegal,
the Council shall, whether the improvement has been made or not or whether any
part of the assessment has been paid or not, have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made. All proceedings on such reassessment and for the collection thereof shall
be conducted in the same manner as provided for the original assessment, and
whenever any sum or part thereof levied upon any property in the assessment so
set aside has been paid and not refunded, the payment so made shall be applied
upon the reassessment or if the payments exceed the amount of the reassessment
refunds shall be made.
   No judgment or decree nor any act of the Council vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the village upon the premises
assessed for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged against
the same or as by regular mode of proceedings might have been lawfully assessed
thereupon.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.5 LIEN AND COLLECTION OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Lien: Upon the confirmation of each special assessment roll the special
assessments shall become a debt to the village from the persons to whom they
are assessed and shall until paid be a lien upon the property assessed for the
amount of such assessments and all interest and charges thereon. Such lien
shall be of the same character and effect as created by this Charter for
village taxes.
   Due date: Special assessments shall become due on such date as the Council
shall prescribe.
   Installment payments: Any assessment may be made payable in yearly
installments not to exceed fifteen (15) in number. The initial installment
shall be due on such date as the Council shall prescribe. Subsequent yearly
installments shall be spread on the annual village tax roll. The second
installment shall be collected as part of the first village tax roll which
becomes due six months or more after the due date of the initial installment.
All unpaid future installments, from such date as the Council shall prescribe,
shall bear interest at a rate not exceeding six per cent per annum, which
interest computed to the following September first shall be spread yearly upon
the village tax roll together as one item with the amount of the installment
then being spread. The Council may provide for advance payment of unpaid
installments with interest computed to such date as the Council prescribes.
   Collection fees: Each special assessment, or the initial installment of such
assessment when installment payments are provided for, shall be collected by
the Treasurer without collection fee for a period ending on the last day of the
second month following the month in which the assessment or initial installment
falls due. On the first day of the third month following such due date, the
Treasurer shall add to such assessment or initial installment a collection fee
of two (2) per cent of the amount thereof, and on the first day of each
succeeding month he shall add an additional one-half (1/2) of one (1) per cent
collection fee. All collection fees shall belong to the village and be
collectible in the same manner as the collection fee on village taxes.
   Delinquent Assessments: Special assessments or initial installments which
become due other than on July first shall, if unpaid for thirty (30) days or
more on May first of any year, be certified as delinquent to the Council by the
Treasurer and the Council shall place such delinquent assessments on the tax
roll for that year together as one item with accrued collection fees thereon to
September first of such year.
   Collection When Part of Tax Roll: Special assessments, or installments
thereof which become due on July first of any year, and delinquent assessments
together with accrued interest and collection fees thereon which have been
placed upon the village tax roll, shall be collected in all respects as are
village taxes due on such date and shall be returned to the County Treasurer
with such taxes if unpaid on the following March first.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.6 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ACCOUNTS.
   Except as otherwise provided in this Charter, moneys raised by special
assessment for any public improvement shall be segregated in a special fund or
account and may be used only to pay for the costs of the improvement for which
the assessment was levied and expenses incidental thereto or to repay any money
borrowed therefor.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.7 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   Except and unless notice is given to the Council in writing of an intention
to contest or enjoin the collection of any special assessment for the
construction of any pavement, sewer, or other public improvement, the
construction of any sidewalk, or the removal or abatement of any public hazard
or nuisance, within thirty (30) days after the date of the meeting of the
Council at which it is finally determined to proceed with the making of the
improvement in question, which notice shall state the grounds on which the
proceedings are to be contested, no suit or action of any kind shall be
instituted or maintained for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the
collection of such special assessment; and, regardless of whether or not any
public improvement is completed in any special assessment district, no owner of
real property located in such district shall be entitled to commence any suit
or action for the purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any such
special assessment after he has received a benefit from the substantial
completion of that portion of such public improvement for which he is assessed.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.8 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURE MAY BE PROVIDED BY ORDINANCE.
   The Council may provide by ordinance for any additional procedure in
connection with the entire procedure of constructing improvements by special
assessment not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 12.9 FAILURE TO MAIL NOTICE.
   Failure to mail any notice required to be so sent by this chapter or by
ordinance shall not invalidate any special assessment or special assessment
roll.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 13: PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISES
Section 13.1 RIGHT OF REGULATION.
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this Charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the right of the village:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, or non-use, or for failure to comply
with the provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products,
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rate;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (e)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the Council
to be conducive to the safety, welfare, and accommodation of the public;
   (f)   To require the public utility to which any franchise is granted to
permit joint use of its property and appurtenances located in the streets,
alleys, and public places of the village, by the village, and other utilities
insofar as such joint use may be reasonably practicable and upon payment of
reasonable rents therefor; provided that in the absence of agreement, upon
application by any public utility, the Council shall provide for arbitration of
the terms and conditions of such joint use and the compensation to be paid
therefor.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 13.2 USE OF STREETS BY UTILITY.
   Every public utility franchise shall be subject to the right of the village
to use, control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges, and
public places and the space above and beneath them. Every public utility shall
pay such part of the cost of improvement or maintenance of streets, alleys,
bridges and public places, as shall arise from its use thereof and shall
protect and save the village harmless from all damages arising from said use;
and may be required by the village to permit joint use of its property and
appurtenances located in the streets, alleys, and public places of the village,
by the village, and other utilities insofar as such joint use may be reasonably
practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefor; provided that in
the absence of agreement, upon application by any public utility, the Council
shall provide for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and
the compensation to be paid therefor; which award shall be final.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 13.3 FRANCHISES.
   No franchise or grant which is not revocable at the will of the Council
shall be granted or become operative until the same shall have been referred to
the people at a regular or special election and has received the approval of
three-fifths (3/5) of the electors voting thereon at such election. All
irrevocable public utility franchises and all renewals, extensions, and
amendments thereof shall be granted only by ordinance. No such ordinance shall
be adopted before thirty (30) days after application therefor has been filed
with the Council, nor until a full public hearing has been held thereon. No
such ordinance shall be submitted to the electors at an election to be held
less than thirty (30) days after the grantee named therein has filed with the
Clerk its unconditional acceptance of all of the terms of such franchise, and
it shall not be submitted to a special election unless the expense of holding
the election, as determined by the Council, shall have been paid to the
Treasurer by the grantee. No exclusive franchise shall ever be granted and no
franchise shall be granted for a longer term than thirty (30) years.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 13.4 LICENSES AND FRANCHISES REMAIN IN EFFECT.
   All licenses and franchises granted by the Village of Lake Orion and in
force within the village when this Charter becomes law, shall remain in full
force and effect until the period of time for which they were respectively
granted, has expired under conditions contained in the license or franchise
granted, or until any such licenses or franchises may have been taken over by
the village by purchase, condemnation, grant, or otherwise.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 13.5 CONTROL AND REVOCATION.
   The Council shall cause to be instituted such actions or proceedings as may
be necessary to prosecute a public utility company for violations of its
franchise, the village Charter or ordinances of the village, and may revoke,
cancel, or annul all franchises that may have been granted by the village,
which, for any reason, have become inoperative, illegal, or void and not
binding upon the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 13.6 PROVISIONS STATED NOT TO BE EXCLUSIVE.
   The enumeration and specification of particular matters in this Charter
which must be included in every franchise or grant shall never be construed as
impairing the right of the Council to insert in such franchise or grant any
other and further matters, terms, or conditions as may be within the power of
the village to impose or require and which the Council shall deem proper to
protect the interests of the people of the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 13.7 REGULATION OF RATES.
   All public utility franchises shall make provisions therein for fixing
rates, fares, and charges, and for readjustments thereof at periodic intervals
at the discretion of the village. The value of the property of the utility used
as a basis for fixing such rates, fares, and charges shall in no event include
a value predicated upon the franchise, goodwill, or prospective profits.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 13.8 REVOCABLE PERMITS.
   Temporary permits for public utilities, revocable at any time at the will of
the Council, may be granted by the Council by ordinance on such terms and
conditions as it shall determine; provided that such permits shall in no event
be construed to be franchises or amendments to franchises.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 14: MUNICIPAL OWNED UTILITIES
Section 14.1 GENERAL POWERS RESPECTING UTILITIES.
   The village shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers
granted to villages by statute and Constitution to acquire, construct, own,
operate, improve enlarge, extend, repair and maintain, either within or without
its corporate limits, including, but not by way of limitation, public utilities
for supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment and garbage
disposal facilities, or any of them, to the municipality and the inhabitants
thereof; and also to sell and deliver water, light, heat, power, gas and other
public utility services without its corporate limits to an amount not to exceed
the limitations set by statute and Constitution.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 14.2 MANAGEMENT OF MUNICIPALITY OWNED UTILITIES.
   All municipally owned utilities shall be administered as a regular
department of the village government under one or more department heads
appointed by, and serving at the pleasure of the Council and not by an
independent board or commission.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 14.3 RATES.
   The Council shall have power to fix from time to time such just and
reasonable rates as may be deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of
the village and others with such public utility services as the village may
provide. There shall be no discrimination in such rates within any
classification of users thereof, nor shall free service be permitted, but
higher rates may be charged for service outside the village limits.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 14.4 UTILITY RATES AND CHARGES — COLLECTION.
   The Council shall provide by ordinance for the collection of all public
utility rates and charges made by the village. With respect to water, the
village shall have all the powers granted to villages by Public Act 178 of
1939. When any person, firm or corporation shall fail or refuse to pay any sums
due on utility bills, the service upon which such delinquency exists may be
discontinued and suit may be instituted by the village for the collection of
the same in any competent tribunal.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 14.5 DISPOSAL OF UTILITY PLANTS AND PROPERTY.
   Unless approved by a three-fifths majority vote of the electors voting
thereon at a regular or special election, the village shall not sell, exchange,
lease or in any way dispose of any property, easement, equipment, privilege or
asset belonging to and appertaining to any municipally owned public utility
which is needed to continue operating such utility. All contracts,
negotiations, licenses, grants, leases or other forms of transfer in violation
of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange of any articles of
machinery or equipment of any village owned public utility which are worn out
or useless or which have been, or could with advantage to the service, be
replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment, to the leasing of property
not necessary for the operation of the utility, or to the exchange of property
or easements for other needed property or easements.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 14.6 UTILITY ACCOUNTS.
   Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation by the village of
each public utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts under an
appropriate fund caption, which accounts shall be classified in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice. Charges for all service
furnished to, or rendered by, other village departments or agencies shall be
recorded. An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of the utility and the results of its operation, which report shall be
available for inspection at the office of the Clerk.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
CHAPTER 15: MISCELLANEOUS
Section 15.1 NOTICE TO VILLAGE OF CLAIM FOR INJURIES.
   The village shall not be liable in damages sustained by any person, either
to his person or property, by reason of or the negligence of the village, its
officers, or employees, nor by reason of any defective highway, street, bridge,
sidewalk, crosswalk or culvert, or by reason of any obstruction, ice, snow or
other encumbrances upon such street, sidewalk, crosswalk or public highway,
situated in the village, unless such person shall serve or cause to be served,
within sixty (60) days after such injury shall have occurred, a notice in
writing upon the Clerk, which notice shall set forth substantially the time and
place of such injury, the nature of the defect, the manner in which it
occurred, and the extent of such injury as far as the same has become known,
the names and addresses of the witnesses known at the time by claimant, and a
statement that the person receiving such injury intends to hold the village
liable for such damages as may have been sustained by him. No person shall
bring any action against the village for any damages to person or property
arising out of any obstruction, ice, snow, or other encumbrance upon such
street, sidewalk, crosswalk or public highway, situated in the village, unless
he shall also present to the Clerk his claim in writing and under oath, setting
forth particularly the nature and extent of such injury and the amount of
damages claimed by reason thereof, which claim shall be presented to the
Council by the Clerk.
   It shall be a sufficient bar and answer in any court to any action or
proceeding for the collection of any demand or claim against the village, under
this section, that the notice of injury and the verified proof of claim, as in
this section required, were not presented and filed within the time and in the
manner as herein provided.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.2 LIMITATION ON DEDICATION OF STREETS.
   The Council shall not accept dedication of streets unless and until the
owners have provided facilities such as storm sewers and water mains, and
laterals in both cases, surfacing of streets, sidewalks, street lighting, and
any other facilities as required by the Council and acceptable to the Council
and at least equivalent to services and facilities already available to
residents in that section of the village. The Council shall establish
specifications and standards of material and workmanship for all improvements
required to be made under the provisions of this section and may require that
all work done shall be subject to inspection and approval by the Village
Manager or by a proper person designated by him. The village may refuse to
accept, as compliance with the requirements of this section, any work,
installation, or improvement which does not conform to the specifications or
standards established by it. In the installation of such facilities prior to
dedication there shall be no cost to the village. In lieu of compliance with
the provisions of this section, the Council may accept payment of an amount
equal to the cost of complying with the provisions of this section to defray
the expense of doing such work or the making of such installation or
improvement by the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.3 PUBLICATION.
   The Council shall determine the method of publication of all notices,
ordinances, and proceedings for which a mode of publication is not prescribed
by this Charter or by law. The Council may determine that such publication may
be made in a legal newspaper of general circulation in the village, or that
such publication may be made by posting in the office of the Clerk and in five
(5) other public places in the village. In case publication is made by posting,
a notice of such posting, setting forth by a descriptive phrase, the purpose or
nature of the notice, ordinance, or proceeding posted, and location of the
places where posted, shall be published at least once in a legal newspaper of
general circulation in the village within seven (7) days after such posting was
done.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.4 NO ESTOPPEL BY REPRESENTATIVE.
   No official of the village shall have power to make any representation or
recital of fact in any franchise, contract, document or agreement, contrary to
any public record of the village. Any such representation shall be void and of
no effect as against the village.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.5 VILLAGE RECORDS.
   All records of the village shall be public.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.6 PRIOR VILLAGE ORDINANCES AND REGULATIONS.
   All ordinances, resolutions, rules, and regulations of the Village of Lake
Orion which are not inconsistent with the provisions of this Charter, in force
and effect at the same time of the adoption of this Charter, shall continue in
full force as ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the village
until repealed or amended by action of the proper authorities.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.7 TENSE.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context; all
words used in this Charter indicating the present tense shall not be limited to
the time of the adoption of this Charter, but shall extend to and include the
time of the happening of any event or requirement for which provision is made
therein, either as a power, immunity, requirement, or prohibition.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.8 HEADINGS.
   The chapter and section headings used in this Charter are for convenience
only and shall not be considered to be a part of this Charter.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.9 EFFECT OF ILLEGALITY OF ANY PART OF CHARTER.
   Should any provision or section, or portion thereof, of this Charter be held
by a court of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal, or
unconstitutional, such holding shall not be construed as affecting the validity
of this Charter as a whole or of any remaining portion of such provision or
section; it being hereby declared to be the intent of the Charter Commission
and of the electors who voted thereon that such unconstitutionality or
illegality shall not affect the validity of any part of this Charter except
that specifically affected by such holding. Further, it is hereby declared that
it was the intent of the Charter Commission and of the electors of the Village
of Lake Orion, in preparing and adopting this Charter, that said instrument
should conform in all respects with the provisions and requirements of state
law. In the event that any provision of this Charter shall conflict with or
contravene the provisions of any general law of the State of Michigan, the
provisions of such general law of the state shall govern.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
Section 15.10 AMENDMENTS.
   This Charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided in Act. No.
278 of the Public Acts of 1909, as amended. Should two (2) or more amendments,
adopted at the same election, have conflicting provisions, the one receiving
the largest affirmative vote shall prevail as to those provisions.
(Adopted 3-13-67)
SCHEDULE
Section 1. ELECTION OF CHARTER.
   This Charter shall be submitted to a vote of the electors of the Village of
Lake Orion for adoption at a special village election to be held on March 6,
1967. In connection with such election the Charter Commission and the village
Council shall perform all of the duties required by law for the giving of
notice of and the conduct of said election. Proper and sufficient notice of
registration and of such election shall be given by the Village Clerk by
publication and posting in the manner prescribed by law. If at said election a
majority of the electors of the village voting thereon shall vote in favor of
the adoption of this Charter, then the Village Clerk shall perform all other
acts required by law to carry this Charter into effect.
Section 2. FORM OF BALLOT.
   The form of the ballot on submission of this Charter shall be as follows:
   (Proper Instructions)
   “Shall the Proposed Charter of the Village of Lake Orion, framed by the
Charter Commission which was elected on March 14, 1966, and which has been
approved by the Governor of the State of Michigan, be adopted?”
              Yes
              No
Section 3. VILLAGE PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES.
   The adoption of this Charter shall not change or influence the terms of
office of the Village President or of any Village Trustee holding office at the
time of the adoption of the Charter but each person who holds any such office
shall continue therein until his successor has been elected and assumes the
office to which he has been elected in accordance with the provisions of this
Charter.
Section 4. VILLAGE OBLIGATIONS.
   The adoption of this Charter shall not affect any rights, assets,
obligations, liabilities, or immunities of the Village of Lake Orion and the
officers thereof.
Section 5. FIRST OFFICERS OF THE VILLAGE UNDER CHARTER.
   At the first meeting of the Council following the date that this Charter
shall become effective as the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion, the Village
President and Trustees, holding office by virtue of the provisions of Act. No.
3, P. A. 1895, the previous Charter of the Village of Lake Orion, shall qualify
for and assume the offices of President and Councilmen, respectively, under
this Charter, and shall, thereafter, perform the duties of their respective
offices subject to and in accordance with the provisions of this Charter;
provided, however, that the salary or remuneration of such officers shall not
be changed during the term of office for which they were elected. On the 31st
day of March, 1967, at 12:00 noon the terms of office of the Village Clerk,
Village Treasurer, and the Village Assessor holding office by virtue of
election under the provisions of Act. No. 3, P. A. 1895, the former Charter of
the Village of Lake Orion, shall terminate and the persons holding such offices
at that time shall qualify for and assume the offices of Clerk, Treasurer, and
Assessor, respectively, under this Charter and shall hold such offices on the
same basis as though they had been elected or appointed thereto in the manner
provided in this Charter. All other administrative officers and employees of
the village shall continue in the respective offices and employment held by
them at the time this Charter shall become effective as the Charter of the
Village of Lake Orion for the terms for which they were appointed and shall be
subject to the provisions of this Charter. Thereafter, the successors of all
such officers shall be elected or appointed in the manner provided in this
Charter.
   Immediately after this Charter shall become effective as the Charter of the
Village of Lake Orion the Council shall take the necessary steps to secure a
Village Manager.
Section 6. INTERIM.
   The Council, on the recommendation of the Village Manager, shall have
authority to make any necessary interim budget required to defray the cost of
government from April 1, 1967 to June 30, 1967, in order to bring the village's
financial plan into conformity with the fiscal year herein provided.
Section 7. NUMBER OF TRUSTEES DURING INTERIM.
   It is intended that no change in the current number of trustees shall be
effected, except through the course of the regular village elections for the
years of 1968 and 1969. Until the regular village election for the year of
1968, there will be the present number of trustees and in addition thereto the
president. At the regular village election for the year 1968, and at each
election thereafter, four councilmen will be elected in accordance with the
provisions of this Charter. At the regular village election for the year of
1968, and thereafter the council will consist of seven councilmen out of which
number the president shall be elected according to the provisions of this
Charter.
Section 8. EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The effective date of this Charter shall be on the 31st day of March, 1967,
at 12:00 noon.
Section 9. STATUS OF SCHEDULE CHAPTER.
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the government of the
Village of Lake Orion under this Charter and shall constitute a part of this
Charter only to the extent and for the time required to accomplish that end.
RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION
   At a meeting of the Charter Commission of the Village of Lake Orion, held in
the offices of the Village of Lake Orion, being the usual meeting place of the
Charter Commission, on the 5th day of October, A. D., 1966. Present were the
following members: Wesley B. Allen, Gladys E. VanWagoner, James T. Haddrill,
Charles Kelley and Irvine J. Unger, composing the full membership of the
Charter Commission.
   At such meeting the following resolution was offered by Commissioner Irvine
J. Unger and seconded by Commissioner James T. Haddrill:
   WHEREAS a Charter Commission was duly elected by the electors of the Village
of Lake Orion, and
   WHEREAS said Charter Commission as elected has met regularly and drafted the
terms of a proposed revised Charter of the Village of Lake Orion, Oakland
County, Michigan;
   NOW THEREFORE, be it hereby resolved that the Charter Commission of the
Village of Lake Orion, Oakland County, Michigan, does hereby adopt the
foregoing instrument as the proposed revised Charter of the Village of Lake
Orion.
   BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that the Clerk of the Charter Commission be
instructed to transmit and forward the said Charter to the Governor of the
State of Michigan, for his approval in accordance with the provisions of the
Statute.
The vote on the adoption of said Resolution was as follows:
Nays:   None.
Absent:   None.
Signed:
   GLADYS E. VanWAGONER,
   Clerk of the Charter Commission
            of the Village of Lake Orion
Countersigned by the following Commissioners:
                     WESLEY B. ALLEN
                     GLADYS E. VanWAGONER
                     JAMES T. HADDRILL
                     CHARLES KELLEY
                     IRVINE J. UNGER
   STATE OF MICHIGAN      )
                  ) ss
   COUNTY OF OAKLAND      )
Gladys E. VanWagoner, Clerk of the Charter Commission of the Village of Lake
Orion, being duly sworn, says that the following named persons were elected to
and comprised the Charter Commission for the Village of Lake Orion, Oakland
County, Michigan, as required by Act. 278, Public Acts of 1909, as amended,
namely, Wesley Allen, Gladys VanWagoner, James T. Haddrill, Charles Kelley and
Irvine J. Unger; that the members of said Charter Commission did meet as
prescribed by law; that at the first meeting of the Charter Commission, Wesley
B. Allen was elected Chairman and Gladys E. VanWagoner was elected Secretary of
the Charter Commission; and that the annexed and foregoing Charter was duly
framed and adopted by said Charter Commission and that said Charter Commission
directed that said Charter be presented to the electors of the Village of Lake
Orion, at the time fixed therein, all in accordance with the requirements of
the laws of the State of Michigan which provide therefore.
GLADYS E. VanWAGONER,
                     Clerk of the Charter Commission for
                     the Village of Lake Orion
   Dated. October 5, 1966.
Subscribed and sworn to before me a Notary Public in and for the County of
Oakland, this 5th day of October, A.D., 1966.
                     ROBERT V. PARENTI,
            Notary Public, Oakland County, Michigan
                      My commission expires: December 17, 1966
RESOLUTION OF THE CHARTER COMMISSION
VILLAGE OF LAKE ORION
COUNTY OF OAKLAND
STATE OF MICHIGAN
At a meeting of the Charter Commission for the Village of Lake Orion held on
the 27th day of January, A.D., 1967.
Moved by VanWagoner
Supported by Haddrill
   WHEREAS, the Charter for the Village of Lake Orion has been approved by the
Governor of the State of Michigan, and
   WHEREAS, said Charter provides that such Charter will be presented to the
electors for their approval or rejection on March 13, 1967, and
   WHEREAS, it is required that the Charter Commission provide procedures
necessary for the adoption of such Charter:
   NOW, THEREFORE, BE IT RESOLVED AS FOLLOWS:
   1.   That the proposed Charter be published in the Lake Orion Review once,
not less than two weeks and not more than four weeks preceding said election,
together with the notice of such election as annexed hereto.
   2.   That on the date fixed therefore the question of adopting such proposed
Charter will be voted upon and the elective officers provided for therein will
be elected on the same date and in the manner provided for therein.
   3.   That notice of such election as annexed hereto, shall be posted in at
least ten public places within the village not less than two weeks prior to
such election.
   4.   That the polling places for such election shall be at the Youth Center,
located at 102 S. Broadway St., Lake Orion, Michigan.
   5.   That the inspectors of said election and the canvassing board to
canvass the votes cast at such election are hereby appointed to be those
persons who will be appointed by the village Council of Lake Orion under
applicable election laws to inspect and canvass the votes at the general
village election held on said date.
   6.   That a copy of this resolution be published.
   7.   That a copy of this resolution be forwarded to the Village Council for
the Village of Lake Orion with the request that they undertake whatever action
necessary to implement the foregoing, including the holding of the election in
the manner set forth, the printing of necessary notices and the publication of
the Charter and any Resolutions, the printing of the ballots, and any and all
other acts as may be necessary relating to the presentment of said Charter to
the voters of the Village of Lake Orion.
Ayes:   Allen, Haddrill and VanWagoner
Nays:   None
Absent:   Unger and Kelley
   WESLEY B. ALLEN, Chairman
            GLADYS E. VanWAGONER, Clerk
ELECTION NOTICE
To the qualified electors of the Village of Lake Orion, County of Oakland,
State of Michigan: Notice is hereby given that a Special Election will be held
in the Village of Lake Orion, in the County of Oakland, and State of Michigan,
on the 13th day of March, A. D., 1967, being the date of the General Election
in Lake Orion, from 7:00 o'clock in the forenoon until 8:00 o'clock in the
afternoon, for the purpose of approving or rejecting the proposed Charter of
the Village of Lake Orion, framed by the Charter Commission which was elected
on March 14, 1966, and which has been approved by the Governor of the State of
Michigan.
                     GLADYS E. VanWAGONER,
                     Clerk of the Charter Commission
                     MARY PARKINSON,
                     Village Clerk
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   Title of code
   
10.02   Interpretation
   
10.03   Application to future ordinances
   
10.04   Captions
   
10.05   Definitions
   
10.06   Rules of interpretation
   
10.07   Severability
   
10.08   Reference to offices
   
10.09   Errors and omissions
   
10.10   Official time
   
10.11   Reasonable time
   
10.12   Ordinances unaffected
   
10.13   Effective date of ordinances
   
10.14   Repeal or modification of ordinance
   
10.15   Ordinances that amend or supplement code
   
10.16   Section histories; statutory references
 
   
10.99   Presumption of misdemeanor, general penalty
§ 10.01 TITLE OF CODE.
   This codification of ordinances by and for the Village of Lake Orion shall
be designated as the Code of Lake Orion and may be so cited.
§ 10.02 INTERPRETATION.
   Unless otherwise provided herein, or by law or implication required, the
same rules of construction, definition, and application shall govern the
interpretation of this code as those governing the interpretation of state law.
§ 10.03 APPLICATION TO FUTURE ORDINANCES.
   All provisions of Title I compatible with future legislation, shall apply to
ordinances hereafter adopted amending or supplementing this code unless
otherwise specifically provided.
§ 10.04 CAPTIONS.
   Headings and captions used in this code other than the title, chapter, and
section numbers are employed for reference purposes only and shall not be
deemed a part of the text of any section.
§ 10.05 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   General rule. Words and phrases shall be taken in their plain, or
ordinary and usual sense. However, technical words and phrases having a
peculiar and appropriate meaning in law shall be understood according to their
technical import.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this code, the following definitions
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
   CODE, THIS CODE or THIS CODE OF ORDINANCES. This village code as modified by
amendment, revision, and adoption of new titles, chapters, or sections.
   COUNTY. Oakland County, Michigan.
   MAY. The act referred to is permissive.
   MONTH. A calendar month.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. A violation of a provision of this code for
which the remedy and/or penalty is prescribed to be a civil fine, or other
sanction other than a criminal penalty. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a
lesser included offense of a criminal offense or of an ordinance violation that
is not a civil infraction.
   MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION DETERMINATION. A determination that a defendant
is responsible for a MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION by one of the following:
      (a)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction.
      (b)   An admission of responsibility for the municipal civil infraction,
"with explanation".
      (c)   A preponderance of the evidence at an informal hearing or formal
hearing.
      (d)   A default judgment for failing to appear at a scheduled appearance.
   OATH. An affirmation in all cases in which, by law, an affirmation may be
substituted for an oath, and in such cases the words SWEAR and SWORN shall be
equivalent to the words AFFIRM and AFFIRMED.
   OFFICER, OFFICE, EMPLOYEE, COMMISSION, or DEPARTMENT. An officer, office,
employee, commission, or department of this village unless the context clearly
requires otherwise.
   PERSON. Extends to and includes person, persons, firm, corporation,
copartnership, trustee, lessee, or receiver. Whenever used in any clause
prescribing and imposing a penalty, the terms PERSON or WHOEVER as applied to
any unincorporated entity shall mean the partners or members thereof, and as
applied to corporations, the officers or agents thereof.
   PRECEDING or FOLLOWING. Next before or next after, respectively.
   REPEAT OFFENSE.  A determination of responsibility for a second, or any
subsequent, MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION with regard to the same code provision,
committed by the same person within any three year period, unless some other
period is specifically provided with regard to a specific code provision.
   RESPONSIBLE or RESPONSIBILITY. A determination entered by a Court or
magistrate that a person is in violation of a provision of this code prescribed
to be a MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   SHALL. The act referred to is mandatory.
   SIGNATURE or SUBSCRIPTION. Includes a mark when the person cannot write.
   STATE. The state of Michigan.
   SUBCHAPTER. A division of a chapter, designated in this code by a heading in
the chapter analysis and a capitalized heading in the body of the chapter,
setting apart a group of sections related by the subject matter of the heading.
Not all chapters have subchapters.
   VILLAGE, MUNICIPALITY or MUNICIPAL CORPORATION. The Village of Lake Orion,
Michigan.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The legislative body of the village.
   VIOLATION.  Any act which is prohibited or made or declared to be unlawful
or an offense under this code, including affirmative acts as well as omissions
and/or failures to act where the act is required by this code.
   WRITTEN. Any representation of words, letters, or figures, whether by
printing or otherwise.
   YEAR. A calendar year, unless otherwise expressed; equivalent to the words
YEAR OF OUR LORD.
(Am. Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
§ 10.06 RULES OF INTERPRETATION.
   The construction of all ordinances of this village shall be by the following
rules, unless such construction is plainly repugnant to the intent of the
Village Council or of the context of the same ordinance:
   (A)   AND or OR. Either conjunction shall include the other as if written
“and/or,“ if the sense requires it.
   (B)   Acts by assistants. When a statute or ordinance requires an act to be
done which, by law, an agent or deputy as well may do as the principal, such
requisition shall be satisfied by the performance of such act by an authorized
agent or deputy.
   (C)   Gender; singular and plural; tenses. Words denoting the masculine
gender shall be deemed to include the feminine and neuter genders; words in the
singular shall include the plural, and words in the plural shall include the
singular; the use of a verb in the present tense shall include the future, if
applicable.
   (D)   General term. A general term following specific enumeration of terms
is not to be limited to the class enumerated unless expressly so limited.
§ 10.07 SEVERABILITY.
   If any provision of this code as now or later amended or its application to
any person or circumstance is held invalid, the invalidity does not affect
other provisions that can be given effect without the invalid provision or
application.
§ 10.08 REFERENCE TO OFFICES.
   Reference to a public office or officer shall be deemed to apply to any
office, officer, or employee of this village exercising the powers, duties, or
functions contemplated in the provision, irrespective of any transfer of
functions or change in the official title of the functionary.
§ 10.09 ERRORS AND OMISSIONS.
   If a manifest error is discovered, consisting of the misspelling of any
words; the omission of any word or words necessary to express the intention of
the provisions affected; the use of a word or words to which no meaning can be
attached; or the use of a word or words when another word or words was clearly
intended to express such intent, such spelling shall be corrected and such word
or words supplied, omitted, or substituted as will conform with the manifest
intention, and the provisions shall have the same effect as though the correct
words were contained in the text as originally published. No alteration shall
be made or permitted if any question exists regarding the nature or extent of
such error.
§ 10.10 OFFICIAL TIME.
   The official time, as established by applicable state/federal laws, shall be
the official time within this village for the transaction of all village
business.
§ 10.11 REASONABLE TIME.
   (A)   In all cases where an ordinance requires an act to be done in a
reasonable time or requires reasonable notice to be given, reasonable time or
notice shall be deemed to mean the time which is necessary for a prompt
performance of such act or the giving of such notice.
   (B)   The time within which an act is to be done, as herein provided, shall
be computed by excluding the first day and including the last. If the last day
be Sunday, it shall be excluded.
§ 10.12 ORDINANCES UNAFFECTED.
   All ordinances of a temporary or special nature and all other ordinances
pertaining to subjects not embraced in this code shall remain in full force and
effect unless herein repealed expressly or by necessary implication.
§ 10.13 EFFECTIVE DATE OF ORDINANCES.
   All ordinances passed by the Village Council requiring publication shall
take effect from and after the due publication thereof, unless otherwise
expressly provided. Ordinances not requiring publication shall take effect from
their passage, unless otherwise expressly provided.
§ 10.14 REPEAL OR MODIFICATION OF ORDINANCE.
   (A)   Whenever any ordinance or part of an ordinance shall be repealed or
modified by a subsequent ordinance, the ordinance or part of an ordinance thus
repealed or modified shall continue in force until the due publication of the
ordinance repealing or modifying it when publication is required to give effect
thereto, unless otherwise expressly provided.
   (B)   No suit, proceedings, right, fine, forfeiture, or penalty instituted,
created, given, secured, or accrued under any ordinance previous to its repeal
shall in any way be affected, released or discharged, but may be prosecuted,
enjoyed, and recovered as fully as if the ordinance had continued in force
unless it is otherwise expressly provided.
   (C)   When any ordinance repealing a former ordinance, clause or provision
shall be itself repealed, the repeal shall not be construed to revive the
former ordinance, clause, or provision, unless it is expressly provided.
§ 10.15 ORDINANCES THAT AMEND OR SUPPLEMENT CODE.
   (A)   If the Village Council shall desire to amend any existing chapter or
section of this code, the chapter or section shall be specifically repealed and
a new chapter or section, containing the desired amendment, substituted in its
place.
   (B)   Any ordinance that is proposed to add to the existing code a new
chapter or section shall indicate, with reference to the arrangement of this
code, the proper number of such chapter or section. In addition to such
indication thereof as may appear in the text of the proposed ordinance, a
caption or title shall be shown in concise form above the ordinance.
§ 10.16 SECTION HISTORIES; STATUTORY REFERENCES.
   (A)   As histories for the code sections, the specific number and passage
date of the original ordinance, and the most recent three amending ordinances,
if any, are listed following the text of the code section. Example: (Ord.
71.01, passed 5-13-60; Am. Ord. 71.06, passed 1-1-70; Am. Ord. 71.13, passed 1-
1-80; Am. Ord. 71.17, passed 1-1-85).
   (B)   (1)   If a statutory cite is included in the history, this indicates
that the text of the section reads substantially the same as the statute.
Example: (M.C.L.A. § 551.271) (Ord. 27.01, passed 1-17-80; Am. Ord. 27.07,
passed 1-1-85).
      (2)   If a statutory cite is set forth as a “statutory reference”
following the text of the section, this indicates that the reader should refer
to that statute for further information. Example:
      § 31.10 VILLAGE PRESIDENT.
         The Village President is the chief executive officer of the village.
      (Ord. 10.01, passed 1-1-80)
      Statutory reference:
         For the powers and duties of the Village President, see M.C.L.A. §§
64.1 through 64.3
§ 10.99 PRESUMPTION OF MISDEMEANOR, GENERAL PENALTY.
   Unless a violation of this code is specifically designated in the text of
this code to be a municipal civil infraction, a violation shall be deemed to be
a misdemeanor.
   (A)   Penalties, Sanctions and Remedies for Code Violations.
      (1)   Penalties for Misdemeanors.
         (a)   Whenever in this code or in any rule, regulation or order made
pursuant to this code or any ordinance of the village, any act is prohibited or
is made or declared to be unlawful or an offense, or whenever the doing of any
act is required or the failure to do any act is declared to be unlawful, the
violation of any such provision by any person shall, upon conviction, be
punished by a fine not exceeding $500, and/or a term of probation, and/or
imprisonment for a term not exceeding 90 or 93 days, except whenever a specific
penalty is otherwise provided except pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k). M.C.L.A.
§ 257.625(1)(c) of the Michigan Vehicle Code is hereby specifically adopted by
reference. In addition to probation, costs of prosecution, and any other
consequence ordered by the court, a violation of this section is punishable by
one or more of the following:
            1.   Community service for not more than 360 hours;
            2.   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days; or
            3.   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
         (b)   Except as specifically provided, any person under the age of 17
years who violates any provision of this code or any ordinance of the village
shall be dealt with by the juvenile division of the probate court or as
prescribed by the laws of the state.
         (c)   In addition to any penalty under this section, the village may
seek injunctive relief, abate the condition as a nuisance, revoke any permit or
license, and/or seek any other available remedy.
         (d)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the failure of
the village officers and employees to perform duties required in this code.
         (e)   Continuing Offense. Each act of violation, and each day upon
which any such violation shall occur, shall constitute a separate offense.
         (f)   Penalties not Exclusive. In addition to any penalties provided
for in this code, any equitable or other remedies available may be sought.
      (2)   Penalties for Municipal Civil Infractions. Penalties for municipal
civil infractions shall be established by resolution of the Village Council.
(Am. Ord. A-4, passed 5-27-97)
   (B)   Commencement of Municipal Civil Infraction Action.
      (1)   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the
issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation by an authorized official
directing the person alleged to be responsible to appear in court.
      (2)   The form of citations used to charge municipal civil infraction
violations shall be in accordance with state law, being M.C.L.A. § 600.8709.
      (3)   The basis for issuance of a municipal civil infraction citation
shall be as set forth below:
         (a)   An authorized official who witnesses a person violate an
ordinance, the violation of which is a municipal civil infraction, shall
prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and as completely as possible, an
original and three copies of a citation.
         (b)   An authorized official may issue a citation to a person if,
based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to believe that a
person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
         (c)   An authorized official may issue a citation to a person if,
based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who allegedly witnessed the
person violate an ordinance, a violation of which is a municipal civil
infraction, the official has reasonable cause to believe that the person is
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and if the attorney for the
village for whom the authorized local official is acting approves in writing
the issuance of the citation.
      (4)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be served in the
following manner:
         (a)   Except as otherwise provided below, the authorized official
shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the alleged violator.
         (b)   In a municipal civil infraction action involving the use or
occupancy of land or a building or other structure, a copy of the citation need
not be personally served upon the alleged violator but may be served upon an
owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the copy on the
land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In addition, a copy of
the citation shall be sent by first class mail to the owner of the land,
building or structure at the owner's last known address.
         (c)   A citation served as provided in division (b) above, for a
violation involving the use or occupancy of land or a building or other
structure, shall be processed in the same manner as a citation served
personally upon a defendant.
   (C)   Ordinance Enforcement Officer.
      (1)   The Village Council is hereby authorized to appoint by motion or
resolution any person or persons as ordinance enforcement officers for such
term or terms as may be designated in the motion or resolution for purposes of
carrying out the duties and responsibilities specified in this code for
officials charged with the enforcement of this code. The Council may further,
by motion or resolution, remove any person from such office, in the discretion
of the Council.
      (2)   An appointed ordinance enforcement officer is authorized to enforce
all provisions of this code, whether or not any particular provision specifies
or designates a different enforcing official. Where a particular officer is
designated in any code provision, that officer's authority shall continue in
full force and effect, and shall not be diminished or impaired by the terms of
this section, and the authority of the ordinance enforcement officer shall be
in addition and supplementary to the authority granted to such other specific
officer.
      (3)   The ordinance enforcement officer's duties shall include the
following: Investigation of code violations; issuance and service of municipal
ordinance violation notices and municipal civil infraction citations and
municipal civil infraction violation notices; appearance in court or other
judicial or quasi-judicial proceedings in the administration of this code.
(Am. Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. A-9, passed 6-12-17)
Statutory Reference:
   Limitation on penalties, M.C.L.A. § 117.4i, MSA 5.2082
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
      
31.   TAXATION
      
32.   POLICE DEPARTMENT
      
33.   DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND TREASURY
      
34.   PURCHASING
CHAPTER 30: BOARDS, COMMISSIONS AND DEPARTMENTS
Section
Downtown Development Authority
   
30.01   Establishment
   
30.02   Organization
   
30.03   Duties
   
30.04   Financing
   
30.05   Development plans
   
30.06   Governing procedures
   
30.07   Boundaries
Planning Commission
   
30.15   Planning Commission established
   
30.16   Membership
   
30.17   Removal of members and conflict of interest
   
30.18   Officers and committees
   
30.19   Appointments by the Commission
   
30.20   Meetings and procedures
   
30.21   Duties and responsibilities
   
30.22   Gifts
Housing Commission
   
30.35   Establishment
   
30.36   Membership, appointment, term compensation, vacancies
   
30.37   Powers and duties
   
30.38   Meetings, rules, records, quorum, officers, employees
   
30.39   Funds
   
30.40   Reports to Village Council
Department of Public Works
   
30.50   Head of Department of Public Works
   
30.51   Functions of Department
   
30.52   Department rules
   
30.53   Acting Director of Public Works
Ethics
   
30.60   Public policy
   
30.61   Responsibilities of public office
   
30.62   Definitions
   
30.63   Intention of Ethics Code
   
30.64   Promulgation
   
30.65   Violation; enforcement; advisory opinions
   
30.66   Affidavit and disclosure statement
Cross-reference:
   For the Department of Finance and Treasury, see
Ch. 33
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
§ 30.01 ESTABLISHMENT.
   In recognition of the fact that it is in the best interest of the public to
prevent further property value deterioration in the downtown business district
of Lake Orion, to eliminate the causes of such deterioration and to promote
economic growth in the downtown business district consistent with Land Use Plan
guidelines, a Downtown Development Authority is hereby established pursuant to
Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1657
and 125.1659 through 125.1680, to be known as the Downtown Development
Authority of the Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 35.01, passed 8-12-85)
Cross-reference:
   For development plans and tax increment financing plans adopted under this
subchapter, see
T.S.O. Table III
§ 30.02 ORGANIZATION.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of a Board
consisting of the Village President and eight members appointed by the Village
Council President subject to the approval of Village Council. At least five of
the members shall be persons having an interest in property located in the
downtown district. Of the members first appointed, two shall be appointed for
one year, two for two years, two for three years, and two for four years.
Thereafter, a member shall serve for a term of four years. An appointment to
fill a vacancy shall be made by the Village Council President for the unexpired
term only. Members of the Board shall serve without compensation, but shall be
reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses. The Chairperson of the Board
shall be elected by the Board.
(Ord. 35.01, passed 8-12-85)
§ 30.03 DUTIES.
   The Downtown Development Authority as herein created shall be charged with
the following duties:
   (A)   Prepare an analysis of economic changes taking place in the downtown
district.
   (B)   Study and analyze the impact of a maturing community upon the downtown
district.
   (C)   Plan and propose the construction, the renovation, repair, remodeling,
rehabilitation, restoration, preservation, or reconstruction of a public
facility, an existing building, or a multiple-family dwelling unit which may be
necessary or appropriate to the execution of a plan which, in the opinion of
the Board, aids in the economic growth of the downtown district.
   (D)   Develop long-range plans, in cooperation with the Village Planning
Commission, designed to prevent the deterioration of property values in the
downtown district, and take such steps as may be necessary to persuade property
owners to implement the plans to the fullest extent possible.
   (E)   Implement any plan of development in the downtown district necessary
to achieve the purposes of this subchapter, in accordance with the powers of
the authority as granted by this subchapter.
   (F)   Make and enter into contracts necessary or incidental to the exercise
of its powers and the performance of its duties.
   (G)   Acquire by purchase or otherwise, on terms and conditions and in a
manner the Authority deems proper, or own, convey, or otherwise dispose of, or
lease as lessor lessee, land and other property, real or personal, or rights or
interests therein, which the Authority determines is reasonably necessary to
achieve the purposes of this chapter, and to grant or acquire licenses,
easements, and options with respect thereto.
   (H)   Improve land and construct, reconstruct, rehabilitate, restore and
preserve, equip, improve, maintain, repair, and operate any building, including
multiple-family dwellings, and any necessary or desirable appurtenances
thereto, within the downtown district for the use, in whole or in part, of any
public or private person or corporation, or a combination thereof.
   (I)   Fix, charge, and collect fees, rents, and charges for the use of any
buildings or property under its control or any part thereof, payment of revenue
bonds issued by the Authority.
   (J)   Lease any building or property under its control, or any part thereof.
   (K)   Accept grants and donations of property, labor, or other things of
value from a public or private source.
   (L)   Acquire and construct public facilities.
(Ord. 35.01, passed 8-12-85)
§ 30.04 FINANCING.
   The activities of the Authority shall be financed from one or more of the
following sources:
   (A)   Donations to the Authority for the performance of its functions.
   (B)   Proceeds of a tax imposed pursuant to Section 12 of Public Act 197 of
1975, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1662. However, the Board shall not request that the
Village Council authorize such a tax without first holding a Public Hearing,
following the sending of a notice to every property owner in the district.
   (C)   Monies borrowed and to be repaid as authorized by Section 13 of Public
Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1663.
   (D)   Revenues from any property, building, or facility owned, leased,
licensed or operated by the Authority or under its control, subject to the
limitations imposed upon the Authority by trusts or other agreements.
   (E)   Proceeds of a tax increment financing plan, established under Sections
14 through 16 of Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1664 through
125.1666.
   (F)   Monies obtained from other sources approved by the Village Council.
   (G)   Monies received by the Authority and not covered under division (A)
shall be immediately deposited to the credit of the Authority, subject to
disbursement pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975. Except as provided in Public
Act 197 of 1975, the village shall not obligate itself, nor shall it ever be
obligated to pay any sums from public monies, other than monies received by the
village pursuant to this section, for or on account of the activities of the
Authority.
(Ord. 35.01, passed 8-12-85)
§ 30.05 DEVELOPMENT PLANS.
   When the Board decides to finance a project in the downtown district by the
use of revenue bonds as authorized in Section 13 or tax increment financing as
authorized in Sections 14 through 16 of Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1664 through 125.1666, it shall prepare a development
plan. The development plan shall contain:
   (A)   The designation of boundaries of the development area in relation to
highways, streets, streams, or otherwise.
   (B)   The location and extent of existing streets and other public
facilities within the development area and shall designate the location,
character, and extent of the categories of public and private land uses then
existing and proposed for the development area, including residential,
recreational, commercial, industrial, educational, and other uses and shall
include a legal description of the development area.
   (C)   A description of existing improvements in the development area to be
demolished, repaired, or altered, a description of any repairs and alterations,
and an estimate of the time required for completion.
   (D)   The location of existing improvements in the development area.
   (E)   A statement of the construction or stages of construction planned, and
the estimated time of completion of each stage.
   (F)   Description of any parts of the development area to be left as open
space and the use contemplated for the space.
   (G)   A description of any portions of the development area that the
Authority desires to sell, donate, exchange, or lease to or from the
municipality and the proposed terms.
   (H)   A description of any desired zoning changes and changes in streets,
street levels, intersections, and utilities.
   (I)   An estimate of the cost of the development, a statement of the
proposed method of financing the development and the ability of the Authority
to arrange the financing.
   (J)   Designation of the person or persons, natural or corporate, to whom
all or a portion of the development is to be leased, sold, or conveyed in any
manner and for whose benefit the project is being undertaken if that
information is available to the Authority.
   (K)   The procedures for bidding for the leasing, purchasing, or conveying
in any manner of all or a portion of the development upon its completion, if
there is no express or implied agreement between the Authority and persons,
natural or corporate, that all or a portion of the development will be leased,
sold or conveyed in any manner to those persons.
   (L)   A plan for compliance with Public Act 227 of 1972, being M.C.L.A. §§
213.321 through 213.332.
   (M)   Other material that the Authority, local public agency, or governing
body deems pertinent.
(Ord. 35.01, passed 8-12-85)
§ 30.06 GOVERNING PROCEDURES.
   The Downtown Development Authority of the Village of Lake Orion shall have
all the power and duties prescribed by Public Act 197 of 1975, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 through 125.1657 and 125.1659 through 125.1680. Any
questions of interpretation of the powers and duties and responsibilities of
the Authority shall be resolved by reference to Public Act 197 of 1975, as
amended. The Authority shall provide the Village Council and Planning
Commission with all reports and studies regulating the information and
implementation of project development plans. The Authority shall submit the
proposed development plan to the Village Planning Commission for review and
recommendation to the Village Council prior to the hearing specified in Section
18 of Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. § 125.1668.
(Ord. 35.01, passed 8-12-85)
§ 30.07 BOUNDARIES.
   The Authority shall exercise its powers within the following described area:
   Land lying in the southwest 1/4 of section 1, T. 4 N. R. 10 E., the
southeast 1/4 of section 2, T. 4 N. R. 10 E. the northeast 1/4 of section 11,
T. 4 N. R. 10 E., and the northwest 1/4 of section 12, T. 4 N. R. 10 E., the
village, Oakland County, Michigan, and more particularly described as beginning
at the east 1/4 corner of said section 11; thence north along the east line of
said section 11 to the southerly line of Atwater Street; thence easterly along
the southerly line of Atwater Street as recorded in Perry's and Axford's
addition to the Village of Orion as recorded in Liber 1, Page 47 of Plats,
Oakland County Records and William Winters Subdivision as recorded in Liber 25,
Page 21 of Oakland County Records to the southwesterly line of Orion Road;
thence northwesterly along the southwesterly line of said Orion Road as
recorded in said William Winters Subdivision and said Perry's and Axford's
Addition to the intersection of the south line of Flint Street of said Perry's
and Axford's Addition; thence northeasterly to the southeast corner of Lot 29
of Assessors Plat No. 1 as recorded in Liber 53, Page 52, Oakland county
Records; thence northerly along the east line of said Assessor's Plat No. 1 to
the northeast corner of Lot 19 of said plat; thence westerly along the
northerly line of said Assessor's Plat No. 1 to the northwest corner of Lot 18
of said plat; thence southerly along the westerly line of Lot 18 of said
Assessor's Plat No. 1 to a point that is 46.53 ft. southerly of the northeast
corner of Lot 17 of said Assessor's Plat No. 1; thence southerly to a point on
the northerly line of Jackson st., said point being 94.9 ft. easterly of the
southwest corner of said Lot 17; thence southerly to the southwest corner of
Jackson St. and Florence St. as recorded in Perrysburgh, a subdivision recorded
in Liber 1, Page 36 of Plats, Oakland County Records; thence southerly along
the westerly line of Florence St. as recorded in said Perrysburgh subdivision
to the northwest corner of Florence and Flint St. as recorded in said
subdivision; thence westerly along the northerly line of said Flint St. to the
northeast corner of Flint St. and Washington St. of said subdivision; thence
northerly along the easterly line of Washington St. as recorded in said
Perrysburgh Subdivision to the extension of the north lines of Lots 5, 6 and 7,
Block 11 of Hemmingway's Plat as recorded in Liber 1, Page 34 of Plats, Oakland
County Records; thence westerly along the northerly line of Lots 5, 6, 7, and 8
of Blocks 11, 12, 13 and 14 of said Hemmingway's Plat to the easterly line of
Lapeer St. of said subdivision; thence northerly along the easterly line of
Lapeer St. of said subdivision and Supervisor's Plat No. 8 as recorded to Liber
14, Page 58 of Oakland County Records to the southeast corner of Lapeer St. and
Elizabeth St., thence northerly to a point on the northeasterly side of
Elizabeth St., said point being on the extension of the said easterly line of
Lapeer St.; thence northwesterly along the northeasterly line of said Elizabeth
St. to the east and west 1/4 line of said Section 2; thence westerly along said
east and west 1/4 line to the west line of Axford Avenue in Plat of Axford's
Addition recorded in Liber 4, Page 21 of Oakland County Records; thence
southerly along the said westerly line of Axford Avenue to the south line of
Church St. as recorded in said Axford's Addition; thence easterly along the
said southerly line of Church Street to the southwest corner of Church and
Andrews Avenue; thence southerly along the westerly line of said Andrews Avenue
to the extension of the south line of Shadbolt St. In S. Andrews Addition as
recorded in Liber 1, Page 40, of Oakland County Records; thence easterly along
the southerly line of said Shadbolt St. to the southwest corner of Shadbolt and
Beebe St.; thence southerly along the westerly line of said Beebe St. to a
point, said point being the intersection of the south line of Flint St. and the
westerly line of Beebe St. extended; thence easterly along the southerly line
of said Flint St. to the northeast corner of a parcel of land identified as
Andrews reservation as shown on said Andrews Addition; thence southerly in part
along the easterly line of said Andrews Reservation and the westerly line of
Supervisor's Plat No. 6 as recorded in Liber 34, Page 48 of Oakland County
Records to the southwest corner of said Supervisor's Plat No. 6; thence
southeasterly to the northwest corner of Lot 4 as shown in Assessor's replat of
Decker's Addition to the Village of Orion and part of Canandaigua City as
recorded in Liber 52, Page 17 of Oakland County Records; thence along the
westerly line of Lots 4, 5, 6, 7, 9 and 10 of said replat to the southwest
corner of Lot 10 of said replat; thence along the northerly and westerly and
southerly lines of Lots 14, 17, 18, 19, 20, 22 and 23 of said replat to the
south corner of said Lot 23; thence southerly to the northwest corner of Lot 24
of said replat; thence southerly along the westerly line of Lots 24, 29, 44,
47, 48 49, 50, 52 and 53 of said replat to the southwest corner of Lot 53;
thence easterly along the southerly line of said Assessor's replat to the said
east 1/4 corner of Section 11, the Point of Beginning.
(Ord. 35.01, passed 8-12-85)
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 30.15 PLANNING COMMISSION ESTABLISHED.
   In accordance with the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of
2008, as amended, the Village Planning Commission is hereby established, to
have the powers and duties provided in that Act and this subchapter. The
Village Planning Commission existing on the effective date of this subchapter
shall be the Village Planning Commission provided for in this subchapter and
its members shall continue to serve with their existing terms continued.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85; Am. Ord. 24.08, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 24.07,
passed 7-11-11)
§ 30.16 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Village Planning Commission shall have nine members consisting of
the Village President, another member of the Village Council selected by the
Village Council and an administrative official of the village selected by the
Village President as ex-officio members, and six other persons appointed by the
Village President subject to majority approval by the members of the Village
Council elected and serving. At least seven members of the Planning Commission
shall be qualified electors of the village.
   (B)   The membership of the Planning Commission shall be representative of
the entire geography and important segments of the village such as the
economic, governmental, educational, and social development of the village, in
accordance with the major interests that exist, such as agriculture, natural
resources, recreation, education, public health, government, transportation,
industry, and commerce.
   (C)   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve as such with
compensation as determined by the Village Council. Except for ex-officio
members, members of the Planning Commission shall not hold another village
office except that one appointed member may be a member of the Board of Zoning
Appeals.
   (D)   The term of each appointed member of the Planning Commission shall be
three years or until his or her successor takes office, with all appointments
to be dated from May 1 and staggered such that as near as possible to 1/3 of
the appointed members terms expire on April 30 of each year. The term of an ex-
officio Village Council member of the Planning Commission may be limited to no
more than three years at the time of their selection but otherwise shall
correspond to their current term on the Village Council. The term of an ex-
officio administrative official member of the Planning Commission shall end
when the person who selected them is no longer Village President, on a date
established by the Village President at the time of selection or three years
from the date of selection, whichever first occurs.
   (E)   Vacancies on the Planning Commission for unexpired terms shall be
filled using the same process that applied to the vacant position.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85; Am. Ord. 24.06, passed 10-22-07; Am. Ord. 24.05,
passed 11-26-07; Am. Ord. 24.08, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 24.07, passed 7-11-
11)
§ 30.17 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS AND CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   (A)   The Village Council may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing. Failure of a member to disclose a potential conflict of
interest constitutes malfeasance in office.
   (B)   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a member may reasonably be
considered to have a conflict of interest, the member shall disclose the
potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission. The member is
disqualified from voting on the matter if so provided by the Planning
Commission Bylaws or by a majority vote of the remaining members of the
Planning Commission.
   (C)   For purposes of this subchapter, CONFLICT OF INTEREST shall have the
meaning as defined in the Planning Commission Bylaws and in the absence of this
definition, means when a member of the Planning Commission or a member of their
family has a proprietary or financial interest in an issue or matter that is
before the Planning Commission beyond that which is experienced by the public
in general, or the member may receive or gain a financial benefit as a result
of a vote on the issue or matter.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85; Am. Ord. 24.08, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 24.07,
passed 7-11-11)
§ 30.18 OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall elect a Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson
and Secretary from among its members and create and fill other offices, it
considers advisable. An ex-officio member of the Commission is not eligible to
serve as Chairperson. The term of each officer shall be one year, with
opportunity for reelection.
   (B)   The Planning Commission may appoint advisory committees whose members
are not members of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85; Am. Ord. 24.08, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 24.07,
passed 7-11-11)
§ 30.19 APPOINTMENTS BY THE COMMISSION.
   The Village Planning Commission may appoint such employees as it may deem
necessary for its work and may contract with village planners, engineers,
architects and other consultants as it may require, provided, however, that the
Village Planning Commission shall not expend any funds or enter into any
contracts or agreements for expenditures in excess of amounts appropriated for
the purpose by the Village Council.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85)
§ 30.20 MEETINGS AND PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall hold not less than four regular meetings
each year and at its first meeting of each calendar year, shall adopt and
provide public notice of its regular meetings for that year in accordance with
the Open Meetings Act, as amended.
   (B)   Unless the Planning Commission Bylaws provide otherwise, a special
meeting of the Planning Commission may be called by the Chairperson or by two
other members, upon written request to the Secretary, who shall send written
notice of the special meeting to Planning Commission members not less than 48
hours before the meeting.
   (C)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting of the Planning Commission held in compliance
with the Open Meetings Act, as amended. Public notice of the time, date, and
place of a regular or special meeting shall be given in the manner required by
that Act.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall adopt Bylaws for the transaction of
business, and shall keep a public record of its resolutions, transactions,
findings and determinations.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85; Am. Ord. 24.08, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 24.07,
passed 7-11-11)
§ 30.21 DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The Planning Commission shall have the following powers, duties and
responsibilities in accordance with any applicable provisions of the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, (referred to in this
section as Planning Act), this subchapter, and other applicable laws.
   (A)   Prepare, review and update a Master Plan as a guide for development
within the village’s planning jurisdiction.
   (B)   Promote public interest in and understanding of the Master Plan,
including consultation and advice concerning promotion and implementation of
the Master Plan.
   (C)   Review the Master Plan at least every five years and determine whether
to commence the procedure to amend it.
   (D)   Prepare an annual written report to the Village Council concerning the
Planning Commission’s operations and the status of planning activities,
including recommendations regarding actions by the Village Council related to
planning and development.
   (E)   Carry out duties and responsibilities authorized or required by the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, and the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, as amended, except the
annual preparation of a capital improvements program under § 65 of the Planning
Act, which is the responsibility of the Village Council under the Village
Charter and from which the Planning Commission is therefore and hereby
exempted.
   (F)   Provide recommendations to the Village Council on programs for and
financing of public structures and improvements.
   (G)   Exercise all powers and duties of a zoning commission, as previously
and hereby confirmed as transferred, to the Planning Commission, as provided in
the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006.
   (H)   Review and take action on public construction as described in §§ 61
and 63 of the Planning Act.
   (I)   Review and provide recommendations to the Village Council on
subdivision ordinances and plats as described in § 71 of the Planning Act.
   (J)   Take actions authorized, required or requested by an village ordinance
or Village Council resolution.
   (K)   Prepare special studies and plans, as deemed necessary by the Planning
Commission or Village Council and for which appropriations of funds have been
approved by the Village Council, as needed.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85; Am. Ord. 24.08, passed 6-27-11; Am. Ord. 24.07,
passed 7-11-11)
§ 30.22 GIFTS.
   The Village Planning Commission may receive gifts for purposes of carrying
out its objectives and may expend any funds received in the form of a gift, in
such manner as it may deem proper.
(Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85)
HOUSING COMMISSION
§ 30.35 ESTABLISHMENT.
   Pursuant to Public Act 18 of the Extra Session of 1933, as amended, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.651 et seq., there is hereby created in and for the village a
commission to be known as “The Lake Orion Housing Commission.”
(Ord. 180, passed 6-28-71)
§ 30.36 MEMBERSHIP, APPOINTMENT, TERM COMPENSATION, VACANCIES.
   The Commission shall consist of five members to be appointed by the Village
Manager and confirmed by the Village Council. The term of office of the members
of the Commission shall be five years. Members of the first Commission existing
hereunder shall be appointed for the terms of one year, two years, three years,
four years and five years respectively, and annually thereafter one member
shall be appointed for the term of five years. Members of the Commission shall
serve without compensation and may be removed from office by the appointing
authority. Any vacancy in office shall be filled by the appointing authority
for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Ord. 180, passed 6-28-71)
§ 30.37 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   The Lake Orion Housing Commission shall have all the powers and duties
vested or permitted to be vested in Housing Commission by Public Act 18 of the
Extra Session of 1933, as heretofore or hereafter amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.651 et seq., and any laws heretofore or hereafter enacted which are
supplemental thereto, it being the intention of this subchapter to vest in the
Lake Orion Housing Commission all powers and duties permitted by law.
(Ord. 180, passed 6-28-71)
§ 30.38 MEETINGS, RULES, RECORDS, QUORUM, OFFICERS, EMPLOYEES.
   The Commission shall meet at regular intervals, said meeting to be public.
It shall adopt its own rules or procedure and shall keep a record of the
proceedings. Three members shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business. A President and Vice President shall be elected by the Commission.
The Commission may appoint a Director who may also serve as secretary, and such
other employees or officers as shall be necessary. The Commission shall
prescribe the duties of all its officers and employees and may, with the
approval of the appointing authority, fix their compensation. The Commission
may from time to time as necessary employ engineers, architects and
consultants.
(Ord. 180, passed 6-28-71)
§ 30.39 FUNDS.
   Funds for the operation of the Commission may be provided by the Village
Council but the Commission shall as soon as possible reimburse the village for
all monies expended by it for the Commission from revenues received from the
sale of bonds.
(Ord. 180, passed 6-28-71)
§ 30.40 REPORTS TO VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   The Commission shall make an annual report of its activities to the Village
Council and shall make such other reports as the Village Council may from time
to time direct.
(Ord. 180, passed 6-28-71)
DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS
§ 30.50 HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   The Department of Public Works shall be headed by the Director of Public
Works, who shall be the administrative officer of the Department. The Director
of Public Works shall direct the work of the Department and be responsible for
the efficient and effective operations of the Department. The Director of
Public Works shall be appointed by the Village Council upon the recommendation
of the Village Manager and shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Council.
The salary of the Director shall be set by the Village Council in accordance
with budget appropriations and upon recommendations of the Village Manager. In
addition to the responsibilities outlined in this subchapter for the Department
of Public Works, the Director of Public Works shall perform such duties as are
provided for public works directors by state law, charter, village ordinances,
and the administrative directives of the Village Manager. The Director shall
have the authority to hire, promote, demote, discipline, or discharge employees
of the Department with the approval of the Village Manager and in accordance
with any applicable collective bargaining agreements which may be in effect
from time to time. The Director shall prepare the department’s annual budget
proposals for submission to, and consideration by, the Village Manager and
Village Council in accordance with the requirements specified by the Village
Manager, charter, ordinance, or law.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 7-8-13)
§ 30.51 FUNCTIONS OF DEPARTMENT.
   The functions of the Department of Public Works shall consist of the
following:
   (A)   Maintenance and lighting of public streets, alleys, and sidewalks;
   (B)   Construction and maintenance of public buildings;
   (C)   Construction and maintenance of park facilities, cemeteries, and other
public grounds;
   (D)   Construction and maintenance of public sanitary sewers, storm sewers,
sewage, drainage, and disposal systems and facilities;
   (E)   Construction and maintenance of water systems and facilities;
   (F)   Maintenance and repair of motor vehicles and equipment;
   (G)   Performance of such other functions, duties, and responsibilities as
may be designated by the Village Manager, charter, village ordinances, or state
or federal law; and
   (H)   Supervision, monitoring, coordination, and management of the work of
others in the performance of the functions of the Department.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 7-8-13)
§ 30.52 DEPARTMENT RULES.
   The Director of Public Works may prescribe rules, policies, and procedures
for the operation of the Department, subject to approval by the Village
Manager, which shall be entered in a book of Department of Public Works Rules
and Orders and which may be amended or repealed by the Director of Public Works
upon written notice to, and approval by, the Village Manager. It shall be the
duty of all employees of the Department of Public Works to comply with such
rules and orders while effective.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 7-8-13)
§ 30.53 ACTING DIRECTOR OF PUBLIC WORKS.
   In case of the absence from the village of the Director of Public Works, or
his or her disability or inability from any cause to act as Director, the
Village Manager shall designate and appoint another competent person to act as
Director of Public Works during such absence or disability.
(Ord. 40.01, passed 7-8-13)
ETHICS
§ 30.60 PUBLIC POLICY.
   (A)   Public office and employment are public trusts. For government to
operate properly, each village official, appointee employee or advisor must
earn and honor the public trust by integrity and conduct.
   (B)   The village hereby declares that all village officials, appointees and
employees must avoid conflicts between their private interests and the public
interest. Public officials, appointees and employees must:
      (1)   Be independent, impartial and responsible to the people;
      (2)   Make governmental decisions and policy in the proper governmental
channels;
      (3)   Not use public office for personal gain.
   (C)   To enhance public trust, the village must provide its officials,
appointees and employees with adequate guidelines for separating their roles as
private citizens from their roles as public servants.
   (D)   This Code of Ethics sets minimum standards of ethical conduct for all
village officials, appointees and employees, elected or appointed, paid or
unpaid. It proscribes actions incompatible with the public interest and directs
disclosure of private financial or other interests in matters affecting the
village.
(Ord. 24.10, passed 10-9-23)
§ 30.61 RESPONSIBILITIES OF PUBLIC OFFICE.
   (A)   Village officials, appointees and employees are bound to uphold the
Constitution of the United States and the Constitution of the State and to
carry out impartially and comply with the laws of the nation, state, and the
village. Village officials, appointees and employees must not exceed their
authority or breach the law or ask others to do so. Village officials,
appointees and employees are bound to observe in their official acts the
highest standards of ethical conduct and to discharge the duties of their
offices faithfully, regardless of personal consideration, recognizing that
their official conduct should be above reproach.
   (B)   All village officials, appointees and employees shall safeguard public
confidence by being honest, fair and respectful of all persons and property
with whom they have contact, by maintaining non-partisanship in all official
acts, and by avoiding official conduct which may tend to undermine respect for
village officials, appointees and employees and for the village as an
institution.
(Ord. 24.10, passed 10-9-23)
§ 30.62 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPENSATION. Any money, property, thing of value or benefit conferred upon
or received by any person in return for services rendered or to be rendered to
himself or herself or any other party.
   CONSULTANT. A person who gives professional advice or services regarding
matters in the field of his or her special knowledge or training.
   FINANCIAL INTEREST. Any interest in money, property or thing of value or
benefit.
   IMMEDIATE FAMILY. A village official, appointee or employee, his or her
spouse, parents or children.
   OFFICIAL DUTIES or OFFICIAL ACTION. A decision, recommendation, approval,
disapproval or other action or failure to act, which involves the use of
discretionary authority.
   PERSONAL INTEREST. Am interest arising from blood or marriage relationships
or any business association.
   PRIVATE GAIN. Any interest or benefit, in any form, received by a village
employee or official.
   SUBSTANTIAL. Considerable in quantity or significantly great.
   VILLAGE OFFICIAL, APPOINTEE OR EMPLOYEE. A person elected, appointed or
otherwise serving in any capacity with the village in any position established
by the Village Charter or by village ordinance which involves the exercise of a
public power, trust or duty. The term includes all officials, appointees and
employees of the village, whether or not they receive compensation, including
consultants and persons who serve on advisory boards and councils. The term
does not include election inspectors and student representatives appointed to
village boards or councils.
(Ord. 24.10, passed 10-9-23)
§ 30.63 INTENTION OF ETHICS CODE.
   (A)   It is the intention of this Code of Ethics that village officials,
appointees and employees avoid any action, whether or not specifically
prohibited by these sections, which might result in, or create the appearance
of:
      (1)   Using public employment or office for private gain;
      (2)   Giving or accepting preferential treatment, including the use of
village property or information, to or from any organization or person;
      (3)   Losing complete independence or impartiality of action;
      (4)   Making a village decision outside official channels; or
      (5)   Affecting adversely the confidence of the public or the integrity
of the village government.
   (B)   The Code of Ethics is intended to be preventative and not punitive. It
should not be construed to interfere with or abrogate in any way the provisions
of any federal or state statutes, the Village Charter, the village ordinances,
or any rights and/or remedies guaranteed under a collective bargaining
agreement.
   (C)   This declaration of policy is not intended to apply to contributions
to political campaigns, which are governed by state law.
(Ord. 24.10, passed 10-9-23)
§ 30.64 PROMULGATION.
   (A)   Conflict of interest—general.
      (1)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall divulge to
any unauthorized person, confidential information acquired in the course of
employment or service as a village official in advance of the time prescribed
for its authorized release to the public.
      (2)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall represent
his or her personal opinion as that of the village.
      (3)   Every official, appointee or employee of the village shall use
personnel resources, property and funds under his or her official care and
control solely in accordance with prescribed constitutional, statutory and
regulatory procedures and not for personal gain or benefit.
      (4)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall directly or
indirectly, solicit or accept any gift or loan of money, goods, services or
other thing of value for the benefit of any person or organization, other than
the village, which tends to influence the manner in which the official,
appointee or employee or any other official, appointee or employee performs his
or her official duties. Gratuities do not include fees for speeches or
published works on legislative subjects and, except in connection therewith
reimbursement for expenses for actual expenditures for travel, and reasonable
subsistence, for which no payment or reimbursement is made by the village,
invitations to such events as ground breakings, grand openings, charitable or
civic events, or inconsequential gifts from established friends.
      (5)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall engage in a
business transaction in which he or she may profit because of his or her
official position or authority or benefit financially from confidential
information which he or she has obtained or may obtain by reason of such
position or authority.
      (6)   (a)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall
engage in or accept employment or render services for any private or public
interest when that employment or service is incompatible or in conflict with
the discharge of his or her official duties or when that employment may tend to
impair his or her independence of judgment or action in the performance of his
or her official duties.
         (b)   This division (A)(6) shall not prohibit a part-time elected or
appointed village official from engaging in private employment or business on
his or her own time as a private citizen and where village business is not
involved, subject to his or her disclosing such private employment or business
on the public record for any matter on which he or she may be called upon to
act in his or her official capacity, in accordance with all provisions below.
He or she shall refrain from voting upon or otherwise participating in debate
on any such matter.
      (7)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall
participate, as an agent or representative of the village, in the negotiation
or execution of contracts, granting of subsidies, fixing of rates, issuance of
permits or certificates, or other regulation or supervision, relating to any
business entity in which he or she has, directly or indirectly, a financial or
personal interest.
      (8)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall use, or
attempt to use, his or her official position to secure, request or grant
unreasonably any special consideration, privilege, exemption, advantage,
contract or preferential treatment for himself, herself, or others, beyond that
which is available to every other citizen.
      (9)   Relatives by blood or marriage of any Councilmember, or the Village
Manager, within the second degree of consanguinity or affinity, shall be
disqualified from holding any appointive office, or from being employed by the
village during the term of office of such Councilman or Village Manager, except
and unless said relatives are bona fide appointive officers or employees of the
village at the time of the election of such officer or appointment of such
Village Manager. If the status of relationship between any employee of the
village and any officer of the village changes to a relationship prohibited
hereby after one year following the employment of such person or election or
appointment of such officer, the provisions of this division (A)(9) shall not
apply.
      (10)   It is recognized that various boards and councils are part of the
plan of government for the village. As such, it is further recognized that by
virtue of the various requirements for membership of the board, a member may be
placed in the position of participating in a decision that may directly or
indirectly affect his or her financial or personal interests. Therefore, those
members of the various boards and council in the village, as they may be
established from time to time, may participate in such decisions provided that
they act:
         (a)   In furtherance of the public good;
         (b)   In compliance with the duties of their respective boards; and
         (c)   In a manner consistent with division (A)(8) above.
      (11)   Determination of conflict of interest. A conflict of interest
exists if:
         (a)   The village official, appointee or employee has any financial or
personal interest, beyond ownership of his or her place of residence, in the
outcome of a matter currently before that village official, appointee or
employee, or is associated as owner, member, partner, officer, employee, broker
or stockholder in an enterprise that will be affected by the outcome of such
matter, and such interest is or may be adverse to the public interest in the
proper performance of said official’s, appointee’s or employee’s governmental
duties; or
         (b)   The village official, appointee or employee has reason to
believe or expect that he or she will derive a direct monetary gain or suffer a
direct monetary loss, as the case may be, by reason of his or her official
activity; or
         (c)   The public official has any other prohibited interest as defined
by state statutes relating to conflicts of interest.
      (12)   Subsequent conflict of interest. No official, appointee or
employee of the village shall acquire any financial interest in or accept any
employment concerning any project which has been granted approval by the
village or any council, board, department or employee thereof within one year
of the official’s, appointee’s or employee’s participation in any manner in
considering or recommending the approval or disapproval of said project.
      (13)   No Councilmember’s spouse or immediate family members may be
appointed to any other board, committee, commission or employment with the
Village of Lake Orion, except as permitted by Village Charter or ordinance.
   (B)   Full disclosure.
      (1)   Responsibility to disclose.
         (a)   It shall be the responsibility of the official, appointee or
employee to disclose the full nature and extent of his or her direct or
indirect financial or personal interest in a matter before him or her.
         (b)   No official, appointee or employee of the village shall
participate, as an agent or representative of the village, in approving,
disapproving, voting, abstaining from voting, recommending or otherwise acting
upon any matter in which he or she has directly or indirectly a financial or
personal interest. The official, appointee or employee shall, in such
circumstances, recuse himself or herself from the matter before him or her.
      (2)   Disclosure of conflict of interest and disqualification.
         (a)   Any village official, appointee or employee who has a conflict
of interest, as defined herein, in any matter before the village shall disclose
such fact on the appropriate record of the village prior to discussion or
action thereon and shall refrain from participating in any discussion, voting
or action thereon, as follows, provided that such exceptions shall be observed
as are permitted by law:
            1.   A Village Council shall disclose any conflict of interest and
the nature and extent of such interest on the record of the Village Council;
            2.   A member of any village board, council or committee shall
disclose any conflict of interest and the nature and extent of such interest on
the records of said board, council or committee;
            3.   A village employee who has a financial or other interest in a
matter before the Village Council or any village board, council or committee
and who participates in discussion with, or gives an official opinion to the
Village Council, or to such other village board, council or committee relating
to such matter, shall disclose on the records of the Village Council or such
other village board, council or committee, as the case may be, any conflict of
interest and the nature and extent of such interest.
            4.   Otherwise, any appointed village official, appointee or
employee shall address such a disclosure to the supervisory head of his or her
department, and any elected village official shall address such a disclosure to
the general public.
         (b)   If a village official, appointee, council or employee who has a
conflict of interest, as defined herein, in any matter before the village, and
who discloses that conflict on the appropriate records but who refuses to
refrain from discussion, deliberation or voting thereon, the matter under
consideration shall be immediately referred to the Board of Ethics for a final
determination as to the conflict in question and whether the official,
councilor or employee must refrain from discussion, deliberation, action or
voting thereon.
         (c)   Within 20 days after election, employment, appointment, or the
effective date of this subchapter, or any change in the facts set forth in the
village official’s, appointee’s or employee’s previously filed disclosure
statement, each village official, appointee and employee shall file with the
Village Clerk an affidavit and disclosure statement. The Village Clerk shall
provide each village official, appointee or employee with the required
affidavit and disclosure statement form immediately upon his or her election,
employment or appointment.
         (d)   The effective date for this subchapter shall be October 18,
2023.
(Ord. 24.10, passed 10-9-23)
§ 30.65 VIOLATION; ENFORCEMENT; ADVISORY OPINIONS.
   (A)   Board of Ethics.
      (1)   The Village Council, by super majority of those serving as
Councilmembers shall appoint a Board of Ethics, consisting of three members, as
an advisory body for the purpose of interpreting this Code of Ethics. No
Councilmember or employee shall be appointed.
      (2)   (a)   The initial three members of the Board of Ethics shall be
appointed for one-, two-, and three-year terms of office respectively, which
shall begin on October 18, 2023. If appointed prior to July 1, they shall begin
their terms of office immediately and their terms shall include the additional
time prior to July 1. Terms of office shall expire on June 30 of the respective
years.
         (b)   Thereafter, all members shall be appointed to three-year terms,
beginning July 1, so that only one member’s term expires each year. A member
shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed. The Village Council
shall fill a vacancy by an appointment for the unexpired term only.
      (3)   The Village Council may also appoint not more than two alternate
members for the same term as regular members of the Ethics Board. The alternate
member may be called on a rotating basis to sit as a regular member of the
Ethics Board in the absence of a regular member. An alternate member may also
be called to service in the place of a regular member for the purpose of
reaching a decision on a case in which the regular member has abstained for
reasons of conflict of interest. The alternate member having been appointed
shall serve in the case until a final decision has been made. The alternate
member shall have the same voting rights as a regular member of the Ethics
Board.
      (4)   The Board of Ethics shall be made up of three persons who may or
may not be residents of the village who have legal, administrative or other
desirable qualifications.
         (a)   The members of the Board of Ethics shall serve without
compensation, and shall not be elected officials, appointee, persons appointed
to elective office, full-time appointed officials, appointee or village
employees, nor shall they be currently serving on any other village board or
council.
         (b)   The Board shall select its own presiding officer from among its
members.
         (c)   The Board shall establish such procedures it deems necessary or
appropriate to perform its functions as set forth in this subchapter.
   (B)   Functions of the Board of Ethics. When there is a question or a
complaint as to the applicability of any provision of this Code of Ethics to a
particular situation, that question or complaint shall be directed to the Board
of Ethics. It shall then be the function of the Board of Ethics to conduct
hearings and/or issue an advisory opinion, as applicable.
      (1)   Hearings. The Board of Ethics shall follow the following hearing
procedure:
         (a)   The Board shall, within seven days after any matter is brought
to its attention, set a date certain for hearing said matter.
         (b)   The Board shall, at least 28 days before the hearing date, send
notice of such hearing, accompanied by a concise statement of the alleged
breach of this Code of Ethics, to any person requested to appear before them,
by certified mail, return receipt requested, to addressee only.
         (c)   Any person requested to appear before a Board of Ethics hearing
may request one extension for a period not to exceed 28 days. Extensions
thereafter will be granted only under extreme circumstances.
         (d)   Any person requested to appear before a Board of Ethics hearing
may be accompanied by his or her attorney.
         (e)   All hearings at which any person shall be requested to appear
shall be subject to the Open Meetings Act.
         (f)   All findings of Board hearings shall be published in permanent
form and communicated to the Village Council and the public, subject to the
requirements of the Open Meetings Act.
      (2)   Advisory opinions. All advisory opinions so issued shall also be
published in permanent form and communicated to the Village Council and the
public, subject to the requirements of the Open Meetings Act.
      (3)   After the Board of Ethics’ advisory opinions and/or hearing
findings have been published:
         (a)   The Village Council shall be responsible for imposing any
sanction for a violation of this Code on one of its members or any person
appointed by the Council to any village board.
         (b)   If it becomes necessary to seek the removal of a village
official after the Board of Ethics’ advisory opinion and/or hearing findings,
the village shall follow the requirements for removal of a public official in
accordance with the laws of the state.
         (c)   The Village Manager shall be responsible for imposing any
discipline for a violation of this Code on any employee of the village.
(Ord. 24.10, passed 10-9-23)
§ 30.66 AFFIDAVIT AND DISCLOSURE STATEMENT.
   Immediately following an election, employment or appointment of a village
official or employee, the Village Clerk shall provide the individual with an
affidavit and disclosure statement form. Within 20 days after election,
appointment, employment or any change in the facts set forth in the village
official’s or employee’s previously filed affidavit and disclosure statement,
all village officials, appointees or employees shall file with the Village
Clerk an affidavit and disclosure statement including the following:
   (A)   A disclosure statement responding in detail to the following
questions:
      (1)   Do you promise and attest that if you or any members of your
immediate family own any interest in real property located within the Village
of Lake Orion, in land contiguous to the Village of Lake Orion, or in any area
covered by a 425 Agreement to which the Village of Lake Orion is party and that
property becomes subject to an issue before you in your capacity as an
employee, board member, committee member, Councilmember, etc., that you will
disclose such an interest?
      (2)   If you must disclose such an interest, you promise and attest to
state the following information for each such interest owned:
         (a)   The nature of your interest in the real property; and
         (b)   The location of the real property (for improved property,
provide the street address; for unimproved property state its location in
relation to existing streets).
      (3)   Do you promise and attest that if you or any members of your
immediate family own 5% or more of any business entity located in the Village
of Lake Orion and that property becomes subject to an issue before you in your
capacity as an employee, board member, committee member, Councilmember, etc.,
that you will disclose such an interest?
      (4)   If you must disclose such an interest, you promise and attest to
state the following, to the best of your knowledge:
         (a)   The name of the entity;
         (b)   The address of the entity;
         (c)   The nature of your relationship to the entity; and
         (d)   The date relationship commenced.
      (5)   To the best of your knowledge, do you or any members of your
immediate family have any direct financial or business relationships with any
supplier, service provider or contractor of the Village of Lake Orion from
which you or they derive direct compensation or financial benefit that is not
reported in the prior answers?
      (6)   To the best of your knowledge, have you or any members of your
immediate family given or received any gifts, other than from immediate family
members, the value of which exceeds $50, within the last year, or since the
effective date of this Code, whichever time period is shorter, to or from any
person or business or other legal entity doing business with the village, other
than legal campaign contributions? If so, list the names and addresses of each
donor or donee of each such gift and the date upon which it was made and the
nature of the gift.
   (B)   An affidavit in which the village official, appointee or employee
states: “I have read and I understand the Code of Ethics of the Village of Lake
Orion and, to the best of my knowledge, I am not in conflict with its
provisions.”
      Dated: _______________
      Subscribed and sworn to before me this ____ day of ______________, 20___.
 
                                                        
      Notary Public
                              County, Michigan
      My Council Expires:                    
(Ord. 24.10, passed 10-9-23)
CHAPTER 31: TAXATION
Section
Village Taxes
   
31.01   Taxes due and payable
   
31.02   Property tax administration fee
Cross-reference:
   For additional material on village taxation, see
Charter chapter 9
VILLAGE TAXES
§ 31.01 TAXES DUE AND PAYABLE.
   (A)   Village taxes shall be due and payable on the first day of July of
each year, may be paid as provided in the Village Charter or at a location and
in a manner approved by resolution of the Village Council and specified on the
tax bill, and shall not be subject to the addition of penalties and interest if
paid by August 31.
   (B)   Taxes unpaid after August 31, shall be subject to the addition of a 3%
penalty and interest at the rate of 1% for each month or fraction of a month
after that date that the taxes remain unpaid until the last day of the next
February, with the penalty and interest to be added if the taxes are not paid
by September 14. Any penalties and interest added to the taxes shall constitute
a charge and lien against the property to which the taxes apply and be
collectible in the same manner as those taxes.
(Ord. 37.02, passed 5-27-86; Am. Ord. 37.04, passed 5-10-10)
§ 31.02 PROPERTY TAX ADMINISTRATION FEE.
   There shall be no property tax administration fee applied to village
property taxes.
(Ord. 37.02, passed 5-27-86)
CHAPTER 32: POLICE DEPARTMENT
Section
   
32.01   Head of Department
   
32.02   Functions of Police Department
   
32.03   Department rules
   
32.04   Acting chief
   
32.05   Lost property
§ 32.01 HEAD OF DEPARTMENT.
   The Department of Police shall be headed by the Police Chief, who shall be
the commanding officer of the police force. He shall direct the police work of
the village and be responsible for the enforcement of law and order.
(Ord. 1.01, passed 9-13-71)
§ 32.02 FUNCTIONS OF POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   The police work of the village shall consist of the following functions:
   (A)   The operation of motor and foot patrol units for routine investigation
and the general maintenance of law and order.
   (B)   The maintenance of a complaint desk at Central Police Headquarters,
the maintaining and supervising of police records, criminal and non-criminal
identification, property identification, and the custody of property.
   (C)   The investigation of crimes, elimination of illegal liquor and drug
traffic and vice, and the preparation of evidence for the prosecution of
criminal cases and offenses in violation of this code.
   (D)   The prevention and control of juvenile delinquency, the handling of
cases in which women are involved, the removal of crime hazards and the
coordination of community groups or agencies interested in crime prevention.
   (E)   To recommend as to the control of traffic, traffic educational
programs and the coordination of traffic violation prosecution.
   (F)   The enforcement of the code and other ordinances of the village and
the laws of the state.
(Ord. 1.01, passed 9-13-71)
§ 32.03 DEPARTMENT RULES.
   (A)   The Chief of Police may prescribe rules for the government of police
officers of the village, subject to approval by the Village Manager, which
shall be entered in a book of “Police Department Rules and Orders,” [of which]
any may be amended or revoked by the Police Chief upon written notice to the
Village Manager. It shall be the duty of all members of the Police Force to
comply with such rules and orders while effective.
   (B)   The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers as
established and adopted by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training
Council shall be in accordance with Public Act 203 of 1965, being M.C.L.A. §§
28.601 through 28.616.
(Ord. 1.01, passed 9-13-71)
§ 32.04 ACTING CHIEF.
   In case of the absence from the village of the Chief of Police, or his
disability or inability from any cause to act as Police Chief, the Manager
shall designate and appoint some other member of the Police Department to act
as Chief during such absence or disability.
(Ord. 1.01, passed 9-13-71)
§ 32.05 LOST PROPERTY.
   The Police Department shall accept custody of lost articles having a value
of $5 or more, delivered to them and the Department shall maintain a record of
each article, giving its description, the time and place found and the name and
address of the finder. Any such article held by the Department for 90 days or
longer during which period the same is not claimed by the owner, shall be
returned to the finder and if not claimed by said finder shall be sold at
public auction and the proceeds, less the expenses of storage and sale, shall
be deposited with the Treasurer. Prior to sale of any article a notice of such
sale shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village
once a week for three successive weeks. Such notice shall describe the article
or articles to be sold unless claimed by the owner or owners thereof prior to.
No such article shall be sold earlier than one month subsequent to the first
publication of such notice of sale.
(Ord. 1.01, passed 9-13-71)
CHAPTER 33: DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND TREASURY
Section
   
33.01   Head of Department of Finance and Treasury
   
33.02   Functions of Department of Finance and Treasury
   
33.03   Department rules
   
33.04   Acting Finance Director/Treasurer
§ 33.01 HEAD OF DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND TREASURY.
   The Department of Finance and Treasury shall be headed by the Finance
Director/Treasurer, who shall be the administrative officer of the department.
The Finance Director/Treasurer shall direct the work of the department and be
responsible for the efficient and effective operations of the department. The
Finance Director/Treasurer shall be appointed by the Village Council upon the
recommendation of the Village Manager and shall serve at the pleasure of the
Village Council. The salary of the Director shall be set by the Village Council
in accordance with budget appropriations and upon recommendations of the
Village Manager. In addition to the responsibilities outlined in this chapter
for the Department of Finance and Treasury, the Finance Director/Treasurer
shall perform such duties as are provided for the Finance Director/Treasurer by
state law, charter, village ordinances, and the administrative directives of
the Village Manager. The Director shall have the authority to hire, promote,
demote, discipline, or discharge employees of the department with the approval
of the Village Manager and in accordance with any applicable collective
bargaining agreements which may be in effect from time to time. The Director
shall prepare the department's annual budget proposals for submission to, and
consideration by, the Village Manager and Village Council in accordance with
the requirements specified by the Village Manager, charter, ordinance, or law.
(Ord. 40.02, passed 2-9-15)
§ 33.02 FUNCTIONS OF DEPARTMENT OF FINANCE AND TREASURY.
   The functions of the Department of Finance and Treasury shall consist of the
following:
   (A)   The department shall perform the general accounting functions of the
village, shall keep the books of account of the assets, receipts, and
expenditures, and shall keep the Council and the Village Manager informed as to
the financial affairs of the village. The system of accounts of the village
shall conform to such uniform system as may be required by law.
   (B)   The department shall examine and audit all accounts and claims against
the village. The department shall not allow withdrawals from any village fund
which, after deduction of withdrawals therefrom, does not have a sufficient
amount therein to pay such proposed withdrawal.
   (C)   The department shall balance all the books of account of the village
at least quarterly in each year, and shall make a report thereon to the Village
Manager.
   (D)   The department shall, at any time, upon direction of the Council or
the Village Manager, examine and audit all books of account kept by any
official or department of the village. The department shall examine and audit
all books of account of all departments at least once each month.
   (E)   The department shall collect village taxes, unless another person or
agency is designated by the Council to do so, and shall perform all of the
duties as prescribed by the Village Charter for collection of taxes, the
general laws of the state, together with such other duties as may be required
or assigned to him by the Village Manager.
   (F)   The department shall have custody of all monies of the village, the
clerk's bond, and all evidences of value belonging to the village or held in
trust by the village.
   (G)   The department shall receive all monies belonging to and receivable by
the village that may be collected by any official or employee of the village
including license fees, taxes, assessments, utility charges and all other
charges belonging to and payable to the village and shall, in all cases, give a
receipt therefor.
   (H)   The department shall keep and deposit all monies or funds in such
manner and in such places as the Council may determine from time to time and
shall report the same in detail to the Council and Village Manager.
   (I)   The department shall have such powers, duties and prerogatives in
regard to the collection and custody of state, county and school district and
village taxes and monies as are conferred by law to enforce the collection of
state, county, village, township and school district taxes upon real and
personal property.
   (J)   The department shall pay no money out of the treasury except in
pursuance of and by the authority of the law and upon warrants issued in the
manner as required by the Village Charter which warrants shall specify the
purpose for which the amounts thereof are to be paid.
   (K)   The department shall collect and keep an account of and be charged
with all taxes and monies appropriated, raised or received for each fund of the
village, and shall keep a separate account of such funds, and shall credit
thereto all monies raised, paid in or appropriated therefor, and shall pay
every warrant out of the particular fund raised for the purpose for which the
warrant was issued.
   (L)   The department shall perform such other functions, duties, and
responsibilities as may be designated by the Village Manager, charter, village
ordinances, or state or federal law; and
   (M)   The Finance Director/Treasurer shall supervise, monitor, coordinate,
and manage the work of others in the performance of the functions of the
department.
(Ord. 40.02, passed 2-9-15)
§ 33.03 DEPARTMENT RULES.
   The Finance Director/Treasurer may prescribe rules, policies, and procedures
for the operation of the department, subject to approval by the Village
Manager, which shall be entered in a book of "Department of Finance and
Treasury Rules and Orders" and which may be amended or repealed by the Finance
Director/Treasurer upon written notice to, and approval by, the Village
Manager. It shall be the duty of all employees of the Department of Finance and
Treasury to comply with such rules and orders while effective.
(Ord. 40.02, passed 2-9-15)
§ 33.04 ACTING FINANCE DIRECTOR/TREASURER.
   In case of the absence from the village of the Finance Director/Treasurer,
or his or her disability or inability from any cause to act as Director, the
Village Manager shall designate and appoint another competent person to act as
Finance Director/Treasurer during such absence or disability.
(Ord. 40.02, passed 2-9-15)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING
Section
   
34.01   Guidelines
   
34.02   Definitions
   
34.03   General policies
   
34.04   Responsibilities of the purchasing agent
   
34.05   Responsibilities of operating departments
   
34.06   Purchasing methods
   
34.07   Competitive bidding requirements
   
34.08   Small purchases; open market procedure
   
34.09   Emergency purchases
   
34.10   Exceptions to competitive bidding
   
34.11   Disposal of obsolete, worn or surplus supplies
   
34.12   Sale of real property
   
34.13   Procurement for federally funded projects
   
34.14   Gifts, rebates prohibited; conflict of interest prohibited
   
34.15   Requisitions and estimates
   
34.16   Cooperative purchasing
   
34.17   Bid deposits; performance and payment bonds
   
34.18   Payment of moneys
   
34.19   Approval of legal documents
§ 34.01 GUIDELINES.
   These guidelines have been prepared to provide standardized policies and
procedures for the purchase of supplies and contractual services by the
village. The guidelines also define the responsibilities of the purchasing
agent and the operating departments regarding the purchase and/or sale of
goods. These guidelines are to be followed for the purchase of supplies and
contractual services.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTRACT. All types of village agreements, regardless of what they might be
called, for the procurement of supplies, equipment or contractual services,
except that the term shall not include collective bargaining agreements.
   CONTRACTUAL SERVICES. The rental, repair or maintenance of equipment,
machinery and other village-owned property. The term shall not include
professional, insurance and personal services or other contractual services
which are in their nature unique.
   DEPARTMENT HEAD. The individual in charge of a using agency or that
individual’s designate.
   INVITATION FOR BIDS. The complete assembly of related documents, whether
attached or incorporated by reference, furnished prospective bidders for the
purpose of soliciting sealed bids.
   PURCHASING AGENT. The Village Manager shall act as purchasing agent of the
village unless another officer or employee shall be designated to act as
purchasing agent by the Village Manager in writing filed with the Village
Clerk. The purchasing agent, with the approval of the Village Manager, shall
adopt any necessary rules respecting requisitions and purchase orders.
   PURCHASING GUIDELINES. Those guidelines established by the Village Manager
and approved by resolution of the Village Council.
   RESPONSIBLE BIDDER. A person who has the capability in all respects to
perform fully the contract requirements.
   RESPONSIVE BIDDER. A person who has submitted a bid which conforms in all
material respects to the invitation for bids.
   SUPPLIES. All supplies, materials and equipment, but excluding land or any
interest in land.
   USING AGENCY. Any department, agency, commission or other unit in the
village government using supplies or procuring contractual services as provided
in this chapter.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.03 GENERAL POLICIES.
   All village officials shall:
   (A)   Comply with the Village of Lake Orion Charter and the Village Code as
it pertains to purchasing and disposal of assets. Specific references are in
Chapter
11.1 and
11.2 fo the Village Charter.
   (B)   Obtain from responsible vendors sufficiently high-quality goods for
the lowest possible price.
   (C)   Implement purchasing procedures which will facilitate the purchase of
and payment for goods yet will provide sufficient internal controls.
   (D)   Provide departments with timely financial reports for purposes of
budgetary controls and order goods only if funds have been appropriated by the
Village Council.
   (E)   Purchase in quantity when practical in order to obtain discounts and
minimize paper flow throughout the year.
   (F)   Purchase materials or equipment that are sustainable when practical.
   (G)   Encourage competitive bidding among vendors; however, the village
reserves the right to reject any or all bids or quotes and need not purchase
from the lowest bidder.
   (H)   Assure orders shall not be artificially subdivided in order to avoid
complying with the bidding requirements.
   (I)   Assure all village officials and employees involved in the purchase
process will adhere to the requirements in this chapter and the Charter,
Chapter 11.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.04 RESPONSIBILITIES OF THE PURCHASING AGENT.
   (A)   Oversee the entire purchasing operation.
   (B)   Monitor the purchase of supplies and contracted services as well as
the disposal of obsolete or surplus fixed assets.
   (C)   Assist departments with their purchasing needs and ensure that proper
purchasing procedures are being followed.
   (D)   Examine each requisition for purchase order and each requisition for
payment to ensure that requests have been properly documented and authorized,
that budgeted funds are available and that the account number classification is
correct.
   (E)   Ensure that all vendors with an expected annual payment of $600 or
greater have a valid W-9 on record.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.05 RESPONSIBILITIES OF OPERATING DEPARTMENTS.
   (A)   Be familiar with and abide by the legal requirements for purchasing as
specified in §
34.03.
   (B)   Follow the purchasing methods outlined in this chapter.
   (C)   Prepare a requisition request for a purchase order as required below.
   (D)   If a vendor is expected to be paid over $600 in a year, then a W-
9 must be obtained from the vendor and forwarded to the purchasing agent.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.06 PURCHASING METHODS.
   (A)   The purchasing method to be used is based on the dollar amount of the
purchase. To determine the dollar amount, departments should aggregate the
amount of annual reoccurring purchases to be made from the vendor or the
aggregate of the contract amounts under an agreement including any extensions.
   (B)   Petty cash ($100 or less).
      (1)   Legal requirements. The petty cash fund maintained by the Finance
Director/Treasurer is to be used for the purchase of incidentals and may be
authorized by department heads.
      (2)   Village policy. Petty cash is to be used for non-repetitive items
not exceeding $100.
      (3)   Procedures.
         (a)   Any cash removed from the fund must be replaced by a petty cash
voucher accompanied by a receipt or invoice from the supplier of the item or
service purchased.
         (b)   The receipt or invoice must detail the type and amount of the
expenditure. The petty cash voucher must indicate the appropriate account
number to which the purchase should be charged, and indicate the department
head’s approval.
         (c)   Each department that has a petty cash fund must designate one
person to have custody and responsibility for the fund. This responsibility
includes balancing the fund periodically; requesting reimbursement of the fund;
and ensuring the funds are at all times in a locked and safe location.
         (d)   To ensure accountability for each petty cash fund, the fund must
be balanced periodically based on use. Therefore, the sum of all unused cash
and petty cash vouchers should equal the total of the respective department’s
petty cash total. If the actual balance is ever different from the amount that
should be in the fund, the Finance Director/Treasurer should be contacted
immediately.
         (e)   When requesting reimbursement of petty cash funds, the
appropriate petty cash vouchers, along with supporting receipt, etc., must be
submitted to the Finance Director/Treasurer’s Office. This should be done at
regular intervals to avoid running the fund too low. No reimbursements will be
made without the required supporting documentation.
   (C)   Purchases less than $1,000.
      (1)   Purchases may be made from any responsive vendor.
      (2)   Informal price quotes from three vendors is recommended.
      (3)   A purchase order is required for all purchases except those
purchased with petty cash.
      (4)   Agreements (if applicable) need to be reviewed by the Village
Attorney prior to purchase.
      (5)   Department head is authorized to approve purchase.
   (D)   Purchases from $1,000 to $25,000.
      (1)   Formal price quotes from three vendors is required or use of an
approved cooperative purchasing organization or unit of government.
      (2)   Purchase order is required.
      (3)   Documentation of price quotes and vendor selection along with any
signed agreement needs to be electronically attached to the purchase
requisition in the system.
      (4)   Standard village contract or a mutually agreeable contract approved
by the Village Attorney may be required at the Village Manager’s discretion.
      (5)   Department head is authorized to approve purchases up to $10,000 if
budgeted. Purchases of over $10,000 or non-budgeted purchases need to be
approved by the department head and Village Manager.
      (6)   Any sole source purchasing needs to be explained and approved by
the Village Manager.
   (E)   Purchases over $25,001 to $50,000.
      (1)   Formal specifications and price quotes from three vendors is
required or use of an approved cooperative purchasing organization or unit of
government.
      (2)   Purchase order is required.
      (3)   Documentation of price quotes and vendor selection and signed
contract needs to be electronically attached to the purchase requisition in the
system.
      (4)   Standard village contract or a mutually agreeable contract approved
by the Village Attorney must be used. Contract must be signed and approved by
the Village Attorney and Village Manager.
      (5)   If this is a non-budgeted purchase or if the purchase will require
a budget amendment, then the purchase must be approved by the Village Council.
      (6)   Any sole source purchasing needs to be explained and approved by
the Village Manager.
   (F)   Purchases of $50,000 or greater.
      (1)   Formal competitive bidding is required as outlined in the Village
Charter or use of an approved cooperative purchasing organization or unit of
government.
      (2)   Purchase must be approved by the Village Council.
      (3)   Purchase order is required.
      (4)   Documentation of formal bids and vendor selection and signed
contract needs to be electronically attached to the purchase requisition in the
system.
      (5)   Standard village contract or a mutually agreeable contract approved
by the Village Attorney must be used. Contract must be signed by the Village
Attorney, Village Manager, and Village Clerk.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.07 COMPETITIVE BIDDING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) below, all supplies and contractual
services, when the estimated cost thereof shall equal or exceed $50,000 shall
be purchased by formal written contract from the lowest responsible and
responsive bidder after due notice inviting competitive sealed bids. All such
contracts shall be awarded by the Village Council.
      (1)   The purchasing agent or department head shall provide for the
procurement of competitive sealed bids as follows:
         (a)   Prepare the invitation for bids describing the requirements of
the using agency.
         (b)   Publicize the invitation for bids by public advertisement, such
as through Bidnet or suitable trade publications, no less than five days
preceding the last day set for the receipt of competitive sealed bids. The
public advertisement required by this division (A)(1) shall include a general
description of the supplies or contractual services to be purchased or sold and
in addition, shall state where bid forms and specifications may be obtained,
the date, time and place for the filing and opening of bids, whether bid,
performance and payment bonds are required and if required, the amounts thereof
and anything else deemed necessary.
         (c)   Bids submitted in response to the invitation for bids shall be
submitted sealed and in addition, shall be identified as bids on the outside of
the envelopes and accompanied by any bid security required.
         (d)   Bids shall be opened publicly at the time, place and date
designated in the invitation for bids. Each bid, together with the name of the
bidder shall be recorded and a tabulation of all bids received shall be
available for public inspection in the requesting department.
         (e)   An invitation for bids may be cancelled or any or all bids or
proposals may be rejected in whole or in part as specified in the invitation
for bids when it is determined by the Village Council to be in the best
interests of the village.
         (f)   The purchasing agent or department head shall not knowingly
accept the bid of a person who is in default in the payment of any taxes,
licenses, fees, permits or any other monies due the village or who shall in any
other respects be disqualified according to any federal or state law or
ordinance provision. A contract with a person who is discovered to have been in
default or disqualified at the time of the awarding of the contract shall be
voidable.
         (g)   The purchasing agent or department head shall determine and
recommend in writing to the Village Council the name of the lowest responsible
and responsive bidder. In reaching a determination as to who the lowest
responsible bidder is, the following shall be considered:
            1.   The ability, capacity and skill of the bidder to provide the
service or supplies required;
            2.   Whether the bidder can provide the service or supplies
promptly or within the time specified without delay or interference;
            3.   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the bidder in business;
            4.   The quality of performance and time of completion by the
bidder of previous contracts or services;
            5.   The previous and existing compliance by the bidder with laws
and ordinances relating to contract performance;
            6.   The sufficiency of the financial resources and ability of the
bidder to perform the contract or provide the service;
            7.   The quality, availability and adaptability of the supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
            8.   The ability of the bidder to provide future maintenance and
service for the use of the subject of the contract; and
            9.   The number and scope of any additional, limiting or qualifying
conditions attached to the bid by the bidder.
   (B)   The village shall not be obligated to purchase from the lowest bidder.
   (C)   The Village Council, by an affirmative vote of five-sevenths of its
members, may dispense with the requirement for competitive bidding when the
estimated cost of the contract does not exceed $50,000.
   (D)   A contract may be awarded by the Village Council for the purchase of
supplies and/or contractual services without submitting the purchase through
the competitive bidding process as set forth herein when there is only a sole-
source for the purchase and the requesting department head has provided
reasonable justification to the Village Manager in writing that circumstances
exist that preclude obtaining competition.
   (E)   No contract or purchase shall be artificially divided to avoid the
requirements of this section.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.08 SMALL PURCHASES; OPEN MARKET PROCEDURE.
   All purchases of supplies or contractual services having a cost of less than
$1,000 may be made in the open market, without advertisement, and may be
awarded by either the Village Manager, purchasing agent or department head in
conformance with purchasing guidelines, provided that funds have been
previously appropriated by the Village Council.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.09 EMERGENCY PURCHASES.
   Legal requirements. Normal purchasing procedures may be circumvented only in
the case of an emergency; that is, when there is “an apparent threat to the
public safety, health or welfare of the village or its citizens.”
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.10 EXCEPTIONS TO COMPETITIVE BIDDING.
   Subject to prior approval of the council, competitive bidding shall not be
required in the following cases:
   (A)   Where the product or material contracted for is not competitive in
nature, and the purchasing agent so certifies to the council in writing;
   (B)   In the engagement of professional services. PROFESSIONAL SERVICES is
defined as those services provided by a person, firm, or corporation which
require specific technic training, expertise, certification, or licensure to
perform, including but not limited to architectural, engineering, accountancy,
consulting, appraising, auditing, risk assessment, urban planning, legal, and
information technology services;
   (C)   Where the Council shall determine that the public interest will be
best served by joint purchase with, or purchase from, another unit of
government, or in the utilization of another governmental unit’s competitive
bid process.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.11 DISPOSAL OF OBSOLETE, WORN OR SURPLUS SUPPLIES.
   Items determined to be of surplus nature, i.e., those items deemed of no
further use to the village and/or which are obsolete or worn out, shall be
subject to disposal in the following manner:
   (A)   An item with an original value of less than $2,500 shall be disposed
of by the best and most efficient means in the judgment of the using department
and the Finance Director/Treasurer, taking into account such factors as storage
and handling costs and advertising.
   (B)   An item with an original value of $2,500 to $75,000 shall be disposed
of in one of the following methods:
      (1)   Sale after obtaining informal quotes.
      (2)   Auction.
      (3)   Manufacturer trade in.
      (4)   By the best and most efficient means in the judgment of the using
department and the Village Manager, taking into account such factors as storage
and handling costs and advertising, with the approval of the Village Manager.
   (C)   An item with an original value in excess of $75,000 shall be disposed
of in one of the following methods:
      (1)   Sale after obtaining formal quotes and going through the bid
procedure.
      (2)   Auction.
      (3)   Manufacturer trade in.
      (4)   By the best and most efficient means in the judgment of the using
department and the Village Manager taking into account such factors as storage
and handling costs and advertising, with the approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.12 SALE OF REAL PROPERTY.
   The purchase, acquisition, or sale of real property shall comply with §§
6.10 and
6.12(b) of the Village of Lake Orion Charter.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.13 PROCUREMENT FOR FEDERALLY FUNDED PROJECTS.
   Village policy. Purchases using federal grants shall conform to 2 CFR (Code
of Federal Regulations) sections 200.318 through 200.327.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.14 GIFTS, REBATES PROHIBITED; CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All officials and employees of the village are prohibited from
soliciting, demanding, accepting or agreeing to accept directly or indirectly,
from any person to which a contract might be awarded or is awarded any gift,
offer of employment, rebate, money or anything of material value whatsoever,
except where given for the sole use and benefit of the village.
   (B)   The village will not enter into a contract to furnish supplies or
contractual services to the village from any village official, his or her
spouse, child or parent, from any corporation, association or partnership in
which any village official, his or her spouse, child or parent, has any direct
or indirect interest. Ownership of less than 1% of the stock or other equity
interest in a corporation or unincorporated business shall not be deemed to be
a disqualifying interest. Employment by a business entity shall be deemed to be
a disqualifying interest only if such employment is in an administrative,
managerial or executive capacity in which the employee could in any way
influence the decisions of the business entity with regard to contract
proposals or other transactions contemplated by this section.
   (C)   Every written contract entered into by the village shall contain a
provision to the effect that if subsequent to entering into the contract a
village official or her spouse, child or parent has or shall become directly or
indirectly interested in the contract, the village shall have the right to
terminate the contract without further liability if the disqualification has
not been removed with 30 days after the village has given notification of the
disqualifying interest.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.15 REQUISITIONS AND ESTIMATES.
   (A)   All using agencies, either by or with the authorization of the
department head under which the using agency operates, shall file with the
purchasing agent detailed requisitions or estimates of their requirements for
supplies and contractual services in such a manner and at such times as the
purchasing guidelines shall establish.
   (B)   The purchasing agent shall examine each requisition or estimate and
may revise it as to quantity, quality or estimated cost, with the concurrence
of the using agency. The purchasing agent shall also verify that proper
purchasing procedures have been followed, and that the budgeted funds are
available based on the most current financial records. The purchasing agent may
change the account to be charged, if appropriate, with departmental approval.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.16 COOPERATIVE PURCHASING.
   The village shall have the authority to join with other units of government
in cooperative purchasing plans when the best interests of the village would be
served thereby.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.17 BID DEPOSITS; PERFORMANCE AND PAYMENT BONDS.
   Bid deposits shall be required in all instances in which the purchasing
agent or department head determines such security to be in the best interests
of the village. The purchasing agent, department head or the Village Council
may require a performance bond, payment bond or other similar security before
awarding a contract, in such amount as is reasonably necessary to protect the
best interests of the village. A successful bidder shall forfeit any bid
deposit required upon failure of the successful bidder to enter into a contract
within the time specified after the award.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.18 PAYMENT OF MONEYS.
   All moneys belonging to the village shall be paid out upon presentation of a
valid warrant approved and signed by the Village Clerk and Village Manager and
issued in accordance with the Charter, by checks drawn by the Finance Director/
Treasurer or his or her deputy and countersigned by signatories duly approved
by the Village Council.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
§ 34.19 APPROVAL OF LEGAL DOCUMENTS.
   The Village Manager shall approve as to substance and sign, the Village
Clerk shall attest to, and the Village Attorney shall approve as to form all
contracts and agreements requiring the assent of the village, unless otherwise
provided for by law, the Charter, ordinance or the provisions of this Code. Any
contract or agreement by which the village incurs any financial obligation
shall first be approved by the Finance Director/Treasurer in accordance with
Chapter VII, § 3, of the Charter.
(Ord. 24.09, passed 6-26-23)
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   GARBAGE
      
51.   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
      
52.   INDUSTRIAL SEWER REGULATIONS
      
53.   WATER
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE
Section
   
50.01   Permission needed for garbage collection
   
50.02   Exclusive contracts
   
50.03   Clean premises must be maintained
   
50.04   Collection regulations
   
50.05   Service charge
   
50.06   Violations
§ 50.01 PERMISSION NEEDED FOR GARBAGE COLLECTION.
   No firm, person or corporation shall collect garbage, rubbish or trash from
any residence within the village without first obtaining permission from the
Village Council.
(Ord. 10.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 50.02 EXCLUSIVE CONTRACTS.
   The Village Council may grant an exclusive contract to one or more firms,
persons or corporations for the collection of garbage, trash and rubbish within
the Village of Lake Orion, or any part thereof; provided, however, that any
such agreement or contract executed pursuant to the terms hereof shall be for a
period of not longer than five years. The terms, provisions and conditions of
any such agreement or contract shall be within the discretion of the Village
Council.
(Ord. 10.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 50.03 CLEAN PREMISES MUST BE MAINTAINED.
   It shall be the duty of every person whether owner, lessee or renter of any
vacant lot, building or premises, including a place of business, hotel,
restaurant, apartment house, or other establishments to maintain the premises
in a clean, orderly condition. No person shall deposit garbage or refuse matter
which may become offensive or dangerous to public health in any alley, street
or other public place within the village limits or in any place or manner where
it may become dangerous or offensive to public health.
(Ord. 10.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 50.04 COLLECTION REGULATIONS.
   The following regulations shall govern the collection of garbage, trash or
rubbish:
   (A)   In all areas wherein garbage, trash or rubbish is collected by
collectors pursuant to contract with the village, garbage, trash or rubbish
shall be set out in proper waste containers on collection days prior to 6:00
a.m. and placed between the sidewalk and the curb. No garbage, trash or rubbish
shall be set out for collection by said contracted collectors except garbage,
trash or rubbish which shall be generated by the residential or commercial unit
upon which the service charge provided for in §
50.05 is imposed. It shall be the duty of every person, firm or corporation
setting containers out for collection by said contracted collectors to remove
empty containers from the curb area promptly after the same have been emptied.
In no event shall containers be placed at the curb area for a period longer
than 24 hours.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of every householder to provide himself with a
proper container or containers sufficient in number for holding the waste
accumulated between regular collections. The containers shall be not more than
20 gallons in size and when filled, shall not weigh more than 50 pounds.
   (C)   Containers shall have covers to prevent the scattering of contents.
   (D)   The Village Council shall have the authority to pass any further
regulations necessary to carry out the provisions and intent of this chapter by
resolution of the Council.
(Ord. 10.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92)
§ 50.05 SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   A service charge is hereby imposed upon each home, apartment, or
residential living unit located within the service area wherein garbage, trash,
or rubbish is collected by collectors pursuant to contract with the Village.
The service charge is also hereby imposed upon each commercial unit located
within the service area that uses the services of the contracted collector in
accordance with contractual provisions. The service charge shall be in the
amount of $33.30 per quarter to be billed on a quarterly basis. Any portion
thereof will be billed at $11.10 per month.
   (B)   Failure of any person, firm or corporation to pay the service charge
shall constitute a violation of this chapter and subject said person to the
penalties contained herein and in addition thereto said person, firm or
corporation shall be liable in a civil action for damages and the Village
Council at its discretion may impose a lien against the property and collect
same in the same manner as provided for the collection of real estate taxes.
   (C)   In the event a tenant or lessee is the occupant and fails, refuses or
neglects to pay the service charge as contained herein, the owner of said
premises shall after notice by the Village Clerk be jointly responsible with
the tenant or lessee for all charges falling due after said notice.
(Ord. 10.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92)
§ 50.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 51: SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Title
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Outside privies
   
51.04   Storm water system
   
51.05   Use of sewage disposal laterals
   
51.06   Prior existing connections
   
51.07   Industrial and commercial discharge
   
51.08   House connection sewer
   
51.09   Connection to laterals required
   
51.10   Management of the system
   
51.11   Enforcement
   
51.12   Village reservation of rights
Fees and Charges
   
51.25   Capital connection charge
   
51.26   Lateral benefit fee
   
51.27   Number of units assigned
   
51.28   Sewer disposal service charges
   
51.29   Permit and inspection fees
   
51.30   Deposit of revenue
   
51.31   Billing; due date; late penalty
   
51.32   Charges to be a lien
   
51.33   Fiscal year of the system
Sewer Connections
   
51.50   Definitions
   
51.51   Purpose
   
51.52   Connection required
   
51.53   Failure to connect; notice
   
51.54   Enforcement
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System
   
51.60   Purpose
   
51.61   Definitions
   
51.62   Applicability
   
51.63   Responsibility for administration
   
51.64   Ultimate responsibility
   
51.65   Discharge prohibitions
   
51.66   Prohibition of illicit connections
   
51.67   Right of entry for inspection
   
51.68   Suspension of MS4 access
   
51.69   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
51.70   Monitoring of discharges
   
51.71   Requirement to prevent, control, and reduce stormwater pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
51.72   Watercourse protection
   
51.73   Notification of spills
   
51.74   Enforcement, notice of violation
   
51.75   Enforcement measures
   
51.76   Cost of abatement of the violation
   
51.77   Injunctive relief
   
51.78   Compensatory action
   
51.79   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
51.80   Violations
   
51.81   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
51.98   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Industrial sewer regulations, see
Ch. 52
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Lake Orion
Extensions of the Paint Creek Interceptor.”
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AREA. The area served by the laterals shall be deemed to be the entire
Village of Lake Orion including the area served contiguous with the village
boundaries located in the Township of Orion in agreement with the Township of
Orion.
   CAPITAL CHARGE. The amount charged at the time and in the amount hereinafter
provided to each premises in the area served by the laterals for connecting or
being connected to the new construction or to existing laterals and represents
the proportionate cost allocable to such premises for the trunk and treatment
facilities by which sewage disposal services are immediately provided to said
areas.
   CHARGES FOR SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICES. The amount charged to each premises in
the area by the laterals for sewage disposal service which may include a debt
service factor.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Lake Orion, the legislative
and governing body thereof.
   COUNTY. The County of Oakland, Michigan.
   DWELLING. Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used
exclusively for residential purposes.
   DWELLING GROUP. A group of two or more detached or semi-detached one-family,
two-family or multiple dwellings occupying a parcel of land in common ownership
and having yards and courts in common.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE. A building having three or more dwelling units.
   DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A detached building having one dwelling unit.
   DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A detached building having two dwelling units.
   DWELLING UNIT. Any building or portion thereof which is designed or used for
one family exclusively for residential purposes, and having cooking facilities.
   FAMILY. One or more persons living together in one dwelling unit and
interrelated by bonds of marriage, blood or legal adoption. A FAMILY is
distinguished from a group occupying a rooming house, boarding house, lodging
house, club, fraternity house, hotel, motel, tourist home, or foster care group
home.
   INSPECTION, APPROVAL AND TAP FEE. The amount charged to each applicant by
the village to cover the cost of inspecting and approving the physical
connection to the system and the issuance of a connection permit.
   LATERAL BENEFIT FEE. The amount charged at the time and in the amount
hereinafter provided to each premises in the area served by the Laterals for
the availability to directly serve said premises by the new construction
facilities of the system and represents the proportionate cost allocable to
such premises for the lateral service made directly available to the premises
by the new construction.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. The laterals to be construed pursuant to contract dated
May 25, 1970, between the County of Oakland and the Village of Lake Orion and
any and all future extensions of the Paint Creek Interceptor Disposal System
which are being built or may be built by the County under contract with the
village now or hereafter.
   PREMISES. The lands included within the boundaries of a single description
as set forth from time to time on the general tax rolls of the village as a
single item in the name of the taxpayer or taxpayers at one address whether
such property be taxable or exempt from taxation, but in the case of platted
lots shall be limited to a single platted lot unless a building or structure is
so located on more than one lot as to make the same a single description for
purposes of assessment or conveyance now or hereafter. In the event single
descriptions are combined so that a new description is set forth on the general
tax rolls of the village as a single item, such combination shall not abate the
obligation to continue payment of capital or lateral charges to each premises
existing prior to the combination.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL LATERALS and LATERALS. The Lake Orion extrusions of the
Paint Creek interceptor established under Public Act 185 of 1957, as amended,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 46.171 through 46.185, to be constructed by the County under
a certain contract dated May 25, 1970, between the County of Oakland and the
Village of Lake Orion, together with all additions and extensions of such new
construction as are hereinafter defined and additions and extensions thereto.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SERVICE. Refers to the collection, transportation,
treatment, and disposal of sanitary sewage emanating from premises now or
hereafter in the area served by the sewage disposal laterals.
   SYSTEM. The entire sanitary sewer disposal system located within the Village
of Lake Orion.
   UNIT. That quantity of sanitary sewage ordinarily arising from the occupancy
of a residential building by a single family of ordinary size. The number of
units or fractional parts thereof to be assigned to types or determined by the
Council from time to time, as herein after provided. The determination of units
shall be based upon studies relative to the quantity of sewage generated by
different types of use and occupancy of premises and shall be kept up-to-date
and revised as needed and as new studies are made and through experience gained
by the village in the actual operation of the Sewage Disposal System.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Lake Orion, Michigan.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70; Am. Ord. 23.13, passed 6-12-78; Am. Ord. 23.14,
passed 1-8-79; Am. Ord. 23.16, passed 9-14-81)
§ 51.03 OUTSIDE PRIVIES.
   No privies or outdoor toilets shall be allowed, constructed, or used within
the village.
(Ord. 145, passed 5-23-66) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.04 STORM WATER SYSTEM.
   (A)   Authority. The Village Council shall have authority to authorize the
design and construction of a storm water system.
   (B)   Storm water system. The storm water system shall include, but not be
limited to, pumping stations, catch basins, pipes and retention ponds.
   (C)   Tap in fee. All applicants applying for hook-up to the storm water
system shall pay a tap in fee to the village. The tap in fee shall be equal to
the cost the village incurs in designing and constructing the system. The tap
in fee shall include all engineering costs and the cost of all off site
improvements.
(Ord. 29.01, passed 4-8-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.05 USE OF SEWAGE DISPOSAL LATERALS.
   All sewage disposal laterals shall be used for the collection and
transportation of sanitary sewage only. Yard drains, patio drains, catch
basins, downspouts, footing drains, weep tile, water cooled refrigeration and/
or water cooled air condition, or any conduit that carries storm or ground
water along or in combination with sanitary sewage shall not be connected to
the laterals directly or indirectly
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.06 PRIOR EXISTING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Perimeter and footing drains from buildings existing on or before July
1, 1970 that were legally permitted and connected to a sanitary sewer system in
the village prior to July 1, 1970 shall not be required to disconnect from the
sanitary sewer system; providing however, that roof waters from the buildings
permitted and connected in accordance with this section shall not discharge
into any flower or shrub bed adjacent to the building wall nor upon the ground
within five feet of the building wall. Where local setback, side yard or rear
yard requirements result in the building being located less than five feet from
the property line, then the downspout shall be discharged in a manner approved
by the local building inspector. The downspout piping used in connection with
roof waters from the buildings permitted under this section shall be affixed to
the building and installed in such a manner as shall be approved by the Village
Manager or his designated representative.
   (B)   The surface of the ground around such buildings permitted and
connected in accordance with this division shall be sloped in such a manner as
to provide positive drainage of all roof and surface waters away from the
building. The slopes shall be uniform and shall be such that the elevation of
the surface of the ground at a point ten feet from the base of the building is
a minimum of six inches lower than the ground elevation at the base of the
building wall. Where local setback, side yard, or rear yard requirements would
result in the building being located less than ten feet from the property line,
then the surface water of the ground shall slope away from the building wall at
a uniform minimum slope of 5/8 inch per foot and in a manner approved by the
local building inspector.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.07 INDUSTRIAL AND COMMERCIAL DISCHARGE.
   All industrial and commercial waste may be discharged into the system only
when in compliance with the standards and regulations of the Oakland County
Department of Public Works and in compliance with standards and regulations as
established by the City of Detroit.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.08 HOUSE CONNECTION SEWER.
   (A)    The house connection sewer extending from the lateral sewer in the
street or easement to within five feet from the house or other building from
which sewage emanated shall be:
      (1)   Six-inch full diameter Extra Strength Vitrified Sewer Pipe
manufactured in accordance with current N.C.P.I. Designation ER 4-67 Standards,
or equal with Oakland County Department of Public Works approved premium joint;
or
      (2)   Six-inch diameter Class 2400 Asbestos Cement Pipe with ring-tite,
fluid-tite or Oakland County Department of Public Works approved joint; or
      (3)   Six-inch diameter service strength cast iron soil pipe with hot
poured lead joint, or Oakland County Department of Public Works approved equal;
or
      (4)   Other pipe and joints as may be approved by the Oakland County
Department of Public Works.
   (B)   Copies of the Oakland County Department of Public Works approved
joints shall be on file at the office of the village.
   (C)   All house connection sewers shall be six-inch minimum diameter, except
that four-inch pipe of comparable strength and joint material may be used when
such meets all requirements of the Oakland County Department of Public Works
and of the village. All joints shall be tight and when tested for infiltration
or exfiltration, shall not exceed the requirements of the Oakland County
Department of Public Works. Copies of such rules and regulations shall at all
times be kept in the office of the village.
   (D)   The iron pipes inside any building or structure shall be plugged and
leaded and remain plugged and watertight until such time as the plumbing is
carried on to the first floor, the basement, if any, backfilled and the roof is
on said building thereby preventing water from entering the sanitary sewer from
the excavated basement or other excavated area beneath said building.
   (E)   The sewer lateral pipe from the property line to the building on
private property shall be installed, repaired and maintained by the owner of
the premises. Blockages caused or damages caused by the property owner to the
Village's lateral from the main to the property line is also the property
owner's responsibility.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70; Am. Ord. 23.38, passed 2-10-20) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.09 CONNECTION TO LATERALS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Premises in the areas served by the sewage disposal laterals which
abut upon or are crossed by existing facilities or new construction or
extensions of either from which sewage emanates, shall not be used or occupied
after the effective date hereof unless said premises shall be connected to the
laterals; provided, however that such premises shall be connected to said
laterals within 12 months after the laterals immediately serving such premises
are completed and approved for service.
   (B)   Permits to improve platted or unplatted premises after the effective
date hereof, which premises are within the area served by the laterals and
which abut upon existing facilities or new construction or extensions of either
shall not be approved or issued on behalf of the village and none of said
premises shall be improved hereafter by the erection thereupon of a building or
structure for human use or occupancy, unless said premises are connected to
that part of the system available for service to such premises.
   (C)   Divisions (A) and (B) of this section are subject to the provisions
and conditions of Public Act 151 of 1961, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 123.191
through 123.195, and the village Charter.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.10 MANAGEMENT OF THE SYSTEM.
   The operation, maintenance, alteration, repair and management of the system
shall be under the supervision and control of the Village Council and
administered by the Village Manager. The Village Manager may employ such person
or persons in such capacity or capacities as he deems necessary to carry on the
efficient management and operation of the System and may make such rules,
orders and regulations as he deems advisable and necessary to assure the
efficient management and operation of the system with the approval of the
Village Council.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
§ 51.11 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be enforceable through the bringing of
appropriate action for injunction, mandamus, or otherwise, in any court having
jurisdiction. Any violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.12 VILLAGE RESERVATION OF RIGHTS.
   The village specifically reserves the right to amend this chapter in whole
or in part, at one or more times hereafter, or to repeal the same, and by such
amendment or repeal to abandon, increase, decrease or otherwise modify the
fees, charges or rates herein provided with the understanding, however, that
the adoption of this chapter or its subsequent amendment or repeal shall in no
wise change, relieve or release the contractual and legal obligation of the
village to make the required payments to the County of Oakland under and as set
forth in any contract pertaining to the Paint Creek Interceptor Sewage Disposal
System, the Lake Orion Extensions of the Paint Creek Interceptor Sewage
Disposal System, and any improvements, extensions and enlargements thereof or
under applicable law, or relieve or release the contractual and legal
obligation pursuant to said contract and applicable law to levy a tax or to use
any other means or available funds to make the required payments to the county,
and this chapter shall not be deemed to be a part of any contractual obligation
or bond contract pertaining to the laterals.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
FEES AND CHARGES
§ 51.25 CAPITAL CONNECTION CHARGE
   (A)   Owners of premises within the area served by the laterals from which
sanitary sewage emanates on the date of enactment hereof and which premises are
hereafter connected to the system, shall pay a capital charge for connection to
the system in an amount to be established by resolution of the Village Council
at a regular meeting after public hearing per connection, if paid in cash at
the time of obtaining a connection permit from the village. The owner may elect
to pay cash at the time of obtaining a connection permit or may elect to defer
the payment of such charge over a period of 20 equal payments in which event
the amount to be paid over such period shall be an additional 50% per
connection. Any owner electing to pay the capital charge on a time-payment plan
may, at any time, prepay the unpaid balance of such capital charge with a 33 1/
3% discount on the then remaining balance due and owing.
   (B)   Owners of premises within the area served by the laterals upon which
buildings or structures having sanitary or industrial sewage facilities are
hereafter constructed, from which sewage shall emanate and which premises are
connected to the system, shall pay a capital charge to the system in an amount
to be established by resolution of the Village Council at a regular meeting
after public hearing per unit or portion thereof, as determined by the Oakland
County Department of Public Works "Schedule of Unit Assignment Factors, July 1,
1998," in cash, at the time of obtaining a connection permit from the village.
The County Schedule of Unit Assignment Factors shall remain on file for public
inspection in the office of the Village Clerk.
   (C)   Owners of premises within the area served by the laterals upon which
structures or buildings are located and for which provision has been made for
the connection to the system shall be obligated to pay the applicable capital
charge for connection to the system on the basis of a deferred payment of such
charge over a period of 20 equal payments. This charge shall be an obligation
regardless of whether the buildings or structures are connected to the system
and a subsequent change in the character of the use or type of occupancy of the
premises (including destruction, removal or abandonment of any or all
improvements thereon) shall not abate the obligation to continue the payment of
this capital charge.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70; Am. Ord. 23.11, passed 5-23-77; Am. Ord. 23.23,
passed 2-10-86; Am. Ord. 23.26, passed 11-27-89; Am. Ord. 23.30, passed 3-22-
99; Am. Ord. 23.34, passed 11-9-15)
Cross-reference:
   Charges and fees as a lien, see §
51.32
§ 51.26 LATERAL BENEFIT FEE.
   (A)   Owners of premises within the area served by the laterals from which
sewage emanates on the date of enactment hereof and which premises are crossed
by or abut upon the new construction or which abut upon or are crossed by
existing laterals other than those existing laterals previously installed as
part of a Special Assessment District or installed and financed at private cost
shall pay a lateral benefit fee upon connecting to the system in an amount
established by resolution of the Village Council at a regular meeting after
public hearing per connection, if paid in cash at the time of obtaining a
connection permit from the village. The owner may elect to pay cash at the time
of obtaining a connection permit or may elect to defer the payment of such
charge over a period of 20 equal annual installments, in which event the amount
to be paid over such period shall be an additional 50% per connection. Any
owner electing to pay the lateral benefit fee on a time-payment plan may at any
time thereafter prepay the unpaid balance of such lateral benefit fee with a 33
1/3% discount on the then remaining balance due and owing. In case of a
commercial account or multi-family account, the connection fee will be an
amount established by resolution of the Village Council at a regular meeting
after public hearing, if paid in cash at the time of obtaining a connection
permit, and an additional 50% to defer the payment of such charge over 20 equal
annual installments.
   (B)   Owners of premises within the area served by the laterals upon which
buildings or structures having sanitary or industrial sewage facilities are
hereafter constructed and from which sewage shall emanate and which premises
are crossed by or abut upon the new construction or which abut or are crossed
by existing laterals, other than those existing laterals previously installed
as a part of a Special Assessment District or installed and financed at private
cost shall pay a lateral benefit fee upon connecting to the system in an amount
established by resolution of the Village Council at a regular meeting after
public hearing per connection, in cash, at the time of obtaining a connection
permit from the village and prior to the issuance of any construction permit
for the erection of buildings or structures on the land.
   (C)   Owners of premises within the area served by the laterals upon which
structures or buildings are located and for which provision has been made for
connection to the system and which premises are crossed by or abut upon the new
construction or which abut upon or are crossed by existing laterals other than
those existing laterals previously installed and financed at private cost, and
which premises are not connected to the system shall be billed for the
applicable lateral benefit fee for connection to the system on the basis of a
deferred payment of such charge over a period of 20 equal payments. Subsequent
changes in the character of the use or type of occupancy of the premises
(including destruction, removal or abandonment of any or all improvements
thereon) shall not abate the obligation to continue the payment of the lateral
benefit.
   (D)   (1)   In the event a premises cannot be served by gravity due to the
elevation of the sewer, it shall be necessary for the owner to install a
grinder or non-grinder pump meeting the specifications of this section to
facilitate the proper discharge of the sewage from the premises. The minimum
specifications for the grinder pump shall be adopted and may be amended by
resolution of the Village Council and will be available at the Village Hall.
All installations shall meet these minimum specifications and current state,
county and village requirements, as determined by the Village Manager after
consulting with the Village Engineers.
      (2)   Only the premises not able to be served by gravity as determined by
the Village Consulting Engineers shall be allowed to utilize the grinder pump.
      (3)   Non-grinder pumps must be capable of passing three inch or larger
spheres and pump suction and discharge openings must be at least four inches in
diameter, or meet current state, county and village requirements as determined
by the Village Manager after consulting with the Village Engineers. It is
hereby provided further that the village shall provide to owners, upon request,
detailed specifications of grinder and non-grinder pumps.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70; Am. Ord. 23.04, passed 3-12-73; Am. Ord. 23.10,
passed 5-23-77; Am. Ord. 23.11, passed 5-23-77; Am. Ord. 23.21, passed 2-11-85;
Am. Ord. 23.23, passed 2-10-86; Am. Ord. 23.30, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord. 23.32,
passed 4-22-02; Am. Ord. 23.34, passed 11-9-15)
Cross-reference:
   Charges and fees as a lien, see §
51.32
§ 51.27 NUMBER OF UNITS ASSIGNED.
   (A)   The number of units to be assigned to any particular premises shall be
determined by the Ordinance of the Council and its decision shall be final.
Council, if the circumstances justify, may assign more than one unit to a
single family dwelling. No less than one unit shall be assigned to each
premises but for purpose of computing the capital charge and the lateral
benefit fee herein set forth, units in excess of one may be computed and
assigned to the nearest 1/10 of a unit. Once premises have been connected to
the lateral, subsequent changes in the character of the use or type of
occupancy of said premises (including destruction, removal or abandonment of
any or all improvements thereon) shall not abate the obligation to continue the
payment of the capital charge or the lateral benefit fee herein set forth
charged to said premises in the amount and for the period here in be fore
provided and if subsequent changes at the time increase the amount of sanitary
sewage emanating from the premises, the Council may, in its discretion,
increase the number of units assigned to said premises and thereupon any
additional capital charge occasioned by such increase in units or fractional
parts thereof shall be payable in cash at the time of construction or other
permit is issued by the village for such changes in use occurs if no permit is
issued or required.
   (B)   The schedule of units generated by different types of use and
occupancy may be determined and established by separate ordinance enacted by
the Council and may, from time to time, thereafter be amended by the Council,
providing, however, that such ordinance shall never in any way be changed in
such manner as shall be contrary to the obligation and limitation set forth in
any contractual agreement, pertaining to the laterals, between the village and
the county, or contrary to the obligations of the contract between the village
and the county pertaining to the Paint Creek Interceptor Disposal System.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
§ 51.28 SEWER DISPOSAL SERVICE CHARGES.
   Charges for sewage disposal services to each premises in the area served by
the laterals shall be as follows:
   (A)   Usage charges for metered sewage disposal services to each premise in
the area served by laterals shall be set by the Village Council in a resolution
adopted at a regular meeting, after a public hearing is held on the proposed
charges.
   (B)   Usage charges for unmetered sewage disposal services to each premises
in the area served by laterals shall be set by the Village Council using the
procedure noted above in division (A).
   (C)   (1)   In addition to the usage charges listed above, all non-
residential premises shall be charged a quarterly surcharge based upon meter
size. This quarterly surcharge shall be set by the Village Council, using the
procedure noted above in division (A).
      (2)   Once premises have been assigned debt service charges, subsequent
changes in the character of the use or type of occupancy of the premises shall
not abate the obligation to continue the payment of the debt service charge
herein set forth or decrease the applicable unit factor. If subsequent changes
in the character of the use or type of occupancy of the premises increase the
applicable unit factor, then such debt service charge shall be increased
accordingly to reflect such change; provided, however, that if the charges are
increased because of a change of use, further changes in the occupancy
thereafter shall be adjusted upward or downward in accordance with the use, but
in no event shall the debt service charge be less than that applicable under
the unit factor in effect on June 12, 1978.
   (D)   The charges set by the Village Council shall never in any way be
changed in such a manner as shall be contrary to the obligation and limitations
set forth in any contractual agreement pertaining to the laterals between the
village and the county, or contrary to the obligations and limitations of the
contract between the village and the county pertaining to the Paint Creek
Interceptor Sewage Disposal system.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70; Am. Ord. 23.15, passed 2-13-79; Am. Ord. 23.20,
passed 7-25-83; Am. Ord. 23.22, passed 12-23-85; Am. Ord. 23.24, passed 2-10-
86; Am. Ord. 23.25, passed 5-26-87; Am. Ord. 23.30, passed 3-22-99; Am. Ord.
23.37, passed 9-25-17)
§ 51.29 PERMIT AND INSPECTION FEES.
   The owner of any premises within the area served by the laterals shall pay
such permit and inspection fee as may be established by the Village Council,
which fee shall reimburse the village for any and all cost necessary to issue a
permit add inspect the connection of said premises. This fee shall be in
addition to all other charges and fees set forth herein.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
§ 51.30 DEPOSIT OF REVENUE.
   (A)   All revenue derived hereunder shall be set aside as collected and
deposited in a bank duly qualified to do business in the state in an account to
be designated “Village of Lake Orion Extensions of the Paint Creek Disposal
System Receiving Fund” (hereunder referred to as “The Receiving Fund”) and the
revenue so deposited shall be transferred from the Receiving Fund to such other
funds as are herein established in the manner and at the times hereinafter set
forth.
      (1)   Operation and Maintenance Fund. Out of the revenue in the Receiving
Fund there shall be first set aside quarter-annually into separate account
designated “Operation and Maintenance Fund” a sum sufficient to provide for the
payment of the next quarter's current expenses of administration and operation
of the system and such current expenses for the maintenance thereof as may be
necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order.
      (2)   Bond and Interest Redemption Fund. Out of the revenues in The
Receiving Fund there shall next be set aside quarter-annually into a separate
account designated “Bond and Interest Redemption Fund” a sum not less than one-
quarter of that amount necessary to meet the next annual payment of interest
and bond redemption. All monies received from Capital Payments and Lateral
Benefit Payments shall be put into the Bond and Interest Redemption Fund.
      (3)   Improvement and Reserve Fund. Out of the revenue in The Receiving
Fund there shall lastly be set aside once annually into a separate account
designated “Improvement and Reserve Fund,” such sums which shall be in excess
of the needs and requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund, such
excess to be held for the purpose of improving, enlarging and extending the
Village of Lake Orion Extensions of the Paint Creek Sewage Disposal System and
for the purpose of providing a reserve fund for all future payments of interest
and bond redemption.
   (B)   All monies belonging to any of the foregoing funds or accounts may be
kept in one bank account, in which event, the monies shall be properly
allocated on the books and records of the village within this single bank
account in the manner seat forth above.
   (C)   In the event monies in The Receiving Fund are insufficient to meet the
requirements of the Operation and Maintenance Fund or the requirements of the
Bond and Interest Redemption Fund, then such funds or securities in the
Improvement and Reserve Fund shall be transferred to either or both of such
funds to the extent of any deficit that might exist therein.
   (D)   Monies in any fund or account established by the provisions of this
chapter may be invested in such securities as may hereafter be permitted by
law. In the event such investments are made, the securities representing the
same shall be kept on deposit with the bank or trust company having on deposit
the fund or funds from which such purchase was made. Income received from such
investments shall be credited to the fund from which said investments were
made.
   (E)   All funds received under this chapter from the Lake Orion Extensions
of the Paint Creek Sewage Disposal System shall not, under any circumstances,
be commingled with any other funds received by the village.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
§ 51.31 BILLING; DUE DATE; LATE PENALTY.
   No free service shall be furnished by the system to the village or to any
person, firm or corporation, public or private, or to any public agency or
instrumentality. Charges for services furnished by the village to any premises
shall be billed quarterly on such dates as the Village Manager on an area
basis, may from time to time, determine. Such charges shall become due at such
times, not exceeding 30 days after established billing dates and if such
charges are not paid on or before such due date, then a penalty of 10% shall be
added thereto.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
§ 51.32 CHARGES TO BE A LIEN.
   All charges for lateral benefit fee, capital charge and charges for sewage
disposal furnished by the village to any premises shall be a lien thereon, and
if any charge is not paid before it becomes delinquent, such charge may be
certified to the Village Treasurer by the Village Council and assessed against
the property on the next village tax roll, in which event such charge shall be
collected and returned in the same manner as other village taxes are collected
and returned; provided that any charge shall not be so certified which has not
been delinquent for a period of at least 30 days.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70; Am. Ord. 23.28, passed 5-22-95)
§ 51.33 FISCAL YEAR OF THE SYSTEM.
   The system shall be operated upon the basis of July l as the beginning of
the fiscal year.
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70)
SEWER CONNECTIONS
§ 51.50 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER. A public sanitary sewer system located in
the right- of-way, easement, highway, street or public way which crosses,
adjoins or abuts upon the property and passing not more than 200 feet at the
nearest point from a structure in which sanitary sewage originates.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Lake Orion, the legislative
and governing body thereof.
   COUNTY. The County or Oakland, Michigan.
   PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A sanitary sewer or a combined sanitary and
storm sewer used or intended for use by the public for collection and
transportation of sanitary sewage for treatment or disposal.
   SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM. The Lake Orion Sanitary Sewage Disposal system.
   STRUCTURE or STRUCTURE IN WHICH SANITARY SEWAGE ORIGINATES. A building in
which toilet, kitchen, laundry, bathing or other facilities which generate
water-carried sanitary sewage are used or are available for use for household,
commercial, industrial or other purposes.
   SYSTEM. Refers to the sewage disposal system.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Lake Orion, Michigan.
(Ord. 23.05, passed 3-12-73)
§ 51.51 PURPOSE.
   Public sanitary sewer systems are essential to the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the state and the septic tank disposal systems are
subject to failure due to soil conditions or other reasons. Failure to
potential failure or septic tank disposal systems poses a threat to the public
health, safety and welfare; presents a potential for ill health, transmission
of disease, mortality and potential economic blight and constitutes a threat to
the quality or surface and subsurface waters of the state and the village. The
connection to available public sanitary sewer systems at the earliest,
reasonable date is a matter for the protection of the public health, safety and
welfare and necessary in the public interest which is declared as a matter of
legislative determination.
(Ord. 23.05, passed 3-12-73)
§ 51.52 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Structures in which sanitary sewage originates located in the village in the
area served by the system for which there is an available public sanitary sewer
of the system shall not be used or occupied after the effective date hereof,
unless the structures are connected to the sewage disposal system; provided
that structures within the village in which sanitary sewage is originating on
the effective date hereof or in which sanitary sewage originates before
availability of the system or any part thereof to serve the structures shall be
connected to the system within 12 months after publication of a notice by the
village in the Lake Orion Review, a newspaper of general circulation in the
village, of the availability of the system.
(Ord. 23.05, passed 3-12-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.53 FAILURE TO CONNECT; NOTICE.
   When the structure in which sanitary sewage originates has not been
connected to an available public sanitary sewer system before use and
occupancy, or within the 12 months period provided in this subchapter, the
village shall require the connection to be made forthwith after notice, which
may be by first class or certified mail or posting on the property, to the
owner of the property on which the structure is located. The notice shall give
the approximate location of the public sanitary sewer of the system which is
available for connection of the structure involved and shall advise the owner
of the requirements and of the enforcement provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 23.05, passed 3-12-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 51.54 ENFORCEMENT.
   Where any structure in which sanitary sewage originates is not connected to
an available public sanitary sewer system within 90 days after the date of
mailing or posting of the written notice, the provisions of this subchapter
shall be enforceable through the bringing of appropriate action or injunction,
mandamus, or otherwise, in any court having jurisdiction. Any violation of this
subchapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
(Ord. 23.05, passed 3-12-73) Penalty, see §
10.99
MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM
§ 51.60 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the village through the regulation of
stormwater and nonstormwater discharges to the storm drainage system to the
maximum extent practicable as required by Federal and state law. This
subchapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of pollutants
into the municipal separate storm sewer system (MS4) in order to comply with
requirements of the National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES)
permit process. The objectives of this subchapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system (MS4) by stormwater discharges by any user.
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system.
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection,
surveillance, and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with
this subchapter.
   (D)   As a requirement of the NPDES stormwater discharge permit and the
village's municipal separate storm sewer system permit, the village accepts the
following Oakland County Standards for Post-Construction Storm Water Runoff:
      (1)   The Oakland County Post-Construction Storm Water Runoff Program
including the Oakland County Stormwater Engineering Design Standards as amended
from time to time, is hereby adopted by the Village of Lake Orion in this
section for the control and treatment of stormwater runoff with the exception
that all developments subject to this section shall provide acceptable water
quality treatment BMPs designed to achieve 80% removal efficiency of total
suspended solids from the runoff produced by a one-inch rainfall event.
      (2)   The property owner, upon completion of construction, must enter
into a binding long-term maintenance agreement with the village, at their own
expense, to document, routinely monitor and maintain the stormwater quantity
and quality BMPs so they continue to operate as designed. The agreement shall
be set up that if the property owner should be determined to be non-responsive
to a notice of required maintenance actions, that the village may enter the
property to perform the maintenance required.
      (3)   These standards shall apply to address post-construction storm
water runoff from new development and redevelopment projects that disturb one
or more acres, including projects less than one acre that are part of a larger
common plan of development or sale, and that discharge into the village's MS4.
      (4)   All permanent and temporary stormwater management BMPs, constructed
as part of the requirements of this section, are subject to this section.
      (5)   This section also applies to any activities which may affect the
quantity or quality of a private or stormwater conveyance system or any
waterway within the village. Any person(s) engaged in activities that may
result in excessive quantities or pollutants entering any stormwater conveyance
systems or waterways may be subject to the remedies for violation of this
section. Examples of such pollutants may include, but is not limited to,
debris, concrete washings, deicing materials, fertilizers, heavy metals,
automobile fluids, topsoil, yard wastes, and commercial or light industrial
wastes.
      (6)   Natural swales and channels should be preserved, whenever possible.
If channel modification must occur, the physical characteristics of the
modified channel will meet the existing channel in length, cross-section,
slope, sinuosity, and carrying capacity. Streams and channels will be expected
to withstand all events up to the two-year storm without increased erosion.
      (7)   Channel Protection Volume Control (CPVC) must retain onsite the
post-development runoff volume from a 1.3-inch rainfall event. Provide
infiltration and/or storage/reuse BMPs to the Maximum Extent Possible (MEP).
      (8)   Channel Protection Rate Control (CPRC) must provide extended
detention for the post-development runoff volume from a 1.9-inch rainfall
event.
      (9)   All structural and vegetative BMPs must be installed and
implemented to meet the performance standards shall be operated and maintained
in perpetuity. The permittee shall implement and enforce the ordinance or
regulatory mechanism program to ensure long-term operation and maintenance of
BMPs.
      (10)   The regulatory mechanism and procedures for site plan approval and
the Design and Construction Standards shall apply for projects that disturb one
or more acres, including projects less than one acre that are part of a larger
common plan of development or sale, and discharge to the permittee's MS4,
including projects where the permittee is the developer. The final site plan
review and approval shall demonstrate compliance with the performance standards
and long-term operation and maintenance requirements stated in this subchapter.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16; Am. Ord. 23.29, passed 4-25-22)
§ 51.61 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this subchapter, the following shall mean:
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. The Building Inspector or designees of the
Village Manager for the Village of Lake Orion.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPS). Schedules of activities, prohibitions of
practices, general good housekeeping practices, pollution prevention and
educational practices, maintenance procedures, and other management practices
to prevent or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to
stormwater, receiving waters, or stormwater conveyance systems. BMPs also
include treatment practices, operating procedures, and practices to control
site runoff, spillage or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw
materials storage.
   CHANNEL PROTECTION RATE CONTROL (CPRC). The volume of runoff under post-
development conditions from a 1.9-inch rainfall event that requires extended
detention be provided.
   CHANNEL PROTECTION VOLUME CONTROL (CPVC). The volume of runoff under post-
development conditions from a 1.3-inch rainfall event that is required to be
retained on-site to the  maximum extent practicable (MEP).
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. 1251 et
seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits or
the village's grading ordinance. These include construction projects resulting
in land disturbance of five acres or more. Such activities include but are not
limited to clearing and grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLEGAL DISCHARGE. Any direct or indirect nonstormwater discharge to the
storm drain system, except as exempted in §
51.65 of this subchapter.
   ILLICIT CONNECTIONS. An illicit connection is defined as either of the
following:
      (1)   Any drain or conveyance, whether on the surface or subsurface,
which allows an illegal discharge to enter the storm drain system including,
but not limited to, any conveyances which allow any nonstormwater discharge
including sewage, process wastewater, and wash water to enter the storm drain
system and any connections to the storm drain system from indoor drains and
sinks, regardless of whether said drain or connection had been previously
allowed, permitted, or approved by the authorized enforcement agency; or
      (2)   Any drain or conveyance connected from a commercial or industrial
land use to the storm drain system which has not been documented in plans,
maps, or equivalent records and approved by the authorized enforcement agency.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR § 122.26(b)(14).
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORMWATER DISCHARGE
PERMIT. A permit issued by the EPA (or by a state under authority delegated
pursuant to 33 USC 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of pollutants to
waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on an individual,
group, or general area-wide basis.
   NONSTORMWATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is not
composed entirely of stormwater.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner’s agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution. POLLUTANTS may
include, but are not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other
automotive fluids; nonhazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes;
refuse, rubbish, garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects,
ordinances, and accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to
pollution; floatables; pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous
substances and wastes; sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and
particulate metals; animal wastes; wastes and residues that result from
constructing a building or structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any
kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking areas.
   STORM DRAINAGE SYSTEM. Publicly-owned or privately-owned facilities by which
stormwater is collected and/or conveyed including, but not limited to, any
roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped
storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
   STORMWATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORMWATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the discharges
to stormwater, stormwater conveyance systems, and/or receiving waters to the
maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated stormwater,
discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16; Am. Ord. 23.29, passed 4-25-22)
§ 51.62 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply to all water entering the storm drain system
generated on any developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by
the authorized enforcement agency.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.63 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The Village Manager or the Village Manager’s designee(s), shall administer,
implement, and enforce the provisions of this subchapter. Any powers granted or
duties imposed upon the authorized enforcement agency may be delegated in
writing by the Village Manager to persons or entities acting in the beneficial
interest of or in the employ of the agency.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.64 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this subchapter
are minimum standards; therefore this subchapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.65 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the municipal
storm drain system or watercourses any materials, including but not limited to
pollutants or waters containing any pollutants that cause or contribute to a
violation of applicable water quality standards, other than stormwater.
   (B)   The commencement, conduct or continuance of any illegal discharge to
the storm drain system is prohibited except as described as follows:
      (1)   The following discharges are exempt from discharge prohibitions
established by this subchapter if they are identified as not being a
significant source of pollutants and/or a significant contributor to violations
of state quality standards: water line flushing and discharges from other
potable water sources, landscape irrigation or lawn watering runoff, diverted
stream flows, rising groundwater and springs, uncontaminated groundwater
infiltration and seepage, uncontaminated pumped groundwater (except for
groundwater cleanups specifically authorized by NPDES permits), foundation or
footing drains (not including active groundwater dewatering systems), crawl
space pumps, air conditioning condensation, springs, noncommercial washing of
vehicles, natural riparian habitat or wetland flows, swimming pools from
single, two or three family residences (if dechlorinated, typically less than
one PPM chlorine), fire-fighting activities, and any other water source not
containing pollutants.
      (2)   Discharges specified in writing by the authorized enforcement
agency as being necessary to protect public health and safety.
      (3)   Dye testing is an allowable discharge, but requires authorization
from the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (Rule 97 certification of
approval) and a verbal notification to the authorized enforcement agency prior
to the time of the test.
      (4)   The prohibition shall not apply to any nonstormwater discharge
permitted under an NPDES permit, waiver, or waste discharge order issued to the
discharger and administered under the authority of the Federal Environmental
Protection Agency, provided that the discharger is in full compliance with all
requirements of the permit, waiver, or order and other applicable laws and
regulations, and provided that written approval has been granted for any
discharge to the storm drain system.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.66 PROHIBITION OF ILLICIT CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The construction, use, maintenance, or continued existence of illicit
connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
   (B)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
   (C)   A person is considered to be in violation of this subchapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 51.67 RIGHT OF ENTRY FOR INSPECTION.
   The Village Manager and other duly authorized employees of the village
bearing proper credentials and identification shall be permitted to enter upon
all properties for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement,
sampling, and testing of suspected illicit discharges or connections in
accordance with the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-2016)
§ 51.68 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The
authorized enforcement agency may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge
access to a person when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or
threatened discharge which presents or may present imminent and substantial
danger to the environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the
MS4 or waters of the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a
suspension order issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may
take such steps as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or
waters of the United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this subchapter may have their MS4
access terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit
discharge. The authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the
proposed termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the
authorized enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing. A person
commits an offense if the person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated
pursuant to this section, without the prior approval of the authorized
enforcement agency.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.69 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES
stormwater discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit.
Proof of compliance with said permit may be required in a form acceptable to
the authorized enforcement agency prior to the allowing of discharges to the
MS4.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.70 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities that have
stormwater discharges associated with industrial activity, including
construction activity.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The authorized enforcement agency shall be permitted to enter and
inspect facilities subject to regulation under this article as often as may be
necessary to determine compliance with this subchapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the authorized enforcement
agency.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the authorized enforcement agency
ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of inspection,
sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept under the
conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge stormwater, and the performance of
any additional duties as defined by state and Federal law.
      (3)   The authorized enforcement agency shall have the right to set up on
any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of the
authorized enforcement agency to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the
facility’s stormwater discharge.
      (4)   The authorized enforcement agency has the right to require the
discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility’s
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure stormwater flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the authorized enforcement agency
and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be borne by
the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the authorized enforcement agency
access to a permitted facility are a violation of a stormwater discharge permit
and of this subchapter. A person who is the operator of a facility with a NPDES
permit to discharge stormwater associated with industrial activity commits an
offense if the person denies the authorized enforcement agency reasonable
access to the permitted facility for the purpose of conducting any activity
authorized or required by this subchapter.
      (7)   If the authorized enforcement agency has been refused access to any
part of the premises from which stormwater is discharged, and he/she is able to
demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of this
subchapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this
subchapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public
health, safety, and welfare of the community, then the authorized enforcement
agency may seek issuance of a search warrant from any court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.71 REQUIREMENT TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORMWATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   All stormwater drainage and erosion control plans shall meet the standards
adopted by the village and Oakland County for design and construction.
Authorized enforcement agency may adopt requirements identifying best
management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may cause
or contribute to pollution or contamination of stormwater, the storm drain
system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and nonstructural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and nonstructural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of stormwater associated with
industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance with
the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a stormwater
pollution prevention plan (SWPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16; Am. Ord. 23.29, passed 4-25-22)
§ 51.72 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person’s lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.73 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into stormwater, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S. said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials
said person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of
nonhazardous materials, said person shall notify the authorized enforcement
agency in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the authorized enforcement agency within three business
days of the phone notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates
from a commercial or industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such
establishment shall also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and
the actions taken to prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for
at least three years.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.74 ENFORCEMENT, NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   (A)   Whenever the authorized enforcement agency finds that a person has
violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement of this subchapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may order compliance by written notice of
violation to the responsible person. Such notice may require without
limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of stormwater pollution or
contamination hazards and the restoration of any affected property;
      (5)   The payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation
costs; and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   If abatement of a violation and/or restoration of affected property is
required, the notice shall set forth a deadline within which such remediation
or restoration must be completed. Said notice shall further advise that, should
the violator fail to remediate or restore within the established deadline, the
work will be done by a designated governmental agency or a contractor and the
expense thereof shall be charged to the violator.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.75 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, then representatives of the authorized
enforcement agency may enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property upon the issuance of an order from a court of competent
jurisdiction. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or person in
possession of any premises to refuse to allow the government agency or
designated contractor to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth
above.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.76 COST OF ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   (A)   Within 15 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the
property will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative
costs. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner as determined by
the decision of the municipal authority, the charges shall become a special
assessment against the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for
the amount of the assessment.
   (B)   Any person violating any of the provisions of this subchapter shall
become liable to the village by reason of such violation. The liability shall
be paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 2% per
annum shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following
discovery of the violation.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.77 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this subchapter. If a person has
violated or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, the
authorized enforcement agency may petition for a preliminary or permanent
injunction restraining the person from activities which would create further
violations or compelling the person to perform abatement or remediation of the
violation.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.78 COMPENSATORY ACTION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this subchapter, the authorized enforcement agency may allow a violator to
perform alternative compensatory actions, such as storm drain stenciling,
attendance at compliance workshops, creek cleanup, etc.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.79 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this subchapter is deemed a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and
is declared a nuisance, public nuisance and nuisance per se and may be
summarily abated or restored at the violator’s expense, and/or a civil action
to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such nuisance may be
taken.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.80 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation
of the provisions of this subchapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of this code.
   (B)   The Village Council by way of the Building Inspector, in addition to
other remedies, may institute any appropriate action or proceeding to prevent,
abate or restrain the violation.
   (C)   Each day’s continuance of a violation shall be deemed a separate and
distinct offense. Expenses in connection with such action shall be assessed as
damages against the violation.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.81 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this subchapter are not exclusive of any other
remedies available under any applicable Federal, state or local law and it is
within the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 23.35, passed 2-8-16)
§ 51.98 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have disposed of sewage in a
manner contrary to the provisions of this chapter, failed to connect with the
available public sewers provided herein, or to have in any other way violated
the provisions of this chapter, shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. 23.01, passed 9-28-70; Ord. 23.05, passed 3-12-73; Am. Ord. A-3, passed
1-13-97)
CHAPTER 52: INDUSTRIAL SEWER REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Purpose
   
52.02   Authority
   
52.03   Definitions
   
52.04   Abbreviations
Sewer Systems Connected to County Sewers
   
52.15   Sewers must meet requirements
   
52.16   Plans, permits and bonds
   
52.17   Bulkhead
   
52.18   Acceptance test
   
52.19   Storm and ground water control
   
52.20   Building sewers
   
52.21   Septic tank abandonment and waste disposal
   
52.22   Ownership, operations and maintenance responsibility
   
52.23   Manholes
   
52.24   As-built plans
   
52.25   Requirements for connecting sewers
Permits for Connection into County Drains
   
52.35   Purpose of subchapter
   
52.36   Plans
   
52.37   Regulations governing connections
   
52.38   Regulations to prevent the discharge of storm and ground water
Wastewater Disposal Regulations
   
52.50   Delegation of authority
   
52.51   Discharge prohibitions
   
52.52   Fees
   
52.53   Wastewater discharge permits
   
52.54   Monitoring facilities
   
52.55   Inspection sampling and record keeping
   
52.56   Confidential information
   
52.57   Statutes, laws and regulations
   
52.58   Enforcement
   
52.59   Reconsideration and appeal
   
52.60   National Categorical Pretreatment Standards - 40 C.F.R
   
52.61   Phenols limitations
   
52.62   Interim discharge limitations
Cross-reference:
   Sewage disposal system regulations generally, see
Ch. 51
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is the protection of the environment, and
of public health and safety by abating and preventing pollution through the
regulation and control of the quantity and quality of wastes admitted to or
discharged into the wastewater collection and treatment system under the
jurisdiction of the village and enabling the village to comply with all
applicable state and federal laws required by the Federal Water Pollution
Control Act, being 33 USC 1251 et seq, and the General Pretreatment
Regulations, being 40 C.F.R. part 403.
   (B)   The objectives of this chapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will interfere with the operation of the system or contaminate the
resulting sludge, or will pose a hazard to the health or welfare of the people
or of employees of the City of Detroit Water and Sewerage Department;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will pass inadequately treated through the system into receiving
waters, the atmosphere or the environment, or otherwise be incompatible with
the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle or reclaim wastewater or
sludge from the system in an economical and advantageous manner; and
      (4)   To provide for the recovery of the costs from users of the
wastewater collection and treatment system sufficient to administer regulatory
activities and meet the costs of the operation, maintenance, improvement or
replacement of the system.
   (C)   This chapter provides for the regulation of contributors to the
Detroit and Village of Lake Orion wastewater collection and treatment system
through the issuance of wastewater discharge permits to certain users and
through the enforcement of general requirements for all users, authorizes
monitoring and enforcement, and authorizes fees and penalties.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.02 AUTHORITY.
   By virtue of the obligations and authority placed upon the village by the
Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the Clean Water Act, as
amended. being 33 USC 1251 et seq.; the 1963 Constitution of the State of
Michigan; Public Act 245 of 1929, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 et seq.;
M.S.A. § 3.521 et seq.; the 1997 City Charter; the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System Permit (NPDES) for the City of Detroit Publicly Owned
Treatment Works (POTW); the Consent Judgment in U.S. EPA v. City of Detroit, et
al., Federal District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan Case No. 77-
1100, as amended; and existing or future contracts between the Board of Water
Commissioners and suburban communities or other governmental or private
entities; or by virtue of common law usage of the system, this chapter shall
apply to every user contributing or causing to be contributed, or discharging,
pollutants or wastewater into the wastewater collection and treatment system of
the City of Detroit POTW.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, being 33 USC. 1251 et seq.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Engineering drawings prepared after installations of
wastewater facilities which shall show a statement by a registered engineer or
surveyor certifying this to be as-built plans and shall include, but not be
limited to, length of sewer, invert elevation, locations with respect to
property lines, wye and riser locations and depths, sewer material and joints
used, and mechanical, electrical, and structural details for pump stations,
wastewater treatment facilities, and other appurtenances.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. Refers to:
      (1)   Responsible corporate officer, where the industrial user submitting
the reports required by this chapter is a corporation, who is either:
         (a)   The president, vice-president, secretary, or treasurer of a
corporation in charge of a principal business function, or any other person who
performs similar policy or decision making functions for the corporation; or
         (b)   The manager of one or more manufacturing, production, or
operation facilities employing more than 250 persons or having gross annual
sales or expenditures exceeding $25,000,000 in second-quarter 1980 dollars,
when authority to execute documents has been assigned or delegated to said
manager in accordance with corporate procedures; or
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor where the industrial user
submitting the reports required by this chapter is a partnership or sole
proprietorship respectively.
   AVAILABLE CYANIDE. The quantity of cyanide that consists of cyanide ion (CN)
hydrogen cyanide in water (HCNaq), and the cyano-complexes of zinc, copper,
cadmium, mercury, nickel and silver, determined by EPA method OIA-1677, or
other method designated as a standard method or approved under 40 C.F.R. 136.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMP). Programs, practices, procedures or other
directed efforts initiated and implemented by the user which can or do lead to
the reduction, conservation or minimization of pollutants being introduced into
the ecosystem, including but are not limited to the Detroit sewer system. BMPs
include, but are not limited to, equipment or technology modifications, process
or procedure modifications, reformulation or redesign of products, substitution
of raw materials, and improvements in housekeeping, maintenance, training, or
inventory control and may include technical and economic considerations.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of dissolved oxygen utilized
in the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure five days at 20° C. expressed in terms of mass and concentration
(milligrams per liter (mg/l)) as measured by standard methods.
   BOARD. The Board of Water Commissioners of the City of Detroit.
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives discharge from soil, waste, and other drainage pipes
inside the walls of the building and conveys it to the building's sewer (house
sewer). The latter begins five feet outside the inner face of the building
wall.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of a wastestream from any portion of an
industrial user's treatment facility. (See 40 C.F.R. 403.17)
   CENTRALIZED WASTE TREATMENT (CWT) FACILITY. Any facility that treats any
hazardous or nonhazardous industrial waste received from off-site by tanker
truck, trailer/roll-off bins, drums, barges, or any other forms of shipment
including:
      (1)   A facility that treats industrial waste received exclusively from
off-site, and
      (2)   A facility that treats industrial waste generated on-site as well
as industrial waste received from off-site.
   COMPATIBLE INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER. Wastewater that is produced by an
industrial user which has a pollutant strength or characteristics similar to
those found in domestic wastewater, and which can be efficiently and
effectively transported and treated with domestic wastewater.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. Pollutants which can be effectively removed by the
POTW treatment system to within the acceptable levels for the POTW residuals
and the receiving stream.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A collection of individual samples which are obtained at
regular intervals and collected on a time-proportional or flow-proportional
basis over a specified period and which provides a representative sample of the
average stream during the sampling period. A minimum of four aliquot per 24
hours shall be used where the sample is manually collected. (See 40 C.F.R. 403,
Appendix E)
   CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION. The information which would divulge information,
processes or methods of production entitled to protection as trade secrets of
the industrial user.
   CONSENT JUDGMENT. The judgment issued by Federal District Court on September
14, 1977, U.S. EPA v. City of Detroit, et al., C.A. No. 77-1100, as amended.
   CONTROL AUTHORITY. The Detroit Water and Sewerage Department which has been
officially designated as such by the State of Michigan under the provisions of
40 CFR 403.12. (See 40 C.F.R. 403.12(a))
   COOLING WATER. The non-contact water discharged from any use such as air
conditioning, cooling, or refrigeration, and whose only function is the
exchange of heat.
   COUNTY. The County of Oakland, State of Michigan or the Oakland County Drain
Commissioner.
   COUNTY AGENCY. The Oakland County Drain Commissioner. References to the
Oakland County Department of Public Works shall also mean Oakland County Drain
Commissioner.
   DAYS. Consecutive calendar days for the purpose of computing a period of
time prescribed or allowed by this chapter.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. Charges levied to customers of the wastewater system
which are used to pay principal, interest and administrative costs of retiring
the debt incurred for construction of the wastewater system. The debt service
charge is separate and distinct and may be in addition to the user charge
specified below.
   DEPARTMENT. The City of Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, and
authorized employees of the Department.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the State of Michigan.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of the Detroit Department of Water and Sewerage or
the Director's designee.
   DISCHARGER. A person who, directly or indirectly, contributes, causes, or
permits wastewater to be discharged into the POTW.
   DOMESTIC SEWAGE. Waste and wastewater from humans or household operations
which is discharged to, or otherwise enters, a treatment works.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or ADMINISTRATOR or EPA. The United States
Environmental Protection Agency or, where appropriate, the authorized
representatives or employees of the EPA.
   FACILITY. A location which contributes, causes or permits wastewater to be
discharged into the POTW including, but not limited to, a place of business,
endeavor, arts, trade or commerce, whether public or private, commercial or
charitable.
   FATS, OIL, or GREASE (FOG). Any hydrocarbons, fatty acids, soaps, fats,
waxes, oils, and any other non-volatile material of animal, vegetable, or
mineral origin that is extractable by solvent in accordance with standard
methods.
   FLOW PROPORTIONAL SAMPLE. A composite sample taken with regard to the flow
rate of the wastestream.
   FOOTING DRAIN. A pipe or conduit that is placed around the perimeter of a
building foundation and which intentionally admits ground water.
   GRAB SAMPLE. An individual sample collected over a period of time not
exceeding 15 minutes, which reasonably reflects the characteristics of the
stream at the time of sampling.
   GROUND WATER. Subsurface water occupying the saturation zone, from which
wells and springs are fed.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE or DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of
pollutants POTW from any non-domestic source regulated under 33 USC 1317(b),
(c) or (d).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. A person who contributes, causes, or permits wastewater to
be discharged into the POTW, including, but not limited to, a place of
business, endeavor, arts, trade, or commerce, whether public or private,
commercial or charitable but excludes single-family and multi-family
residential dwellings with discharges consistent with domestic waste
characteristics.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Any liquid, solid, or gaseous waste or form of energy, or
combination thereof, resulting from any processes of industry, manufacturing,
business, trade, or research, including the development, recovery, or
processing of natural resources.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the system from the ground, through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls. Infiltration does not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the system through such sources as, but not
limited to, building downspouts, footing or yard drains, cooling water
discharges, seepage lines from springs and swampy areas, and storm drain cross
connections.
   INTERFERENCE. A discharge which, alone or in conjunction with a discharge or
discharges from other sources, both:
      (1)   Inhibits or disrupts the POTW, its treatment processes or
operations, or its sludge processes, use or disposal, and
      (2)   Therefore is a cause of a violation of any requirement of the
POTW's NPDES permit (including an increase in the magnitude or duration of a
violation) or of the prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal in compliance
with the following statutory provisions and regulations or permits issued
thereunder (or more stringent state or local regulations): Section 405 of the
Clean Water Act, as amended, being 33 USC 1345; the Solid Waste Disposal Act
(SWDA), as amended, (including the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act
(RCRA), and state regulations contained in any state sludge management plan
prepared pursuant to Subtitle D of the SWDA, the Clean Air Act, the Toxic
Substances Control Act, and the Marine Protection Research and Sanctuaries Act.
   LOCAL. A prefix denoting jurisdiction by the village.
   MANAGER. The Village Manager of the village, or his authorized
representatives.
   MAY. Is permissive.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Lake Orion.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any regulation containing
pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA in accordance with (33 USC
1317(b) and (c) which applies to a specific class or category of industrial
users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to 33 USC 1342.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or ground water.
   NEW SOURCE.  
      (1)   (a)   Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge of pollutants, the construction of which is
commenced after the publication of the proposed pretreatment standards 33 USC
1317(c) which will be applicable to such source if such standards are
thereafter promulgated in accordance with that section, provided that:
            1.   The building, structure, facility or installation is
constructed at a site where no other source is located; or
            2.   The building, structure, facility or installation totally
replaces the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of
pollutants at an existing source; or
            3.   The production or wastewater generating processes of the
building, structure, facility or installation are substantially independent of
an existing source at the same site.
         (b)   In determining whether these are substantially independent,
factors such as the extent to which the new facility is integrated with the
existing plant, and the extent to which the new facility is engaged in the same
general type of activity as the existing source should be considered; or
      (2)   Construction on a site where an existing source is located
resulting in a modification rather than a new source if the construction does
not create a new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the
criteria of divisions (1)(a)2. and 3. above but otherwise alters, replaces, or
adds to existing process or production equipment; or
      (3)   (a)   Construction of a new source has commenced where the owner or
operator has:
            1.   Begun, or caused to begin as part of a continuous on site
construction program:
               a.   Any placement, assembly, or installation of facilities or
equipment; or
               b.   Significant site preparation work including clearing,
excavation, or removal of existing buildings, structures, or facilities that
are necessary for the placement, assembly, or installation of new source
facilities or equipment; or
            2.   Entered into a binding contractual obligation for the purchase
of facilities or equipment which are intended to be used in its operation
within a reasonable time.
         (b)   Options to purchase or contracts which can be terminated or
modified without substantial loss, and contracts for feasibility, engineering,
and design studies do not constitute a contractual obligation under this
section.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE (O&M). All work, materials, equipment, utilities
and other effort required to operate and maintain the wastewater transportation
and treatment system consistent with insuring adequate treatment of wastewater
to produce an effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other applicable
state and federal regulations, and includes the cost of replacement.
   OWNER. The owners of record of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate
therein, a mortgagor or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, or other person, firm or corporation in control of a
building.
   PASS THROUGH. Discharge which exits the POTW into waters of the United
States in quantities or concentrations, which alone or in conjunction with a
discharge or discharges from other sources, is a cause of a violation of any
requirement of the POTW's NPDES permit including an increase in the magnitude
or duration of a violation.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, unit of
government, school district or any other legal entity, or their legal
representative, agent or assigns.
   pH. The intensity of the acid or base condition of a solution, calculated by
taking the negative base-ten logarithm of the hydrogen ion activity. Activity
is deemed to be equal to concentration in moles per liter.
   POLLUTANT. Any dredged spoil, solid waste, incinerator residue, sewage
garbage, sewage sludge, munitions, chemical waste, biological materials,
radioactive materials, heat, wrecked or discarded equipment, rock, sand, cellar
dirt, or industrial, municipal and agricultural waste which is discharged into
water.
   POLLUTION. The introduction of any pollutant that, alone or in combination
with any other substance, can or does result in the degradation or impairment
of the chemical, physical, biological or radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the removal of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutant properties in
wastewater to a less harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or
otherwise introducing such pollutants into the POTW. The reduction, removal or
alteration may be attained by physical, chemical or biological processes, or
process changes by other means, except as prohibited by federal, state or local
law, rules and regulations.
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirements
related to pretreatment, other than a national categorical pretreatment
standard imposed on an industrial user. (See 40 C.F.R. 403.3(r))
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS. All national categorical pretreatment standards, the
general prohibitions specified in 40 C.F.R. 403.5(a), the specific prohibitions
delineated in 40 C.F.R. 403.5(b), and the local or specific limits developed
pursuant to 40 C.F.R. 403.5(c), including the discharge prohibitions specified
in §
52.51.
   PRIVATE. A prefix denoting jurisdiction by a non-governmental entity.
   PUBLIC. A prefix denoting jurisdiction by any governmental subdivision or
agency.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer of any type controlled by any governmental entity.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT PLANT or POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the
POTW designed to provide treatment to wastewater, including recycling and
reclamation of wastewater.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by 33
USC 1292(2)(A), which is owned by a state or municipality, as defined in 33 USC
1362, including:
      (1)   Any devices and systems used in the storage, treatment, recycling,
or reclamation of municipal sewage or industrial waste of a liquid nature;
      (2)   Sewers, pipes and other conveyances only if they convey wastewater
to a POTW treatment plant; or
      (3)   The municipality, as defined in 33 USC 1362, which has jurisdiction
over the indirect discharges to and the discharges from such a treatment works.
   QUALIFICATION LEVEL. The measurement of the concentration of a contaminant
obtained by using a specified laboratory procedure calculated at a specified
concentration above the detection level. It is considered the lowest
concentration at which a particular contaminant can be quantitatively measured
using a specified laboratory procedure for monitoring of the containment.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment,
appurtenances and accessories in the wastewater transportation or treatment
systems to insure continuous treatment of wastewater in accordance with the
NPDES permit and other applicable state and federal regulations.
   REPRESENTATIVE SAMPLE. Any sample of wastewater, which accurately and
precisely represents the actual quality, character, and condition of one or
more pollutants in the wastestream being sampled. Representative samples shall
be collected and analyzed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
   SANITARY WASTEWATER. The portion of wastewater that is not attributable to
industrial activities and is similar to discharges from domestic sources
including, but not limited to, discharges from sanitary facilities and
discharges incident to the preparation of food for on-site non-commercial
consumption.
   SERVICE AREA. Any area whose wastewater is received by the village or the
county for the transmission for treatment by the City of Detroit DWSD.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit that carries wastewater or drainage water. See the
following definitions modifying SEWER:
      (1)   BUILDING SEWER. In plumbing, the extension from the building drain
to the public sewer or other place of disposal. Also called house connection.
      (2)   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer intending to receive both wastewater and
stormwater, surface or drainage water.
      (3)   COMMON SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties
have equal rights.
      (4)   COUNTY SEWER. A public sewer controlled by the county agency.
      (5)   INTERCEPTING SEWER. A sewer that receives dry-weather flow from a
number of transverse sewers of outlets in frequently additional predetermined
quantities of stormwater (if from a combined system) and conducts such waters
to a point for treatment of disposal.
      (6)   LATERAL SEWER. That portion of the sewer system located under the
street, within the street right-of-way, or easement and which collects sewage
from a particular property for transfer to the trunk line or interceptor. A
sewer which is designed to receive a building sewer.
      (7)   MUNICIPAL SEWER. A public sewer exclusive of a county sewer or City
of Detroit sewer.
      (8)   PUBLIC SEWER. A common sewer controlled by a governmental agency or
public utility.
      (9)   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer that carries liquid and water-carried waste
from residences, commercial buildings, industrial plants, and institutions,
together with minor quantities of groundwater, stormwater, and surface water
and drainage water and are not admitted intentionally.
      (10)   STORM SEWER. A sewer that carries stormwater and surface water,
street wash and other wash waters, or drainage, but excludes domestic
wastewater and industrial wastewater. Also called a storm drain.
      (11)   TRUNK SEWER or TRUNK LINE. A sewer which connects the lateral
sewer to the intercepting sewer and to which building sewers may be connected.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum of the applicable user charge, surcharges and
debt service charges.
   SHALL. Is mandatory.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USERS. Any user of the POTW who:
      (1)   Has an avaerage discharge flow of 25,000 gallons per day or more of
process wastewater excluding sanitary, boiler blowdown, and non-contact cooling
water; or
      (2)   Has discharges subject to the national categorical pretreatment
standards; or
      (3)   Requires pretreatment to comply with the specific pollutant
limitations of this chapter; or
      (4)   Has in its discharge toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to 33 USC
1317, or other applicable federal and state laws or regulations that are in
concentrations and volumes which are subject to regulation under this chapter
as determined by the Department; or
      (5)   Is required to obtain a permit for the treatment, storage, or
disposal of hazardous waste pursuant to regulations adopted by the state or
adopted under the Federal Solid Waste Disposal Act, as amended, by the Federal
Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, as amended, and may or does contribute
or allow waste or wastewater into the POTW including, but not limited to,
leachate or runoff; or
      (6)   Is found by the City of Detroit or village to have a reasonable
potential for adverse effect, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on the POTW operation, the quality of sludge, the
POTW's effluent quality, or air emissions generated by the POTW.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. Any violation which meets one or more of the
following criteria:
      (1)   Chronic violations of wastewater discharge limits, defined in those
in which 66% or more of all of the measurements taken during a six- month
period exceed by any magnitude the daily maximum limit or the average limit for
the same parameter;
      (2)   Technical review criteria (TRC) violations, defined as those in
which 33% or more of all of the measurements for each pollutant parameter taken
during a six-month period equal or exceed the product of the daily maximum
limit or the average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC (TRC = 1.4 for BOD,
TSS, Fats, Oil and Grease, and 1.2 for all other pollutants except pH);
      (3)   Any other violation of a pretreatment effluent limit (daily maximum
or longer term average) that the Department determines has caused, alone or in
combination with other discharges, interference or pass-through including
endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health or welfare, or to the environment, or has resulted in the
POTW's exercise of its emergency authority;
      (5)   Failure to meet a compliance schedule milestone contained in a
local control mechanism, or enforcement order for starting construction,
completing construction, or attaining final compliance within 90 days after the
scheduled date;
      (6)   Failure to provide required reports such as baseline monitoring
reports, 90-day compliance reports, periodic self-monitoring reports, and
reports on compliance with compliance schedules within 30 days after the due
date;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; or
      (8)   Any other violation or group of violations which the Department
determines will adversely affect the operation or implementation of the local
pretreatment program.
   SLUG. Any discharge of a non-routine episodic nature including, but not
limited to, an accidental spill or a non-customary batch discharge.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972, as amended.
   STANDARD METHODS. Methods set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 136, Guidelines for
Establishing Test Procedures for Analysis of Pollutants or the laboratory
procedures set forth in the latest edition, at the time of analysis, of
Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater prepared and
published jointly by the American Public Health Association, the American Water
Works Association, and the Water Pollution Control Federation, or methods set
forth in 40 C.F.R. 136, Guidelines for Establishing Test Procedures for
Analysis of Pollutants. Where these two references are in disagreement
regarding procedures for the analysis of a specific pollutant, the methods
given in 40 C.F.R. Part 136 shall be followed.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Director of the Village of Lake Orion Department of
Public Works or his duly authorized representative.
   SURFACE WATER.
      (1)   All water on the surface as distinguished from groundwater or
subterranean water.
      (2)   Water appearing on the surface in a diffused state, with no
permanent source of supply or regular course for any considerable time, as
distinguished from water appearing in watercourses, lakes, or ponds.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS (TOTAL). The total suspended matter which floats on the
surface of, or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which
is removable by laboratory filtration or as measured by standard methods.
   TOTAL EQUIVALENT MASTER METERED WATER CONSUMPTION. The equivalent to the
total amount of potable water used by a municipality as recorded by a master
water meter for sewered premises, and shall include, but not be limited to,
fire protection water, gardening and lawn water.
   TOTAL PCB. The sum of the individual analytical results for each of the PCB
aroclors 1016, 1221, 1232, 1242, 1248, 1254, and 1260 during any single
sampling event with any aroclor result less than the quantification level being
treated as zero.
   TOTAL PHENOLIC COMPOUNDS. The sum of the individual analytical results for
each of the phenolic compounds of 2-chlorophenol, 4-chlorophenol, 4-chloro-3-
methylphenol, 2, 4-dichlorophenol, 2, 4-dinitrophenol, 4-methylphenol, 4-
nitrophenol, and phenol during any single sampling event expressed in mg/l.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants designated as
toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the United States
Environmental Protection Agency under the provisions of the Clean Water Act,
being 33 USC 1317, or included in the Critical Materials Register promulgated
by the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, or other federal or state
laws, rules or regulations.
   TRADE SECRET. The whole, or any portion or phase, of any proprietary
manufacturing process or method, not patented, which is secret, is useful in
compounding an article of trade having a commercial value, and whose secrecy
the owner has taken reasonable measures to prevent from becoming available to
persons other than those selected by the owner to have access for limited
purposes but excludes any information regarding the quantum or character of
waste products or their constituents discharged or sought to be discharged into
the Detroit wastewater treatment plant, or into the wastewater system tributary
thereto.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is an unintentional and
temporary noncompliance with limits imposed under this chapter or with national
categorical pretreatment standards due to factors beyond the reasonable control
of the industrial user but excludes noncompliance to the extent caused by
operational error, improperly designed treatment facilities, inadequate
treatment facilities, lack of preventative maintenance, or careless or improper
operation.
   USER. Any person who, directly or indirectly, contributes, causes or permits
the discharge of wastewater into the POTW as defined herein.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance of sewerage works pursuant to Section 204(b) of P.L.
92-500 and includes the cost of replacement.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Lake Orion.
   WASTEWATER or WASTESTREAM. The liquid and water-carried industrial or
domestic wastes of dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and
institutions, whether treated or untreated, which are contributed to or
permitted to enter the POTW including infiltration and inflow waters,
stormwater and cooling water.
   WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS. Permits issued by the Department in accordance
with §
52.53.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. Groundwater, lakes, rivers, streams, all other
watercourses and waters within the confines of this state as well as bordering
this state in the form of the Great Lakes.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 23.33,
passed 2-9-09)
§ 52.04 ABBREVIATIONS.
   For purposes of this chapter the following acronyms shall have the meanings
designated by this section.
   BMR. Baseline monitoring report.
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   C.F.R. Code of Federal Regulations.
   DWSD. Detroit Water and Sewerage Department.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency
   FOG. Fats, oil or grease.
   l. Liter.
   MDEQ. Michigan Department of Environmental Quality
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   P. Phosphorus.
   POTW.  Publicly owned treatment works.
   RCRA. Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, being 42 USC 6901 et seq.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 USC 6901 et seq.
   TSS. Total suspended solids.
   USC. United States Code.
(Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
SEWER SYSTEMS CONNECTED TO COUNTY SEWERS
§ 52.15 SEWERS MUST MEET REQUIREMENTS.
   All sanitary sewer systems connected directly or indirectly into the
intercepting sewer or sewers of the Oakland County Department of Public Works
shall meet the requirements set forth in this chapter.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.16 PLANS, PERMITS AND BONDS.
   (A)   Prior to connection and prior to start of construction, all sanitary
sewer systems shall have engineering plans and specifications prepared by a
professional engineer and shall be approved by the Oakland County Department of
Public Works.
   (B)   A connection permit shall be obtained by the owner or contractor from
the Oakland County Department of Public Works. The connection permit shall show
the location of the work, the extent of the work, information regarding the
contractor, the owner and the engineer, and any other pertinent information as
shall be determined necessary by the Department of Public Works. A fee shall be
charged for said permit to cover the cost of inspection of each connection, and
to verify the result of the acceptance test. The permit fee shall be $150 for
each connection plus $15 for each new manhole constructed. Inspection requested
during other than normal working hours shall be performed only if deemed
necessary by the Oakland County Department of Public Works. The fee for such
inspection shall be $250 per day minimum, in addition to the normal connection
permit fee.
   (C)   (1)   Individual building sewers that are directly connected into the
county sanitary sewer system shall conform to all applicable requirements of
this chapter. A connection permit, for which a charge of $50 will be made by
the Oakland County Department of Public Works, shall be obtained from the
Department of Public Works before such connection is made. Prior to the
issuance of such connection permit, the person obtaining such permit shall have
obtained the written approval of the local unit of government. Connection shall
be made in a workmanlike manner and in accordance with methods and procedures
established by the Department of Public Works.
      (2)   The party to whom such a permit is issued shall be responsible for
notifying the Department of Public Works 24 hours in advance of the date and
time when such a connection is made so that proper inspection of same can be
made by the Department.
   (D)   Prior to the adjustment, reconstruction, relocation or any other
altering of the sewers of the County of Oakland, including manhole structures,
the contractor or the person responsible for the work shall first obtain a
permit to do such work from the Oakland County Department of Public Works. The
permit fee shall be determined by the Department of Public Works.
   (E)   (1)   Prior to construction and during the life of permits obtained in
accordance with divisions (B), (C) and (D) of this section, all owners or
contractors shall:
         (a)   Yearly furnish to the Oakland County Department of Public Works
a satisfactory surety bond in the amount of $5,000 as security for the faithful
performance of the work in accordance with the plans and specifications and
departmental standards; and
         (b)   Yearly furnish to the Oakland County Department of Public Works
a cash deposit in the amount of $500. Such deposit shall provide funds for
emergency work and/or such other work as may be deemed necessary by the Oakland
County Department of Public Works, arising as a result of construction by the
owner or contractor. Such bonds shall not be cancelled by the owner, the
contractor or the surety without first having given ten-days' written notice to
the Oakland County Department of Public Works. Cash deposits may be returned to
the owner or contractor within ten days of receipt of written request therefor,
except that no deposits will be returned until such time as all outstanding
permits have received final inspection and approval. In the event that it
becomes necessary for the Oakland County Department of Public Works to expend
funds for work arising as a result of construction by the owner or the
contractor, then the cost of such work shall be deducted from the
aforementioned cash deposit.
      (2)   The owner or contractor shall have the right and opportunity to
correct any deficiencies promptly before any deposit funds will be spent by the
Oakland County Department of Public Works. The owner or contractor shall,
within 30 days of the mailing of written notice thereof, pay to the Oakland
County Department of Public Works the entire amount of such cost. Failure to
comply with these rules and regulations and the standards of the Oakland County
Department of Public Works may result in the immediate termination of the
surety and cash bonds.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.17 BULKHEAD.
   The contractor shall install a suitable bulkhead to prevent construction
water, sand, silt, and the like from entering the existing sewer system. Such
bulkhead shall be left in place until such time as removal is authorized by the
Oakland County Department of Public Works.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.18 ACCEPTANCE TEST.
   (A)   All sanitary sewer systems shall be subjected to infiltration, air, or
exfiltration tests or a combination thereof in accordance with the following
requirements prior to acceptance of the system by the Oakland County Department
of Public Works and prior to removal of the bulkhead as required in §
52.17.
   (B)   All final acceptance tests shall be witnessed by the Oakland County
Department of Public Works.
   (C)   Infiltration Test.
      (1)   All sewers over a 24-inch diameter shall be subjected to
infiltration tests. All sewers of 24-inch diameter or smaller where the ground
water level above the top of the sewer is over seven feet shall be subjected to
an infiltration test.
      (2)   Maximum allowable infiltration shall not exceed 250 gallons per
inch of diameter per mile of pipe per 24 hours for the overall project. Maximum
allowable infiltration shall not exceed 500 gallons per inch of diameter per
mile of pipe per 24 hours for any individual run between manholes.
   (D)   Air Test or Exfiltration Test.
      (1)   All sewers of 24-inch diameter or less, where the ground water
level above the top of the sewer is seven feet or less, shall be subjected to
air tests or exfiltration tests.
      (2)   For exfiltration tests, the internal water level shall be equal to
the external water level plus seven feet as measured from the top of pipe.
      (3)   The allowable exfiltration rate shall be the same as that permitted
from infiltration.
      (4)   The procedure for air testing of sewers shall be as follows:
         (a)   The sewer line shall be tested in increments between manholes.
The line shall be cleaned and plugged at each manhole. Such plugs shall be
designed to hold against the test pressure and shall provide an airtight seal.
One of the plugs shall have an orifice through which air can be introduced into
the sewer. An air supply line shall be connected to the orifice. The air supply
line shall be fitted with suitable control valves and a pressure gauge for
continually measuring the air pressure in the sewer. The pressure gauge shall
have a minimum diameter of 3½ inches and a range of 0 - 10 PSIG. The gauge
shall have minimum divisions of 0.10 PSIG and an accuracy of +0.04 PSIG.
         (b)   The sewer shall be pressurized to 4.0 PSIG greater than the
greatest back pressure caused by ground water over the top of the sewer pipe.
At least two minutes shall be allowed for the air pressure to stabilize between
3.5 and 4.0 PSIG. If necessary, air shall be added to the sewer to maintain a
pressure of 3.5 PSIG or greater.
         (c)   After the stabilization period, the air supply control valve
shall be closed so that no more air will enter the sewer. The sewer air
pressure shall be noted and timing for the test begun. The test shall not begin
if the air pressure is less than 3.5 PSIG, or such other pressure as is
necessary to compensate for ground water level.
         (d)   The time required for the air pressure to decrease 1.0 PSIG
during the test shall not be less than the time shown in the “Oakland County
Department of Public Works Air Test Tables.”
      (5)   Manholes on sewers to be subjected to air tests shall be equipped
with a 1/2 inch diameter galvanized capped pipe nipple extending through the
manhole, three inches into the manhole wall and at an elevation equal to the
top of the sewer pipe. Prior to the air test, the ground water elevation shall
be determined by blowing air through the pipe nipple to clear it and then
connecting a clear plastic tube to the pipe nipple. The tube shall be suspended
vertically in the manhole and the ground water elevation determined by
observing the water level in the tube. The air test pressure shall be adjusted
to compensate for the maximum ground water level above the top of the sewer
pipe to be tested. After all tests are performed and the sewer is ready for
final acceptance, the pipe nipple shall be plugged in an acceptable manner.
   (E)   If a sewer fails to pass any of the previously described tests, the
contractor shall determine the location of the leaks, repair them and retest
the sewer. The tests shall be repeated until satisfactory results are obtained.
   (F)   All visible leaks and cracks shall be repaired regardless of test
results.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.19 STORM AND GROUND WATER CONTROL.
   (A)   Yard drains, patio drains, catch basins, downspouts, weep tile,
perimeter and footing drains or any other structure used for the collection and
conveyance of storm water and/or ground water shall not be permitted to
discharge into any sanitary sewer connected directly or indirectly to the
county system, except as provided under division (B).
   (B)   Perimeter and footing drains from buildings existing before December
16, 1968 shall not be required to disconnect from the sanitary sewer system,
provided that federal, state or local law or regulation does not require, or
may not require subsequent to the adoption of these standards and regulations,
the disconnection of such perimeter and footing drains.
   (C)   The crock to iron joint shall be sealed by approved flexible adaptor
fittings such as those manufactured by Fernco Joint Sealer Company, or as
approved by the Oakland County Department of Public Works. The iron pipe inside
the building shall be plugged and leaded and remain plugged and watertight
until such time as the plumbing is carried on to the first floor, the basement
backfilled and the roof is on the building, thereby providing that no water
from the excavated basement will enter the sanitary sewer.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.20 BUILDING SEWERS.
   (A)   House connection sewer from lateral sewer in street or easement to
within five feet from house shall be:
      (1)   Six-inch diameter Extra Strength Vitrified Sewer Pipe, manufactured
in accordance with current NCPI Designation ER 4-67 Standards, or equal, with
DPW approved premium joint; or
      (2)   Six-inch diameter Class 2400 Asbestos Cement Pipe with Ring-Tite,
Fluid-Tite or DPW approved joint; or
      (3)   Six-inch diameter, service strength, cast iron soil pipe with hot
poured lead joint, or DPW approved equal; or
      (4)   Six-inch diameter Extra Strength (ES) solid wall pipe extruded from
Acrylonitrile- Butadiene-Styrene (ABS) plastic meeting the minimum cell
classification 2-2-3 as defined in ASTM Specification D1788-68.
      (5)   Other pipe and joints as may be approved by the Oakland County
Department of Public Works.
   (B)   Copies of the Oakland County Department of Public Works approved joint
shall be on file at the offices of each community in the systems.
   (C)   House connection sewers shall be six-inch minimum diameter, except
that four-inch pipe of comparable strength and joint material may be used if
permitted by the local unit of government. All joints shall be tight and when
tested for infiltration, or exfiltration, shall not exceed the requirements of
§
52.18.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.21 SEPTIC TANK ABANDONMENT AND WASTE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Prior to connecting an individual building sewer to the sewers of the
county, either directly or indirectly, all existing wastewater treatment
facilities, including septic tanks, tile fields, and sump pumps shall be
physically and permanently disconnected from the building sewer.
   (B)   Septic tank sludge shall be discharged into the sewers of the county,
directly or indirectly, only at locations specified by the Oakland County
Department of Public Works, and only after obtaining proper septic tank dumping
tickets.
   (C)   The liquid and solids from an abandoned septic tank shall not be
drained, dewatered, pumped or in any other manner discharged to the sewers of
the county, except as provided for above.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.22 OWNERSHIP, OPERATIONS AND MAINTENANCE RESPONSIBILITY.
   All new sanitary sewer systems, except individual building sewers, connected
directly or indirectly into the intercepting sewer or sewers of the county
shall be owned, operated and maintained by the governing community. This
includes, but is not necessarily limited to, on-site sewer systems serving
condominiums, apartment projects, shopping centers and mobile home parks.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90)
§ 52.23 MANHOLES.
   (A)   All manholes constructed on sanitary sewer systems shall be provided
with lid frames bolted to the cone section of the manhole with rubber O-ring
gaskets compressed between the frame and the top of the cone in accordance with
the current “Standard Manhole Detail” of the Oakland County Department of
Public Works.
      (1)   Adjustments to manhole tops shall be accomplished by using precast
concrete adjustment rings bolted to the cone section of the manhole with rubber
O-ring gaskets compressed between each adjacent ring.
      (2)   Mortar and brickwork adjustment at the top of manholes will not be
allowed. All manhole riser and cone sections shall have modified groove tongue
joint with rubber gasket.
      (3)   The bolted frame, bolts, adjustment rings and O-ring gaskets shall
be in accordance with the standards of the Oakland County Department of Public
Works.
   (B)   (1)   All manholes shall be provided with “Bolted Waterproof Covers”
in accordance with the current Standard Manhole Detail of the Oakland County
Department of Public Works.
      (2)   Although not recommended, and only under certain circumstances,
consideration will be given to the burying of manholes in lieu of providing
bolted covers and only upon written request to the Oakland County Department of
Public Works.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90)
§ 52.24 AS-BUILT PLANS.
   Prior to the acceptance of any sewer system and prior to the removal of the
bulkhead as required in §
52.17 (except under extenuating circumstances as may be approved by the
Director), as-built plans shall be provided to the Oakland County Department of
Public Works. The as-built plans shall show a statement by a registered
engineer or surveyor certifying this to be “as-built plans” and shall include,
but not be limited to, length of sewer, invert elevation, locations with
respect to property lines, wye and riser locations and depths, and sewer
material and joints used.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90)
§ 52.25 REQUIREMENTS FOR CONNECTING SEWERS.
   All combined sewer systems connected directly or indirectly to the
intercepting sewer or sewers of the county shall meet the following
requirements:
   (A)   §§
52.16 through
52.24 are required for sanitary sewer system connecting to interceptor sewers
of the county as hereinbefore mentioned.
   (B)   Prior to acceptance of the system and prior to removal of the bulkhead
as required under §
52.17, all combined sewer systems shall be subjected to an infiltration test in
accordance with the infiltration requirements of the Oakland County Department
of Public Works as outlined in §
52.18. The test shall be witnessed by the Oakland County Department of Public
Works.
   (C)   Downspouts and footing drain tile may be connected to a combined sewer
if permitted by the local unit of government.
   (D)   No requirements of the Oakland County Department of Public Works, or
permits issued hereunder by said Department, shall relieve the property owner
of complying with all the rules and regulations of the local unit of
government, wherein such property is located, when such rules and regulations
are not in conflict with the requirements of the Department of Public Works.
   (E)   All sewer construction shall comply with the “General Specifications”
of the Oakland County Department of Public Works. Copies of said specifications
may be obtained from the Office of the Department of Public Works.
   (F)   Construction of new combined sewer systems shall be prohibited except
when no prudent or feasible alternative exists.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90) Penalty, see §
10.99
PERMITS FOR CONNECTION INTO COUNTY DRAINS
§ 52.35 PURPOSE OF SUBCHAPTER.
   This subchapter sets forth the procedures and regulations governing the
granting of permits to connect into the “Twelve Towns Relief Drains” directly
and to all other county drains that are tributary directly or indirectly to the
facilities under the jurisdiction of the Southeastern Oakland County Sewage
Disposal System.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90)
§ 52.36 PLANS.
   (A)   Each municipality is requested to furnish an up-to-date plan of its
sewerage system. Plan should include the location, size and direction of flow
in all existing sewers. Sewers should be identified as separated or combined.
Pumping stations, flow regulation and diversion structure should be shown.
   (B)   (1)   Plans for laterals shall be submitted in the name of the
municipality by the municipal officials or a firm of consulting engineers
officially authorized to do so. Generally, this authority will be vested in the
Village Engineer or a single firm of consulting engineers retained as the
Village Engineer.
      (2)   All plans submitted to this office shall bear the signature of the
above designated official.
   (C)   A letter requesting the approval of plans by the Oakland County Drain
Commissioner's Office and the Water Quality Division of the Michigan Department
of Natural Resources (formerly known as the Michigan Health Department) shall
be addressed to the Oakland County Drain Commissioner and be accompanied by a
minimum of five sets of plans. Upon approval of the plans, the Drain
Commissioner's Office will retain one set and forward the remaining sets to the
Michigan Department of Natural Resources along with a letter requesting their
approval. Copies of this letter will be sent to the applicant municipality and
the consulting engineer. The Michigan Department of Natural Resources, upon
their approval of the plans, will return at least three sets of approved plans
bearing the construction permit number to the applicant municipality. The
applicant municipality will keep one set, send one set to the Oakland County
Drain Commissioner and send one set to the consulting engineer. In the event
that the applicant municipality or consulting engineer requires an extra set of
approved plans, additional sets shall be included with the initial request for
approval.
   (D)   Plans submitted to this office for review must meet the following
requirements:
      (1)   General location plan that shows the relationship to existing
sewerage facilities, including outlet sewer interceptors, pumping stations and
the like.
      (2)   Detail plan and profile drawings along with criteria of hydraulic
design (storm frequency, line capacity, line velocities, tributary areas and
the like).
      (3)   Material and construction standards, regular and special.
      (4)   Desirable scale and size for plan and profile drawings are:
         (a)   Horizontal scale: 1 = 100, 1 = 50
         (b)   Vertical scale: 1 = 10, 1 = 5
         (c)   Plan size: 24 × 36
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90)
§ 52.37 REGULATIONS GOVERNING CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Prior to connection, a connection permit must be obtained from the
Oakland County Drain Commissioner's Office, One Public Works Drive, Pontiac,
Michigan 48054 (858-0958). A legal description of the property to be served by
the connection is required.
   (B)   The fee as determined by the Drain Commissioner for connection permits
shall be $150 which is to cover the cost of the inspection of the tap.
   (C)   The connection to the county drain will be made under the supervision
of an inspector from the Drain Commissioner's Office in accordance with
approved plans of said connection.
   (D)   A minimum of 24 hours notice (excluding Saturday, Sunday, and
holidays) must be given prior to tap to enable this office to arrange for
inspection.
   (E)   Requests for inspection shall be directed to the technician charged
with the responsibility of permit issuance (858-0978).
   (F)   All lines connected to county drains shall be clean (free from silt,
dirt, debris and the like).
   (G)   Yard drains, catch basins, downspouts, weep tile, perimeter drains or
other structures used for the collection and conveyance of storm water will be
permitted to outlet into the county combined drains, provided said properties
lie within the combined drainage district.
   (H)   The contractor, during the construction of a lateral, shall install a
suitable bulkhead to prevent sand, silt, dirt or other debris from entering the
county drain. Upon work completion and removal of any debris that may have
collected, the contractor shall contact the Inspection Office for permission to
remove the bulkhead.
   (I)   A connection from any industrial plant or facility using chemical
processes shall be provided with a readily available sampling point (manhole or
equivalent).
   (J)   All wastes discharged into county drains shall meet the standards as
specified in the current Detroit ordinance governing domestic and industrial
wastes.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90)
§ 52.38 REGULATIONS TO PREVENT THE DISCHARGE OF STORM AND GROUND WATER.
   (A)   All sanitary sewer systems (lying in these areas of the S.O.C.S.D.S.
district, designated as separated) to be connected directly or indirectly into
the intercepting sewer or sewers of the S.O.C.S.D.S. prior to connection, shall
meet the following requirements:
      (1)   A connection permit shall be obtained by the owner or contractor
from the Oakland County Drain Commissioner's Office. The connection permit
shall show the location of the work, the extent of the work, information
regarding the contractor, the owner and the engineer, the scheduled date of
infiltration test and any other pertinent information as shall be determined
necessary by the Oakland County Drain Commissioner. A fee shall be charged for
said permit to cover the cost of inspection of the connection and system
connected.
      (2)   All sewer systems shall be subjected to infiltration, air, or
exfiltration tests or a combination thereof in accordance with the following
requirements prior to acceptance of the system by the Oakland County Drain
Commissioner's Office.
         (a)   Infiltration test. All sewers over 24-inch diameter shall be
subjected to infiltration tests. All sewers of 24-inch diameter or smaller
where the ground water level above the top of the sewer is over seven feet
shall be subjected to an infiltration test.
         (b)   Maximum allowable infiltration shall not exceed 250 gallons per
inch of diameter per mile of pipe per 24 hours for the overall project. Maximum
allowable infiltration shall not exceed 500 gallons per inch of diameter per
mile of pipe per 24 hours for any individual run between manholes.
         (c)   Air test or exfiltration test.
            1.   All sewers of 24-inch diameter or less, where the ground water
level above the top of the sewer is seven feet or less, shall be subjected to
air tests or exfiltration tests.
            2.   For exfiltration tests the internal water level shall be equal
to the external water level plus seven feet as measured from the top of pipe.
The allowable exfiltration rate shall be the same as that permitted from
infiltration.
            3.   The procedure for air testing of sewers shall be as follows:
               a.   The sewer line shall be tested in increments between
manholes. The line shall be cleaned and plugged at each manhole. Such plugs
shall be designed to hold against the test pressure and shall provide an
airtight seal. One of the plugs shall have an orifice through which air can be
introduced into the sewer. An air supply line shall be connected to the
orifice. The air supply
line shall be fitted with suitable control valves and a pressure gauge for
continually measuring the air pressure in the sewer. The pressure gauge shall
have a minimum diameter of 3½ inches and a range of 0 - 10 PSIG. The gauge
shall have minimum divisions of 0.10 PSIG and an accuracy of ±0.04 PSIG.
               b.   The sewer shall be pressurized to 4.0 PSIG greater than the
greatest back pressure caused by ground water over the top of the sewer pipe.
At least two minutes shall be allowed for the air pressure to stabilize between
3.5 and 4.0 PSIG. If necessary, air shall be added to the sewer to maintain a
pressure of 3.5 PSIG or greater.
               c.   After the stabilization period, the air supply control
valve shall be closed so that no more air will enter the sewer. The sewer air
pressure shall be noted and timing for the test begun. The test shall not begin
if the air pressure is less than 3.5 PSIG, or such other pressure as is
necessary to compensate for ground water level.
               d.   The time required for the air pressure to decrease 1.0 PSIG
during the test shall not be less than the time shown in the “Oakland County
Drain Commissioner's Air Test Tables.”
               e.   Manholes on sewers to be subjected to air tests shall be
equipped with a 1/2 inch diameter galvanized capped pipe nipple extending
through the manhole, three inches into the manhole wall and at an elevation
equal to the top of the sewer pipe. Prior to the air test, the ground water
elevation shall be determined by blowing air through the pipe nipple to clear
it and then connecting a clear plastic tube to the pipe nipple. The tube shall
be suspended vertically in the manhole and the ground water elevation
determined by observing the water level in the tube. The air test pressure
shall be adjusted to compensate for the maximum ground water level above the
top of the sewer pipe to be tested. After all tests are performed and the sewer
is ready for final acceptance, the pipe nipple shall be plugged in an
acceptable manner.
      (3)   If a sewer fails to pass any of the previously described tests, the
contractor shall determine the location of the leaks, repair them and retest
the sewer. The tests shall be repeated until satisfactory results are obtained.
      (4)   All visible leaks and cracks shall be repaired regardless of test
results.
   (B)   Storm and ground water control. Yard drains, patio drains, catch
basins, downspouts, weep tile, perimeter and footing drains or any other
structure used for the collection and conveyance of storm water and/or ground
water shall not be permitted to discharge into any sanitary sewer connected
directly or indirectly to the county system, except as provided below:
      (1)   Perimeter and footing drains from buildings existing before July
23, 1981 shall not be required to disconnect from the sanitary sewer system,
provided that federal, state or local law or regulation does not require, or
may not require subsequent to the adoption of these standards and regulations,
the disconnection of such perimeter and footing drains.
      (2)   The crock to iron joint shall be sealed by approved flexible
adaptor fittings such as those manufactured by Fernco Joint Sealer Company, or
as approved by the Oakland County Drain
Commissioner's Office. The iron pipe inside the building shall be plugged and
leaded and remain plugged and watertight until such time as the plumbing is
carried on to the first floor, the basement backfilled and the roof is on the
building, thereby providing that no water from the excavated basement will
enter the sanitary sewer.
   (C)   Building sewers.
      (1)   House connection sewer from lateral sewer in the street or easement
five feet from house shall be:
         (a)   Six-inch diameter Extra Strength Vitrified Sewer Pipe,
manufactured in accordance with current NCPI Designation ER 4-67 Standards, or
equal, with Drain Commissioner approved premium joint, or
         (b)   Six-inch diameter ABS Plastic Solid Wall Sewer Pipe conforming
to ASTM designation D-2751 SDR 35 or 23.5, or
         (c)   Six-inch diameter PVC Plastic Solid Wall Sewer Pipe conforming
to ASTM designation ASTM D-3034 SDR 35 or ASTM D-2665 Schedule 40.
         (d)   Other pipes and joints as may be approved by the Oakland County
Drain Commissioner.
      (2)   House connection sewers should be six-inch minimum diameter;
however, four-inch pipe of comparable strength and joint material may be used
if permitted by the local unit of government. All joints shall be tight and
when tested for infiltration, shall not exceed 500 U.S. gallons per inch of
diameter, per mile, per 24 hours.
      (3)   The crock to iron joint shall be sealed by an approved bituminous
filler, enclosed in concrete to provide a watertight seal. The iron pipe inside
the building shall be plugged and leaded and remain plugged and watertight
until such time as the plumbing is carried on to the first floor, thereby
providing that no water from the excavated basement will enter the sanitary
sewer.
      (4)   The municipality shall issue tap permits for each structure that is
connected into the S.O.C.S.D.S. and be responsible to see that the above
specifications pertinent to materials and installations are followed.
   (D)   The S.O.C.S.D.S., through their agent, the Drain Commissioner, shall,
at his option, be permitted to set up and operate flow metering equipment to
gauge sanitary flow, either on a temporary or permanent basis, in any sanitary
sewer lying within the said “separated areas.”
   (E)   Plans and specifications covering the construction of all new sewers,
both combined and sanitary (separate), lying within the S.O.C.S.D.S. service
area shall be submitted to the Office of the Oakland County Drain Commissioner
for review and approval prior to construction.
   (F)   The quality of domestic and industrial waste outletted into the
S.O.C.S.D.S. facilities shall conform to the current city of Detroit ordinance
pertinent to domestic and industrial wastes. It is the contractual obligation
of the municipality, reference Section 16 of contract with county, to use
S.O.C.S.D.S. facilities to enforce these standards.
   (G)   No requirements of the S.O.C.S.D.S. or permits issued hereunder by
said system through their agent, the Oakland County Drain Commissioner, shall
relieve the property owner of complying with all the rules and regulations of
the local unit of government, wherein such property is located, where such are
not in conflict with requirements of the S.O.C.S.D.S.
   (H)   All sewer construction shall comply with the general specifications of
the Oakland County Drain Commissioner; copies of said specifications may be
obtained from the Office of the Drain Commissioner.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90)
WASTEWATER DISPOSAL REGULATIONS
§ 52.50 DELEGATION OF AUTHORITY.
   The City of Detroit, through the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department, as
the state-approved control authority, is authorized to administer and enforce
the provisions of §§
52.50 through
52.60 on behalf of the village. The village has executed and hereby ratifies
its delegation agreement with the City of Detroit through the Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department, which sets forth the terms and conditions of such
delegated authority, consistent with these sections, and shall allow the
Detroit Water and Sewerage Department to perform the specific responsibilities
of control authority pursuant to state and federal law.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.51 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   General pollutant prohibitions. No user shall discharge or cause to be
discharged into the POTW, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater
which will cause interference or pass through. These general discharge
prohibitions shall apply to all users of the POTW whether or not the user is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards or to any other federal,
state, or local pretreatment standards or requirements. In addition, it shall
be unlawful for a user to discharge into the POTW:
      (1)   Any liquid, solid or gas, which by reason of its nature or
quantity, is sufficient either alone or by interaction with other substances to
create a fire or explosion hazard or to be injurious in any other way to
persons, to the POTW, or to the operations of the POTW. Pollutants, which
create a fire or explosion hazard in a POTW, include, but are not limited to,
wastestreams with a closed cup flash point of less than 140ºF or 60ºC using the
test methods specified in 40 C.F.R 261.21; or
      (2)   Any solid or viscous substance in concentrations or quantities,
which are sufficient to cause obstruction to the flow in a sewer or other
encumbrances to the operation of the POTW, including, but not limited to,
grease, animal guts or tissues, bones, hair, hides or fleshlings, entrails,
whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand, cement, spent lime, stone or
marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass clippings, rags, strings,
fibers, spent grains, spent hops, wastepaper, wood, plastic, tar, asphalt
residues, residues from refining or processing of fuel or lubrication oil, mud
or glass grinding or polishing wastes, or tumbling and deburring stones; or
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH of less than 5.0 units or greater than
11.5 units; or
      (4)   Any wastewater containing petroleum oil, non-biodegradable cutting
oil, products of mineral oil origin, or toxic pollutants in sufficient
concentration or quantity either singly or by interaction with other pollutants
to cause interference, or pass through, or constitute a hazard to humans or
animals; or
      (5)   Any liquid, gas, solid or form of energy, which either singly or by
interaction with other waste is sufficient to create toxic gas, vapor, or fume
within the POTW in quantities that may cause acute worker health and safety
problems, or may cause a public nuisance or hazard to life, or are sufficient
to prevent entry into the sewers for their maintenance and repair; or
      (6)   Any substance which is sufficient to cause the POTW's effluent or
any other product of the POTW, such as residue, sludge, or scum to be
unsuitable for reclamation processing where the POTW is pursuing a reuse and
reclamation program. In no case shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause
the POTW to be in noncompliance with sludge use or disposal criteria guidelines
or regulations developed under 33 USC 1345, with any criteria, guidelines, or
developed and promulgated regulations affecting sludge use or disposal
developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, the Federal Clean Air Act,
the Federal Toxic Substances Control Act, or with state criteria applicable to
the sludge management method being used; or
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate either the
Consent Judgment in U.S. EPA v. City of Detroit et al., Federal District Court
for the Eastern District of Michigan Case No. 77-1100, or the City of Detroit's
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System permit; or
      (8)   Any discharge having a color uncharacteristic of the wastewater
being discharged; or
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW treatment plant resulting in interference, but in no case
wastewater with a temperature at the introduction into a public sewer which
exceeds 150ºF or which will cause the influent at the wastewater treatment
plant to rise above 104ºF (40ºC); or
      (10)   Any pollutant discharge which constitutes a slug; or
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
such half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established in compliance
with applicable federal or state regulations; or
      (12)   Any floating fats, oil or grease which are sufficient to cause
interference with or pass through the POTW; or
      (13)   Any solid materials having a specific gravity greater than 1.2 or
a cross-section dimension of one-half inch or greater which are sufficient to
cause interference with the POTW.
   (B)   Specific pollutant prohibitions. No user shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of the following limitations:
      (1)   Compatible pollutants. See §
52.62.
      (2)   (a)   Non-compatible pollutants. No user shall discharge wastewater
containing in excess of:
Arsenic (As)                        1.0 mg/l
Cadmium (Cd)                        See §
                                    52.62
Chromium (Cr)                       25.0 mg/l
Copper (Cu)                         2.5 mg/l
Cyanide (CN) (Available)            1.0 mg/l
Iron (Fe)                           1000.0 mg/l
Lead (Pb)                           1.0 mg/l
Nickel (Ni)                         5.0 mg/l
Silver (Ag)                         1.0 mg/l
Zinc (Zn)                           7.3 mg/l
Total Phenolic Compounds or see §  1.0 mg/l
52.61
 
         (b)   All limitations are based on samples collected over an operating
period representative of an industrial user's discharge, and in accordance with
40 C.F.R. part 136.
            1.   The limitation for total PCB is non-detect. Total PCB shall
not be discharged at detectable levels, based upon U.S. EPA Method 608, and the
quantification level shall not exceed 0.2 ugm/l, unless a higher level is
appropriate because of demonstrated sample matrix interference. Where one or
more samples indicate detectable levels of total PCB, the user shall be
required to demonstrate compliance. For purposes of this section, this
demonstration may be made using analytical data showing that the total PCB
concentration is below the detection level, or submission of a BMP in
accordance with §
52.58(H).
            2.   The limitation of mercury (Hg) is non-detect. Mercury (Hg)
shall not be discharged at detectable levels, based upon U.S. EPA Method 245.1,
and the quantification level shall not exceed 0.2 ugm/l, unless a higher level
is appropriate because of demonstrated sample matrix interference. Where one or
more samples indicate detectable levels of mercury, the user shall be required
to demonstrate compliance. For the purposes fo this section, the demonstration
may be made using analytical data showing that the mercury concentration is
below the detection level, or submission of a BMP in accordance with §
52.58(H). All limitations are based on samples collected over an operating
period representative of an industrial user’s discharge, and in accordance with
40 C.F.R. part 136.
      (3)   Compliance period. Within 30 days of the effective date of this
section, the Department shall notify all industrial user’s operating under an
effective wastewater discharge permit of the requirement to submit a compliance
report within 180 days after the effective date of this section. The Compliance
Report shall demonstrate the user’s compliance or non-compliance with these
limitations, and, in the event of non-compliance, include the submission of a
plan and schedule for achieving compliance with the stated limitation. In no
event shall a compliance schedule exceed 18 months from the effective date of
this section. An industrial user who does not demonstrate compliance may
petition the Department for a second extension as part of an administrative
consent order. The Department shall include appropriate monitoring, reporting,
and penalties into an administrative consent order that relates to a second
extension, and shall enter into such an agreement only upon a good-faith
showing by the industrial user of the actions taken to achieve compliance with
this provision.
   (C)   National categorical pretreatment standards.  All users shall comply
with the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards and
requirements promulgated pursuant to the Act as set forth in 40 C.F.R.
Subchapter N, Effluent Guidelines and Standards, which are hereby incorporated
by reference and with all other applicable standards and requirements,
provided, however, that where a more stringent standard or requirement is
applicable pursuant to state law or regulation, or to this chapter, then the
more stringent standard or requirement shall be controlling. Affected
dischargers shall comply with applicable reporting requirements under 40 C.F.R.
part 403 and as established by the Department. The national categorical
pretreatment standards which have been promulgated as of the effective date of
this chapter are delineated in §
52.60.
      (1)   Intake water adjustment. Industrial users seeking adjustment of
national categorical pretreatment standards to reflect the presence of
pollutants in their intake water must comply with the requirements of 40 C.F.R.
403.15. Upon notification of approval by the Department, the adjustment shall
be applied by modifying the permit accordingly. Intake water adjustments are
not effective until incorporated into an industrial user's permit.
      (2)   Modification of national categorical pretreatment standards. The
Department may apply to the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, or to the
Michigan Department of Environmental Quality, whichever is appropriate, for
authorization to grant removal credits in accordance with the requirements and
procedures in 40 C.F.R. 403.7. Such authorization may be granted only when the
POTW treatment plant can achieve consistent removal for each pollutant for
which a removal credit is being sought, provided, that any limitation of such
pollutant(s) in the NPDES permit neither are being exceeded nor pose the
prospect of being exceeded as a result of the removal credit being granted.
Where such authorization is given to the Department, any industrial user
desiring to obtain such credit shall make an application to the Department,
consistent with the provisions of 40 C.F.R. 403.7 and of this chapter. Any
credits which may be granted under this chapter may be subject to modification
or revocation as specified in 40 C.F.R. 403.7, or as determined by the
Department. A requisite to the granting of any removal credit may be that the
industrial user pay a surcharge based upon the amounts of such pollutants
removed by the POTW, such surcharge being based upon fees or rates which the
board may establish and, when appropriate, revise from time to time. Permits
shall reflect, or be modified to reflect, any credit granted pursuant to this
chapter.
      (3)   New sources. Industrial users who meet the new sources criteria
shall install, maintain in operating condition, and start-up all pollution
control equipment required to meet applicable pretreatment standards before
beginning to discharge. Within the shortest feasible time and not to exceed 90
days, new sources must meet all applicable pretreatment standards.
      (4)   Concentration and mass limits. When limits in a categorical
pretreatment standard are expressed only in terms of mass of pollutant per unit
of production, the Department may convert the limits to equivalent limitations
expressed either as mass of pollutant discharged per day or effluent
concentration for purposes of calculating effluent limitations applicable to
individual industrial users. Equivalent limitations shall be calculated in
accordance with Sections 40 C.F.R. 403.6(c)(3) and/or 40 C.F.R. 403.6(c)(4) and
shall be deemed pretreatment standards for the purposes of 33 USC 1317(d) and
of this chapter. Industrial users will be required to comply with the
equivalent limitations in lieu of the promulgated categorical standards from
which the equivalent limitations were derived.
      (5)   Reporting requirements for industrial users upon effective date of
categorical pretreatment standards-baseline report. Within 180 days after the
effective date of a categorical pretreatment standard, or 180 days after the
final administrative decision made upon a category determination submission
under Section 40 C.F.R. 403.6(a)(4), whichever is later, existing industrial
users subject to such categorical pretreatment standards and currently
discharging into or scheduled to discharge into the Detroit POTW shall submit
to the Department a report containing the information listed in 40 C.F.R.
403.12(b)(1-7). Where reports containing this information have already been
submitted to the Director or regional administrator in compliance with the
requirement of 40 C.F.R. 128.140(b), the industrial user will not be required
to resubmit this information. At least 90 days before commencement of any
discharge, each new source and any existing sources that become industrial
users after the promulgation of an applicable categorical pretreatment standard
shall submit to the Department a report which contains the information listed
in 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b)(1-5). In such report, new sources shall include
information concerning the method of pretreatment the source intends to use to
meet applicable pretreatment standards. New sources shall provide estimates of
the information requested in 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b,)(4) and (5).
   (D)   Dilution prohibited. Except where expressly authorized to do so by an
applicable pretreatment standard or requirement, no user shall increase the use
of process water, or in any way dilute or attempt to dilute a discharge as a
partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve compliance
with the limitations contained in the national categorical pretreatment
standards, or in any other pollutant specific limitation or requirement imposed
by the village, the City of Detroit or by the State of Michigan.
   (E)   Hauled in wastewater. Any waste material or wastewater which is hauled
into or within the service region for discharge to the POTW is subject to the
requirements of this chapter including, but not limited to, permits,
inspection, monitoring and enforcement. Unloading liquid or solid waste from
hauling vehicles, directly or indirectly, into the POTW, with or without the
benefit of pretreatment, is prohibited unless the person proposing to unload
such waste has applied for and received a permit from the Department for
unloading such waste in accordance with the Board's rules pertaining thereto.
The discharger shall be subject to applicable terms and conditions, surcharges,
fees or rates as established by the Board. Hauled in wastewater shall only be
discharged at points designated by the POTW after authorization or approval
issued pursuant to the general permit requirements specified in §
52.53. The Department may establish specific limitations for sludge from
municipally owned or operated POTW treatment plants which are different than
the specific limitations in this chapter.
   (F)   Centralized waste treatment. It is unlawful for a centralized waste
treatment (CWT) facility to discharge any industrial waste or wastewater into
the POTW without a wastewater discharge permit from the Department. Any
authorization granted, or permit issued, by the Department to a centralized
waste treatment (CWT) facility shall specify the type of wastewater for which
treatment is provided, and discharge approval is sought, from the POTW. Unless
such industrial waste or wastewater is determined by the Department to require
further authorization, a centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility that has
submitted an application to, and received previous approval from, the
Department to discharge wastewater is not required to obtain further
authorization from the Department before discharging the wastewater. An
industrial user, that provides centralized waste treatment services and files
an application for the treatment and discharge of such types of wastewater to
the POTW, shall provide the following minimum information in support thereof:
      (1)   The general nature, source and process(es) generating the type of
wastewater. Any wastewater, which is generated from those processes and is
subject to national categorical pretreatment standards as delineated in §
52.60 shall be so designated;
      (2)   The identity of the toxic pollutants known or suspected to be
present in the wastewater;
      (3)   At least one sample report showing the results of an analysis for
the EPA priority pollutants for each type of wastewater for which application
is made in division (F)(1) above;
      (4)   A statement, that is certified by a professional engineer, which
addresses the treatability and compatibility of the wastewater, received or
collected by the facility's treatment process(es);
      (5)   The identity of the materials and/or pollutants whose transport or
treatment are regulated by the EPA, by the state, or by any other governmental
agency. Upon request, the centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility shall
provide a copy of its permit and/or license to the Department; and
      (6)   (a)   Other information requested by the Department including, but
not limited to, information required by §
52.53(C)(1) through (18), or by rules adopted by the Board. The discharge from
a centralized waste treatment (CWT) facility will be deemed approved for those
specific types of wastewater delineated in a permit and, upon issuance of such
permit in accordance with the procedures contained in §
52.53, will be deemed approved for discharge into the POTW. The centralized
waste treatment (CWT) facility shall comply with all applicable provisions
contained in §
52.53 regarding permits. In furtherance of its obligations as control
authority, the Department may include in the permit a requirement to, report at
selected intervals the information mandated in divisions (F)(1) through (6) of
this section.
         (b)   All users granted a permit under this section shall maintain
records which, at a minimum, identify the source, volume, character, and
constituents of the wastewater accepted for treatment and disposal. These
records may be reviewed at any time by the Department.
   (G)   Groundwater discharges. Unless authorization has been granted by the
Department, the discharge of any groundwater into the POTW is prohibited.
      (1)   The Department may authorize the discharge of groundwater resulting
from maintenance and related activities of gas, steam, or electrical utilities
through the use of general permits. Subject to appropriate reporting
requirements, the general permit shall authorize discharge in accordance with
the terms of the permit. Utilities shall comply with this provision within 180
days after its enactment.
      (2)   If a person, who proposes to discharge groundwater resulting from
purge, response activity, or UST projects, has applied for and received a
permit from the Department, the Department may authorize the discharge of such
wastewater. Permits shall be issued in accordance with the procedures contained
in §
52.53, or in accordance with any rules adopted by the Board.
   (H)   Village right of revision.  The City of Detroit and the village
reserves the right to establish rules or regulations adopted by the Board,
additional or more stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the
POTW. Ninety days after adoption by the Board, industrial users shall comply
with such rules and regulations.
   (I)   Accidental discharges.
      (1)   (a)   Each industrial user, which does not currently have an
approved spill prevention plan or slug control plan, shall provide protection
from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated
by this chapter, and all significant industrial users shall submit to the
Department detailed plans which show facilities and operating procedures to be
implemented to provide protection against such accidental discharges.
Facilities and measures to prevent and abate accidental discharges shall be
implemented, provided, and maintained at the owner's or industrial user's cost
or expense. Unless the significant industrial user has an approved spill
prevention or slug control plan, all existing significant industrial users
shall complete and submit such a plan within 60 days of the effective date of
this chapter. New significant industrial users shall submit such a plan prior
to the time they commence discharging.
         (b)   For purposes of this chapter, the information provided shall
include the approximate average and maximum quantities of such prohibited
materials or substances kept on the premises in the form of raw materials,
chemicals and/or waste therefrom and the containment capacity for each. Only
substances that are in a form which could readily be carried into the POTW and
constitute a concentration of 5% or greater in the raw material, chemical
solution or waste material, are required to be reported. Volumes of less than
55 gallons, or the equivalent thereof, need not be reported unless lesser
quantities could cause pass through or cause interference with the POTW.
         (c)   The industrial user shall promptly notify the Department of any
significant changes or modifications to the plan including, but not limited to,
a change in the contact person, or substance inventory.
      (2)   At least once every two years, the Department shall evaluate
whether a significant industrial user needs a plan to control slug discharges,
as defined by 40 C.F.R. 403.8(f)(2)(v). Unless otherwise provided, all
significant users shall complete, implement, and submit such a plan within 30
days of notification by the Department.
   (J)   Notification requirements. Unless a different notice is provided by
this section or applicable law, within one hour of becoming aware of a
discharge into the POTW which exceeds or does not conform with federal, state
or village laws, rules, regulations or permit requirements, or which could
cause problems to the POTW, or which has the potential to cause the industrial
user to implement its plan prepared in accordance with this chapter, the
industrial user shall telephone the Department at its control center and notify
the Department of the discharge. The notification shall include the name of the
caller, the location and time of discharge, the type of wastewater, the
estimated concentration of excessive or prohibited pollutants and estimated
volume, and the measures taken, or being taken, to abate the discharge into the
POTW. Within five calendar days after the discharge, the industrial user shall
submit a detailed written report describing the cause of the discharge and the
measures to be taken by the user to prevent similar future occurrences and when
required by the Department, the industrial user's wastewater discharge permit
may be modified to include additional measures to prevent such future
occurrences. Such notification shall not relieve the industrial user of any
expense, cost of treatment, loss, damages or other liability which may be
incurred as a result of damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other
environmental impairment or any other damage to person or property.
   (K)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
industrial user's bulletin board, or other prominent place, advising employees
whom to contact in the Department in the event of an actual or excessive or
prohibited discharge.
   (L)   Recovery of costs. Any user discharging in violation of any of the
provisions of this chapter, which produces a deposit or obstruction, or causes
damage to or impairs the Department's POTW, or causes the Department to violate
its NPDES permit, shall be liable to the Department for any expense, loss,
damage, penalty or fine incurred by the Department because of said violation or
discharge. Prior to assessing such costs, the Department shall notify the user
of its determination that the user's discharge was the proximate cause of such
damage, obstruction, impairment, or violation of the city's NPDES permit and
the Department's intent to assess such costs to the user. Any such notice shall
include written documentation which substantiates the determination of
proximate cause and a breakdown of cost estimates. Failure to pay the assessed
costs shall constitute a violation of this chapter. Such charge shall be in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any penalties or remedies provided under this
chapter, or this code, or other statutes and regulations, or at law or in
equity.
   (M)   Hazardous waste notification. All industrial users, who discharge into
the village collection system, shall notify the Department in writing of any
discharge of a substance which, if otherwise disposed of, would be a hazardous
waste as set forth in 40 C.F.R. Part 261. Such notification must comply with
the requirements of 40 C.F.R. 403.12(p).
   (N)   Authorized representative. The authorized representative, as defined
in §
52.03(A)(3), may designate a duly authorized representative of the individual
designated in §
52.03(A)(3)(1) or (2) where:
      (1)   The authorization is made in writing by the individual defined in §
52.03(A)(3)(1) or (2);
      (2)   The authorization specifies either an individual or a position
having responsibility for the overall operation of the facility where the
industrial discharge originates, such as the position of plant manager;
operator of a well or well field superintendent, or a position of equivalent
responsibility, or having overall responsibility for environmental matters for
the company; and
      (3)   The written authorization is submitted to the Department.
   (O)   Pollution prevention.  The Department shall encourage and support
industrial users to develop and implement pollution prevention programs which
eliminate or reduce pollutant contributions beyond the levels required by this
chapter. The Department may require an industrial user to implement pollution
prevention initiatives or BMP as part of an enforcement response, or as
necessary to comply with its NPDES permit.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 23.33,
passed 2-9-09) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 52.52 FEES.
   (A)   The purpose of this section is to provide for the recovery of costs
from users of the POTW. The applicable charges or fees established by the Board
shall be sufficient to meet the costs of the operation, maintenance,
improvement or replacement of the system, or as provided by law or by Board
action.
   (B)   The Board shall adopt charges and fees which shall include, but not be
limited to:
      (1)   Fees for reimbursement of costs of establishing, operating,
maintaining, or improving the Department's industrial waste control and
pretreatment programs; and
      (2)   User fees based upon volume of waste and concentration or quantity
of specific pollutants in the discharge, and treatment costs including sludge
handling and disposal; and
      (3)   Reasonable fees for reimbursement of costs for hearings including,
but not limited to, expenses regarding hearings officers, court reporters, and
transcriptions; and
      (4)   Other fees, which the Board may deem necessary, to carry out the
requirements contained herein, or as may be required by law.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.53 WASTEWATER DISCHARGE PERMITS.
   (A)   Required.  It shall be unlawful for users to discharge into the POTW
any wastewater which will cause interference or pass through, or otherwise not
comply with the discharge prohibitions of §
52.51. It shall be unlawful for a significant industrial user to discharge into
the POTW without a wastewater discharge permit from the Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department. Unless otherwise expressly authorized by the Department
through permit, order, rule or regulation, any discharge must be in accordance
with the provisions of this chapter.
      (1)   All significant industrial users, which are in existence on the
effective date of this chapter, shall apply for a wastewater discharge permit
within 30 days of the effective date of this chapter. Significant industrial
users who are currently operating with a valid wastewater discharge permit are
not subject to this provision. These applications are to include all
information specified in division (C) below and, where applicable, any
additional information which may be needed to satisfy the federal baseline
monitoring report requirements of 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b).
      (2)   All new significant users shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit at least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge. The application
must include all information specified in division (C) below and, where
applicable, any additional information that may be needed to satisfy the
federal BMR requirements of 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b). Until a permit is issued and
finalized by the Department, no discharge shall be made into the POTW.
      (3)   Any user, who proposes to discharge any wastewater other than
sanitary or non-contact cooling water into the POTW, shall request approval
from the Department for the discharge(s) at least 30 days prior to the
commencement of the discharge.
   (B)   Permit application or reapplication. The Department may require any
user to complete a questionnaire and/or a permit application and to submit the
same to the Department for determining whether the industrial user is a
significant user, or to determine changes in the wastewater discharges from a
user's facility. Within 30 days of being so notified, a user shall comply with
the Department's request in the manner and form prescribed by the Department.
Failure of the Department to so notify a user shall not relieve the user of the
duty to obtain a permit as required by this chapter.
      (1)   A user, which becomes subject to a new or revised national
categorical pretreatment standard, shall apply for a wastewater discharge
permit within 90 days after the promulgation of the applicable national
categorical pretreatment standard, unless an earlier date is specified or
required by 40 C.F.R. 403.12(b). The existing user shall provide a permit
application which includes all the information specified in divisions (C) and
(G) below.
      (2)   A separate permit application shall be required for each separate
facility.
      (3)   Existing permittees shall apply for permit reissuance a minimum of
90 days prior to the expiration of existing permits on a form prescribed by the
Department.
   (C)   Application or reapplication information. In support of an application
or reapplication for a wastewater discharge permit, the industrial user shall
submit, in units and terms appropriate for evaluation, the following
information:
      (1)   Corporate or individual name, any assumed name(s), federal employer
identification number, address, and location of the discharging facility;
      (2)   Name and title of the authorized representative of the industrial
user who shall have the authority to bind the industrial user financially and
legally;
      (3)   All SIC numbers of all processes at this location according to the
Standard Industrial Classification manual, issued by the Executive Office of
the President, Office of Management and Budget, 1987, as amended;
      (4)   Actual or proposed wastewater constituents and characteristics for
each parameter listed in the permit application form. Such parameters shall
include those applicable pollutants having numeric limitations as enumerated in
§
52.51(A) and (B), those pollutants limited by national categorical pretreatment
standards regulations for applicable industries and any toxic pollutants known
or suspected to be present in the discharge, regulated in the previous permit,
or specifically requested by the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department. For
each parameter, the expected or experienced maximum and average concentrations
during a one-year period shall be provided. For industries subject to national
categorical pretreatment standards or requirements, the data requested herein
shall be separately shown for each categorical process wastestream. Combined
wastestreams proposed to be regulated by the combined wastestream formula shall
also be identified. Sampling and analysis shall be performed in accordance with
procedures established by the EPA pursuant to 33 USC 1314(g) and contained in
40 C.F.R. Part 136, as amended. Where 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not include
sampling or analytical techniques for the pollutants in question, sampling and
analysis shall be performed using validated analytical methods approved by the
Administrator.
      (5)   A listing and description of activities, facilities and plant
processes on the premises. Those processes, which are subject to national
categorical pretreatment standards or requirements, shall be so designated. As
pertains to division (C)(4) above, identify which pollutants are associated
with each process;
      (6)   Restricted to only those pollutants referred to in division (C)(4)
above, a listing of raw materials and chemicals which are either used in the
manufacturing process or could yield the pollutants referred to in division (C)
(4) above. Any user claiming immunity from having to provide such information
for reasons of national security shall furnish acceptable proof of such
immunity;
      (7)   A description of typical daily and weekly operating cycles for each
process in terms of starting and ending times for each of the seven days of the
week;
      (8)   Denote:
         (a)   The average and maximum 24-hour wastewater flow rates including,
if any, daily, monthly and seasonal variations;
         (b)   Each national categorical process wastestream flow rate and the
cooling water, sanitary water and storm water flow rates separately for each
connection to the POTW; and
         (c)   Each combined wastestream;
      (9)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by
the size, location, elevation and points or places of discharges into the POTW;
also a flow schematic showing which connections receive each national
categorical process wastestream and which connections receive storm water,
sanitary water or cooling water; also show which lines handle each combined
wastestream. This schematic shall be cross-referenced to the information
furnished in division (C)(8) above;
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production as pertains to processes subject to production based limits
under the national categorical pretreatment standards or requirements only;
      (11)   A statement regarding whether or not the requirements of this
chapter and of the national categorical pretreatment standards and requirements
are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and
maintenance work and/or additional construction is required for the industrial
user to meet the applicable standards and requirements. This statement shall be
reviewed and signed by the authorized representative and, as appropriate,
certified by a qualified professional;
      (12)   Basic information on the program for the prevention of accidental
discharges in accordance with the requirements of §
52.51(I);
      (13)   Proposed or actual hours of operation of each pretreatment system
for each production process;
      (14)   A schematic and description of each pretreatment facility which
identifies whether each pretreatment facility is of the batch type or
continuous process type;
      (15)   If other than Detroit Water and Sewerage Department potable water,
the industrial user's source of intake water together with the types of usage
and disposal method of each water source, and the estimated wastewater volumes
from each source;
      (16)   If additional construction and/or operation and maintenance
procedures will be required to meet the requirements of this section and the
national categorical pretreatment standards, the shortest schedule by which the
user will provide such additional construction and/or implement the required
operation and maintenance procedures;
      (17)   Identify whether the user has conducted a waste minimization
assessment or audit of its operations in order to identify all feasible source
reduction and recycling practices that may be employed to reduce or eliminate
the generation of pollutants and other waste at the facility; and
      (18)   Any other information as may reasonably be required to prepare and
process a wastewater discharge permit.
   (D)   Permit issuance. Upon receipt of an application, the Department shall
review the application, determine, and so notify the industrial user in writing
regarding any of the following:
      (1)   The industrial user does not meet the definition of a significant
industrial user and is not required to have a wastewater discharge permit;
      (2)   The industrial user does meet the definition of a significant
industrial user but is found by the Department to have no reasonable potential
for adversely affecting the POTW operation or for violating any pretreatment
standard or requirement, and is not required to have a wastewater discharge
permit. The Department shall make such determination in accordance with the
requirements of 40 C.F.R. 403.8(f)(6);
      (3)   The application is incomplete or the information only partially
satisfies the information and data required by 40 C.F.R. 403.12 or by the
Department, and that additional information and data are required which shall
be promptly furnished. Where appropriate, the industrial user is notified
regarding specific information that is missing, or that the application is
unacceptable.
      (4)   (a)   The industrial user is required to have a wastewater
discharge permit. The Department shall notify the industrial user of its
determination and the basis of the determination.
         (b)   The Department may withhold issuance of a permit to a
significant user, which has not submitted an adequate or timely report, or
permit application, to the Department as the control authority in accordance
with the reporting requirements of 40 C.F.R. 403.12, or whose discharge is in
violation of this chapter. If the Department determines that an industrial user
is required to have a wastewater discharge permit and has evaluated and
accepted the data furnished, the industrial user will be notified accordingly
by certified mail. The notification shall contain a copy of the draft permit,
so marked, for the industrial user's review. An industrial user has 30 days
from the date of mailing to file a response to the draft permit and, in
accordance with the procedures contained in §
52.59, 20 days from the date of mailing to file an appeal regarding a permit
issued as final. Upon disposition by the Department of any contested terms or
conditions, a permit shall be issued as final. Only one facility location shall
be included in each permit.
   (E)   Permit conditions. Wastewater discharge permits shall contain all
requirements of 40 C.F.R. 403.8(f)(1)(iii) and shall be deemed to incorporate
all provisions of this chapter, other applicable laws, rules, regulations, and
user charges and fees established by the City of Detroit or village without
repetition therein. In addition, permits may contain the following:
      (1)   Limits on the average and maximum wastewater constituents or
characteristics which are equivalent, more restrictive than, or supplemental to
the numeric limits enumerated in §
52.51, or the applicable national categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   Limits on average, and maximum rate and time of discharge or
requirements for flow regulation and equalization;
      (3)   Requirements for installation, operation, and maintenance of
discharge sampling manholes and monitoring facilities by the industrial user;
      (4)   Restrictions on which of the user's discharge wastestreams are to
be allowed to be discharged at each point of connection to the POTW;
      (5)   Specifications for industrial user monitoring programs which may
include sampling locations, frequency and type of sampling, number, types and
standards for tests and reporting schedules;
      (6).   Requirements for the prevention of accidental discharges and the
containment of spills or slug discharges;
      (7)   Restrictions based on the information furnished in the application;
      (8)   Additional reporting requirements:
         (a)   All permittees shall submit a report on the form prescribed by
the Department, or on an alternative form approved by the Department,
indicating the status of compliance with all conditions enumerated or referred
to in the wastewater discharge permit, or made applicable to the permit by this
chapter. Unless required more frequently, the reports shall be submitted at
six-month intervals on a schedule to be established by the Department.
Analytical data generated by the Department may not be submitted in lieu of the
facility's own monitoring data as required by the wastewater discharge permit.
         (b)   Permittees not subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall submit a report in accordance with the
requirements of divisions (E)(8)(d) and (e) below. The report shall show the
concentration of each substance for which there is a specific limitation in the
permit, or which may be identified by the Department in accordance with
divisions (E)(9) and (11) below.
         (c)   Permittees subject to national categorical pretreatment
standards or requirements shall submit compliance reports at the times and
intervals specified by federal regulations and by the Department. A compliance
report shall be submitted to the Department no later than 90 days following the
final compliance date for a standard, or in the case of a new source, no later
than 90 days, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the
POTW, and in accordance with 40 C.F.R. 403.12(d). A report on continued
compliance shall be submitted at six-month intervals thereafter on the schedule
established by the Department and incorporated into the industrial users
discharge permit and in accordance with divisions (E)(8)(d) and (e) below. The
reports shall be either on a form prescribed by the Department or on an
alternate form approved by the Department, and shall indicate the nature and
concentration of all pollutants in the discharge from each regulated process
which are limited by national categorical pretreatment standards, or which
there is a specific limitation in the permit, or which may be identified by the
Department in accordance with divisions (E)(9) and (11) below. The report shall
include a record of measured or estimated average and maximum daily flows for
the reporting period for the discharges regulated by the permit. The combined
wastestream formula may be used for reporting purposes after the initial
information has been furnished to the Department, provided there have been no
changes to the elements composing the combined wastestream.
         (d)   1.   Reports shall contain the results of representative
sampling performed during the period covered by the report and of the discharge
and analysis of pollutants contained therein, and, for significant industrial
users subject to production based standards, shall be cross-referenced to the
related flow or production and mass as required to determine compliance with
the applicable pretreatment standards. The frequency of monitoring shall be as
prescribed in the applicable general pretreatment regulations, being 40 C.F.R.
Part 403, or by the Department, but no less than is necessary to assess and
assure compliance by the industrial user with the most stringent applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements. All sampling and analysis shall be
performed in accordance with applicable regulations contained in 40 C.F.R. Part
136 and amendments thereto. Where 40 C.F.R. Part 136 does not include sampling
or analytical techniques for the pollutants in question, sampling and analysis
shall be performed using validated analytical methods approved by the
Administrator.
            2.   If an industrial user monitors any pollutant more frequently
than required by the Department using the procedures as prescribed in this
section, the results of this monitoring shall be included in such report. The
report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards are being met
on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional operation and maintenance
practices and/or pretreatment system improvements or changes are necessary to
bring the industrial user into compliance with the applicable pretreatment
standards.
         (e)   This report, and those required under §
52.51(C)(5) and divisions (E)(8)(b) and (c) above, shall include the following
certification statement: "I certify under penalty of law that this document and
all attachments were prepared under my direction, or supervision, in accordance
with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the information, the information submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false information, including the
possibility of a fine and/or imprisonment for knowing violations." Said
certification shall be signed by the facility's authorized representative, as
defined in §
52.03. If an authorization is no longer accurate because a different individual
or position has responsibility for the overall operation of the facility, or
overall responsibility for environmental matters for the company, a new
authorization satisfying the requirements of the authorized representative
definition must be submitted to the Department prior to, or together with, any
reports to be signed by an authorized representative.
         (f)   If sampling performed by a permittee indicates a violation, the
user shall notify the Department within 24 hours of the time said user becomes,
or should have become, aware of the violation. In addition, the user shall
repeat the sampling and analysis, and submit the results of the repeat analysis
to the Department within 30 days after said user becomes, or should have
become, aware of the violation.
      (9)   In the event the Director determines that an industrial user is
discharging substances in quality, quantity or at locations which may cause
problems to the POTW, or the receiving stream, the Department has the authority
to develop and enforce effluent limits applicable to the user. To the extent
the Department seeks to impose restrictions in a permit which are more
restrictive than established in this chapter, the Department shall provide
written documentation to explain the greater restriction for protection against
pass through, interference, or violation of the NPDES permit;
      (10)   Requirement for pollution prevention initiatives; and
      (11)   Other requirements reasonably necessary to ensure compliance with
this section.
   (F)   Permit duration. Permits shall be issued for a specified time period.
Except as deemed necessary by the Department, or as otherwise provided for
under this division, permits shall be issued for a specified period of not more
than five years nor less than one year. The existing permit for significant
industrial users, who timely submit an application for permit reissuance to the
Department, shall be automatically extended until a permit is issued as final.
   (G)   Permit modification.  
      (1)   The terms and conditions of the permit may be subject to
modification by the Department during the term of the permit as limitations or
pretreatment standards and requirements identified in §
52.51 are amended, or other just cause exists. Just cause for a permit
modification includes, but shall not be limited to, the following:
         (a)   Material or substantial changes to an industrial user's facility
or operation, or changes in the characteristics of the industrial user's
effluent. It shall be the industrial user's duty to request an application form
and apply for a modification of the permit within 30 calendar days of the
change;
         (b)   Change(s) in the Department's NPDES permit;
         (c)   Embodiment of the provisions of a legal settlement or of a court
order;
         (d)   Any changes necessary to fulfill the Department's role as
control authority;
         (e)   An industrial user's noncompliance with portions of an existing
permit;
         (f)   A change of conditions within the POTW;
         (g)   A finding of interference or pass through attributable to the
industrial user;
         (h)   Amendments to, or promulgation of, national categorical
pretreatment standards or requirements including 40 C.F.R. Part 403 and those
delineated in §
52.60. Permittees shall request an application form and apply to the Department
for a modified permit within 90 days after the promulgation of a new or revised
national categorical pretreatment standard to which the industrial user shall
be subject. Information submitted pursuant to this chapter shall be confined to
that information related to the newly promulgated or amended national
categorical pretreatment standard or requirement. However, information
previously submitted need not be duplicated, insofar as the previously
submitted information continues to be current and applicable. In addition, the
Department may initiate this action;
         (i)   Changes in the monitoring location. (See §
52.54);
         (j)   Typographical errors or omissions in permits;
         (k)   The Department may modify the permit on its own initiative based
on its findings or reasonable belief of the above; or
         (l)   The user may request a modification of the permit.
      (2)   When initiated by the Department, the industrial user shall be
informed of any proposed change in its permit. The Department will issue a
draft permit and an industrial user has 30 days to file a response to the draft
modified permit. Thereafter, the Department will issue a final permit and,
unless appealed in accordance with the procedures contained in §
52.59, the permit will become effective 20 days after issuance.
   (H)   Permit custody and transfer.  Wastewater discharge permits are issued
to a specific person as defined herein for a specific discharge. A wastewater
discharge permit shall not be reassigned or transferred or sold to a different
person, new owner, new industrial user, different premises, or a new or changed
operation without notice to and written approval of the Department, and
providing a copy of the existing permit to the new owner or operator. It shall
be the permit holder's duty to notify the Department of any such change at
least 30 days before the date of the change. Wastewater discharge permits,
which do not receive the written approval of the Department prior to the
change, shall be null and void regardless of reassignment, or transfer, or
sale. If it has occurred, the Department may revoke a permit. If a change takes
place, the Department may require the application for a new or modified permit.
Any succeeding person shall comply with the terms and conditions of any
existing permit which the Department allows to be retained.
   (I)   Permit notification requirements. All industrial users shall promptly
notify the Department in advance of any substantial change in the volume or
character of pollutants in their discharge, including the listed or
characteristic hazardous waste for which initial notification under 40 C.F.R.
403.12(p) has been made, request a permit application form, and apply for a
modification of the permit at least 30 calendar days prior to the change.
Failure of the industrial user to so apply shall be considered a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.54 MONITORING FACILITIES.
   (A)   Significant industrial users shall provide, operate and maintain at
their own expense a sampling manhole or special structure to facilitate
monitoring, inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of their discharge by
the Department and the industrial user, and to enable the Department to conduct
such other monitoring and sampling as required for determining compliance with
discharge requirements, limits and standards as provided for in this chapter.
In the event the Department determines that the monitoring facility identified
in the permit application is inadequate, a new monitoring facility must be
identified, or provided, which shall allow for collection of a representative
sample of the wastewater discharged from the facility. Unless otherwise
determined at the discretion of the Department, said facility shall be provided
within 90 days of receipt of notification by the Department. The industrial
user shall provide the Department with:
      (1)   A drawing showing all sewer connections and sampling manholes by
the size, location, elevation, and points or places of discharges into the
POTW;
      (2)   (a)   A flow schematic showing:
            1.   Which connections receive each national categorical process
wastestream,
            2.   Which connections receive storm water, sanitary water or
cooling water, and
            3.   Which lines handle each combined wastestream.
         (b)   This report shall be certified by a professional engineer. If a
significant industrial user fails to install the monitoring facilities within
the prescribed time limits, then the Department may install such structure or
device and the significant user shall reimburse the Department for any costs
incurred therein.
   (B)   The sampling manhole should be situated on the industrial user's
premises in a location readily accessible to the Department. When such a
location would be impractical or cause undue hardship to the industrial user,
the Department may allow the facility to be constructed in the public street or
sidewalk area when there is room and the location will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles. It shall be the responsibility of the
industrial user to obtain any necessary approvals which may be required from
other government agencies for the location and construction of monitoring
facilities. There shall be ample room in or near such sampling or monitoring
manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of samples for
analysis. The facility and any permanently installed sampling and measuring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the industrial user. Whether constructed upon
public or private property, the sampling and monitoring facilities shall be
provided in accordance with the Department's requirements and all applicable
local construction standards and specifications. See §
52.53(G) regarding permit modification.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.55 INSPECTION SAMPLING AND RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   For purposes of administering and enforcing this chapter, any other
applicable provisions of this code or applicable state or federal laws and
regulations, the Department may inspect the establishment, facility or other
premises of the industrial user. The Department's employees or authorized
representative shall have access to the industrial user's premises for purposes
of inspection, sampling, compliance monitoring and/or metering activities.
   (B)   Each such inspection or sampling activity shall be commenced and
completed at reasonable times, and in a reasonable manner. Upon arrival at the
industrial user's premises, the Department shall inform the industrial user, or
the industrial user's employees, that sampling and/or inspection is commencing,
and that the facility's authorized representative has the right to observe the
inspection and/or sampling. The Department shall neither refrain from, nor be
prevented or delayed from, carrying out its inspection or sampling duties due
to the unavailability of the authorized representative of the facility to
observe or participate in the inspection or sampling activity.
   (C)   While performing work on private property, employees or authorized
representatives of the Department shall observe all reasonable safety, security
and other reasonable rules applicable to the premises as established by the
industrial user. Duly authorized employees or representatives of the Department
shall bear proper credentials and identification, and at the industrial user's
option may be accompanied by a duly authorized representative of the industrial
user. Duly authorized Department representatives shall not be restricted from
viewing any of the facility site. Department employees or representatives may
take photographs of facilities subject to this chapter which shall be
maintained by the Department as confidential in accordance with §
52.56.
   (D)   Where an industrial user has security measures in force, the
industrial user shall make prompt and necessary arrangements with the security
personnel so that, upon presentation of appropriate credentials, personnel from
the Department will be permitted to enter for the purposes of performing their
specific responsibilities.
   (E)   Significant industrial users shall sample and analyze their discharge
in accordance with the provisions of their permit. The Department may require
such samples to be split with the Department for the Department's independent
analysis.
   (F)   Industrial users shall maintain records of all information from
monitoring activities required by this division, or by 40 C.F.R. 403.12(n).
Industrial users shall maintain the records for no less than three years. This
period of record retention shall be extended during the course of any
unresolved litigation regarding the discharge of pollutants by the industrial
user, or the operation of the City of Detroit's Industrial Waste Program, or
when requested by the department, by the state, or by the EPA.
   (G)   Upon the request of the Department, industrial users shall furnish
information and records relating to discharges into the POTW. Industrial users
shall make such records readily accessible to the Department at all reasonable
times, and allow the Department to copy such records.
   (H)   In the event the Department obtains samples, and analyses are made of
such samples, a copy of the results of such analyses shall be promptly
furnished upon written request by the industrial user's authorized
representative. When requested by the industrial user, the Department employee
or representative shall leave with the user, a portion of any sample of the
user's discharge taken from any sampling point on or adjacent to the premises
for the user's independent analysis. In cases of disputes arising over shared
samples, the portion taken and analyzed by the Department shall be controlling
unless proven invalid.
   (I)   In addition to any other violation caused by the discharge described
herein, in the event a single grab sample of the industrial user's discharge is
obtained by the Department, and then analyzed in accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part
136, and found to contain concentrations of pollutants which are two or more
times greater than the numeric limitations as listed in §
52.51(B), or as contained in the facility's wastewater discharge permit, the
industrial user shall implement its slug control plan, and shall provide a
written report to the Department within 14 days, which describes the cause of
greater concentration and provides a description of the means by which future
discharge concentrations will be held to values of less than two times the
limitation in the future.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.56 CONFIDENTIAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   (1)   Information and data on an industrial user obtained from written
reports, questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs,
and from inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental
agencies without restriction unless the industrial user specifically requests
and is able to demonstrate to the satisfaction of the Department that the
release of such information would divulge information, processes or methods of
production entitled to protection as trade secrets of the industrial user.
      (2)   When submitted to the Department, all information claimed to be
confidential must be clearly marked "confidential". When requested by the
person furnishing the report, the portions of a report determined by the
Department to disclose trade secrets or trade secret processes, and which are
clearly labeled as confidential, shall not be made available for inspection by
the public, but shall be made available upon request to governmental agencies
for uses related to this division, to the National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, and to the State Disposal System permit and/
or the pretreatment programs, provided, however that information shall be
treated as confidential by the governmental agency, until such time as the
information has been determined to be non-confidential by the governmental
agency. Confidential information on industrial users, which the Department
releases pursuant to a request of another governmental agency, should be
handled by the other governmental agency pursuant to its own confidentiality
procedures. The Department cannot control how another governmental agency
handles such confidential information, and assumes no responsibility for the
disposition of the information released to the governmental agency. The
Department will use sufficient care to inform the other governmental agency of
the existence of the industrial user's confidentiality claim.
      (3)   The Department shall determine whether the information requested to
be treated as confidential, in fact, satisfies the requirements of confidential
information as defined herein. The decision of the Department shall be made in
writing.
      (4)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized
as confidential information.
   (B)   Except as otherwise determined by the Department or provided for by
applicable law, all information with respect to an industrial user on file with
the city shall be made available upon request by such user or the user's
authorized representative during normal business hours.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.57 STATUTES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The national categorical pretreatment standards defined in 40 C.F.R. Chapter
I, Subchapter N, Parts 405-471, shall be and are incorporated by reference
herein and made a part hereof. Unless otherwise provided, any reference in this
chapter to a code, standard, rule, regulation, or law enacted, adopted,
established, or promulgated by any private organization, or by any element or
organization of government other than the village shall be construed to apply
to such code, standard, rule, regulation, or law in effect or as amended or
promulgated, from the date of enactment of this chapter.
(Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90; Am. Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.58 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Violations. It shall be a violation of this chapter for any user to:
      (1)   Fail to completely and/or accurately report the wastewater
constituents and/or characteristics of the industrial user's discharge;
      (2)   Fail to report significant changes in the industrial user's
operations or wastewater constituents and/or characteristics within the time
frames provided in §
52.53(G)(1);
      (3)   Refuse reasonable access to the industrial user's premises, waste
discharge, or sample location for the purpose of inspection or monitoring;
      (4)   Restrict, lockout or prevent, directly or indirectly, access to any
monitoring facilities constructed on public or private property. The locking or
securing of the monitoring facility shall not constitute a violation pursuant
to this subsection, provided, that upon request reasonable access to the
facility is promptly provided to the Department;
      (5)   Restrict, interfere, tamper with, or render inaccurate any of the
Departments monitoring devices including, but not limited to, samplers;
      (6)   Fail to comply with any condition or requirement of the industrial
user's wastewater discharge permit;
      (7)   Fail to comply with any limitation, prohibition, or requirement of
this chapter including any rule, regulation, or order issued hereunder.
Industrial users acting in full compliance with wastewater discharge permits
issued prior to the effective date of this chapter shall be deemed to be in
compliance with the requirements of this chapter, and such permits shall remain
in effect and be enforceable under this chapter until a superseding permit is
effective. Industrial users shall comply with applicable national categorical
pretreatment standards and requirements on the date specified in the federal
regulations, regardless of compliance schedules.
   (B)   Upsets. An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense to an action
brought for noncompliance with national categorical pretreatment standards
where the requirements of division (1) below are met.
      (1)   An industrial user who wishes to establish the affirmative defense
shall demonstrate, through properly signed, contemporaneous operating logs, or
other relevant evidence, that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the industrial user can identify the cause
(s) of the upset;
         (b)   At the time, the facility was being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures;
         (c)   The industrial user has submitted the following information to
the Department, orally or in writing, within 24 hours of becoming aware of the
upset and where this information is provided orally, a written submission must
be provided within five days:
            1.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (2)   In any enforcement proceeding, the industrial user seeking to
establish the occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof;
      (3)   The industrial user shall control production of all discharges to
the extent necessary to maintain compliance with this division upon reduction,
loss, or failure of its treatment facility until the facility is restored or an
alternative method of treatment is provided. This requirement applies in the
situation where, among other things, the primary source of power of the
treatment facility is reduced, lost or fails.
   (C)   Bypass. Bypasses are prohibited unless the bypass does not cause a
violation of pretreatment standards or requirements, but only if it is for
essential maintenance to ensure efficient operation of the treatment system.
These bypasses are not subject to the provisions of divisions (1) and (2)
below.
      (1)   Notice of anticipated bypass. Industrial users anticipating a
bypass shall submit notice to the Department at least ten days in advance.
      (2)   Notice of unanticipated bypass. An industrial user shall submit
oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that exceeds applicable pretreatment
standards within 24 hours from the time the industrial user becomes or should
have become aware of the bypass. A written submission shall be provided within
five days of the time the industrial user becomes or should have become aware
of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description of the bypass
including exact dates and times, and if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue, and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
      (3)   Prohibition of bypass and enforcement. Bypass is prohibited, and
the Department may take enforcement action against a user for a bypass, unless:
         (a)   The bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of life, personal
injury, or severe property damage;
         (b)   There were no feasible alternatives to the bypass, such as the
use of auxiliary treatment facilities, retention of untreated waste, or
maintenance during normal periods of equipment downtime. This condition is not
satisfied if adequate backup equipment should have been installed in the
exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to prevent a bypass which occurred
during normal periods of equipment downtime or preventative maintenance; and
         (c)   The industrial user properly notified the Department as
described in division (C)(2) above.
      (4)   Bypass approval. Where it meets all conditions in division (C)(3)
above, the Department may approve an anticipated bypass.
   (d)   Emergency suspensions and orders. The Department may order suspension
of the sewer or wastewater treatment service and/or a wastewater discharge
permit where, in the opinion of the Department, such suspension is necessary to
stop any actual or threatened discharge which presents or may present an
imminent or significant hazard to the health or welfare of persons or to the
environment, interferes or may interfere with the POTW, or causes or may cause
the City of Detroit to violate any condition of its NPDES permit. Any person
notified of a suspension of the sewer or wastewater treatment service and/or
the wastewater discharge permit shall immediately stop or eliminate the
contribution. In the event the Department provides informal notification under
this section, written confirmation and an order shall be provided within 24
hours. In the event of a failure of the person to comply voluntarily with any
suspension or revocation order, the Department shall take such steps as deemed
necessary, including immediate severance of the sewer connection or services,
to prevent or minimize damage to the POTW system or danger to any individual or
the environment. In the event such steps are taken, the Director shall notify
the industrial user within 24 hours in writing of such action and order, and
the specific recourse available. In any event, the Department shall provide the
industrial user with an opportunity for a hearing before the Director, or his
designated representative, within ten days of such action. The industrial user
shall submit a detailed written statement to the Department within 15 days of
the occurrence describing the causes of the harmful contribution and the
measures taken to prevent any future occurrence. Upon proof of elimination of
the noncomplying discharge, the Department shall reinstate the wastewater
discharge permit and/or the sewer or wastewater treatment service.
   (E)   Notice of violation. Except in the case of an actual or threatened
discharge as specified in division (D) above, whenever the Department has
reason to believe that any industrial user has violated or is violating this
chapter, the Department shall serve a written notice stating the nature of the
violation upon such industrial user. Where applicable, the Department shall
pursue appropriate escalating enforcement action as defined within its approved
enforcement response plan. The failure of the Department to issue a notice of
violation shall not preclude the Department from escalating its enforcement
response.
   (F)   Administrative actions. Whenever the Department has reasonable grounds
to believe that a user is violating, or has violated, a provision of its
wastewater discharge permit, or a pretreatment standard or requirement or any
prohibition of this chapter, the Department, except in the case of emergency or
flagrant violation, may initiate appropriate administrative enforcement action
in order to compel the industrial user to eliminate or to remedy such violation
as soon as possible.
      (1)   (a)   Conferences. The Department may order any person, who
violates this chapter, to attend a conference wherein the Department may
endeavor to cause the user to eliminate or remedy the violation by establishing
an enforceable compliance schedule. The notice of violation shall be served at
least ten days before the scheduled conference and shall set forth the date,
time, and place thereof. The conference shall be conducted by a representative
of the Department. The industrial user shall present a plan and schedule for
achieving compliance with this chapter. Nothing contained herein shall require
the Department to accept or agree to any proposed plan or schedule, or to
prevent the Department from proceeding with a show cause hearing as set forth
in division (F)(2) below. If the attendees agree upon a compliance schedule,
the user and the Department's duly authorized representative may enter, by
consent, into a compliance agreement or an administrative order setting forth
the terms of such agreement. An industrial user must exhibit good faith and
expeditious efforts to comply with this chapter and any procedures,
requirements, and agreements hereunder.
         (b)   Compliance schedules. The user and the Department may agree upon
a schedule which sets forth the terms and conditions, and time periods or
schedules for completion of actions to remedy or to eliminate the causes of
violation. These schedules may be developed as part of a compliance agreement,
or an administrative consent order. Schedules developed under this subsection
shall adhere to the following conditions:
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of upgraded or additional pretreatment facilities,
or to the implementation of additional operation and maintenance procedures
required for the industrial user to meet the applicable pretreatment
requirements and standards including, but not limited to, hiring an engineer,
completing preliminary plans, completing final plans, executing contracts for
major components, commencing construction, and completing construction;
            2.   No single increment referred to in division (F)(1)(b)1. above
shall exceed nine months;
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the industrial user shall submit a progress
report to the Department including, at a minimum, whether it complied with the
increment of progress to be met on such date and, if not, the date which it
expects to comply with this increment of progress, the reason(s) for delay, and
the steps being taken by the industrial user to return to the established
schedule; and
            4.   Any deviations from the compliance schedule may result in the
industrial user being found in violation of this chapter.
         (c)   Administrative orders.  The Department may order any industrial
user, who violates or continues to violate this chapter or a duly issued
permit, to install and to properly operate devices, treatment facilities, or
other related appurtenances. In addition, orders may contain such other
requirements as might reasonably be necessary and appropriate to address the
violation including the installation of pretreatment technology, additional
self-monitoring and management practices, implementation of a waste
minimization assessment to identify and implement feasible source reduction,
and recycling practices to reduce the generation or release of pollutants at
the facility. An order may be either an administrative consent order, which is
the result of an agreement, or a unilateral administrative order.
      (2)   Show cause hearing. The Department may order any industrial user,
who violates this chapter or allows such violation to occur, to show cause
before the Department why a proposed enforcement action should not be taken. A
notice shall be served upon the industrial user specifying the time and place
of a hearing before the Department regarding the violation, the reason(s) why
the action is to be taken, the proposed enforcement action, and directing the
industrial user to show cause before the Department why any proposed
enforcement action should not be taken. The notice of the hearing shall be
served personally, or by registered or certified mail with return receipt
requested, at least ten days before the hearing. Service may be made upon any
agent or officer of a corporation, or its authorized representative.
         (a)   Hearing proceeding.  The hearing shall be conducted in
accordance with the procedures adopted by the Board. A hearings officer shall
conduct the show cause hearing and take the evidence, and may:
            1.   In the name of the Board, issue notices of hearing requesting
the attendance and testimony of witnesses and the production of evidence
relevant to any matter involved in such hearing;
            2.   Transmit a report of the evidence and hearing, including
transcripts and other evidence, together with recommendations to the Director
for action thereon.
         (b)   Transcript.  At any show cause hearing held pursuant to this
chapter, testimony shall be recorded by a court reporter.
      (3)   Actions. After a show cause hearing has been conducted, the
hearings officer shall issue an order to the industrial user directing any of
the following actions:
         (a)   Immediate compliance with the industrial user's wastewater
discharge permit or with any applicable limitation, condition, restriction or
requirement of this division, or applicable local, state or federal law or
regulation;
         (b)   Pretreatment of waste by installation of adequate treatment
equipment or proper operation and maintenance of existing treatment equipment
be accomplished within a specified time period;
         (c)   Submission of compliance reports on effluent quality and
quantity as determined by self- monitoring and analysis during a specified time
period;
         (d)   Submission of periodic reports on effluent quality and quantity
determined by self-monitoring analysis throughout the final period set by a
compliance date;
         (e)   Control of discharge quantities;
         (f)   Payment of costs for reasonable and necessary inspection,
monitoring, and administration of the industrial user's activities by the
Department during compliance efforts; and/or
         (g)   Any such other orders as are appropriate including, but not
limited to, immediate termination of sewer or wastewater treatment services, or
revocation of a wastewater discharge permit, or orders directing that following
a specified time period sewer or wastewater treatment service will be
discontinued unless adequate treatment facilities, devices, or operation and
maintenance practices have been employed;
         (h)   A finding the user has demonstrated by a preponderance of the
evidence that a violation either of this chapter or of a duly issued permit did
not occur.
      (4)   Public notification of significant noncompliance. The Department
shall publish in the largest daily newspaper published in the City of Detroit
and the village a list of all industrial users which were in significant
noncompliance with applicable pretreatment requirements at any time during the
previous 12 months. All industrial users identified in a proposed publication
shall be provided with a copy of the proposed notice at least 30 days before
publication and allowed an opportunity to comment as to its accuracy.
   (G)   Legal actions.
      (1)   Criminal action. Any user, who violates any provision of this
chapter including the failure to pay any fees, fines, charges or surcharges
imposed hereby, or any condition or limitation of a permit issued pursuant
thereto, or who knowingly makes any false statements, representations or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this chapter or wastewater discharge
permit, or who tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring
device required under this chapter, is guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not to exceed $500 for each violation
per day, or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both. The
Department, consistent with the terms and conditions of the Delegation
Agreement entered into with village, is hereby authorized, through its counsel,
to seek prosecution of criminal charges against any person violating any
provision of this chapter.
      (2)   Civil action. Whenever the Department has reasonable grounds to
believe that a user is violating, or has violated, a provision of its
wastewater discharge permit, a pretreatment standard or requirement or any
requirement of this chapter, the Director may commence a civil action to compel
compliance in a court of competent jurisdiction to enjoin the user from
discharging, and/or to obtain appropriate relief to remedy the violations. The
Department or Board may also seek additional legal and/or equitable relief. The
commencement of suit does not constitute an exclusive election of remedies and
does not prohibit the Department, Director, Board, City of Detroit or the
village from commencing action in federal court for discharges believed to be
in violation of this chapter, state and federal requirements contained in the
Clean Water Act, the City of Detroit's NPDES permit, or other applicable laws
or requirements. In addition, the City of Detroit and/or the village may
recover the reasonable attorney fees, court costs, court reporters' fees, and
other unusual expenses related to enforcement activities or litigation against
the person found to have violated this chapter, or the orders, rules,
regulations and permits issued hereunder.
      (3)   All fines, costs, and penalties which are imposed by any court of
competent jurisdiction shall be payable to the City of Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department and the village where applicable.
   (H)   Prevention initiatives/BMP. Where one or more of the measurements
taken for any pollutant defined in §
52.51(B) of this code during a six month period exceed by any magnitude the
daily maximum non-detect limit for the same parameter, the industrial user may
develop and implement pollution prevention initiatives, or a BMP, a part of its
response. The Department may, as part of an administrative order, also require
development of a BMP as a part of the Department’s enforcement response. Upon
approval of the Department, these pollution prevention initiative, or BMPs
shall be made an enforceable part of the wastewater discharge permit.
Industrial users shall provide, at six month intervals, analytical results and
certifications in support of its implementation of an approved pollution
prevention initiative or BMPs. Upon demonstration of compliance, the industrial
user may request to be relieved of this implementation requirement.
(Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 23.33, passed 2-9-09)
§ 52.59 RECONSIDERATION AND APPEAL.
   Through the procedures of reconsideration and appeal, a user may contest
actions, determinations, or decisions of the Department which result from its
construction, application and enforcement of this chapter. The procedures
contained within this section govern reconsideration and appeal with respect to
construction, application, and enforcement of this chapter.
   (A)   Selection of reconsideration or of appeal.
      (1)   Except for those actions, determinations, or decisions which are
expressly identified as subject only to appeal, reconsideration may be
requested by any permit applicant, permittee, authorized industrial wastewater
discharger or other discharger, who is adversely affected by any action,
determination, or decision that is made by, or on behalf of, the Department by
the Director, or an authorized representative, and that interprets, implements
or enforces the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   An appeal may be requested by any permit applicant, permittee,
authorized industrial wastewater discharger or other discharger, who is
adversely affected:
         (a)   By a permit issued as final by the Department, or
         (b)   By an administrative order entered after a show cause order and
hearing, or after a hearing for reconsideration.
      (3)   Unless otherwise expressly provided for by this chapter, a request
for reconsideration or appeal must be signed by an authorized representative,
and received at the Department's General Offices within 20 days from the date
of the occurrence of the action, determination, or decision in dispute. A
request for reconsideration shall contain the requester's name and address, a
brief statement of the reason(s), and the factual basis underlying the request.
      (4)   A request for reconsideration shall be filed in triplicate either
by hand delivery or by certified mail to the General Offices of the Department.
Where a request for reconsideration or appeal either is not filed within the
time period provided for in this subsection or is improperly made, the action,
determination or decision of the Director, or the Department's authorized
representative, is final and any right to reconsideration or appeal may be
deemed waived.
   (B)   Reconsideration. Within 15 days after receipt of a timely and proper
request for reconsideration, the Department shall notify the applicant of the
time and place for a hearing.
      (1)   A hearing for reconsideration shall be conducted by a hearings
officer who is designated by the Director and may be an employee of the
Department. The decision of the hearings officer shall be in the form of a
recommendation to the Director and embodied in an administrative order. Except
for an administrative consent order that was negotiated and agreed to by both
parties, an administrative order is appealable in accordance with division (C)
below.
      (2)   Where improperly or untimely submitted, the Department may reject a
request for reconsideration. The Department shall notify the requester in
writing that the request has been rejected.
      (3)   Unless the date is mutually extended by both parties, the hearing
shall be conducted neither less than ten days nor more than 30 days after
mailing of the notice. For cause and at the discretion of the hearings officer,
the hearing may be continued for a reasonable time.
      (4)   The hearing for reconsideration shall be an informal consultation
and conference where the requester in person, or by counsel, shall present
their argument, evidence, data, and proof in connection with the issue(s) being
reconsidered. The parties shall not be bound by the Michigan Rules of Evidence.
The hearing shall be transcribed and the requester may obtain a copy of the
hearing transcript, as appropriate, from the Department or from the court
reporter.
      (5)   Within 30 days after the close of the hearing, the hearings officer
shall issue a final decision which shall contain a recommendation to the
Director. The hearings officer shall send such decision to the requester by
certified mail.
      (6)   Unless such action is necessary to prevent pass-through,
interference or other harm to the POTW, to the public or to the waters of this
state, the filing of a request for reconsideration in accordance with this
section shall stay the action by the Department that is the subject of the
hearing for reconsideration.
   (C)   Appeal. Within 30 days after receipt of a timely and proper request
for an appeal, the Department shall notify the applicant in writing regarding
the time and place for a hearing. The hearing shall be conducted in accordance
with procedures set by the Board until rules are promulgated pursuant to
Section 2-111 of the 1997 Detroit City Charter. In addition:
      (1)   Any request for an appeal must be made within 20 days of the
Department's action, determination or decision regarding the request for
reconsideration or any permit issued in accordance with this chapter.
      (2)   Where a request either is not filed within the time period
contained in this subsection or is improperly made, the action, determination
or decision of the Director, or the Department's authorized representative, is
final and any right to appeal may be deemed waived. Where untimely or
improperly submitted, the Department may reject the request for an appeal, and
shall notify the requester in writing that such request has been rejected.
      (3)   The Department shall appoint a hearings officer. The hearings
officer shall review the evidence, and within 15 days after the close of the
hearing shall issue a written recommendation to uphold, modify or reverse the
action, determination, or decision of the Department.
      (4)   The written recommendation of the hearings officer shall be
submitted to the Board which shall render a final decision within 30 days of
its next regularly scheduled meeting.
      (5)   In accordance with applicable law, the user or the Department may
appeal any final decision of the Board to a court of competent jurisdiction.
      (6)   Unless such action is necessary to prevent pass through,
interference, or other harm to the POTW, to the public or to the waters of this
state, the filing of a request for appeal in accordance with this section shall
stay the action by the Department that is the subject of the appeal.
(Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01)
§ 52.60 NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARDS - 40 C.F.R.
Aluminum Forming                                  40 C.F.R. Part 467
Asbestos Manufacturing                            40 C.F.R. Part 427
Battery Manufacturing                             40 C.F.R. Part 461
Builder's Paper and Board Mills                   40 C.F.R. Part 431
Canned and Preserved Fruits and Vegetables        40 C.F.R. Part 407
Canned and Preserved Seafood Processing           40 C.F.R. Part 408
Carbon Black Manufacturing                        40 C.F.R. Part 458
Cement Manufacturing                              40 C.F.R. Part 411
Centralized Waste Treatment                       40 C.F.R. Part 437
Coal Mining                                       40 C.F.R. Part 434
Coil Coating                                      40 C.F.R. Part 465
Copper Forming                                    40 C.F.R. Part 468
Dairy Products Processing                         40 C.F.R. Part 405
Electrical and Electronic Components I & II       40 C.F.R. Part 469
Electroplating                                    40 C.F.R. Part 413
Explosives Manufacturing                          40 C.F.R. Part 457
Feed Lots                                         40 C.F.R. Part 412
Ferroalloy Manufacturing                          40 C.F.R. Part 424
Fertilizer Manufacturing                          40 C.F.R. Part 418
Glass Manufacturing                               40 C.F.R. Part 426
Grain Mills                                       40 C.F.R. Part 406
Gum and Wood Chemicals Manufacturing              40 C.F.R. Part 454
Hospital                                          40 C.F.R. Part 460
Ink Formulating                                   40 C.F.R. Part 447
Inorganic Chemicals Manufacture (I & II)          40 C.F.R. Part 415
Iron and Steel                                    40 C.F.R. Part 420
Landfills                                         40 C.F.R. Part 445
Leather Tanning and Finishing                     40 C.F.R. Part 425
Meat Products                                     40 C.F.R. Part 432
Metal Finishing                                   40 C.F.R. Part 433
Metal Molding and Casting                         40 C.F.R. Part 464
Metal Products and Machinery                      40 C.F.R. Part 438
Mineral Mining and Processing                     40 C.F.R. Part 436
Nonferrous Metals Forming                         40 C.F.R. Part 471
Nonferrous Metals Manufacturing I                 40 C.F.R. Part 421
Nonferrous Metals Manufacturing II                40 C.F.R. Part 421
Ore Mining and Dressing                           40 C.F.R. Part 440
Organic Chemicals, Plastics, and Synthetic Fibers 40 C.F.R. Part 414
Paint Formulating                                 40 C.F.R. Part 446
Paving and Roofing Materials                      40 C.F.R. Part 443
Pesticide Chemicals                               40 C.F.R. Part 455
Petroleum Refining                                40 C.F.R. Part 419
Pharmaceutical                                    40 C.F.R. Part 439
Phosphate Manufacturing                           40 C.F.R. Part 422
Photographic                                      40 C.F.R. Part 459
Plastics Molding and Forming                      40 C.F.R. Part 463
Porcelain Enameling                               40 C.F.R. Part 466
Pulp, Paper, and Paperboard                       40 C.F.R. Parts 430 and 431
Rubber Manufacturing                              40 C.F.R. Part 428
Soap and Detergent Manufacturing                  40 C.F.R. Part 417
Steam Electric                                    40 C.F.R. Part 423
Sugar Processing                                  40 C.F.R. Part 409
Textile Mills                                     40 C.F.R. Part 410
Timber Products                                   40 C.F.R. Part 429
Transportation Equipment Cleaning                 40 C.F.R. Part 442
Waste Combustors                                  40 C.F.R. Part 444
 
(Ord. 23.31, passed 12-10-01; Am. Ord. 23.33, passed 2-9-09)
§ 52.61 PHENOLS LIMITATIONS.
   (A)   An industrial user may elect, in lieu of the total phenols limitation
specified in §
52.51(B)(2), to substitute specific limitations for each of the eight
individual phenolic compounds identified under the
total phenols limitation. The following specific limitations, expressed in mg/
l, shall be applied in lieu of the total phenols limitation, upon election:
2-Chlorophenol          2.0 mg/l
4-Chlorophenol          2.0 mg/l
4-Chloro-3-methylphenol 1.0 mg/l
2,4-Dichlorophenol      5.5 mg/l
2,4-Dinitrophenol       2.0 mg/l
4-Methylphenol          5.0 mg/l
4-Nitrophenol           15.0 mg/l
Phenol                  14.0 mg/l
 
   (B)   Following election, the wastewater discharge permit shall be modified
to incorporate these substituted parameters and an industrial user shall be
responsible for monitoring and reporting compliance with these parameters.
(Ord. 23.33, passed 2-9-09)
§ 52.62 INTERIM DISCHARGE LIMITATIONS.
   No user shall discharge wastewater containing any of the following
pollutants in excess of the following interim pollutant discharge limitations:
   (A)   Compatible pollutants:
      (1)   Any fats, oil or grease (FOG) in concentration greater than 1,500
mg/l based on an average of all samples collected within a 24 hour period.
      (2)   Any total suspended solids (TSS) in concentrations greater than
7.500 mg/l.
      (3)   Any biochemical oxygen demand (BOD) in concentrations greater than
7,500 mg/l.
      (4)   Any phosphorus (P) in concentrations greater than 250 mg/l.
   (B)   Unless otherwise stated, all limitations are based upon samples
collected over an operating period representative of a user’s discharge, and in
accordance with 40 C.F.R. Part 136.
   (C)   (1)   Non-compatible pollutants:
      (2)   Cadmium (Cd): 1.0 mg/l.
(Ord. 23.33, passed 2-9-09)
CHAPTER 53: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
53.01   Administration
   
53.02   Water mains
   
53.03   Water service pipes
   
53.04   Water service
   
53.05   Meters
   
53.06   Use of water
   
53.07   Fire hydrants
   
53.08   Water rates, billing and lien upon premises rates
   
53.09   Seasonal or temporary shut off
   
53.10   Emergency and summer outdoor water use restrictions
   
53.11   Complaints; payment to cashier; prior notice for shut off
   
53.12   Service outside the village limits
   
53.13   Inspections
Cross-Connections
   
53.20   Adopting water supply cross-connection rules
   
53.21   Inspections
   
53.22   Inspector's rights
   
53.23   Discontinuance of service
   
53.24   Potable water supply
   
53.25   Exceptions
   
53.26   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 53.01 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall have charge of the maintenance and operation
of the water supply, treatment plant, pumping equipment, distribution system,
fire hydrants, meters and all other appurtenances of the water supply system of
the village. He may designate the Superintendent of Public Works and such other
employees as may be necessary for the proper operation of the system. He shall
be in charge of the enforcement of this chapter.
   (B)   The Village Manager or person delegated by him shall be held
responsible for the collection of water bills and other charges arising out of
the operation of the water system. All revenues therefrom shall be accounted
for in a manner satisfactory to the Village Council. A statement of the
receipts and expenditures of the water department shall be presented to the
Council. Water revenues shall be deposited in the manner approved for other
municipal deposits, but shall be kept in a separate and distinct account as
approved by the Council.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78)
§ 53.02 WATER MAINS.
   (A)   The water mains of the village shall be under the exclusive control of
the Village Manager and no person, firm or corporation other than authorized
agents or employees of the village shall tap, change, obstruct, interfere with,
or in any way disturb the system of water mains.
   (B)   All extensions and alterations to the system of water mains shall be
made under the supervision of the Village Manager. Petitions for the extension
of existing or construction of new mains shall be addressed to the Village
Manager who may refuse to grant, and may prescribe the terms and conditions
upon which the petition will be granted and may require written acceptance of
such terms and conditions by the petitioners. The Village Council shall
determine and stipulate the proportions of the cost to be borne by petitioners
and by the village.
   (C)   Any person, firm or corporation who shall propose the installation of
water mains shall first submit complete plans and specifications, prepared by a
Professional Registered Civil Engineer, for such work, to the Village Manager.
The Village Manager shall approve or disapprove any such plans and shall
stipulate under what conditions such installation shall be made.
   (D)   No private well system will be allowed to be connected at any point
with the village water supply system without the approval of the Village
Council and the State Health Department.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78)
§ 53.03 WATER SERVICE PIPES.
   (A)   All water service pipe on either public or private property shall be
laid on a solid bottom not less than five feet below the established grade.
Service pipe laid in the same trench with sewer shall be at least three feet
distant from the sewer horizontally, and if the sewer is laid at a greater
depth, shall be shelved into the bank to a solid bottom.
   (B)   All water service pipe, on either public or private property, shall be
of type “K” copper or approved equal by the Village Manager, not less than 3/
4 inch in diameter extending from the main to the meter. All stop or service
cocks shall be at least 3/4 inch extra heavy round way stops placed outside of
the property line. The stop box shall be so placed that the cover is not below
grade and must be set on a firm foundation to prevent settlement.
   (C)   A separate stop and waste cock, or valve and waste, shall be placed on
the water pipe just inside the building wall so that the water may be turned
off and drained from the top pipe in case of accident, or in order to make
repairs. A valve shall also be installed on the house side of the meter.
   (D)   The water service pipe from the main to the curb stop, and also curb
stop and the curb box will be provided in place by the village under the fee
for water permits hereinafter provided. Water service pipe from the curb stop
to the building on private property shall be installed and maintained by the
owner of the premises. If the owner fails, after due notice, to maintain such
service, the village is hereby authorized to turn off the water at the curb
stop.
   (E)   The owner or his agent shall not interfere with the water service pipe
installed by the village in any way and shall not be permitted to turn on or
off the water at the curb stop for any reason. Any person called upon to shut
off water and drain pipes in any premises shall do so inside the building only.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78)
§ 53.04 WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   Before any connection is made to any water main, application for a
permit must be made in writing by the owner or his authorized agent, of the
premises to be served, at the office of the Village Clerk. Such application
shall be made on forms provided by the village, and shall contain such
information and/or agreement as the Village Manager may require.
   (B)   No connection shall be made until the applicant has paid to the
village the following permit fees for tapping the main, the installation of the
service pipe from the main to the service cock, the service cock and stop box
and the furnishing of a meter (which shall remain the property of the village):
 
Water Tap and Meter  Fee
3/4" tap               $1,800
1" tap                 2,000
1-1/2" tap             2,600
2" tap                 3,400
                       4,500 tap fee. The customer is also responsible for
greater than 2" tap    making the tap and paying for the meter at cost plus 20%
                       for administration.
 
   (C)   Temporary use of water for construction or other purposes will not be
permitted unless suitable protection is provided to prevent damage or freezing
of the water meter. All temporary water usage shall be metered and all
necessary tap and installation fees shall be paid prior to turn on of water.
   (D)   All water using premises located in the village shall apply for an
installation permit and be connected to the water system. Those dwellings that
are not connected on the date of enactment of this chapter are excluded.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78; Am. Ord. 18.14, passed 6-12-96; Am. Ord. 18.20,
passed 3-22-99)
§ 53.05 METERS.
   (A)   All service connections except for separate fire connections shall be
metered and payment for water shall be at the established rates.
   (B)   All premises in the village presently using village water shall be
metered.
   (C)   All meters will be furnished by the village, and shall remain the
property of the village, and will, at all times, be under the control of the
village. In cases where a meter larger than 3/4 inch is required the Village
Manager shall determine the necessity of such larger size.
   (D)   The Village Water Department shall be responsible for installation of
the water meter only. Required piping repairs and revisions to allow
installation of the meter shall be the responsibility of the customer.
   (E)   All water-using premises located in the village shall apply for an
installation permit and be connected to the water system. Those dwellings which
are not connected on the date of enactment of this ordinance are excluded
(Section 5 of Ordinance No. 18.04 passed 10-23-78).
   (F)   Meters shall be set in a horizontal position not less than 18 inches
or higher than three feet from the floor level and not less than six inches or
not more than 12 inches from the wall. Meters shall be set in an accessible
location satisfactory to the Village Manager and shall not be set in a coal
bin, crawl space or other location where the meter cannot be easily reached by
the meter reader. Where it becomes necessary to set the meter in a pit, such
pit shall be furnished by the customer and built as specified by the Village
Manager.
   (G)   Meters shall be sealed by the village, and no other than authorized
employees of the village shall break or injure such seals, or alter, change the
location of, or interfere in any manner with the meter.
   (H)   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, the village will
furnish and maintain the meters; however, where replacements, repairs or
adjustments of the meter are necessary due to neglect, carelessness, freezing
or negligence on the part of the customer or owner, the owner will be charged
for the necessary costs to make the corrections.
   (I)   All village water used on any premises must pass through the meter
except as otherwise provided for in this chapter. It shall be unlawful to
install or use any bypass around the meter or any connection that would prevent
the flow of water used from being metered. In case of meter stoppage or
imperfect operation, immediate notice shall be given to the village and the
consumer will be charged at the average quarterly consumption rate as shown by
the meter when in working order.
   (J)   The accuracy of the meter on any premises shall be tested by the
village upon the request of the account holder, who shall pay a testing fee to
cover the cost of testing which billing shall be placed on the next water bill.
Fees for testing shall be set by resolution of the Village Council. If, upon
such test, the meter is found to over-register by 5% more water than actually
passes through it, another meter will be substituted, at no charge, and the
testing fee shall be credited to the account holder, and the Village Manager
will adjust the water bill in such a manner as shall be fair and just.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78; Am. Ord. 18.19, passed 12-9-96)
§ 53.06 USE OF WATER.
   (A)   When new service pipes are installed in any premises, the service cock
shall be left closed, and will thereafter only be opened by an authorized
employee of the village; and only upon the request of the occupant, owner or
his agent.
   (B)   Where a permit shall be issued for water service to a building under
construction or other temporary purpose and a water meter has been installed,
the owner shall notify the village upon the completion of his work in order
that the water meter may be read and the connection shut off.
   (C)   Where a building originally built as a single dwelling and fitted with
one service pipe is thereafter subdivided by sale or otherwise, each sub-
division as created must be connected to the water system by a separate meter
within 30 days after such division.
   (D)   Where the water has been turned off by the village for any reason, no
person except an authorized employee of the village may turn it on again.
   (E)   No steam boiler shall be directly connected to the service pipe. The
owner shall make such provisions as may be required by the village before the
water may be supplied to such an installation.
   (F)   All cross-connections between any type of water supply and village
water supply are prohibited without the approval of the Village Council and the
State Health Department. In the event a cross- connection is discovered, the
water will be turned off at the curb cock until the cross-connection is
severed. No direct connection of any type to a sewer line shall be allowed.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78)
§ 53.07 FIRE HYDRANTS.
   (A)   Fire hydrants may be opened and used only by authorized employees or
agents of the village.
   (B)   The Village Manager must approve the type, size of openings and types
of nozzle thread on all hydrants installed on private property or installed by
other than the village.
   (C)   Hydrants are located within the road right of way or easement and any
person, firm or corporation requesting to have a hydrant relocated shall pay
the complete cost of moving the hydrant.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78)
§ 53.08 WATER RATES, BILLING AND LIEN UPON PREMISES RATES.
   (A)   A minimum quarterly ready-to-serve charge shall be established by
resolution of the Village Council at a regular meeting after a public hearing.
   (B)   For all water used during any quarterly period, a water usage charge
for each 100 cubic feet or fraction thereof shall be established by resolution
of the Village Council at a regular meeting after a public hearing.
   (C)   Unmetered customers shall pay a charge per quarter as established by
resolution of the Village Council at a regular meeting after a public hearing.
   (D)   In the event that a property owner fails to install a water meter
pursuant to this chapter, the village shall cause the same to be built in a
meter pit or other acceptable chamber with the cost of labor, materials, and
construction billed to the water customer on the next ensuing quarterly bill
and collected in the same manner as other water bills.
   (E)   Billing.
      (1)   For the purpose of making and collecting charges for water used by
consumers, the calendar year shall be subdivided into quarterly periods to be
established by the Village Manager, and statements shall be rendered quarterly
and shall be due and payable on or before 30 days after the expiration of each
quarterly period; provided, however, that for the purpose of establishing the
commencement of any quarterly period, the first of any subsequent billing may
be made for less than or greater than a quarter period. The due date of such
charges shall be stated upon the billing therefore, and the same shall be paid
on or before the due date stated therein.
      (2)   Delinquent charges. If any charges for water supply services are
not paid on or before the due date then a penalty of 10% shall be added
thereto. In addition thereto, in the event the same is not paid within 90 days
after the due date, all services furnished by the water supply system may be
discontinued. Services so discontinued shall not be restored until all sums
then due and owing, including penalties, are paid, plus a shut-off and a turn-
on charge. A penalty of 10% shall be added to and become part of any charge
that is not paid before the same becomes delinquent.
   (F)   Lien upon premises.
      (1)   Such charges shall constitute a lien upon the respective properties
served and if any charge is not paid before it becomes delinquent it may be
recovered by the village in an action of assumpsit against the owner of the
property served as well as any tenant supplied with such water, or such charges
may be certified to the Village Treasurer by the Village Council and assessed
against the property on the next village tax roll, in which event such charge
shall be collected and returned in the same manner as other village taxes are
collected and returned; provided that any charge shall not be so certified
which has not been delinquent for a period of at least six months, in addition
to any other remedy provided in this chapter or by law, if such charges for
water consumed shall not be paid within 30 days after the same shall become
delinquent, the Village Manager shall have the authority to shut off the supply
of water to any such premises, provided:
         (a)   Notice is provided by first class mail to the property owner(s)
according to village records affording the owner(s) an administrative hearing
before the Village Manager prior to the water being shut off; and
         (b)   Notice of the administrative hearing is provided to any occupant
(s) of the property by posting notice of the same at the premises.
      (2)   After the hearing, the village may shut off and sever such water
connection. In such event, such connection shall not thereafter be reconnected
until all such water charges and penalties shall be fully paid, together with a
shut-off charge and a turn-on charge as established by resolution of the
Village Council at a regular meeting after public hearing.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78; Am. Ord. 18.05, passed 4-11-83; Am. Ord. 18.09,
passed 11-23-92; Am. Ord. 18.10, passed 1-11-93; Am. Ord. 18.11, passed 9-13-
93; Am. Ord. 18.12, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 18.13, passed 3-13-95; Am. Ord.
18.17, passed 5-28-96; Am. Ord. 18.21, passed 6-14-99; Am. Ord. 18.22, passed
5-22-00; Am. Ord. 18.23, passed 5-29-01; Am. Ord. 18.24, passed 6-25-02; Am.
Ord. 18.25, passed 8-14-06; Am. Ord. 18.27, passed 11-9-15; Am. Ord. 18.28,
passed 8-28-17; Am. Ord. 18.30, passed 7-22-24)
§ 53.09 SEASONAL OR TEMPORARY SHUT OFF.
   (A)   In case of seasonal or temporary vacancy, at the request of the
customer, and after notification by the customer no less than 48 hours prior to
a required turn-off date, the village will turn off the water at the curb stop.
A turn-off and turn-on fee as established from time to time by resolution of
the Village Council after public hearing shall be charged. During each seasonal
vacancy, and provided that no water use is recorded on the meter during such
vacancy, the ready-to-serve fee shall be charged. In the event the water meter
shall record use of water during the seasonal vacancy, the charges set forth in
§
53.08(A) and (B) shall apply. For temporary shut-off necessary for the purpose
of a customer making repairs, upon 48 hours notification, the village will turn
off the water at the curb stop and the turn-off and turn-on fee shall be
charged.
   (B)   The customer shall be responsible for draining the system within the
premises in order to protect the meter and piping from freezing, and shall be
charged for all repairs to village-owned meters, valves or pipes as a result of
freezing.
   (C)   Damage to the water system within the property lines of the customer
will be the customer's responsibility for repair.
   (D)   In the case of the customer's need to have the water turned off at the
curb box for the purpose of making repairs, the village will, upon reasonable
notice, and during regular working hours, turn the water off, and will turn the
water back on upon the completion of the repairs. The turn off and turn on fee
as established from time to time by resolution of the Village Council after a
hearing will be charged.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78; Am. Ord. 18.12, passed 8-8-94; Am. Ord. 18.30,
passed 7-22-24)
§ 53.10 EMERGENCY AND SUMMER OUTDOOR WATER USE RESTRICTIONS.
   (A)   Emergency restrictions. Whenever the Village Manager receives
notification from the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department that the supply or
pressure demand for water cannot be accommodated and the general welfare is
likely to be endangered, or conditions within the water system of the village
are likely to endanger the general welfare of the village, the Village Manager
shall determine that a state of emergency exists and prescribe the following
emergency regulations which shall apply to the use of water provided by the
village for all properties connected to the village water system.
      (1)   If the emergency is before May 1 or after September 30, the summer
lawn watering/irrigation restrictions in divisions (C) and (D), and a ban on
all other outdoor water use may be ordered and enforced by the Manager.
      (2)   If the Manager receives notification from the Detroit Water and
Sewerage Department or separately determines that the restrictions in division
(1) above are not sufficient, a ban on all watering/irrigation and other
outdoor water use may be ordered and enforced by the Manager.
      (3)   The village shall provide public notice of emergency regulations by
postings at the village office and on the local cable television channel and
village website, and by publication in newspapers of general circulation in the
village, with the emergency regulations to be effective immediately upon
posting at the village office.
      (4)   Upon notification from the Detroit Water and Sewerage Department
and determination by the Village Manager that emergency regulations are no
longer necessary, the Manager shall order a lifting of the restrictions, public
notice of which shall be provided in the same manner as provided in division
(3) above.
   (B)   General summer restrictions. From May 1 through September 30 of each
year, mandatory outdoor watering/irrigation restrictions as described in
divisions (C) and (D) shall be in effect and apply to the use of water provided
by the village for all properties connected to the village water system, with
compliance being the responsibility of the owners and persons in possession of
a property, who shall be subject to the penalties set forth in §
53.26 for violations.
   (C)   Non-residential restrictions. The following restrictions shall apply
to all properties except single-family dwelling properties.
      (1)   Lawn and landscape irrigation may only be done between the hours of
12:00 a.m. (midnight) and 5:00 a.m.
      (2)   Property with odd-numbered addresses may only irrigate on Monday,
Wednesday, and Friday.
      (3)   Property with even-numbered addresses may only irrigate on Tuesday,
Thursday, and Saturday.
      (4)   If a property has mixed odd and even-numbered addresses or an
undetermined address, the Manager or Manager’s designee may assign an odd/even
designation for compliance with this section.
   (D)   Residential restrictions. The following restrictions apply to single-
family dwelling properties.
      (1)   A property with an odd-numbered address shall only irrigate on
Monday, Wednesday, Friday, and Sunday.
      (2)   Property with even-numbered address may only irrigate on Tuesday,
Thursday, Saturday, and Sunday.
      (3)   If a property has mixed odd and even-numbered addresses or an
undetermined address, the Manager or Manager’s designee may assign an odd/even
designation for compliance with this section.
      (4)   All automatic lawn and/or landscape irrigation systems shall be set
to activate only between the hours of 12:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. daylight savings
time (DST).
      (5)   A property with a newly seeded or sodded lawn is not subject to
these restrictions.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78; Am. Ord. 18.07, passed 10-11-88; Am. Ord. 18.18,
passed 6-24-96; Am. Ord. 18.26, passed 1-11-10; Am. Ord. 18.29, passed 6-11-18)
§ 53.11 COMPLAINTS; PAYMENT TO CASHIER; PRIOR NOTICE FOR SHUT OFF.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided for in this chapter, customers having a
complaint with the billing for water may notify the Village Manager who will
determine the validity of the complaint and make adjustments to the bill if
warranted under the circumstances.
   (B)   Payment for all water charges and other accounts shall be made to the
cashier.
   (C)   Should it be necessary to shut off the water to any part of the water
system due to damage or for the purpose of making repairs or extensions of the
water system, the village will give as much prior notice as it shall consider
advisable under the situation, but failure to give such notice shall not render
the village responsible or liable for damages resulting therefrom or any other
causes.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78)
§ 53.12 SERVICE OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   The village may provide service upon request to persons, firms or
corporations outside the village limits; provided that such persons, firms or
corporations pay the entire cost of installation and such administrative cost
as may be determined by the Village Manager. Such persons, firms or
corporations shall be subject to all rules and regulations as determined by the
resolutions and ordinances of the village relating to the use of water. In the
event that service is provided to Charter Township of Orion residents, then, in
that event, the provisions of the Intergovernmental Agreement between the
Charter Township of Orion and the Village of Lake Orion for the Sale, Purchase
and Delivery of Municipal Water Services dated 9-27-93 shall also apply.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78; Am. Ord. 18.12, passed 8-8-94)
§ 53.13 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   Inspectors and designated employees of the village whose duty it may
be to enter upon private premises to make inspections of and/or repairs to
pipes, fixtures and attachments, including, but not limited to water meters,
used in connection with the village water supply shall have free access at all
reasonable hours for the purpose of making an inspection or repair thereof,
including the examination of the entire water supply and plumbing system upon
said premises.
   (B)   No person shall refuse to admit any inspector or designated employees
of the village to private premises for the purpose of making inspections of
and/or repairs to pipes, fixtures and attachments, including but not limited to
water meters. In the event the water system inspector or designated village
employees are refused admittance to any premises, or, being admitted, shall be
hindered or prevented from making such an examination, the Village Manager,
after notice of hearing is posted on the premises and the occupants are
afforded an administrative hearing before the Village Manager, shall have the
authority to shut off the supply of water to said premises. In the event the
water system inspector or designated village employees cannot gain admission to
any premises within 15 days after mailing notice of the need for inspection or
repair to the owner or occupant by first class mail, the Village Manager, after
notice of hearing is posted on the premises and the occupants are afforded an
administrative hearing before the Village Manager, shall have the authority to
shut off the supply of water to any premises. If the water supply to any
premises is shut off pursuant to the provisions of this section, the village
subsequently will turn on the water supply to said premises only after receipt
of payment of the turn-off fee and turn-on fee established in §
53.09.
   (C)   In the event of a bona fide emergency in connection with the water
supply to any premises, as determined by the Village Manager, the Village
Manager shall have the authority to shut off the supply of water to said
premises, with a suspension of all requirements for notice to the owner or
occupant of the premises.
(Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78; Am. Ord. 18.08, passed 2-12-91; Am. Ord. 18.30,
passed 7-22-24)
CROSS-CONNECTIONS
§ 53.20 ADOPTING WATER SUPPLY CROSS-CONNECTION RULES.
   The village adopts by reference the “Water Supply Cross Connection Rules of
the Michigan Department of Public Health,” being R 325.431 and R 325.440 of the
Michigan Administrative Code.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 2-10-75)
§ 53.21 INSPECTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the village to cause inspections to be made of all
properties served by the public water supply where cross-connection with the
public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and
reinspections based on potential health hazards involved shall be as
established by the village and as approved by the Michigan Department of Public
Health.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 2-10-75)
§ 53.22 INSPECTOR'S RIGHTS.
   The representative of the village shall have the right to enter at any
reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public water supply
system of the village for the purpose of inspecting the piping system or
systems thereof for cross-connections. On request the owner, lessees or
occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the inspection agency any
pertinent information regarding the piping system on such property. The refusal
of such information or refusal of access, when requested, shall be deemed
evidence of the presence of cross-connections.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 2-10-75)
§ 53.23 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE.
   The village is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water service
after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in violation of
this chapter exists, and to take such other precautionary measures deemed
necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water supply
system. Water service to such property shall not be restored until the cross-
connection(s) has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 2-10-75)
§ 53.24 POTABLE WATER SUPPLY.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this chapter and by the state and the Plumbing Code adopted in
Chapter 153 of this Code of Ordinances. Any water outlet that could be used for
potable or domestic purposes and that is not supplied by the potable system
must be labeled in a conspicuous manner.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 2-10-75)
§ 53.25 EXCEPTIONS.
   This subchapter does not supersede the Plumbing Code as adopted by village
ordinance in
Chapter 153, but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 18.02, passed 2-10-75)
§ 53.26 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
      
71.   PARKING REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC REGULATIONS
Section
Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages
   
70.01   Uniform Traffic Code adopted
   
70.02   References in code
   
70.03   Copies of Uniform Traffic Code
   
70.04   Penalties
Snowmobiles
   
70.15   Part 821 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act
adopted
   
70.16   References in the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act
   
70.17   Copies of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act
   
70.18   Operation under bridges prohibited
   
70.19   Prohibited on village streets
   
70.20   Enforcement limitations
Commercial Vehicles on Local Streets
   
70.30   Weight limit
   
70.31   Purpose
   
70.32   Effectiveness
   
70.33   Truck traffic
Michigan Vehicle Code
   
70.40   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.41   References to Michigan Vehicle Code
   
70.42   Copies of Michigan Vehicle Code
   
70.43   Enforcement limitation
Motor Carrier Safety Re-Adoption Ordinance
   
70.50   Motor Carrier Safety Act adopted
   
70.51   References in the Motor Carrier Safety Act adopted
   
70.52   Copies of the Motor Carrier Safety Act
   
70.53   Enforcement limitation
UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE FOR CITIES, TOWNSHIPS AND VILLAGES
§ 70.01 UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The October 2002 edition of the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships and Villages (UTC) promulgated by the Director of the Michigan
Department of State Police pursuant to the Administrative Procedures Act of
1969, 1969 PA 306, M.C.L.A §§ 24.201 through 24.328 and made effective October
30, 2002, and all future amendments and revisions to the Uniform Traffic Code
when they are promulgated and effective in this state, for the regulation of
traffic and motor vehicles in the village, is hereby adopted by reference as an
ordinance of the village.
   (B)   The Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages as
promulgated by the Director of Michigan Department of State Police pursuant to
the Administrative Procedures Act of 1969, 1969 PA 306, M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201
through 24.328 and made effective October 30, 2002, and all future amendments
and revisions of the Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated and
effective in this state are incorporated by reference.
(Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 2.29, passed 7-22-02; Am. Ord. 2.30,
passed 8-11-03)
§ 70.02 REFERENCES IN CODE.
   (A)   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages to "village" shall mean the Village of Lake Orion.
   (B)   References in the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages to "Clerk" shall mean the Clerk of the Village of Lake Orion or
Clerk's designee.
(Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 2.30, passed 8-11-03)
§ 70.03 COPIES OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   Printed complete copies of the October 2002 edition of the Uniform Traffic
Code for Cites, Townships and Villages shall be kept on file in the office of
the Village Clerk and made available to the public at all times the office is
open.
(Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82; Am. Ord. 2.09, passed 4-11-83; Am. Ord. 2.10,
passed 4-23-84; Am. Ord. 2.15, passed 2-11-92; Am. Ord. 2.16, passed 2-11-92;
Am. Ord. 2.18, passed 2-23-93; Am. Ord. 2.19, passed 10-12-93; Am. Ord. 2.21,
passed 1-9-95; Am. Ord. 2.22, passed 5-22-95; Am. Ord. 2.23, passed 5-28-96;
Am. Ord. 2.27, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 2.28, passed 12-13-99; Am. Ord. 2.30,
passed 8-11-03)
Cross-reference:
   Emergency Response Cost Recovery, see
Ch. 93
§ 70.04 PENALTIES.
   The penalties adopted by the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and
Villages are adopted by reference.
(Ord. 2.30, passed 8-11-03)
SNOWMOBILES
§ 70.15 PART 821 OF THE NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT
ADOPTED.
   The Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, being Act 451 of the
Public Acts of 1994, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.82101 to 324.82160, as amended now and in
the future, is hereby adopted by reference as an ordinance of the village.
(Ord. 2.36, passed 3-23-15)
§ 70.16 REFERENCES IN THE NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT.
   Where necessary to the enforcement of the Natural Resources Environmental
Protection Act Part 821 Snowmobiles or the collection and distribution of
fines, cost and penalties for violations as a village ordinance, references in
the act to "local authorities", "local authority" or "authority having
jurisdiction" shall mean the Village of Lake Orion Council; references to
"municipality" shall mean the Village of Lake Orion; references to "municipal
charter" shall mean the Charter of the Village of Lake Orion; references to
"local ordinances" shall mean the Code of Lake Orion; and references to the
"village" shall mean the Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 2.36, passed 3-23-15)
§ 70.17 COPIES OF THE NATURAL RESOURCES AND ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION ACT.
   Printed copies of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act,
Part 821, Snowmobiles shall be kept on file in the office of the Village Clerk
and made available to the public at all times that office is open.
(Ord. 2.36, passed 3-23-15)
§ 70.18 OPERATION UNDER BRIDGES PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile or motor vehicle under the two bridges
over the frozen waters of Lake Orion designated as Bellevue Bridge and Park
Island Bridge at speeds greater than the minimum required to maintain forward
motion of the snowmobile or motor vehicle.
(Ord. 2.36, passed 3-23-15)
§ 70.19 PROHIBITED ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   No person shall operate a snowmobile on any village street or within any
highway or street right-of-way except for the purpose of crossing a bridge or a
culvert.
(Ord. 2.36, passed 3-23-15)
§ 70.20 ENFORCEMENT LIMITATION.
   Violations of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act for
which the maximum period of imprisonment is greater than 93 days shall not be
enforced by the village as an ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2.36, passed 3-23-15)
COMMERCIAL VEHICLES ON LOCAL STREETS
§ 70.30 WEIGHT LIMIT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall operate a commercial motor vehicle that
has an unloaded gross weight in excess of 5,000 pounds upon local streets as
defined under state law unless the owner of the motor vehicle:
   (A)   Has its principal place of business within the village, and it is
necessary for the storage of the vehicle to use local streets, and in such case
the use of said local streets shall be by the shortest and most direct route
from the closest major street to the place of storage;
   (B)   Is a governmental or public utility, and the use of the vehicle is for
specific need and purpose within the village;
   (C)   Uses the vehicle for an isolated or specific local delivery within the
village; or
   (D)   Is a mobile food establishment defined as a licensed and operable
motor vehicle or trailer, which includes any commercial kitchen equipment used
for cooking that operates in a transient or permitted static location and
involves the preparation, cooking, and sale of food and/or nonalcoholic
beverages in a ready-to-consume state for consumption either on or off the
premises, but not within the motor vehicle and/or trailer.
(Ord. 8.02, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 2.37, passed 8-26-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.31 PURPOSE.
   The intent of this subchapter is to protect the use of local streets from
heavy truck traffic and to reduce the attendant noise and dust to the annoyance
of the citizens of the community and to avoid the use of local streets for
through truck traffic.
(Ord. 8.02, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 2.37, passed 8-26-24)
§ 70.32 EFFECTIVENESS.
   This subchapter shall be effective only as to those local streets that are
posted with notice of the restrictions.
(Ord. 8.02, passed 4-26-76; Am. Ord. 2.37, passed 8-26-24)
§ 70.33 TRUCK TRAFFIC.
   (A)   A truck for purposes of this section shall be any vehicle which is
defined as a truck under § 257.75 of the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code and having
more than five axles.
   (B)   No person shall drive, move, or cause or permit to be driven or moved
any truck upon:
      (1)   Atwater Street between Orion Road and State Highway M-24 in the
village.
      (2)   Flint Street between Orion Road and State Highway M-24 in the
village.
   (C)   The prohibitions of this section shall not apply to persons who shall
drive or move trucks to and from locations of the village for local delivery or
transport of goods or services, or a mobile food establishment.
(Ord. 2.34, passed 4-22-13; Am. Ord. 2.37, passed 8-26-24)
MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE
§ 70.40 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   The Michigan Vehicle Code, being Act 300 of the Public Acts of 1949,
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to 257.923, as amended now and in the future, is hereby
adopted by reference as an ordinance of the Village of Lake Orion. Pursuant to
Act 10 of the Public Acts of 2012, § 625(1)(c) of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
M.C.L.A. § 257.625(1)(c), is specifically hereby adopted by reference as an
ordinance of the village, violation of the ordinance shall be a misdemeanor,
punishable by one or more of the following:
   (A)   Community service for not more than 360 hours.
   (B)   Imprisonment for not more than 180 days.
   (C)   A fine of not less than $200 or more than $700.
(Ord. 2.29, passed 7-22-02; Am. Ord. 2.33, passed 4-23-12)
§ 70.41 REFERENCES IN MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE.
   Where necessary to the enforcement of the Michigan Vehicle Code or the
collection and distribution of fines, cost and penalties for violations as a
village ordinance, references in the Michigan Vehicle Code to "local
authorities", "local authority" or "authority having jurisdiction" shall mean
the Village of Lake Orion Council; references to "municipality" shall mean the
Village of Lake Orion; references to "municipal charter" shall mean the Charter
of the Village of Lake Orion; references to "local ordinances" shall mean the
Code of Lake Orion; and references to the "village" shall mean the Village of
Lake Orion.
(Ord. 2.29, passed 7-22-02)
§ 70.42 COPIES OF MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE.
   Printed copies of the Michigan Vehicle Code shall be kept on file in the
office of the Village Clerk and made available to the public at all times that
office is open.
(Ord. 2.29, passed 7-22-02)
§ 70.43 ENFORCEMENT LIMITATION.
   Except as provided in §
70.40, violations of the Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of
imprisonment is greater than 93 days shall not be enforced by the village as an
ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2.29, passed 7-22-02; Am. Ord. 2.33, passed 4-23-12)
MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY RE-ADOPTION ORDINANCE
§ 70.50 MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT ADOPTED.
   The Motor Carrier Safety Act, being Act 81 of the Public Acts of 1963,
M.C.L.A. §§ 480.11 to 480.25, as amended now and in the future, is hereby
adopted by reference as an ordinance of the Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 2.35, passed 10-27-14)
§ 70.51 REFERENCES IN THE MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT ADOPTED.
   Where necessary to the enforcement of the Motor Carrier Safety Act or the
collection and distribution of fines, cost and penalties for violations as a
village ordinance, references in the act to "local authorities", "local
authority" or "authority having jurisdiction" shall mean the Village of Lake
Orion Council; references to "municipality" shall mean the Village of Lake
Orion; references to "municipal charter" shall mean the Charter of the Village
of Lake Orion; references to "local ordinances" shall mean the Code of Lake
Orion; and references to the "village" shall mean the Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 2.35, passed 10-27-14)
§ 70.52 COPIES OF THE MOTOR CARRIER SAFETY ACT.
   Printed copies of the Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1963 shall be kept on file
in the office of the Village Clerk and made available to the public at all
times that office is open.
(Ord. 2.35, passed 10-27-14)
§ 70.53 ENFORCEMENT LIMITATION.
   Violation of the Motor Carrier Safety Act for which the maximum period of
imprisonment is greater than 93 days shall not be enforced by the village as an
ordinance violation.
(Ord. 2.35, passed 10-27-14)
CHAPTER 71: PARKING REGULATIONS
Section
Parking on Restricted Ownership Property
   
71.01   Intent, purpose and short title
   
71.02   Definitions
   
71.03   Authorizations
   
71.04   Prohibition
   
71.05   No parking on residential streets
Parking and Storage on Public Property
   
71.15   Intent, purpose and short title
   
71.16   Definitions
   
71.17   Regulations
Downtown Parking Zones
   
71.25   Intent and short title
   
71.26   Definitions
   
71.27   Parking zones
   
71.28   Parking spaces and signage
   
71.29   Prohibition
 
   
71.99   Penalty
PARKING ON RESTRICTED OWNERSHIP PROPERTY
§ 71.01 INTENT, PURPOSE AND SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to regulate parking on
village owned property that has been deeded to the village for "parking
purposes only" and Village residential streets. It has been determined by the
Village Council that the regulations of this subchapter are necessary to
prohibit unauthorized and abusive use of such property and for public safety to
have clearly passable residential streets.
   (B)   It is intended that this subchapter shall be operative and effective
together with other ordinances regulating parking in the village, and this
subchapter shall not be deemed to be exclusive with regard to parking, nor
shall this subchapter be deemed to repeal other ordinances.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Parking on
Village Public Property and Streets Ordinance."
(Ord. 7.04, passed 11-14-88; Am. Ord. 7.14, passed 6-10-19)
§ 71.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. An operable, self-propelled vehicle designed, intended or
used for the transportation of property and/or one or more persons, with
current registration (license plates), but excluding commercial motor vehicles,
exceeding one ton in carrying capacity.
   PARKING. The placement of a motor vehicle, whether occupied or not, for a
temporary period of time while the motor vehicle is not being actively used.
   PUBLIC RESIDENTIAL STREETS. All village streets which are predominantly
located in housing areas and are not included in the Downtown Development
District.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. A vehicle designed and/or used for recreational
purposes, including a motor home, travel trailer, snowmobile, off-the-road
vehicle, and the like.
   RESTRICTED OWNERSHIP PROPERTY. Village-owned property that has been deeded
to the village with an express limitation contained in the deed restricting the
property for "parking purposes only."
(Ord. 7.04, passed 11-14-88; Am. Ord. 7.13, passed 10-13-09; Am. Ord. 7.14,
passed 6-10-19)
§ 71.03 AUTHORIZATIONS.
   The following activities shall be permitted on restricted ownership
property:
   (A)   The parking of motor vehicles.
   (B)   The parking of recreational vehicles for a period not to exceed 24
continuous hours. For purposes of this authorization, if a recreational vehicle
is moved from one location to another on or off restricted ownership property
for less than six hours, and then returned, this shall not constitute a break
in continuous parking. Residents may petition the village for a permit to allow
parking of recreational vehicles for a temporary time period not to exceed
seven days. The Police Chief shall have authority to issue such temporary
parking permits.
(Ord. 7.04, passed 11-14-88; Am. Ord. 7.14, passed 6-10-19)
§ 71.04 PROHIBITION.
   All parking not permitted in §
71.03, and all storage (including by way of example and not by way of
limitation, storage of boats, boat trailers and the like), shall be prohibited
on restricted ownership property.
(Ord. 7.04, passed 11-14-88; Am. Ord. 7.14, passed 6-10-19)
§ 71.05 NO PARKING ON RESIDENTIAL STREETS.
   There shall be no parking of any portion of any vehicle on any paved portion
of a residential street within the village, unless on posted parking sites, or
village approved designated parking areas.
(Ord. 7.14, passed 6-10-19)
PARKING AND STORAGE ON PUBLIC PROPERTY
§ 71.15 INTENT, PURPOSE AND SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   It is the intent and purpose of this subchapter to regulate parking
and storage on public property within the jurisdiction of the village,
excepting such property and/or activities as are expressly regulated by this
code and any other ordinance of the village.
   (B)   It is intended that this subchapter shall be operative and effective
together with other ordinances regulating parking and storage in the village,
and this subchapter shall not be deemed to be exclusive with regard to parking.
   (C)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “General
Ordinance to Regulate Parking and Storage on Public Property.”
(Ord. 7.05, passed 7-10-89)
§ 71.16 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle or trailer that has a load capacity in
excess of one ton.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any on and/or off the road, self-propelled vehicle designed
to transport one or more persons.
   PARKING. The temporary placement for a period of one week or less while not
being actively used for transportation purposes.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. An on-the-road or off-the-road motor vehicle designed
for recreational purposes, such as, by way of example, and not limitation: a
motor home, a snowmobile and/or noncommercial off-the-road motor vehicle. In
addition, RECREATIONAL VEHICLE shall also mean a travel trailer, including a
so-called fifth wheel trailer, and like vehicles.
   STORAGE. The temporary placement for a period of more than one week while
not being actively used for intended purposes.
   TRAILER. A licensed or unlicensed vehicle that is not self-propelled and
designed to be pulled by a motor vehicle.
   VESSEL. A boat or other device designed or used for the transport of one or
more persons on or in the water.
(Ord. 7.05, passed 7-10-89; Am. Ord. 7.06, passed 1-8-90)
§ 71.17 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. There shall be no parking of any motor vehicle, trailer or
vessel on public property in a location where the village has posted such
location as “no parking.”
   (B)   Unlicensed motor vehicles, trailers and vessels. Where such parking or
storage is otherwise authorized, there shall be no parking or storage upon any
public property of a motor vehicle, vessel or trailer that does not have a
current valid registration number and/or license plate.
   (C)   Parking and storage in parks. There shall be no parking or storage of
any motor vehicle, recreational vehicle, trailer or vessel upon any village
owned park unless:
      (1)   Such parking is expressly permitted by village ordinance; and/or
      (2)   A posted sign expressly designates the parking or storage of a
particular type of motor vehicle, trailer or vessel, and such parking and/or
storage shall then only be permitted in the locations and for the type of
vehicle, trailer or vessel expressly authorized by the posting.
   (D)   Parking and storage on public rights-of-way. There shall be no parking
or storage of any trailers or vessels upon any public right-of-way, unless
expressly authorized by posted signage.
      (1)   A recreational vehicle shall not be parked in a public right-of-way
for a continuous period longer than 12 hours, and when removed, may not again
be parked in a right-of-way within one mile of the same location for a period
of at least five days. All other parking and storage of recreational vehicles
upon a public right-of-way shall be prohibited. Notwithstanding the prohibition
set forth in this section, in the event the owner of a recreational vehicle is
certified by the state as being handicapped, and upon advanced written notice
to the Chief of Police, a recreational vehicle may be parked in a public right-
of- way by or on behalf of such person for a continuous period of not longer
than 72 hours for the purpose of loading and/or unloading, and when removed,
may not again be parked in a right-of-way within one mile of the same location
for a period of at least five days. In all events, the parking of a
recreational vehicle in a public right-of-way shall not be situated so as to be
located in the path of through vehicular travel.
      (2)   A commercial vehicle shall not be parked or stored on any public
right-of-way located in a residential zoning district except in connection with
active on-the-job use, provided, in all events, on-the-job use shall not exceed
a period of 12 hours except in the case of such parking or storage in
connection with active work being performed on the right-of-way in question.
   (E)   Other Public Property. There shall be no parking and/or storage of any
commercial vehicle, recreational vehicle, trailer or vessel on any other public
property not expressly specified above, except to the extent permitted by other
ordinance, or unless authorization is expressly posted, and, if posted, then
parking and/or storage shall be permitted only in the locations and for the
type of motor vehicle, trailer or vessel expressly authorized by the posting,
and only for parking or storage as expressly authorized by the posting.
(Ord. 7.05, passed 7-10-89; Am. Ord. 7.06, passed 1-8-90)
DOWNTOWN PARKING ZONES
§ 71.25 INTENT AND SHORT TITLE.
   It is the intent of the subchapter to regulate parking on certain downtown
streets so as to provide parking for downtown customers and to prohibit
employers and employees of downtown businesses using downtown parking spaces
during certain times. This subchapter may be cited as the “Downtown Parking
Ordinance.”
(Ord. 7.08, passed 3-25-96)
§ 71.26 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. An operable, self-propelled vehicle designed, intended or
used for the transportation of property and/or one or more persons, with
current registration (license plates).
(Ord. 7.08, passed 3-25-96; Am. Ord. 7.13, passed 10-13-09)
§ 71.27 PARKING ZONES.
   The following described streets are hereby designated as parking zones for
motor vehicles as defined and subject to the regulations in this subchapter, §§
71.25 through
71.29:
   (A)   Flint Street, from Slater Street to Lapeer Street.
   (B)   Broadway Street, from Shadbolt to M-24.
   (C)   Shadbolt Street, from Anderson Street to M-24.
   (D)   Lapeer Street, from Front Street to Shadbolt Street, and to Jackson
Street on the east side.
   (E)   Front Street, from Broadway Street to Anderson Street.
   (F)   Anderson Street, from Front Street to Shadbolt Street.
(Ord. 7.08, passed 3-25-96; Am. Ord. 7.10, passed 1-8-07; Am. Ord. 7.13, passed
10-13-09)
§ 71.28 PARKING SPACES AND SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The village shall mark designated parking spaces and erect or place
signage indicating the maximum period of time a motor vehicle may be parked,
which shall not exceed two hours or such shorter period of time as may be
approved by resolution of the Village Council for certain designated parking
spaces.
   (B)   Every motor vehicle shall park within the marked parking spaces except
that a vehicle which is too large to be parked within a single parking space
shall be permitted to occupy two spaces.
(Ord. 7.08, passed 3-25-96; Am. Ord. 7.11, passed 7-23-07) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.29 PROHIBITION.
   (A)   (1)   No person employed by or operating a business or profession in a
parking zone established under this subchapter shall park a privately-owned or
company-owned motor vehicle on any public street, for the purpose of using such
parking space while the owner or operator performs his or her duties at his or
her regular place of employment in the downtown area. The provisions of this
section shall be effective between 9:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., Monday through
Saturday of each week.
      (2)   Notwithstanding the above, a business operator or professional
shall be allowed one increment not to exceed 30 minutes of time each day
between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday to load or
unload goods connected with the operation of the business or profession.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for a residential dweller living in a parking
zone to park a privately-owned or company-owned motor vehicle on any public
street during the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 6:00 p.m. Monday through Saturday.
(Ord. 7.08, passed 3-25-96; Am. Ord. 7.09, passed 6-23-97) Penalty, see §
71.99
§ 71.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violates this chapter is responsible for a civil infraction.
The penalty for a violation shall include a fine in an amount established by
resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 7.08, passed 3-25-96; Am. Ord. 7.10, passed 1-8-07)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
90.   ABANDONED VEHICLES
      
91.   ANIMALS
      
92.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
93.   EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
      
94.   FIRE PREVENTION
      
95.   NUISANCES
      
96.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
97.   SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
      
98.   WATERCRAFT REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 90: ABANDONED VEHICLES
Section
   
90.01   Definitions
   
90.02   Vehicles abandoned in private areas
   
90.03   Vehicles abandoned on public areas, streets and alleys
   
90.04   Unlawful to abandon a vehicle in village
   
90.05   Abandoned vehicles declared nuisances
   
90.06   Violations
§ 90.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ABANDONED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any motor vehicle not having valid license plates
and which is left unattended on public property or upon private property, the
owner, co-owner, tenant or co-tenant of which is not the registered owner of
the vehicle.
   DISMANTLED MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is missing a part or
component that is ordinarily attached to such motor vehicle.
   DWELLING. Any building, structure, tent, shelter, trailer, vehicle, or
portion thereof, that is occupied in whole or in part as the home residence,
living or sleeping space or that is intended to be occupied by one or more
human beings, either on a permanent or temporary basis.
   INOPERABLE MOTOR VEHICLE. A motor vehicle that is incapable of being
propelled under its own power.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Any wheeled vehicle that is self-propelled and designed to
transport the driver, passengers, or cargo.
(Ord. 7.02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 90.02 VEHICLES ABANDONED IN PRIVATE AREAS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation, to store
upon, place upon, or permit to be stored or placed upon, or allowed to remain
upon, any private property, a dismantled, partially
dismantled or inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof, or upon which private
property there is a structure used in whole or in part as a dwelling unless
said motor vehicle or parts thereof shall be kept in a wholly enclosed garage
or wholly enclosed structure.
   (B)   However, any owner, co-owner, tenant, or co-tenant may store, permit
to be stored, or allowed to remain upon the premises of which he is the owner,
co-owner, tenant, or co-tenant any one such dismantled, partially dismantled or
inoperable motor vehicle or parts thereof for a period not to exceed 48 hours
if such motor vehicle is registered in his name.
(Ord. 7.02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 90.03 VEHICLES ABANDONED ON PUBLIC AREAS, STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to place any
dismantled, partially dismantled, or inoperable motor vehicle on any public
parking lot, street, alley, or any other public area of the village.
(Ord. 7.02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 90.04 UNLAWFUL TO ABANDON A VEHICLE IN VILLAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to abandon a motor
vehicle in the village.
(Ord. 7.02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 90.05 ABANDONED VEHICLES DECLARED NUISANCES.
   The presence of a dismantled, partially dismantled, inoperable or abandoned
motor vehicle, or parts of a motor vehicle in violation of the terms of this
chapter is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
(Ord. 7.02, passed 1-28-80)
§ 90.06 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 91: ANIMALS
Section
   
91.01   Definitions
   
91.02   Unlawful to keep certain animals
   
91.03   Dogs and cats
   
91.04   License required
   
91.05   Application generally
   
91.06   Quarantine
   
91.07   Cruelty to animals
   
91.08   Poisoning animals
   
91.09   Confinement
   
91.10   Dangerous dogs prohibited
   
91.11   Destruction of dangerous dogs
   
91.12   Barking dogs
   
91.13   Maximum number of dogs or cats
   
91.14   Confining animal for observation
   
91.15   Animal bitten by another animal
   
91.16   Disposition of unclaimed animals
   
91.17   Sanitary conditions maintained when keeping birds, dogs, cats, or other
domesticated household pets
   
91.18   Violations
§ 91.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAT. Any cat, whether male, female or unsexed.
   CONTROL. When a dog is on a leash, in an enclosed vehicle or container, or
with the owner, or some member of the owner's family, or some other person with
the permission of the owner, provided such dog is amenable to orders and
commands of the person in charge thereof.
   DANGEROUS ANIMAL. A dog or other animal that bites or attacks a person, or a
dog that bites or attacks and causes serious injury or death to another dog
while the other dog is on the property or under the control of its owner.
However, a dangerous animal does not include any of the following:
      (1)   An animal that bites or attacks a person who is knowingly
trespassing on the property of the animal's owner;
      (2)   An animal that bites or attacks a person who provokes or torments
the animal;
      (3)   An animal that is responding in a manner that an ordinary and
reasonable person would conclude was designed to protect a person if that
person is engaged in a lawful activity or is the subject of an assault;
      (4)   Livestock.
   DOG. Any dog, whether male, female or unsexed.
   OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of a dog or cat, includes every
person having a right or property in such dog or cat, and every person who
keeps or harbors such dog or cat or has it in his or her care, and every person
who permits such dog or cat to remain in or about any premises occupied by him
or her for a period of five or more days.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20)
§ 91.02 UNLAWFUL TO KEEP CERTAIN ANIMALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or allow to be kept within
the village any cows, horses, pigs, goats, pigeons, chickens, geese, ducks, or
any other animal, fowl, or insect, except birds, dogs, cats, or other harmless
and domesticated household pets as regulated by ordinance.
   (B)   No animals shall be allowed in any commercial establishment where
foodstuffs are prepared, sold or packaged for public consumption; provided,
however, that this section shall not be construed so as to prevent the keeping
of animals by a business establishment for temporary promotional purposes
provided that the establishment is not in the business of preparing, selling or
packaging foodstuffs for public consumption, provided further that such display
of animals meets with the approval of the Health Officer, and also provided
that this section shall not be construed to prohibit in any commercial
establishment any animal trained to assist persons with visual or hearing
impairments.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.03 DOGS AND CATS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or keeping any dog or cat
to allow or permit such dog or cat to run at large within the corporate limits
of the village at any time. Dogs or cats attached to a leash and accompanied by
the owner or keeper thereof who has absolute control of said dog or cat shall
not be determined to be running at large.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person owning or keeping any female dog
to allow said female dog to go beyond the premises of the owner or keeper
during the period while the female dog is in heat.
   (C)   Any dog or cat found running at large may be seized and impounded by a
law enforcement officer of the village and the owner thereof may redeem same
within 24 hours by paying the costs and charges for impounding and keeping
same. Any liability for injury and/or damage, or death of any dog or cat while
in the process of seizure by a law enforcement officer or while any such dog or
dogs, cat or cats are under impoundment shall rest solely with the owner or
owners of said dog or cat.
   (D)   In the event that the owner does not redeem same within 24 hours, then
said dog or cat may be surrendered to the County Dog Warden for disposition.
(Ord. 162, passed 4-8-68; Am. Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 6.21, passed
2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.04 LICENSE REQUIRED. 
   It shall be unlawful for any person to own, possess or harbor any dog four
months old or older in the village unless such dog is licensed, or to own,
harbor or possess any dog four months old or over that does not at all times
wear a collar or harness with suitable tag attached or with the license number
written indelibly thereon. All dogs shall be immunized against rabies prior to
the issuance of a license under this chapter. Oakland County dog licenses can
be purchased at the village offices.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.05 APPLICATION GENERALLY. 
   The Village Clerk shall accept applications for and issue Oakland County
licenses. It shall be the duty of the owner of the dog or cat to file with the
Village Clerk an application for a dog or cat license, setting forth the name
and residence of the applicant, the breed, sex, age and color of the dog, and
such other information as may be required. An application for a license shall
be accompanied by proof of vaccination of the dog for rabies by a certificate
of a current vaccination for rabies, with a vaccine licensed by the United
States Department of Agriculture, signed by an accredited veterinarian. The
certificate of vaccination for rabies shall state the month and year of
expiration for the rabies vaccination in the veterinarian's opinion.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20)
§ 91.06 QUARANTINE.
   The Animal Control Officer of the village is hereby authorized to require
that any dog or cat be quarantined, or that a quarantine be established in the
village for any defined period, when in his or her opinion such measures are
necessary in order to protect the health of the inhabitants of the village.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20)
§ 91.07 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly treat or abuse any animal or bird.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.08 POISONING ANIMALS. 
   No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any exposed
public or private place where it endangers, or is likely to endanger, any
domestic animal or bird.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.09 CONFINEMENT. 
   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow any dog or cat to leave the
owner's premises under any conditions, unless such dog or cat has been
immunized against rabies, provided nothing in this section shall be interpreted
to prevent an owner from taking his dog or cat to the offices of a
veterinarian, for purposes of having such dog or cat immunized.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.10 DANGEROUS DOGS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own or harbor a dangerous dog, or a dog that has been bitten
by any animal known to have been afflicted with rabies. All dogs found to be
dangerous and all rabid dogs shall be destroyed, unless otherwise disposed of
by the owner thereof.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.11 DESTRUCTION OF DANGEROUS DOGS. 
   Whenever a dog is brought to the pound for having bitten a person, the
Police Department may, if deemed necessary and advisable, and after holding
such dog a sufficient length of time to meet the requirements of the Health
Department for investigation, cause such dog to be destroyed as a dangerous
dog. Unless waived in writing, notice of intent to so destroy such dog shall be
given to the owner if known. The owner shall have seven days from mailing of
such notice in which to seek a review by the district court for the 52nd-3rd
Judicial District of the order of the Police Department for the destruction of
such dog.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20)
§ 91.12 BARKING DOGS. 
   No person shall harbor or keep any dog which by loud or frequent or habitual
barking, yelping or howling, shall cause a serious annoyance to the
neighborhood, or to people passing to and fro upon the street.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.13 MAXIMUM NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS. 
   No person or group of persons occupying a single residential or business
premises shall own, harbor or keep at such premises more than three cats or
dogs in total over the age of six months. This prohibition shall not be
applicable to the business premises of a licensed veterinarian.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.14 CONFINING ANIMAL FOR OBSERVATION. 
   Any person who shall have in his or her possession a dog, cat or other
domestic animal which has contracted rabies, or which has been subjected to
rabies, or which is suspected of having rabies, or which has bitten any person,
shall upon demand of the Police Department or of the Animal Control Officer,
produce and surrender such dog, cat or other domestic animal to the Police
Department or the Animal Control Officer, to be held in the village dog pound
for treatment and observation for a period of ten days. In lieu of such
surrender of such dog, cat or other domestic animal, such person shall have the
option of delivering such dog, cat or other domestic animal to an approved
kennel, to be held there for treatment and observation for such ten-day period,
and shall furnish to the Police Department written evidence that such dog, cat
or other domestic animal has been so delivered; provided however, that if such
dog, cat or other domestic animal be confined to a private kennel, such
confinement shall be at the sole expense of the owner of such dog, cat or other
domestic animal, and without expense or risk on the part of the village. If the
dog, cat or other domestic animal be kept in the village pound, the owner shall
be liable for the board of such dog, cat or other domestic animal as
hereinafter provided for an impounded dog, cat or other domestic animal.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.15 ANIMAL BITTEN BY ANOTHER ANIMAL. 
   It shall be the duty of any person owning or harboring a dog, cat or other
domestic animal which has been attacked or bitten by another dog, cat or other
domestic animal showing symptoms of rabies, to immediately notify the Police
Department or the Animal Control Officer that such person has such dog, cat or
other domestic animal in his or her possession. Such person shall comply with
all lawful orders and requirements of the Police Department and the Animal
Control Officer.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.16 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED ANIMALS. 
   (A)   All dogs, cats and other domestic animals not claimed and released
within seven days after being impounded shall be destroyed, or if the animal is
deemed valuable, the same may be sold by the Police Department provided that
such dogs or cats are properly immunized and licensed at the cost of the
purchaser; however, such animals shall not be sold to laboratories or research
programs. If the dog or cat has a collar, license or other evidence of
ownership, the operator of the pound or shelter shall notify the owner in
writing and disposition of the animal shall not be made within seven days from
the date of mailing the notice.
   (B)   Animals impounded having been exposed to rabies, or any animal that
has attacked a person shall be kept until such time and under such conditions
as shall be required by the Police Department or the Health Department.
(Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.17 SANITARY CONDITIONS MAINTAINED WHEN KEEPING BIRDS, DOGS, CATS, OR OTHER
DOMESTICATED HOUSEHOLD PETS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to maintain or permit to be
maintained an unclean building, yard or premise. All manure and excreta shall
be removed and disposed of in such manner so as to prevent the breeding or
harboring of insects or vermin.
   (B)   All yards where such animals are kept shall be well drained,
maintained in a sanitary condition, and treated so as to effectively prevent
the breeding or harboring of flies, mosquitoes or rodents.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(2)
§ 91.18 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions § 10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97; Am. Ord. 6.21, passed 2-24-20)
CHAPTER 92: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   Definitions
   
92.02   Inspection
   
92.03   Construction
   
92.04   Obstruction in streets
   
92.05   Merchandise on sidewalks
   
92.06   Street excavating
   
92.07   Drain or gutter obstructions
   
92.08   Signs, awnings and canopies
   
92.09   Sidewalk openings
   
92.10   Barricades
   
92.11   Faulty structure
   
92.12   Defacing and writing
   
92.13   Snow and ice on sidewalks
   
92.14   Street name changing
Tree Regulations
   
92.25   Public tree removal
   
92.26   Spacing of shade trees
   
92.27   Public tree protection
   
92.28   Excavation near trees
   
92.29   Covering surface near trees
   
92.30   Private trees clearance
   
92.31   Corner clearance
   
92.32   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DOWNTOWN AREA. The area bounded by the following streets:
      (1)   On the west - M24 and Lapeer Street, both sides;
      (2)   On the south - Paint Creek;
      (3)   On the east - Slater Street, both sides;
      (4)   On the north - Jackson Street, south side and Shadbolt, south side
   SIDEWALK. The portion of the street right-of-way designed for pedestrian
travel.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of Public Works of the village.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 8.04, passed 2-12-07)
§ 92.02 INSPECTION.
   The Village Manager shall have the responsibility of periodic inspections of
sidewalks and shall make recommendations to the Council relative thereto.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.03 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   No person shall construct, rebuild, or repair any sidewalk except in
accordance with the line, grade, slope and specifications established by the
Superintendent nor without first obtaining permission from the Village Council.
   (B)   Whenever the Village Council shall determine that the public
convenience or necessity requires that any sidewalk shall be built or rebuilt
within the limits of the village, a resolution shall be passed by the Council
directing and requiring that the sidewalk be built or rebuilt as the case may
be, and ordering or requiring that the Street Superintendent shall with due
diligence build or rebuild the sidewalk in accordance with the resolution.
   (C)   Within ten days after the passage of the resolution the Superintendent
shall file with the Village Clerk an estimate in writing showing the number of
square feet of sidewalk required to be built adjacent to each lot or parcel or
parcels or land named in the resolution as provided for in division (B) of this
section and shall cause a written or printed copy of the resolution, together
with a copy of the estimate to be served on the owners of the lot or parcels of
land abutting on the sidewalk. The notice and estimate shall be served by
delivering a copy thereof to each of the owners of the lots or premises
abutting on such sidewalk, and if such owner cannot be found in the village,
the notice and estimate shall be left with the occupants, or family on
premises, or with some member of the occupant's family of suitable age and
discretion, and if any such lot or premises shall be unoccupied and the owner
or owners thereof cannot be found in the village, then the notice and estimate
shall be served by posting a copy of same in some conspicuous place on such lot
or premises.
   (D)   The cost of building or rebuilding the sidewalk shall be paid by the
property owner whose property is abutting on the sidewalk. The cost of building
or rebuilding the sidewalk, or any portion thereof, may be levied on the lot or
premises adjacent to land abutting the sidewalk as a special assessment which
shall be a lien upon the lot or premises, the same as other special assessments
and the Council may order the assessor of the village to spread the amount upon
his roll as a special assessment on the lot, lots or premises and the same
shall be collected in the same manner as other village taxes; or the village
may collect the amount from the owner or occupant of the lot or premises in an
action of assumpsit and such owner or occupant shall be liable for same,
together with the costs of suit.
   (E)   In the event an owner of abutting property requests an approach by
cutting the curb with or without crossing a sidewalk, same shall be done at the
owner's expense in accordance with specifications established by the Village
Council.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.04 OBSTRUCTION IN STREETS.
   Interference with normal flow of traffic.
   (A)   Subject to division (B) a person without authority shall not block,
obstruct, impede, or otherwise interfere with the normal flow of vehicular or
pedestrian traffic upon a public street or highway in the Village of Lake Orion
by means of a motor vehicle, barricade, object, device or with his or her
person. This section does not apply to persons maintaining, rearranging, or
constructing public utility facilities in or adjacent to a street or highway.
   (B)   Division (A) and any provision of the Michigan Administrative Code
that prohibits a person from standing in a roadway, other than a limited access
highway, for the purpose of soliciting a ride, employment, or business from the
occupant of any vehicle, do not apply to a person who is soliciting
contributions on behalf of a charitable or civic organization during daylight
hours, if all the following are satisfied:
      (1)   The charitable or civic organization complies with all Village of
Lake Orion ordinances.
      (2)   The charitable or civic organization maintains at least $500,000 in
liability insurance.
      (3)   The person is 18 years of age or older.
      (4)   The person is wearing high visibility safety apparel that meets
current american standards promulgated by the Internal Safety Equipment
Association.
      (5)   The portion of the roadway upon which the solicitation occurs is
not a work zone.
      (6)   The portion of the roadway upon which the solicitation occurs is
within an intersection where traffic control devices are present.
   (C)   The Village of Lake Orion or the Oakland County Road Authority that
has jurisdiction over a roadway upon which solicitation occurs as described in
division (B) is not liable for any claim for damages arising out of the use of
the roadway as described in division (B).
   (D)   A person who violates this section is responsible for a civil
infraction.
   (E)   As used in this section "charitable or civic organization" means a
non-profit organization that is qualified under Section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(4)
of the Internal Revenue Code, 26 USC 501, or a veteran's organization that has
a tax exempt status under the Internal Revenue Code.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 8.05, passed 11-27-17)
§ 92.05 MERCHANDISE ON SIDEWALKS.
   No person, company or corporation shall use any of the sidewalk within the
village for the storage, keeping or displaying thereon of any goods, wares,
merchandise, produce provisions, vegetables, boxes, barrels or show cases
except within the distance of three feet from the wall of the building used or
occupied by such person, company or corporation in the business portion of the
village.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.06 STREET EXCAVATING.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall dig or tear up any pavement,
sidewalk or crosswalk, or dig any hole, ditch, drain, or sewer in any street,
alley, or public property without first obtaining a permit therefor from the
Village Manager. This requirement shall apply to all persons, firms or
corporations whether or not they may have a right, license or franchise to use
the village alleys, streets, or private property.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of such person, firm or corporation, upon being
granted a permit as hereinabove required, to maintain all traffic control
devices and to immediately refill and restore, resurface or repave such street,
alley or other public property so that the same will be in as good condition as
before. It shall further be the duty of such person, firm or corporation to
erect and maintain during the progress of the work a good and sufficient
barrier around any such cut, trench or excavation in such manner as to prevent
accidents and to place and keep upon such barrier suitable and sufficient
colored lights during the night.
   (C)   A separate permit must be obtained for each occasion and such permit
shall specify the location of the cut, trench or excavation to be made.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.07 DRAIN OR GUTTER OBSTRUCTIONS.
   It shall be the duty of every owner or occupant of any house, building or
premises within the village to keep at all times the drain or gutter in front
of the same clear and free from any obstructions that may hinder or interfere
with the free passage of water in or through any public drain or sewer.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.08 SIGNS, AWNINGS AND CANOPIES.
   (A)   No person, company or corporation shall put up, erect, keep, use or
maintain on or in any sidewalk in the village, any post or fixture for the
support of any sign, awning, canopy or advertisement or for any other purpose
without first having obtained permission of the Village Manager.
   (B)   No person, company or corporation shall put up, erect, keep, maintain
or use any awning for canopy of or over any sidewalk in the village extending a
greater distance than eight feet from the wall or the side of the building to
which the same is attached, or coming nearer than seven feet, five inches of
the sidewalk underneath it, nor shall any curtain, fringe or other appendage be
attached or be maintained, on any awning or canopy so that any part of it shall
be within six feet, five inches of the sidewalk underneath it.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.09 SIDEWALK OPENINGS.
   No person, company or corporation shall cut, keep or have any opening
through any sidewalk over any area, vault or window without having the same
safely and securely covered, all covering to be on level with the walks.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.10 BARRICADES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to remove any barricade, fence, railing,
barrier or other obstruction erected to protect persons passing along the
streets or alleys of the village at or near any crosswalk, pavement, sewer, or
other village improvement that has been constructed, or that is in the course
of being constructed or repaired or to remove or extinguish any light at or
near the place or places where any such improvement is being made, or at or
near any obstruction or dangerous place in the streets or alleys of the
village.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.11 FAULTY STRUCTURE.
   No person shall permit any building, fence or chimney or other structure
adjacent to or adjoining any street, alley or public place to be unsafe or
dangerous to the right of public travel in any street, alley or public place.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.12 DEFACING AND WRITING.
   No person shall deface or place any advertisement, picture, word or symbol
upon any street, alley, sidewalk, crosswalk, lamp-post, hydrant, tree, park or
other public place.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.13 SNOW AND ICE ON SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Owners, occupants and persons in control of any property shall be
responsible for keeping all sidewalks adjoining the property clear of snow and
ice as provided in this section. Ice shall be cleared by removal or application
of sufficient quantities of deicing material or sand.
   (B)   Failure to remove snow or ice from a sidewalk for a period of 24
consecutive hours is a violation of this chapter.
   (C)   On sidewalks in the downtown area, accumulations of two or more inches
of snow that falls and ice that forms, between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m., shall be removed immediately, with any snow that accumulates or ice that
forms after 9:00 p.m. to be removed by 9:00 a.m. of the following day, with
failure to comply with these requirements being a violation of this chapter.
   (D)   Upon a violation of a requirement of this section, in addition to and
without regard to whether the violation is pursued as provided in §
92.32, the Village Manager may cause all snow and ice to be cleared and removed
from the sidewalk, at the expense of all persons responsible, with payment of
the village's actual and administrative costs and expenses incurred in doing so
to be a joint and several debt to the village by all of the persons
responsible, which shall be paid in full within 30 days of the village's
billing to those persons, and which shall be secured by a lien on the property
adjoining the sidewalk from the time the snow and/or ice is cleared and removed
by the village.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 8.04, passed 2-12-07)
§ 92.14 STREET NAME CHANGING.
   (A)   Who may apply. The Village Council on its own motion, or the Village
Planning Commission by resolution from that body, may change the name of a
street, alley or thoroughfare within the corporate limits of the village with
the approval of the county.
   (B)   Contents of Petition. The petition shall contain the name of the
street, alley or thoroughfare as it is presently entitled and called and the
name the petitioner would like the street, alley or thoroughfare renamed; the
approximate length of the section of the street, alley or thoroughfare to be
renamed and the approximate direction or directions in which it runs; the
intersecting cross streets at each end of the section of street, alley or
thoroughfare to be renamed together with the names of any intermediate
intersecting streets; and the character of the property abutting each side of
the section of the street, alley or thoroughfare to be renamed. If a petition
is submitted by the Village Planning Commission, it must be in resolution form
and certified by the Secretary of the Planning Commission. If a petition is
submitted by 25 electors-at-large of the village, it must contain their
signatures and residence addresses. If the petition is submitted by an owner of
or party in interest of real estate abutting that section of the street, alley,
or thoroughfare to be renamed the petition must also contain the description of
the petitioner's property abutting such street, alley or thoroughfare together
with his signature and residence address.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
TREE REGULATIONS
§ 92.25 PUBLIC TREE REMOVAL.
   The village shall have the right to plant, trim, spray, preserve and remove
trees, plants and shrubs within the lines of all streets, alleys, avenues,
lanes, squares, and public grounds, as may be necessary to insure safety or to
preserve the symmetry and beauty of such public grounds. The Village Manager
may remove or cause or order to be removed, any tree or part thereof that is in
an unsafe condition or that is a prohibited species, such as poplar, willow,
box elder, walnut, mulberry or catalpa, or is affected with any injurious
disease, fungus, insect or other pest. Whenever the village shall remove any
tree, plant or shrub, solely for the purpose of constructing any public work,
the Village Manager shall if practicable, replace the same at public expense,
at some nearby location by planting another tree, plant or shrub, not
necessarily of the same type.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.26 SPACING OF SHADE TREES.
   (A)   Future planting of shade and ornamental trees in the streets, parks
and public places of the village may be done by the village upon payment of
certain fees and charges and in accordance with such rules and regulations as
may be established by the Village Council in so far as such rules and
regulations do not conflict with any other provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   No future planting of shade and any other ornamental trees or shrubs
in the streets, parks and public places by owners or anyone employed by them
shall be permitted without the approval of the Village Manager and in
compliance with the following rules as to spacing:
      (1)   Elm trees shall be spaced not less than 35 feet;
      (2)   Oak trees not less than 30 feet; and
      (3)   Other shade trees and ornamental trees not less than 25 feet.
   (C)   However, any owner of a single lot may in order to provide a shade or
ornamental tree in front of his lot, secure special permission from the village
to plant a shade or ornamental tree within a lesser distance from an existing
tree than the spacing mentioned in division (B) of this section, but shall in
no case make a special planting within 20 feet of an existing shade or
ornamental tree located in the street or other public place.
   (D)   No tree shall be planted in the parkways, between the curb and
sidewalks less than three and one half feet from the curb line, nor less than
three feet from the sidewalks; provided however, when the parkways are less
than six feet, six inches in width, any trees planted therein shall be located
not less than two feet, six inches from the curb and as near midway between the
curb and sidewalk as possible. No trees shall be planted nearer to the
intersection of any streets than 20 feet from the corner of such intersection.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.27 PUBLIC TREE PROTECTION.
   (A)   No person shall break, injure, mutilate, kill or destroy any tree or
shrub, or set any fire within ten feet of any tree or permit any fire or the
heat thereof to injure any portion of any tree.
   (B)   No toxic chemicals or other injurious materials shall be allowed to
seep, drain or be emptied on, near or about any trees.
   (C)   No electric wires shall be permitted to come in contact with any tree
or shrub in any manner that shall cause damage thereto, and no person shall
attach any electric insulation to any tree.
   (D)   No person shall use any tree as an anchor except by special written
permit from the Village Manager; and
   (E)   No material shall be fastened to or hung on any tree.
   (F)   All persons having under their care, custody and control, facilities
that may interfere with the trimming or removal of any tree, shall after notice
thereof by the Village Manager promptly abate such interference in such a
manner as shall permit the trimming or removal of such tree by the village.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.28 EXCAVATION NEAR TREES.
   Excavation and driveways shall not be placed within five feet of any tree
without written permit from the Village Manager. Any person making such
excavation or construction shall guard any tree within six feet thereof and all
building material or other debris shall be kept at least four feet from any
tree.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.29 COVERING SURFACE NEAR TREES.
   No person shall place within the street right-of-way, any stone, brick,
sand, concrete or other material that will in any way impede the full and free
passage of water, air or fertilizer to the roots of any tree, except, a
sidewalk of authorized width and location.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.30 PRIVATE TREES CLEARANCE.
   Every owner of any tree on private property overhanging any street right-of-
way within the village shall trim the branches so that such branches shall not
obstruct the light from any street lamp or obstruct the view of any street
intersection and so that there shall be a clear space of ten feet above the
surface of the street right-of-way. The owners shall remove all dead, diseased
or dangerous trees, or broken or decayed limbs which constitute a menace to the
safety of the public. The village shall have the right to trim any tree or
shrub on private property when it interferes with the proper spread of light
along the street, from a street light, or interferes with visibility of any
traffic control device or sign, such trimming to be confined to the area
immediately above the right-of-way.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.31 CORNER CLEARANCE.
   All shrubs, bushes and signs located on the triangle formed by two right-of-
way lines at the intersection of two streets and extending for a distance of 20
feet each way from the intersection of the right-of-way lines on any corner lot
within the village, shall not be permitted to grow to a height of more than 30
inches from top of curb at street level, in order that the view of the driver
of a vehicle approaching a street intersection shall not be obstructed. Trees
may be planted and maintained on private property in this area, provided that
all branches are trimmed to maintain a clear vision for a vertical height of 10
feet above the roadway surface. Any owner or any property failing to trim any
trees, shrubs or bushes in conformity with this subchapter shall be notified by
the Village Manager to do so and such notice shall require trimming in
conformity with this subchapter within ten days after the date of such notice.
Upon the expiration of such period, the Manager may cause the trimming to be
done and the cost thereof may be collected from the owner of said property as
single lot assessment in accordance with the Village Charter.
(Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 92.32 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 93: EMERGENCY RESPONSE COST RECOVERY
Section
   
93.01   Title
   
93.02   Intent and purpose
   
93.03   Definitions
   
93.04   Presumptions
   
93.05   Liability for costs
   
93.06   Itemization and bill for services
   
93.07   Failure to pay costs of emergency response
   
93.08   Nature of liability
Cross-reference:
   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted, see §
70.40
   Uniform Traffic Code adopted, see §
70.01
§ 93.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of Lake Orion
Emergency Response Cost Recovery Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05)
§ 93.02 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   In the Council's consideration and deliberation with respect to the
regulations in this chapter, the Council has determined that the protection and
promotion of the public health, safety, and welfare requires the adoption of
this chapter to provide a means for the village to recover costs and expenses
of emergency response and prosecution as part of a sentence for the conviction
of persons committing certain offenses as permitted by and described in Act 345
of 1998, or local ordinances substantially corresponding to those offenses, and
to exercise the authority in Public Act No. 102 of 1990, as amended, and other
laws that provide for the assessment and collection of fees or costs for
emergency responses. In addition to any other penalty authorized by law, the
court may order the person convicted to reimburse the village for expenses
incurred in relation to that incident including but not limited to expenses for
an emergency response and expenses for prosecuting the person as provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05; Am. Ord. 2.32, passed 3-23-09)
§ 93.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
      (1)   The dispatch, provision, or utilization of the police, fire
fighting, and/or medical and rescue services by the village to or at an
accident involving a motor vehicle where one or more of the drivers were
operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated or visibly impaired as such terms
are defined in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, as amended, or local ordinance
substantially corresponding thereto; or were persons under 21 operating a motor
vehicle with a blood alcohol level of .02 - .07.
      (2)   The making of a traffic stop and arrest by a police officer when
the driver was either operating a motor vehicle while intoxicated or visibly
impaired as such terms are defined in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, as
amended, or local ordinance substantially corresponding thereto; or were
persons under 21 operating a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol level of .02 -
.07.
      (3)   The dispatch, provision or utilization of the police, fire fighting
and/or medical and rescue services by the village, resulting in the arrest,
and/or finding of guilt for criminal contempt for a violation of a personal
protection order issued under Section 2950 or 2950a of the Revised Judicature
Act of 1961, 1961 PA 236, M.C.L.A. §§ 600.2950 and 600.2950a, or for the
violation of a foreign protection order that satisfies the conditions of
validity provided in Section 2950i of the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, 1961
PA 236, M.C.L.A. § 600.2950i or local ordinance substantially corresponding to
that section.
      (4)   The making of a stop and arrest by a police officer when the driver
was either operating a snowmobile under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
controlled substance or both; with unlawful blood alcohol content; or while
visibly impaired in violation or attempted violation of section 82127 of the
Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, M.C.L.A. §
324.82127, or local ordinance substantially corresponding to that section.
      (5)   The making of a stop and arrest by a police officer when the driver
was either operating an ORV under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
controlled substance or both; with unlawful blood alcohol content; or while
visibly impaired in violation or attempted violation of section 81134 or 81135
of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451,
M.C.L.A. §§ 324.81134 and 324.81135, or local ordinance substantially
corresponding to that section.
      (6)   The making of an arrest by a police officer when a pilot or crew
member was operating an aircraft under the influence of intoxicating liquor or
a controlled substance, or a combination of intoxicating liquor and a
controlled substance or any drug or combination of drugs that renders a person
incapable of safely operating an aircraft or acting as a crew member of an
aircraft; or who was operating an aircraft with an unlawful blood alcohol
content in violation or attempted violation of section 185 of the Aeronautics
Code of the State of Michigan, 1945 PA 327, M.C.L.A. § 259.185, or local
ordinance substantially corresponding to that section.
      (7)   The making of a stop and arrest by a police officer when the driver
was either operating a vessel on the waters of this state under the influence
of intoxicating liquor or controlled substance or both; with unlawful blood
alcohol content; or while visibly impaired in violation or attempted violation
of section 80176(1), (3), (4), or (5) of the Natural Resources and
Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, M.C.L.A. § 324.80176, or a local
ordinance substantially corresponding to section 80176(1) or (3) of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, M.C.L.A. § 324.80176.
      (8)   The making an arrest of a person who intentionally makes a false
report of the commission of a crime, or intentionally causes a false report of
the commission of a crime to be made, to a peace officer, police agency of this
state or of a local unit of government, 9-1-1 operator, or any other
governmental employee or contractor or employee of a contractor who is
authorized to receive reports of a crime, knowing the report is false, in
violation or attempted violation of section 411a(2) of the Michigan Penal Code,
1931 PA 328, M.C.L.A. § 750.411a, or local ordinance substantially
corresponding to that section.
      (9)   The making of a traffic stop and arrest by a police officer for a
violation of the Michigan Vehicle Code, or any Uniform Traffic Code that is
adopted as an ordinance of the village under
Chapter 70 of this code, for a misdemeanor offense of operating a motor vehicle
without a valid operator’s license.
   EXPENSES AND COSTS OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE. The direct and reasonable costs
incurred by the village associated with the occurrence of an emergency response
and prosecution including, but not limited to, the following:
      (1)   The salaries or wages, including overtime pay, of law enforcement
personnel for time spent responding to the emergency, arresting and processing
the person after an arrest for a crime or crimes causing the emergency,
preparing reports on the emergency, investigating the emergency, and collecting
and analyzing evidence, including, but not limited to, determining bodily
alcohol level and determining the presence of and identifying controlled
substances in the blood, breath, or urine.
      (2)   The salaries, wages, or other compensation, including overtime pay,
of fire department and emergency medical service personnel, including volunteer
fire fighters or volunteer emergency medical service personnel, for time spent
in responding to and providing fire fighting, rescue, and emergency medical
services in relation to the emergency.
      (3)   The cost of medical supplies lost or expended by Fire Department
and emergency medical service personnel, including volunteer fire fighters or
volunteer emergency medical service personnel, in providing services in
relation to the emergency.
      (4)   The salaries, wages, or other compensation, including but not
limited to, overtime pay of prosecution personnel for time spent investigating
and prosecuting the crime or crimes creating the emergency.
      (5)   The cost of extraditing a person from another state to this state,
including but not limited to, all of the following:
         (a)   Transportation costs.
         (b)   The salaries or wages of law enforcement and prosecution
personnel, including overtime pay, for processing the extradition and returning
the person to this state.
   VESSEL. For purposes of this chapter, and consistent with the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, every description of watercraft
used or capable of being used as a means of transportation on water.
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05; Am. Ord. 2.32, passed 3-23-09)
§ 93.04 PRESUMPTIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, a person is presumed to be responsible for
an emergency response if he or she meets the standards of prohibited conduct as
they are defined in §
93.05.
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05)
§ 93.05 LIABILITY FOR COSTS.
   (A)   Any person who is arrested for the following violations shall be
liable for the costs and expenses incurred by the Village of Lake Orion for
providing emergency response services and prosecution:
      (1)   Operating a motor vehicle while visibly intoxicated or impaired in
violation of to Section 625 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A.
§ 257.625, or local ordinance substantially corresponding thereto.
      (2)   Person under 21 operating a motor vehicle with a blood alcohol
level of .02 - .07, pursuant to Section 625(6) of the Michigan Vehicle Code,
1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. § 257.625, or local ordinance substantially corresponding
thereto.
      (3)   Violating the terms and conditions of a personal protection order
issued under Section 2950 or 2950a of the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, 1961
PA 236, M.C.L.A. §§ 600.2950 and 600.2950a, or for the violation of a foreign
protection order that satisfies the conditions of validity provided in Section
2950i of the Revised Judicature Act of 1961, 1961 PA 236, M.C.L.A. § 600.2950i,
or local ordinance substantially corresponding thereto.
      (4)   Operating a snowmobile in violation or attempted violation of
section 82127 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994
PA 451, M.C.L.A. § 324.82127 or local ordinance substantially corresponding
thereto.
      (5)   Operating an ORV in violation or attempted violation of section
81134 or 81135 of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994
PA 451, M.C.L.A. §§ 324.81134 and 324.81135, or local ordinance substantially
corresponding thereto.
      (6)   Acting as the pilot or a crew member of an aircraft that is in
violation or attempted violation of section 185 of the Aeronautics Code of the
State of Michigan, 1945 PA 327, M.C.L.A. § 259.185 or local ordinance
substantially corresponding thereto.
      (7)   Operating a vessel on the waters of this state in violation or
attempted violation of section 80176(1), (3), (4), or (5) of the Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, M.C.L.A. § 324.80176,
or a local ordinance substantially corresponding to section 80176(1) or (3) of
the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, 1994 PA 451, M.C.L.A. §
324.80176.
      (8)   Making a false report of the commission of a crime , or
intentionally causing a false report of the commission of a crime to be made,
to a peace officer, police agency of this state or of a local unit of
government, 9-1-1 operator, or any other governmental employee or contractor or
employee of a contractor who is authorized to receive reports of a crime,
knowing the report is false, in violation or attempted violation of section
411a(2) of the Michigan Penal Code, 1931 PA 328, M.C.L.A. § 750.411a, or local
ordinance substantially corresponding thereto.
      (9)   A misdemeanor offense of operating a motor vehicle without a valid
operator’s license in violation of the Michigan Vehicle Code, or any Uniform
Traffic Code that is adopted as an ordinance of the village under
Chapter 70 of this code.
   (B)   The expense of an emergency response shall be a charge against the
person liable for costs and expenses under this chapter. The cost and expense
of an emergency response constitutes a debt of that person and is collectible
by the village for incurring those costs and expenses in the same manner as in
the case of an obligation under a contract, express or implied, or as an
assessment under the Charter of the village.
   (C)   As part of the sentence for a conviction of violations set forth in
division (A) above, in addition to any other penalty authorized by law, the
court may order the person convicted to reimburse the village for expenses
incurred in relation to that incident, including but not limited to, expenses
for emergency response, and expenses for prosecuting the person as provided in
this section. The amount ordered to be paid shall be paid to the clerk of the
court, who shall transmit the appropriate amount to the village to receive
reimbursement. If not otherwise provided by the court, the reimbursement
ordered shall be made immediately unless the court allows the responsible
person to make the reimbursement within a specified period or in specified
installments. The court shall be authorized by resolution of the Village
Council to collect the subject debt for the village and may charge a reasonable
service fee for such collection in an amount mutually agreed upon by the court
and the village.
   (D)   In the event that the person responsible for the costs and expenses of
emergency response and prosecution is a minor under the age of 18, the parents,
guardians or other person or persons legally responsible for the care, custody,
control or support of that minor are responsible and liable for the debt, in
the event it is not paid by the minor in accordance with the order of the
court.
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05; Am. Ord. 2.32, passed 3-23-09)
§ 93.06 ITEMIZATION AND BILL FOR SERVICES.
   (A)   The liability of the person or persons responsible for the emergency
response shall be enforceable by reimbursement orders of the Oakland County
Circuit Court and the 52/3 Judicial District Court, with said courts authorized
to collect the costs and expenses of emergency response and prosecution for the
village and charge a service fee for such collection in an amount mutually
agreed upon by the courts and the village.
   (B)   The Village Council shall establish and amend by resolution, a
Schedule of the Costs and Expenses of Emergency Response and Prosecution, for
use in determining the hourly or other rates and charges to be used in the
calculation of the costs and expenses of emergency response for which the
person or persons responsible for the emergency response shall be liable. Such
Schedule shall be available to the public at the Village Clerk's Office.
   (C)   The Chief of Police, or the designee thereof, shall prepare a written
itemization of the costs for any emergency response and prosecution which shall
be submitted to the court in which the complaint for one or more of the
violations identified in §
93.05 is filed.
   (D)   The court shall order payment of the costs and expenses by the
responsible person in accordance with §
93.05(C).
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05)
§ 93.07 FAILURE TO PAY COSTS OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE.
   (A)   Any failure by the responsible person to pay the itemized emergency
response costs as required by a court order under §
93.05(C) or, if the court has denied such an order, within 30 days of service
of the village billing in accordance with §
93.06 shall be considered a default. In case of default, the village may
commence a civil suit to recover the unpaid costs and expenses of an emergency
response allowed by law.
   (B)   Additionally, as part of the sentence for a conviction of the
violations enumerated in §
93.05(A), if the person convicted is placed on probation or paroled, any
reimbursement ordered under §
93.05 shall be a condition of that probation or parole. The court may revoke
probation and the parole board may revoke parole if the person fails to comply
with the order and if the person has not made a good faith effort to comply
with the order. In determining whether to revoke probation or parole, the court
or parole board shall consider the person's employment status, earning ability,
number of dependents, and financial resources, the willfulness of the person's
failure to pay, and any other special circumstances that may have a bearing on
the person's ability to pay. Notwithstanding any other provision of this
section, a person shall not be imprisoned, jailed, or incarcerated for a
violation of parole or probation, or otherwise, for failure to make a
reimbursement as ordered under this section unless the court determines that
the person has the resources to pay the ordered reimbursement and has not made
a good faith effort to do so.
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05)
§ 93.08 NATURE OF LIABILITY.
   This chapter shall not be construed to conflict, contravene or enlarge any
criminal liability or responsibility on the part of the responsible person. In
the event that the responsible person pays the costs and expenses of the
emergency response pursuant to a conviction and court order in accordance with
§
93.05(C), no additional payment to the village shall be made. This section does
not allow the village to be fully reimbursed more than once for any expense
incurred by the village.
(Ord. 2.17, passed 9-14-92; Am. Ord. 2.20, passed 11-28-94; Am. Ord. 2.31,
passed 3-14-05)
CHAPTER 94: FIRE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Building or starting fires within village limits
   
94.02   Exemptions
   
94.03   Single purpose fires
Fire Prevention Code
   
94.15   Title
   
94.16   Purpose
   
94.17   Adoption of code by reference
   
94.18   Changes in code
   
94.19   Code on file
   
94.20   Enforcement
   
94.21   [Reserved]
   
94.22   Authority at fires and other emergencies
   
94.23   Authorized emergency vehicles
   
94.24   Protection of fire department
   
94.25   [Reserved]
   
94.26   [Reserved]
   
94.27   [Reserved]
   
94.28   [Reserved]
   
94.29   Fireworks
Open Burning Requirements
   
94.30   Title
   
94.31   Definitions
   
94.32   Nuisances
   
94.33   Open burning regulations
   
94.34   Authority of Fire Department
   
94.35   Reference to International Fire Code
   
94.36   Violation and penalties
False Fire Alarms
   
94.40   Title
   
94.41   Definitions
   
94.42   Alarm requirements and prohibited acts
   
94.43   Enforcement authority
   
94.44   Enforcement and penalties
Fire Department Cost Recovery
   
94.50   Title
   
94.51   Definitions
   
94.52   Purpose, enabling authority and enforcing authority
   
94.53   Services for which the Fire Department may recover costs
   
94.54   Billing of charges
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 BUILDING OR STARTING FIRES WITHIN VILLAGE LIMITS.
   No person, firm or corporation shall build, start or institute any fire,
open or enclosed, in any area, public or private, within the limits of the
village.
(Ord. 22.02, passed 10-12-76)
§ 94.02 EXEMPTIONS.
   Outdoor fires for the purpose of cooking only, contained in receptacles
intended for cooking and in good repair for such and indoor fires in fireplaces
in good repair and meeting minimum building code restrictions are exempt from
the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 22.02, passed 10-12-76)
§ 94.03 SINGLE PURPOSE FIRES.
   The Chief of the Fire Department or his assistant or designee, in his
absence, has authority to grant a permit upon application upon a form
prescribed by the Fire Chief for the purpose of allowing a single purpose fire.
The permit shall be issued only after the Fire Chief is satisfied that due
precautions will be taken to assure the health, comfort and safety of persons
and the protection of property.
(Ord. 22.02, passed 10-12-76)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 94.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the village “Fire Prevention
Ordinance,” and it shall be deemed sufficient in any action for enforcement of
the provisions hereof to define the same by such short title and by reference
to the number hereof.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.16 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter shall be:
   (A)   To further secure and protect the general health, welfare, and safety
of the citizens and other persons within the village.
   (B)   To adopt the 2021 International Fire Code.
   (C)   To establish and regulate fire lanes.
   (D)   To provide for the inspection of buildings and premises.
   (E)   To designate authority at fires and other emergencies.
   (F)   To provide for the operation and protection of authorized emergency
vehicles, and other Fire Department equipment, property, and personnel.
   (G)   To require water systems for fire protection.
   (H)   To provide for enforcement of the provisions of this subchapter.
   (I)   To provide for penalties upon the violation of these provisions.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.17 ADOPTION OF CODE BY REFERENCE.
   The 2021 International Fire Code with all appendices, as promulgated and
published by the International Code Council, is hereby adopted as the code of
the Village of Lake Orion for regulating and governing the safeguarding of life
and property from fire and explosion hazards arising from the storage, handling
and use of hazardous substances, materials and devices, and from conditions
hazardous to life or property in the occupancy of buildings and premises in the
Village of Lake Orion and providing for the issuance of permits for fire
suppression systems, fire alarm systems and other uses or operations; and each
and all of the regulations, provisions, conditions and terms of such
International Fire Code, are hereby referred to, adopted and made a part hereof
as if fully set out in this subchapter.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.18 CHANGES IN CODE.
   The following sections of the 2021 International Fire Code are amended,
deleted, supplemented or additional sections added as follows:
   (A)   Section 101.1., Title, is amended to read:
   These regulations shall be known as the Fire Code of the Village of Lake
Orion, hereinafter referred to as "this code."
   (B)   Section 112.4., Violation penalties, is amended to read:
   Persons who shall violate a provision of this code or shall fail to comply
with any of the requirements thereof or who shall erect, install, alter, repair
or do work in violation of the approved construction documents or directive the
Fire Code Official, or of a permit or certificate used under provisions of this
code, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in §
10.99 in the Village of Lake Orion Code of Ordinances. Each day that a
violation continues after due notice has been served shall be deemed a separate
offense.
   (C)   Section 113.4., Failure to comply, is amended as follows:
   Any person who shall continue any work after having been served with a stop
work order, except such work as that person is directed to perform to remove a
violation or unsafe condition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor as set forth in
§
10.99 in the Village of Lake Orion Code of Ordinances.
   (D)   Section 1103.5.3., Group I-2, Condition 2, is amended to read as
follows:
   In addition to the requirements of Section 1103.5.2, existing buildings of
Group I-2, Condition 2 occupancy shall be equipped throughout with an approved
automatic sprinkler system in accordance with Section 903.3.1.1. The automatic
sprinkler system shall be installed with six months from notice provided by the
fire code official.
   (E)   Section 5704.2.9.6.1., Locations where above-ground tanks are
prohibited, is amended as follows:
   Storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings
is prohibited.
   (F)   Section 5706.2.4.4., Locations where above-ground tanks are
prohibited, is amended as follows:
   Storage of Class I and II liquids in above-ground tanks outside of buildings
is prohibited.
   (G)   Section 6104.2., Maximum capacity within established limits, is
amended as follows:
   This capacity limit shall be determined by the Fire Code Official, after
consideration of special features such as topographical conditions, nature of
occupancy, and proximity to buildings, capacity of proposed LP-gas containers,
degree of fire protection to be provided and capabilities of the Fire
Department.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.19 CODE ON FILE.
   A complete copy of the 2021 International Fire Code is available for public
inspection at the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.20 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Township of Orion, a Michigan Municipal Corporation, whose address is
2323 Joslyn Road, Lake Orion, MI 48360, and its Fire Department, Fire Code
Official and personnel shall serve as the Village of Lake Orion's enforcing
agency that shall administer and enforce this code in and on behalf of the
Village of Lake Orion as authorized by the Urban Cooperation Act of 1967, 1967
Public Act 7, M.C.L.A. §§ 124.501, et seq. The Township of Orion shall be
vested with all lawful authority to administer and enforce the Village of Lake
Orion's Fire Prevention Code and it shall be deemed sufficient in any action
for enforcement of the provisions hereof as a violation of this code.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.21 [RESERVED].
§ 94.22 AUTHORITY AT FIRES AND OTHER EMERGENCIES.
   (A)   The Fire Chief or his duly authorized representatives, as may be in
charge at the scene of a fire or other emergency involving the protection of
life and/or property, is empowered to direct such operations as may be
necessary to extinguish or control any suspected or reported fires, gas leaks,
or other hazardous conditions or situations or of taking any other action
necessary in the reasonable performance of their duty. The Fire Official may
prohibit any person, vehicle or object from approaching the scene and may
remove or cause to be removed from the scene any person, vehicle or object that
may impede or interfere with the operations of the Fire Department. The Fire
Official may remove or cause to be removed any person, vehicle or object from
hazardous areas. All persons ordered to leave a hazardous area shall do so
immediately and shall not re-enter the area until authorized to do so by the
Fire Official.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to interfere with, attempt to interfere with,
conspire to interfere with, obstruct or restrict the mobility of, or block the
path of travel of any Fire Department emergency vehicle in any way, or to
interfere with, attempt to interfere with, conspire to interfere with, obstruct
or hamper any Fire Department operation.
   (C)   A person shall not willfully fail or refuse to comply with any lawful
order or direction of the Fire Official nor shall any interfere with the
compliance attempts of another individual.
   (D)   A vehicle shall not be driven or propelled over any unprotected fire
hose of the Fire Department when laid down on any street, alley-way, private
drive or any other vehicular roadway without the consent of the Fire Official
in command of the operation.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.23 AUTHORIZED EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
   (A)   Authorized emergency vehicles shall be restricted to those that are
defined and authorized under the laws of the state.
   (B)   A person shall not without proper authorization from the Fire Official
in charge of the Fire Department emergency equipment, cling to, attach himself
to, climb upon or into, board or swing upon any Fire Department emergency
vehicle, whether the same is in motion or at rest, or sound the siren, horn,
bell or other sound-producing device thereon, or to manipulate or tamper with,
or attempt to manipulate or tamper with any levers, valves, switches, starting
devices, brakes, pumps, or any equipment or protective clothing on, or a part
of any Fire Department emergency vehicle.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.24 PROTECTION OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to damage or deface, or attempt, or
conspire to damage or deface any Fire Department emergency vehicle or property
at any time, or to injure, or attempt to injure or conspire to injure Fire
Department personnel while performing departmental duties.
(Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82; Am. Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21)
§ 94.25 [RESERVED].
§ 94.26 [RESERVED].
§ 94.27 [RESERVED].
§ 94.28 [RESERVED].
§ 94.29 FIREWORKS.
   (A)   Definitions and adoption by reference. For the purpose of this
section, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Michigan Fireworks Safety Act, Public Act No. 256 of 2011,
M.C.L.A. §§ 28.451 to 28.471, as amended, which is hereby adopted by reference
as a part of this section.
      ARTICLES PYROTECHNIC. As defined in the Act, means pyrotechnic devices
for professional use that are similar to consumer fireworks in chemical
composition and construction.
      CONSUMER FIREWORKS. As defined in the Act, means fireworks devices that
are designed to produce visible effects by combustion, that are required to
comply with the construction, chemical composition, and labeling regulations
promulgated by the United States Consumer Product Safety Commission and that
are in compliance with the construction, chemical composition, labeling, and
other requirements in the Act. Novelties and low-impact fireworks as defined in
the Act are not consumer fireworks.
      DISPLAY FIREWORKS. As defined in the Act, means large fireworks devices
that are explosive materials intended for use in fireworks, displays and
designed to produce visible or audible effects by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation.
      FIREWORKS. As defined in the Act, means any composition or device, except
for a starting pistol, a flare gun, or a flare, designed for the purpose of
producing a visible or audible effect by combustion, deflagration, or
detonation, and consist of consumer fireworks, low-impact fireworks, articles
pyrotechnic, display fireworks, and special effects.
      LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. As defined in the Act, means ground and handheld
sparkling devices.
      MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
      NATIONAL HOLIDAY. New Year's Day (January 1), Birthday of Martin Luther
King Jr. (third Monday in January), Washington's Birthday (third Monday in
February), Memorial Day (last Monday in May), Independence Day (July 4), Labor
Day (first Monday in September), Columbus Day (second Monday in October),
Veterans Day (November 11), Thanksgiving Day (fourth Thursday in November), and
Christmas Day (December 25).
      NOVELTIES. As defined in the Act, means all of the following:
         (a)   Toy plastic or paper caps for toy pistols in sheets, strips,
roll, or individual caps containing not more than 1/4 of a grain of explosive
content per cap, in packages labeled to indicate the maximum explosive content
per cap.
         (b)   Toy pistols, toy cannons, toy canes, toy trick noisemakers, and
toy guns in which toy caps as described in division (a) are used, that are
constructed so that the hand cannot come in contact with the cap when in place
for the explosion, and that are not designed to break apart or be separated so
as to form a missile by the explosion.
         (c)   Flitter sparklers in paper tubes not exceeding 1/8 inch in
diameter.
         (d)   Toy snakes not containing mercury, if packed in cardboard boxes
with not more than 12 pieces per box for retail sale and if the manufacturer's
name and the quantity contained in each box are printed on the box; and toy
smoke devices.
      SPECIAL EFFECTS. As defined in the Act, means a combination of chemical
elements or chemical compounds capable of burning, independently of the oxygen
of the atmosphere and designed and intended to produce an audible, visual,
mechanical, or thermal effect as an integral part of a motion picture, radio,
television, theatrical, or opera production or live entertainment.
   (B)   (1)   Prohibited ignition, discharge, and use. Consumer fireworks
shall not be ignited, discharged or used in the village except in the following
situations:
      (2)   Consumer fireworks may be ignited, discharged or used on the day
preceding, the day of, and the day after a national holiday except:
         (a)   Consumer fireworks shall not be ignited, discharged, or used on
public, school, church, or private property of another person without the
express written permission from the person or entity legally in possession and
control of that property.
         (b)   Consumer fireworks shall not be ignited, discharged or used
except from:
            1.   11:00 a.m. on December 31 - 1:00 a.m. on January 1;
            2.   11:00 a.m. - 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday and Sunday immediately
preceding Memorial Day; 11:00 a.m. - 11:45 p.m. on June 29 and 30 and July 1,
2, 3 and 4;
            3.   11:00 a.m. - 11:45 p.m. on July 5, if that date is a Friday or
Saturday; and
            4.   11:00 a.m. - 11:45 p.m. on the Saturday and Sunday immediately
preceding Labor Day.
   (C)   Minors. A minor shall not possess, use, discharge or ignite any
consumer fireworks at any time.
   (D)   Under the influence. An individual shall not discharge ignite or use
consumer fireworks or low impact fireworks while under the influence of
alcoholic liquor, a controlled substance, or a combination of alcoholic liquor
and controlled substance.
   (E)   Unmanned free-floating devices. Any unmanned free-floating device (sky
lanterns) which requires fire underneath to propel it and is not moored to the
ground while aloft, have an uncontrolled and unpredictable flight path and
descent area so as to pose a potential fire risk and are therefore prohibited.
   (F)   Novelties; inapplicability of section. This section does not apply to
novelties. Nothing in this section regulates, the sale, storage, display for
sale, transportation, use, or distribution of novelties.
   (G)   Zoning ordinances. Any person selling, distributing or transporting
fireworks shall otherwise comply with the Act, and is required to comply with
the zoning ordinances of the village, including obtaining necessary approvals
thereunder. Failure to obtain necessary zoning approvals is subject to penalty
as provided in the zoning ordinances of the village.
   (H)   Imminent dangers. Notwithstanding the Act, no person shall use,
discharge or ignite fireworks thereby creating or causing an imminent danger or
threat to the public health, safety, or welfare, and such fireworks being used,
ignited or discharged may be immediately seized.
   (I)   Seizure. All fireworks possessed, used, discharged, and/or ignited in
violation of the Act and/or this section are subject to seizure. Any costs
incurred by the village to seize and store the fireworks shall be paid by the
responsible party.
   (J)   Display fireworks. This section does not prohibit any person from
igniting, discharging or using display fireworks that has received the required
permit and approvals from the village in accordance with the Act.
   (K)   Violation. The sanction for a violation of this section is deemed a
municipal civil infraction, punishable by a civil fine from $500 to $1,000,
plus costs, damages, and expenses and any other relief allowed under law. Of
said fine, $500 must be remitted to the Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 22.04, passed 8-12-13; Am. Ord. 22.05, passed 3-11-19)
OPEN BURNING REQUIREMENTS
§ 94.30 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Village of Lake Orion "Open
Burning Requirements," and it shall be deemed sufficient in any action for
enforcement of the provisions hereof to define the same by such short title and
by reference to the number hereof.
(Ord. 22.07, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.31 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this section shall, for the
purpose of this subchapter, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   APPROVED. Acceptable to the Fire Chief or his designee.
   APPROVED CONTAINER. A non-combustible barrel with lid or cover to suppress
sparks, an outdoor fireplace, a portable outdoor fireplace used in accordance
with the manufacturer's instructions or a below-grade enclosure.
   BONFIRE. An outdoor fire utilized for ceremonial purposes. These are usually
large fires that are associated with crowd activity and size is no larger than
six feet in height and six feet in width.
   OPEN BURNING. A fire where any material is burned on the ground or in an
open receptacle other than a furnace, incinerator, or other equipment connected
to a stack or chimney. It also includes campfires.
   PORTABLE OUTDOOR FIREPLACE. A portable, outdoor, solid-fuel-burning
fireplace that may be constructed of steel, concrete, clay or other
noncombustible material. A portable outdoor fireplace may be open in design or
may be equipped with a small hearth opening and a short chimney or chimney
opening in the top.
   RECREATIONAL FIRE. An outdoor fire burning materials other than rubbish
where the fuel being burned is not contained in an incinerator, outdoor
fireplace, portable outdoor fireplace, barbeque grill or barbecue pit and has a
total fuel area of three feet or less in diameter and two feet or less in
height for pleasure, religious, ceremonial, cooking, warmth or similar purpose.
(Ord. 22.07, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.32 NUISANCES.
   Burning is prohibited if it is offensive or a nuisance due to smoke, odor,
fire, debris (embers, sparks, or ash) or when atmospheric conditions (winds
exceeding ten miles per hour or prolonged drought) create a fire hazard.
Burning may also be prohibited when deemed necessary by the Fire Chief or his
designee.
(Ord. 22.07, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.33 OPEN BURNING REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Allowable burning. Natural wood material, including dry, seasoned tree
trunks, and branches/limbs may be burned. Additionally, a small amount of paper
product including cardboard, wood kindling, or commercially available fire
starters may be used to aid in the ignition of an open flame. Open burning
shall always be tended to by a competent adult over 18 years of age until the
fire is extinguished. No person(s) shall open burn or otherwise burn any
allowable material(s) prior to calling the burn hotline number at (248) 693-
1838, to ensure there is no burn ban in effect.
   (B)   Prohibited burning. Gasoline, kerosene, fuel oil, or any other
flammable or combustible liquid may not be used to start a fire. Burning of
leaves or any other material other than tree cuttings or brush is prohibited.
   (C)   Recreation fires. Recreation fires shall not be conducted within 25
feet of a structure, combustible material and lot of lines. Conditions that
could cause a fire to spread within 25 feet of a structure shall be eliminated
prior to ignition.
   (D)   Bonfire. A bonfire shall not be conducted within 50 feet of a
structure, combustible material and lot of lines. Conditions that could cause a
fire to spread within 50 feet of a structure shall be eliminated prior to
ignition.
   (E)   Fires in portable outdoor fireplaces. Fires in portable outdoor
fireplaces shall be used in accordance with manufacturer’s recommendations and
shall not be operated within 15 feet of a structure, combustible material and
lot of lines. Portable outdoor fireplaces shall not be used on combustible
decks.
   (F)   Open burning on easements or common areas. Open burning on easements
or common areas requires written permission from the Fire Chief or his
designee. Written permission is also required by the entity having control over
or any legal interest in the easement or common area (i.e., Homeowners
Association, and the like).
   (G)   Proper extinguishment. An individual shall provide adequate means of
extinguishment that is immediately available to extinguish any burning
operation. Examples of extinguishment include a fire extinguisher (minimally
Class A rated), a shovel with dirt or sand, or a garden hose. Conditions that
could cause fire to spread to nearby combustibles shall be eliminated before
the ignition of any open burning.
(Ord. 22.07, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.34 AUTHORITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   (A)   The Township of Orion, a Michigan Municipal Corporation, whose address
is 2323 Joslyn Road, Lake Orion, MI 48360, and its Fire Department, Fire Code
Official and personnel shall serve as the Village of Lake Orion's enforcing
agency that shall administer and enforce this code in and on behalf of the
Village of Lake Orion as authorized by the Urban Cooperation Act of 1967, 1967
Public Act 7, M.C.L.A. §§ 124.501, et seq. The Township of Orion shall be
vested with all lawful authority to administer and enforce the Village of Lake
Orion's open burning regulations and it shall be deemed sufficient in any
action for enforcement of the provisions hereof as a violation of this code.
   (B)   If the Fire Department receives any complaints, it has the authority
to inspect the fire at issue. If the Fire Department determines that the
burning has created or added to a hazardous situation or has become a nuisance,
a Fire Department representative is authorized to order the extinguishment of
the open burning operation. If non-compliance of this subchapter is found, the
Fire Department representative also has the authority to issue a village civil
infraction at his or her discretion.
(Ord. 22.07, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.35 REFERENCE TO INTERNATIONAL FIRE CODE.
   The Village of Lake Orion has adopted the International Fire Code and all
appendices in the Village of Lake Orion Fire Prevention Code, of Title IX of
Ch. 94, §§
94.15 through
94.29. This subchapter shall comply with all sections of the International Fire
Code as stated, except for Section 307 of the International Fire Code, which
governs open burning, recreational fires and portable outdoor fireplaces.
Henceforth, all open burning in the Village of Lake Orion shall be regulated by
this subchapter. The Village of Lake Orion Fire Prevention Code is not
repealed; however, the sections of the International Fire Code in conflict
herewith should be considered subordinate to this subchapter.
(Ord. 22.07, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.36 VIOLATION AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction/payment of fine. Any person, firm, or
corporation violating a provision of this subchapter, upon an admission or a
finding of responsibility for such violation, shall be deemed responsible for a
Village of Lake Orion municipal civil infraction as that term is defined and
used in M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101, et seq., being Public Act 236 of 1961, as amended,
and M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701, et seq., being Chapter 87 of Public Act 236 of 1961,
as amended, and a civil fine of not more than $500 shall be ordered, or as
otherwise determined by the district court, district court judge, or district
court magistrate.
   (B)   Costs. A person, firm, or corporation ordered to pay a fine under
division (A)of this section shall, in addition to any fine, be ordered by the
district court judge or magistrate civil costs of not more than $500, which
costs may include all expenses, direct and indirect, to which the Village of
Lake Orion and/or the enforcing agency on behalf of the Village of Lake Orion
has been put in connection with the violation of the subchapter up to the entry
of the Court's judgment or order to pay fine and costs.
   (C)   Additional writs and orders. A person who admits or is found
responsible for violation of this subchapter shall comply with any order, writ,
or judgment issued by the District Court to enforce this subchapter pursuant to
Chapters 83 and Ch. 87 of the Revised Judicature Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101, et
seq., as amended.
   (D)   Default on payment of fines and costs. A default in payment of a civil
fine, costs, or damages or expenses ordered under divisions (A) or (B) of this
section or an installment of the fine, costs, or damages or expenses as allowed
by the court, may be collected by the Village of Lake Orion by a means
authorized for the enforcement of a judgment under Chapters 40 or 60 of the
Revised Judicature Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 600.101, et seq., as amended.
   (E)   Failure to comply with judgment or order. If a defendant fails to
comply with an order or judgment issued pursuant to this section within the
time prescribed by the court, the court may proceed under division (G) of this
section.
   (F)   Failure to appear in court. A defendant who fails to answer a citation
or notice to appear in court for a violation of this subchapter is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by a fine of not more than $500 plus costs and/or
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days.
   (G)   Civil contempt.
      (1)   If a defendant defaults in the payment of a civil fine, costs, or
other damages or expenses, or installment as ordered by the district court,
upon motion of the Township of Orion or upon its own motion, the court may
require the defendant to show cause why the defendant should not be held in
civil contempt and may issue a summons, order to show cause, or bench warrant
of arrest for the defendant's appearance.
      (2)   If a corporation or an association is ordered to pay a civil fine,
costs, or damages or expenses, the individuals authorized to make disbursements
shall pay the fine, costs, or damages or expenses, and their failure to do so
shall be civil contempt unless they make the showing required in this
subchapter.
      (3)   Unless the defendant shows that the default was not attributable to
an intentional refusal to obey the order of the court or to a failure on his or
her part to make a good faith effort to obtain the funds required for payment,
the court shall find that the default constitutes a civil contempt and may
order the defendant committed until all or a specified part of the amount due
is paid.
      (4)   If it appears that the default in the payment of a fine, costs, or
damages or expenses does not constitute civil contempt, the court may enter an
order allowing the defendant additional time for payment, reducing the amount
of payment or of each installment or revoking the fine, costs, or damages or
expenses.
      (5)   The term of imprisonment on civil contempt for nonpayment of a
civil fine, costs, or damages or expenses shall be specified in the order of
commitment and shall not exceed one day for each $30 due. A person committed
for nonpayment of a civil fine, costs, or damages or expenses shall be given
credit toward payment for each day of imprisonment and each day of detention in
default of recognizance before judgment at the rate of $30 per day.
      (6)   A defendant committed to imprisonment for civil contempt for
nonpayment of a civil fine, costs, or damages or expenses shall not be
discharged from custody until one of the following occurs:
         (a)   A defendant is credited with an amount due pursuant to division
(G)(5).
         (b)   The amount due is collected through the execution of process or
otherwise.
         (c)   The amount due is satisfied pursuant to a combination of
divisions (G)(6)(a) and (b).
      (7)   The civil contempt shall be purged upon discharge of the defendant
pursuant to division (G)(6).
(Ord. 22.07, passed 5-23-22)
FALSE FIRE ALARMS
§ 94.40 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Village of Lake Orion "False
Fire Alarms" Ordinance and it shall be deemed sufficient in any action for
enforcement of the provisions hereof to define the same by such short title and
by reference to the number hereof.
(Ord. 22.08, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.41 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this section shall, for the
purpose of this section, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any assembly of equipment and devices, or a single device,
except for an alarm system on a motor vehicle, that emits, transmits or relays
any signal intended to summon, or that would reasonably be expected to summon
firefighters or emergency medical services response by the Township of Orion
Fire Department.
   ALARM USER. The owner of the land or premises within which a fire alarm
system is installed; the tenant, occupant or person having possession or
control of any premises in which a fire alarm system is installed; and any
person having actual or constructive possession of a fire alarm system when
such alarm system signals an emergency.
   COMMERCIAL OCCUPANT. All non-residential facilities engaged in business or
commerce, whether for profit or not for profit or publicly or privately owned.
   CONTRACTOR. A person that is engaged in the business of testing, erecting,
installing, altering, repairing, servicing, or maintaining wiring, devices,
appliances or equipment of an alarm system.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of a fire alarm system causing a sound or visual
signal through mechanical failure, faulty equipment, malfunction, improper
installation, improper testing, failure to provide notice, lack of prudent
maintenance, and/or the negligence of the alarm user or its employees, agents,
guests, residents or invitees. A false fire alarm shall be presumed when an
alarm is tested without prior notice to the Orion Township Fire Department and
alarm user's monitoring company, and when a Fire Department investigation
reveals no fire, potential fire or need for medical or fire attention, upon the
activation of the alarm system, with the following exceptions:
      (1)   Activation by tornadoes, storms or other violent conditions beyond
the control of the alarm user;
      (2)   False alarms activated by disruption or disturbance of telephone or
public utility company facilities;
      (3)   Utility pole accidents;
      (4)   Testing of the alarm system after prior notification has been
received and confirmed by the Fire Department and the alarm users monitoring
company; and
      (5)   Intentional and non-malicious activation of an alarm or emergency
response system due to a good faith belief of a real or perceived need for
fire, police or medical assistance, regardless of whether fire or medical
assistance was actually necessary.
(Ord. 22.08, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.42 ALARM REQUIREMENTS AND PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   Purpose. This subchapter is intended to facilitate the more efficient
use of fire, medical, and public personnel resources for true emergencies and
for people who genuinely believe they need fire, medical or public personnel
assistance. The focus of this subchapter is on mechanical failure, faulty
equipment, improper installations, and the negligence of fire alarm users and
those engaged in the maintenance, repair or testing of all life safety systems
located in a commercial building. The subchapter is not intended to discourage
or otherwise inhibit the use of alarms or 9-1-1 systems to seek emergency
assistance. Therefore, this subchapter shall always be construed in a manner
that serves to prompt residents and businesses to correct mechanical and
operational fire alarm system deficiencies, but not to discourage residents and
businesses from seeking emergency help. All fire alarm users shall be
responsible for properly maintaining their life safety systems. This shall
include ensuring all life safety systems within the user's control are
inspected annually, kept in good operating order, and code compliant.
   (B)   Fee charged for responding to false fire alarms, generally. Every fire
alarm user shall pay to the Township of Orion a fee for responding to the
second and any subsequent "false fire alarm signaled by that person's alarm
system within a calendar year." The schedule of false fire alarm fees shall be
periodically set by resolution of the Township of Orion. The fee shall be
reasonably based on the township's direct and indirect costs of responding to
false fire alarms, administering the system of recording and classifying the
alarms, staffing costs, and collecting and accounting for the user fees
charged. Such fee shall be paid within 30 days of written notice. The failure
to pay within said time shall be a debt in favor of the Township of Orion, and
the obligation of the alarm user and/or property owner subject to any
collection process set forth here and/or allowed by law.
   (C)   Responding to false alarms, commercial occupant. A contractor and/or
his or her employer conducting an inspection, repair, replacement, and/or
installation of a fire alarm system within a commercial occupancy shall be
responsible for alerting the Fire Department and any other monitoring agency of
testing an alarm system at least one hour before completing any testing,
repairing or maintenance procedures. The commercial occupant is also
responsible for ensuring its contractor has provided adequate notice to the
Township of Orion in accordance with this section.
      (1)   In the event the notice requirements set forth in this section are
not met, the commercial occupant, the contractor, and the contractor's employer
shall all be held responsible, jointly and severally, and shall pay the
Township of Orion a fee and/or fine for responding to the second and any
subsequent false fire alarms signaled within any calendar year due to a
contractor and/or contractor's employer failing to give the Township of Orion
adequate notice that it is testing, repairing or performing maintenance of the
alarm system.
      (2)   Commercial occupants shall only be responsible for fees and
penalties arising from the second and any subsequent false fire alarm signaled
by the commercial occupant's alarm system within a calendar year.
      (3)   The contractor and contractor's employer may be held responsible
for fees and penalties arising from the second and any subsequent false fire
alarm signaled by each separate commercial occupancy for which it conducts an
inspection, repair, replacement, or installation of the alarm system during a
calendar year.
   (D)   First false alarm. All fire alarm users shall ensure fire alarm
systems within its control are inspected annually by a licensed contractor. The
Fire Department shall conduct a follow up inspection within 48 hours of the
initial false fire alarm. Such inspections shall be provided free of charge. At
the time of inspection, the Fire Department shall provide notice of the
associated fees should the fire alarm user trigger an additional false fire
alarm response in that current calendar year. Such notice may be provided to
the fire alarm user, commercial occupant, contractor, and/or contractor's
employer at his, her or its last known address by first class mail or personal
service at the time of inspection or within 30 days thereafter. The notice
shall indicate the potential penalties, as set forth in this subchapter, for
future false fire alarm occurrences.
   (E)   Automatic dialing prohibited. No person shall install or use a device
or combination of devices which will, upon activation, either mechanically,
electronically or by other means, initiate the automatic intrastate calling,
dialing or connection to any telephone number assigned to the Township Sheriff
Substation, Fire Department, Department of Public Works or the 9-1-1 emergency
number which connects or assigns the call to the department or its dispatchers.
   (F)   Due care in operation required. Every fire alarm user shall exercise
due care to install, maintain, and use every fire alarm system so as to avoid
false fire alarms. Every fire alarm user shall diligently instruct, supervise,
and control those having access to the fire alarm system and the alarmed
premises and shall take all reasonable steps to prevent the system from
signaling false alarms.
(Ord. 22.08, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.43 ENFORCEMENT AUTHORITY.
   The Township of Orion, a Michigan Municipal Corporation, whose address is
2323 Joslyn Road, Lake Orion, MI 48360, and its Fire Department, Fire Code
Official and personnel shall serve as the Village of Lake Orion's enforcing
agency that shall administer and enforce this subchapter in and on behalf of
the Village of Lake Orion as authorized by the Urban Cooperation Act of 1967,
1967 Public Act 7, M.C.L.A. §§ 124.501, et seq. The Township of Orion shall be
vested with all lawful authority to administer and enforce the Village of Lake
Orion's False Fire Alarm Ordinance and it shall be deemed sufficient in any
action for enforcement of the provisions hereof as a violation of this code.
(Ord. 22.08, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.44 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Enforcement and penalties. Fire alarm users shall pay the Township of
Orion a fee or fine as provided in this section, for each false fire alarm and
shall also be held responsible as follows:
      (1)   First false fire alarm requiring fire response: warning.
      (2)   Second false fire alarm requiring fire response within the calendar
year: assessment of a portion or all of the cost of fire response, as
established by resolution.
      (3)   Third or subsequent false fire alarm requiring fire response,
within the calendar year: assessment of a portion or all of the cost of fire
response, as established by resolution.
      (4)   Fourth false fire alarm requiring fire response, within the
calendar year shall constitute an excessive number of false fire alarms, which
shall constitute a civil infraction punishable by assessment of a portion or
all of the cost of fire response, as established by resolution, a fine of up to
$500, and mandatory restitution to the township for the cost of fire response.
An alarm system signaling more than three false fire alarms within a calendar
year of time shall be inspected and modified to be more false alarm resistant.
Upon written notice, the owner or fire alarm user of the building, residence or
commercial occupation shall have the fire alarm system inspected and modified,
at the owner or user's expense, by a licensed alarm system contractor within 14
days of the date of the notice and shall forward to the Fire Department the
contractor's report of the probable cause of the false fire alarms and the
measures instituted to eliminate same.
   (B)   Invoicing for false fire alarms. The Township of Orion shall
administer the invoicing for assessment of the false fire alarm fees
established by this section. The Fire Department shall promptly prepare and
deliver to the fire alarm user who is deemed liable under this subchapter for
the payment of the cost of the fire response, an invoice by first class mail or
personal service. The amount of the invoice shall constitute a debt in favor of
the Township of Orion and the obligation of the fire alarm user. The invoice
shall also include the following provision: "A person aggrieved by this false
fire alarm determination may submit a letter of appeal to the Township of Orion
Board of Trustees for review of the determination or penalty being appealed."
An alarm user who is liable for the payment of the cost of fire response shall
make payment in full to the Township of Orion Treasurer within 30 days of the
invoice date.
   (C)   Appeal. Fire alarm users, commercial occupants, contractors, and/or
contractors’ employers aggrieved by receipt of a warning letter for the
occurrence of a false fire alarm, or by a false fire alarm determination that
results in the imposition of a fee for the cost of fire response, may submit a
letter of appeal to the Township of Orion Board of Trustees for review of the
determination of a false alarm occurrence. Such appeal letters must be
submitted within 14 days of the date of the warning letter or fee invoice.
Persons or entities who are cited for a municipal civil infraction may not
avail themselves of this appeal provision but may instead defend against the
charge in the district court if desired. The fees prescribed by the Township of
Orion may not be appealed or modified by appeal; only the actual determination
of a false fire alarm occurrence may be appealed pursuant to this section. The
following appeal process shall be afforded upon receipt of an appeal letter.
      (1)   Upon receipt of an appeal letter, the Township of Orion Board of
Trustees shall forward a copy of the letter (and supporting documentation
provided with the letter, if any) to the Fire Chief for review.
      (2)   The Fire Chief and/or his or her designee shall independently
review the letter and, within 30 days, advise the Township of Orion Board of
Trustees in writing whether, after reasonable investigation, the appeal should
be granted. In order to recommend that an appeal be granted, the independent
review must result in the conclusion that the original false fire alarm
determination was clearly erroneous. To reach such a conclusion, irrefutable
evidence must support the finding that the occurrence did not fit the
definition of "false alarm" as set forth in this subchapter.
      (3)   The Township of Orion Board of Trustees shall decide the matter
based upon their review of the conclusions of the Fire Department, subject to
the standards set forth in division (C)(2). The Board's decision shall be
rendered in writing no later than 60 days from the date the appeal was received
by the township unless the Township Supervisor issues a written notice that the
review is subject to circumstances beyond its control that require up to an
additional 30 days to complete the review. The Board's decision shall be final,
and if the Board makes a finding that the appeal is denied, all outstanding
false fire alarm fees owed shall be paid within ten days of the date the
Township of Orion Board of Trustees forwards the final decision to the alarm
user via first class mail or personal service.
      (4)   If an appeal is granted, the result shall be that the determination
of a false fire alarm shall be overturned, and the fire alarm occurrence shall
not be counted with future false fire alarm occurrences for purposes of the
progressive penalties in divisions (A)(1) through (3).
      (5)   If the appeal is denied, the result shall be that the determination
of a false fire alarm shall stand, and the false fire alarm occurrence may be
counted with future false fire alarm occurrences for purposes of the
progressive penalties in divisions (A)(1) through (3).
   (D)   Payment of invoice. An alarm user who is liable for the payment of the
cost fire response shall make payment in full to the Township of Orion
Treasurer within 30 days of the invoice date.
   (E)   Failure to pay invoice. When payment of the Township of Orion's
invoice is not timely made, the township may commence a civil action against a
person who is liable for the payment of the cost of fire response and who fails
to make payment in full to the township as required by this subchapter. The
township shall be entitled to recover the expenses, statutory interest, court
costs, and reasonable attorney fees incurred for pursuing the civil action.
(Ord. 22.08, passed 5-23-22)
FIRE DEPARTMENT COST RECOVERY
§ 94.50 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the Village of Lake Orion "Fire
Department Cost Recovery" Ordinance and it shall be deemed sufficient in any
action for enforcement of the provisions hereof to define the same by such
short title and by reference to the number hereof.
(Ord. 22.09, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.51 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words and phrases, when used in this section shall, for the
purpose of this section, have the meanings respectively ascribed to them in
this section, except in those instances where the context clearly indicates a
different meaning.
   COST OF EMERGENCY RESPONSE. All direct and reasonable costs related to an
emergency response incurred by the Township of Orion Fire Department. These
costs shall include, but are not limited to, the costs of firefighting,
emergency medical and rescue services; the salaries, wages, fringe benefits of
any personnel engaged in investigating the incident and all costs of any
related reports; and all costs connected with the supervision of personnel
responding to or investigating any incident.
   DOWNED POWER LINE or OTHER NON-HAZMAT PUBLIC UTILITY HAZARD RESPONSE. The
disabling of any transmission, distribution or service line, cable, conduit,
pipeline, wire, or the like used to provide, collect or transport electricity,
natural gas, communication, or electronic signals (including, but not limited
to, telephone, computer, cable television, and stereo signals or electronic
impulses), water or sanitary or storm sewage.
   EMERGENCY RESPONSE. Providing, sending, or utilizing firefighting,
specialized rescue, hazardous materials mitigation, or emergency medical
service by the Township of Orion Fire Department, by another municipality under
the mutual aid guidelines, or by a private individual or corporation operating
at the request or direction of the Township of Orion Fire Department.
   FIRE WATCH. A temporary measure intended to ensure continuous surveillance
of a building or portion thereof by one or more qualified individuals for the
purposes of identifying and controlling fire hazards, detecting early signs of
unwanted fire, raising an alarm of fire, and notifying the Fire Department.
   PUBLIC SAFETY PERSONNEL. Police officers, deputy sheriffs, 9-1-
1 dispatchers, firefighters, EMS/ALS personnel, first responders, and other
employees of the Township of Orion who provide emergency services to persons
and/or to property within the township, including but not limited to its
Department of Public Works.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any transmission, distribution or service line, cable,
conduit, pipeline, wire, or the like used to provide, collect or transport
electricity, natural gas, electronic signals, telephone, computer, cable
television, stereo signals, electronic impulses, water, or sanitary or storm
sewage.
   SAFEGUARD A SCENE. All activities, personnel costs, and expenditures related
to the Township of Orion's response to downed wires, gas line or main breaks,
or any other non-HAZMAT response to a public utility hazard response and as set
forth in herein.
(Ord. 22.09, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.52 PURPOSE, ENABLING AUTHORITY AND ENFORCING AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide financial assistance to the
Township of Orion in the operation of a Fire Department that serves and
protects the Village of Lake Orion from those receiving direct benefits from
the fire protection service and to provide recovery for emergency costs. A
significant number of fire/rescue incidents involve acts by nonresidents.
(Ord. 22.09, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.53 SERVICES FOR WHICH THE FIRE DEPARTMENT MAY RECOVER COSTS.
   The following enumerated services may be charged to a recipient of any of
the following services:
   (A)   Motor vehicle-related incident, initial response/rescue/medical
treatment.
   (B)   Motor vehicle-related incident clean-up using HAZMAT kit.
   (C)   Intentional fire in a commercial establishment or residential
structure.
   (D)   Intentional fire in an industrial or manufacturing establishment or
residential structure.
   (E)   Confined space rescue (emergency response, first operational hour).
   (F)   Confined space rescue (emergency response, second hour, and beyond).
   (G)   Confined space rescue (nonemergency/continuous on-site stand-by).
   (H)   Hazardous materials operation (initial response, first operational
hour).
   (I)   Hazardous materials operation (second hour or more).
   (J)   Emergency ice rescue services (per person).
   (K)   Watercraft rescue (per person).
   (L)   Aircraft and boat fires (nonresident).
   (M)   Annual fire code compliance inspections (fines set by resolution).
   (N)   Stand-by fee for utility providers/downed power line or other non-
HAZMAT public utility hazard response (second hour or more/per hour).
   (O)   Response for a violation of open burning requirements subchapter.
   (P)   Special events cost recovery (per event, per personnel, per apparatus
and equipment provided for event): personnel and/or resources made available
and dedicated to a specific event for the purpose of providing emergency
service response or other agreed-upon assistance.
   (Q)   Fire watch (per personnel, per equipment and per apparatus provided
for response): any Fire Department response to a fire watch for a commercial or
multi-family occupancy.
(Ord. 22.09, passed 5-23-22)
§ 94.54 BILLING OF CHARGES.
   (A)   Fees set by resolution. Periodically, the Township of Orion Fire
Department shall evaluate the actual costs incurred in making the emergency
responses listed in §
94.53 and determine an average cost during emergency responses for submission
to the Township of Orion Board of Trustees. The Township of Orion Board of
Trustees shall adopt a cost schedule by resolution.
   (B)   Motor vehicle-related incidents. Billing for motor vehicle response
services shall be submitted by the Orion Township Fire Department to the
insurance carrier(s) of all involved vehicles. If payment is not received from
the insurance carrier, the fee for service will be forwarded to the individual
involved in the accident. If the owner/operator of the motor vehicle is a
resident of the Village of Lake Orion, all fees are waived unless the operator
of the vehicle was under the influence of alcohol or operating the motor
vehicle in a reckless or hazardous manner with disregard for public safety. The
full fee for services will be imposed if the nonresident driver was operating
the motor vehicle illegally. Illegal operation of the motor vehicle includes,
but is not limited to the following:
      (1)   Operation of a motor vehicle while under the influence of
intoxicants or drugs (or a combination thereof).
      (2)   Operation of a motor vehicle without a valid license.
      (3)   Operation of a motor vehicle in a reckless or hazardous manner with
disregard for public safety.
      (4)   Operation of a motor vehicle that results in a traffic citation
being issued by any law enforcement officer.
      (5)   Determination that the driver was the "at fault" driver in an
accident, as designated by the police department in the accident investigation
report.
   (C)   Necessity of additional fees. Additional fees may apply other than
those expressly adopted by resolution if off-duty personnel are re-called or if
outside agencies are required. Fees applied for other municipal service
providers (Police Department, Department of Public Works, and the like) and for
private contractors will reflect actual billing as submitted.
   (D)   Time of payment for run. All of the charges adopted by resolution
shall be due and payable within 30 days from the date the service is rendered,
and payment in default shall be collectible through proceedings in the district
or circuit court or in any court of competent jurisdiction as a matured debt.
   (E)   Collection of charges. The Township of Orion may proceed in district
court or circuit court by suit to collect any monies remaining unpaid and shall
have any and all other remedies provided by law for the collection of said
charges.
   (F)   Exemptions. The following properties and services shall be exempt from
the foregoing charges:
      (1)   Fires caused by railroad trains, which are the specific statutory
responsibility of railroad companies.
      (2)   Fire involving Village of Lake Orion buildings, grounds, and/or
property.
   (G)   Nonexclusive charge. The foregoing rates and charges shall not be
exclusive of the charges that may be made by the Township of Orion for the
costs and expenses of maintaining a Fire Department but shall only be
supplemental thereto.
   (H)   Multiple property protection. When a particular service rendered by
the Township Orion Fire Department directly benefits more than one person or
property, the owner of each property so benefitted, and each person so
benefitted where property protection is not involved shall be liable for the
payment of the full charge for such service hereinbefore outlined. The
interpretation and application of the within section is hereby delegated to the
Township of Orion Fire Chief or his or her designee subject only to appeal,
within the time limits for payment, to the Township of Orion Board and shall be
administered so that charges shall only be collected from the recipients of the
service.
   (I)   Appeal.
      (1)   Any person in receipt of a fee invoice to cover the cost of a fire
response may submit a letter of appeal to the Township of Orion Board of
Trustees for review. Such appeal letters must be submitted within 14 days of
the date of the fee invoice. Such fee may be adjusted and/or waived based upon
hardship or other considerations. The following appeal process shall be
afforded upon receipt of an appeal letter.
      (2)   The Township of Orion Board of Trustees shall decide the matter
based upon its review of the letter of appeal and any supporting materials. The
Board's decision shall be rendered in writing no later than 60 days from the
date the appeal was received by the township unless the Township Supervisor
issues a written notice that the review is subject to circumstances beyond its
control that require up to an additional 30 days in order to complete the
review. The Board's decision shall be final, and if the Board makes a finding
that the appeal is denied, all outstanding fees owed shall be paid within ten
days of the date the Township of Orion Board of Trustees forwards the final
decision to the recipient of Fire Department services.
(Ord. 22.09, passed 5-23-22)
CHAPTER 95: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
95.01   Definitions
Nuisance Buildings and Dwellings
   
95.15   Health Officer to correct conditions or condemn
   
95.16   Unlawful to occupy condemned premises
   
95.17   Unlawful to remove condemnation sign
   
95.18   Right of entry
   
95.19   Enforcing officers
   
95.20   Rules and regulations
   
95.21   Owner and occupants responsible for premises being kept clean
   
95.22   Owner to keep residences in habitable condition; agreement
   
95.23   Village to be kept clean
   
95.24   Abatement of nuisances
Noxious Weeds
   
95.35   Definitions
   
95.36   Prohibitions and obligations
   
95.37   Notices and actions by village
   
95.38   Fines, orders and recovery of expenses by village
   
95.39   Commissioner authority and procedures
 
   
95.98   Violations
Cross-references:
   Animals, see
Ch. 91
   Property Maintenance, see
Ch. 154
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 95.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   HEALTH OFFICER. An officer of health as appointed by the Council of the
village.
   NUISANCE.  
      (1)   Whatever is dangerous or injurious to human life, health or
habitation;
      (2)   Whatever causes or has a tendency to cause the air, food, water or
other drink in any place or manner in the village to be injurious to or to
endanger the health, safety, welfare, or comfort of any person or of the
public;
      (3)   Whatever building, erection, structure, cellar, or part thereof is
overcrowded or not provided with adequate means of ingress or egress or for the
disposal of human excreta, or for obtaining a reasonably necessary amount of
clean water for use on the premises, or is unfit for human habitation, or is
not sufficiently supported, ventilated, drained, cleaned or lighted;
      (4)   Any and all conditions, premises, building, or structures that
harbor or are conducive to the harboring or breeding of insects, vermin, rats
or other rodents;
      (5)   All ponds of stagnant water;
      (6)   All cellars and foundations of and excavations for houses, the
bottoms of which contain stagnant or putrid water;
      (7)   All dead and putrefied animals or rubbish lying about the roadways,
lanes, streets, alleys, vacant lots, or yards, or upon the surface of the
ground or not buried in the ground a sufficient depth;
      (8)   All methods of human excreta disposal except toilets or water
closets properly maintained and connected with a sanitary sewer or septic tank
that have been constructed and are being maintained in accordance with laws and
the ordinances of the village and which are screened against flies and which
are maintained in compliance with health measures, or other disposal system
authorized by and maintained in accordance with the provisions of law and
village;
      (9)   All abandoned or discarded ice boxes or refrigerators wherein the
doors have not been removed;
      (10)   All choked or clogged sewers and house drains;
      (11)   All slaughter houses;
      (12)   All unreasonable accumulation of garbage, ashes or refuse;
      (13)   All pig pens and stables, and all wells, cisterns and reservoirs
from which water for drinking or other domestic purposes may be obtained which
are not constructed or maintained in accordance with the provisions of the
village ordinances and which show pollution;
      (14)   The storing, depositing or dumping of so-called foundry sand,
after its use in any foundry, ash residue or similar substances upon any vacant
lot or property with a dwelling or building, is declared a nuisance unless such
foundry sand is covered with adequate stable soil, all of which is to be
approved by the Health Officer as to quantity and type of soil covering.
   PUBLIC NUISANCES. Those things, acts, or uses or property that annoy,
injure, or endanger the safety, health, comfort or repose of the public, or in
any way render the public insecure in life or in the use of their property and
said term “nuisance” shall be held to embrace public nuisances as known at
common law or in equity jurisprudence and whatever is dangerous to human life,
detrimental to health or makes the free and unrestricted use of a person's
property undesirable or whatever renders the air or human food or drink
unwholesome are all nuisances and as such are hereby declared illegal.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71)
NUISANCE BUILDINGS AND DWELLINGS
§ 95.15 HEALTH OFFICER TO CORRECT CONDITIONS OR CONDEMN.
   (A)   The Health Officer, if satisfied upon examination that the building,
tenement, room, or cellar in the village which is occupied as a dwelling place,
or any other place where human beings reside, congregate, work or have access
to, has become, by reason of its being inhabited or used, unclean or unfit for
use as herein stated, or is likely to become a nuisance as herein declared, or
to be the cause of sickness to tenants, occupants or to those who have access
to the place as being unfit for human habitation or use, shall demand by
written notice that the occupant or owner of the premises put such place in a
sanitary and habitable condition within a reasonable time as stated in the
notice. If such occupant or owner shall fail or refuse to comply with the terms
of the notice within the time specified, the Health Officer may declare the
premises a nuisance and make and file a complaint against such occupant or
owner or both as herein provided, or he may cause the condition of the premises
to be corrected at the owner's expense, or he may do whatever is reasonably
necessary to abate the nuisance at the expense of the owner.
   (B)   The reasonable cost and expense incurred by the Health Officer in
repairing the premises and abating such nuisance shall be determined by the
Health Officer, and the amount thus determined shall be charged to the owner of
the premises involved, as well as any tenant occupying the premises, and shall
be due and payable forthwith and said costs and expense shall immediately
become a lien on the premises. In the event the charges are not paid for a
period of six months after same have become due they may be certified to the
Village Assessor by the Village Council and assessed against the property on
the next village tax roll, in which event the charge shall be collected and
returned in the same manner as other village taxes are collected and returned.
In addition to all other remedies contained herein the charges may be collected
against the owner and the tenant occupying the premises in an action of
assumpsit.
   (C)   If such premises are vacated, the Health Officer may in his discretion
refuse to permit and shall condemn the use of any premises for human habitation
declared by him to be a nuisance, and the premises shall not again be occupied
as a human habitation until they are put in a sanitary and habitable condition.
   (D)   The Health Officer shall have the power and he is hereby authorized
and empowered, to condemn any premises declared by him to be a nuisance which
are occupied as a residence and may order said premises vacated until repaired
or the conditions corrected to make them habitable.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.16 UNLAWFUL TO OCCUPY CONDEMNED PREMISES.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to occupy or use such
premises thus condemned by the Health Officer until put in a sanitary and
habitable condition in accordance with the law and the ordinance of the village
and satisfactory to the Health Officer.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.17 UNLAWFUL TO REMOVE CONDEMNATION SIGN.
   It shall be unlawful for any unauthorized person to remove any sign or
notice posted on any premises condemning the use of the premises as a human
habitation or declaring the premises to be a nuisance.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.18 RIGHT OF ENTRY.
   The Health Officer shall have the right to enter private property as
provided in the State Housing Law at any reasonable hour of the day or night
for the purpose of making a sanitary or health survey of the premises,
obtaining a sample of water used thereon, or collecting other data and material
pertaining to public health, and enforcing the provisions of the housing law
[see
Chapter 152] and this chapter, and it shall be unlawful for any person to
resist or attempt to prevent the Health Officer from carrying out the purpose
herein set forth; provided, however, that such Health Officer shall have in his
possession and carry upon his person at all times while carrying out the duties
above outlined, sufficient credentials identifying himself as the Health
Officer of the village, or showing his official capacity or relationship to the
Village Department of Health, which credentials shall include a picture of the
bearer and a brief description of his appearance indicating his age, height,
weight, race, complexion, color of hair and eyes and sex, and which credentials
shall be exhibited by the bearer on demand to any person in charge of any
premises which such Health Officer is about to enter.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.19 ENFORCING OFFICERS.
   The Health Officer and any deputy, agents, or inspectors designated by him,
are hereby empowered to perform the duties and functions and are hereby given
like authority of regularly authorized and appointed police officers of the
village in the enforcement of the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 95.20 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Health Officer is hereby authorized to prepare such reasonable rules and
regulations that he deems necessary to carry out and enforce the provisions of
this chapter, subject to the approval of the Village Council.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71)
§ 95.21 OWNER AND OCCUPANTS RESPONSIBLE FOR PREMISES BEING KEPT CLEAN.
   All persons who own, manage, lease, rent or occupy any premises whatsoever
shall be equally responsible for keeping said premises in a clean and habitable
condition and shall take all necessary precautions to prevent any nuisance as
herein declared, or other condition detrimental to public health from arising
thereon, and particularly to take all reasonable precautions to prevent rodents
and vermin, including rats, bedbugs, and cockroaches from being attracted
thereto or existing thereon.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.22 OWNER TO KEEP RESIDENCES IN HABITABLE CONDITION; AGREEMENT.
   Every building or portion thereof that shall be used as a home or residence
for one or more families shall be kept by the owner thereof or the landlord in
a habitable condition to prevent the premises from becoming a nuisance, in
accordance with the State Housing Law and the standards of maintenance as
provided by the applicable provisions of Chapter 152 and any other ordinance of
the village, except the tenant or occupant may, by agreement in writing, with
such owner or landlord, agree to make certain repairs.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.23 VILLAGE TO BE KEPT CLEAN.
   No person, firm or corporation shall cause or permit any junk, scrap, metal,
scrap lumber, waste paper products, discarded building materials, garbage or
abandoned, disabled, inoperable, or wrecked motor vehicles or trailers, used,
damaged, or disabled machinery or machinery parts, or any other waste materials
or old salvage materials, to be in or upon a yard, garden, lawn, vacant lot,
gas station, outbuilding, street, alley or public property, or other premises
in the village.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.24 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   In the event any dwelling, building, structure or lot is maintained as a
nuisance or in the event any nuisance exists on a lot, dwelling or building,
the Health Officer shall order the abatement of such nuisance by written notice
served upon such owner or person causing the same. Such notice shall prescribe
the time when the nuisance shall be abated. Upon failure to abate such nuisance
the Health Officer may, by bill or petition, duly verified, set forth the facts
and apply to the Circuit Court in Chancery for the county or to any judge
thereof for an order granting the relief for which the action or proceeding is
brought or for an order enjoining all persons from doing or maintaining the
nuisance and the Health Officer in the petition may also apply to the Circuit
or any judge thereof for an order authorizing him to execute and carry out the
provisions of the notice, to remove any violation specified in the notice or to
abate any nuisance in or about the dwelling, building or structure or the lot
upon which it is situated or upon any vacant lot where a nuisance exists.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
NOXIOUS WEEDS
§ 95.35 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMISSIONER. A competent person appointed by the Village Council as the
village’s Commissioner of Noxious Weeds, with the Village Chief of Police so
appointed by this subchapter and subsequent appointments allowed by Village
Council Resolution.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Are declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated as
provided in this chapter, means:
      (1)   Canada thistle (Circium arvense), dodders (any species of Cuscuta),
mustards (charlock, black mustard, and Indian mustard, species of Brassica or
Sinapis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Convolvulus arvensis),
perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa incana),
ragweed (ambrosia elatior 1), poison ivy (rhus toxicodendron) and poison sumac
(toxicodendron verni); and
      (2)   Weeds, grasses and vegetation other than live flowers, trees,
shrubs and fruit or vegetable plants, that exceed a height of eight inches
above ground level.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 7.12, passed 5-12-08)
§ 95.36 PROHIBITIONS AND OBLIGATIONS.
   (A)   Unless exempt under division (C), owners, occupants and agents of
owners of land upon which noxious weeds specified in the definition of noxious
weeds in §
95.35, division (1), are growing, shall destroy the weeds before they reach a
seed bearing stage and prevent their re-growth or prevent the weeds from
becoming a detriment to public health.
   (B)   Unless exempt under division (C), owners, occupants and agents of
owners of land shall maintain the land free from noxious weeds as defined in §
95.35, division (2), by necessary removal, cutting or mowing.
   (C)   Land that is located within a conservation area or easement, open
space or natural area that has been approved by the village to be left in its
natural state without the removal, cutting or mowing otherwise required by
divisions (A) and/or (B), shall be exempt from those requirements. For purposes
of this exemption, village approval may be by a permit or plan approval under
Chapter 157 of this code or the village zoning ordinance.
   (D)   No person shall deposit, store or allow the deposit or storage of
noxious weeds, grass or weed clippings, tree branches, leaves or cut dead
plants of any nature on any property:
      (1)   Without the written permission of the owner of the property;
      (2)   In a manner that violates other applicable laws or village
ordinances; or
      (3)   That creates or constitutes a nuisance or for a longer period than
necessary to the lawful disposal of the materials.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 7.12, passed 5-12-08)
§ 95.37 NOTICES AND ACTIONS BY VILLAGE.
   (A)   On an annual basis in March, the Commissioner may cause a notice to be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village that noxious
weeds existing on a property as of May 1 of that year may be cut, mowed,
destroyed or removed by the Village, with the property owner charged with the
village’s actual and administrative costs and expenses in doing so, as many
times that calendar year as necessary to keep the property free from noxious
weeds. Such a notice shall also contain the information described in division
(B).
   (B)   (1)   The Commissioner shall provide written notice based on the most
recent tax assessment roll, to owners of property upon which noxious weeds
exist, and to occupants and agents of owners of property, known to the
Commissioner:
         (a)   To cut, mow, destroy or remove the noxious weeds within five
days of the date of the notice;
         (b)   To thereafter maintain the property free from noxious weeds;
         (c)   That upon a failure or refusal to do so, that the Commissioner,
by Village employees or contractors, will enter upon the property and perform
the required cutting, mowing, destruction or removal;
         (d)   That payment of the village’s actual and administrative expenses
incurred in cutting, mowing, destruction or removal is the responsibility of
the property owners and is secured by a lien on the property;
         (e)   That the existence of noxious weeds is a public nuisance; and
         (f)   That describes methods of treating and eradicating noxious weeds
and summarizing the requirements to do so.
      (2)   The notice under this section shall be given by personal delivery,
certified mail with return receipt requested or by posting on the property and
first class mail unless the notice under division (A) has been published, in
which case the notice may be by first class mail only.
   (C)   If at any time during the remainder of the calendar year commencing
five days after the mailing of the notice under division (B), noxious weeds
exist on a property, the Commissioner may cause the noxious weeds to be cut,
mowed, destroyed or removed by village employees or contractors as many times
that calendar year as necessary to keep the property free from noxious weeds,
and after each such cutting, mowing or removal, shall bill the property owners
for the village’s expenses incurred consisting of actual costs and expenses and
a 30% administrative fee on those expenses. If village employees perform
cutting, mowing or removal work, the actual cost shall be based on the involved
employees total hourly costs to the village (wages and benefits) and the rental
rate at the closest equipment rental store for the equipment used by the
village in performing the work. No additional notices shall be required to be
given prior to such actions unless the village has received written notice of a
change in ownership by property transfer affidavit or otherwise. In that event,
the Commissioner shall provide the new owner with a notice under division (B)
and wait the required five days before taking actions under this division.
   (D)   The Commissioner’s bill for village expenses shall be paid within 30
days, after which a penalty of 1% per month shall be added and due on any
unpaid balance. Payment of all expenses and penalties shall be secured by a
lien on the property as of the date the village first performed work and if not
paid within the time required, may be placed on the tax roll for collection in
the same manner as delinquent special assessments under the Village Charter.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 7.12, passed 5-12-08)
§ 95.38 FINES, ORDERS AND RECOVERY OF EXPENSES BY VILLAGE.
   A person that fails to remove, cut or mow noxious weeds as required in this
chapter is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, the fine for which
shall be $100 or such greater amount as may be authorized by law, for each
failure that results in the Commissioner having the required work performed. In
addition, the court judgment, writ or order against a person determined to be
responsible for a violation of this chapter may include an order for payment of
damages to the village for all unpaid expenses and penalties for noxious weed
cutting, mowing or removal, interest and attorney fees incurred in enforcement.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 7.12, passed 5-12-08)
§ 95.39 COMMISSIONER AUTHORITY AND PROCEDURES.
   In administering and enforcing the noxious weeds regulations in this
chapter, the Commissioner shall have the same rights and authority to declare
nuisances, file complaints, certify charges for collection on the tax roll,
condemn and post properties, enter upon properties and to designate sworn
village police or ordinance officers to assist the Commissioner as are granted
to the Health Officer in §§
95.15 through
95.19.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. 7.12, passed 5-12-08) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.98 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation
of the provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2). Nothing in this subsection should be construed as to prevent the
Village of Lake Orion pursuing an action to abate the nuisance pursuant to §
95.24 of this chapter.
   (B)   The owner of any dwelling or any building or structure upon the same
lot with a dwelling or the owner of any lot either improved or unimproved where
a nuisance exists shall be guilty of a violation of this chapter and any person
who shall violate or assist in violating any provisions of this chapter shall
also jointly and severally for each such violation of each such nuisance be
subject to the penalty of this chapter.
(Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71; Am. Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 96: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
General Provisions
   
96.01   Intent and purpose
   
96.02   Village parks
Park Hours
   
96.03   General park hours
   
96.04   Green's Park hours and dates of operation
   
96.05   Violations
   
96.06   Enforcement
Park Rules and Regulations
   
96.07   Prohibited conduct in all parks
   
96.08   Prohibited conduct in individual parks
   
96.09   Animals
   
96.10   Green’s Park
   
96.11   Display of rules and regulations
   
96.12   Violations
   
96.13   Enforcement
Boating Regulations
   
96.15   Definitions
   
96.16   Changes to code
   
96.17   Motorboats must have mufflers
   
96.18   Violations
Lake Street Boat Launch Regulations
   
96.30   Definitions
   
96.31   Residents use only
   
96.32   Regulations
   
96.33   Penalty
   
96.34   Trespassing
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 96.01 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The intent and purpose of this chapter is the protection and promotion of
the public health, safety and welfare by providing regulations for the hours,
use, access to and conduct of visitors in the public parks within the village.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.02 VILLAGE PARKS.
   The village parks that are subject to this chapter are Green’s Park,
Children’s Park, Atwater Park, Unger Park, Swiss Village Park, Meek’s/Linear
Park and any other area of land that the Village Council may designate as a
public park of the village.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
PARK HOURS
§ 96.03 GENERAL PARK HOURS.
   Unless otherwise established or allowed by ordinance or resolution of the
village, no person shall be in any part of a village park before sunrise or
after sunset. For purposes of this section, sunrise and sunset shall be the
times of those events on any given day as reported by the National Weather
Service for the Metropolitan Detroit Area.
(Ord. 12.02, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord. 12.03, passed 5-10-05; Am. Ord. 12.04,
passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.04 GREEN'S PARK HOURS AND DATES OF OPERATION.
   No person shall be in any part of Green’s Park outside the established and
posted hours and dates that the park is open as determined by resolution of the
Village Council and published in a newspaper of general circulation in the
village.
(Ord. 12.02, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord. 12.03, passed 5-10-05; Am. Ord. 12.04,
passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.05 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to be in violation of §§
96.03 and
96.04 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(1).
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.06 ENFORCEMENT.
   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove and eject
any persons from the parks found violating the provisions of §§
96.03 and
96.04.
(Ord. 12.02, passed 11-12-96; Am. Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
PARK RULES AND REGULATIONS
§ 96.07 PROHIBITED CONDUCT IN ALL PARKS.
   (A)   The possession, use and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages is
prohibited in all village parks.
   (B)   The possession of glass containers is prohibited in all village parks.
   (C)   No person shall start of maintain a fire in any village park unless it
is within a village provided grill or designated area or otherwise allowed and
in compliance with another provision of this chapter.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.08 PROHIBITED CONDUCT IN INDIVIDUAL PARKS.
   (A)   Swimming, wading or otherwise entering the waters of Paint Creek
within or from Children’s Park or Meek’s/Linear Park is prohibited.
   (B)   Bicycles, skateboards, roller blades, roller skates are not allowed to
be used or possessed in Children’s Park.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.09 ANIMALS.
   (A)   Except for service dogs of persons who are blind or have some other
disability requiring the assistance of the dog and police dogs, animals are not
allowed to be in Green’s Park or Children’s Park.
   (B)   Except for service dogs of persons who are blind or have some other
disability requiring the assistance of the dog and police dogs, in village
parks other than Green’s Park and Children’s Park, animals shall only be
allowed in designated areas posted with such notice.
   (C)   All animals shall be kept on a leash not over six feet in length and
shall be under immediate control of a responsible person.
   (D)   Animal waste shall be removed and properly disposed of by the person
in control of or responsible for the animal.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.10 GREEN’S PARK.
   The regulations in this section apply to admittance to, the use of and
conduct in Green's Park.
   (A)   Admission. Green's Park is open to the public during periods of time
and hours established by resolution of the Village Council. No person shall
enter Green's Park without first obtaining an admission pass as provided in
this section and/or by applicable fee established by resolution of the Village
Council.
      (1)   Admission passes may be applied for and are issued by the village
offices and may only be issued to persons who are at least 18 years old upon
presentation of photo identification and the payment of any applicable fee
established by resolution of the Village Council.
      (2)   Once issued, a pass is valid for the remainder of the calendar year
that Green's Park is open and is for immediate family members of the holder of
the pass, and up to one guest per each such family member.
      (3)   Persons under the age of 12 shall not enter or be in Green's Park
unless they are accompanied and subject to supervision by a person who is at
least 18 years old.
   (B)   Supervision and control of park. Lifeguards and any other personnel
the village may assign to the park are in charge of park usage at all times and
are authorized to monitor conduct for compliance with the park regulations,
other village ordinances and for situations that present a threat to the public
health, safety and welfare. All persons in or seeking to enter green's park
shall obey requests or directives of such village lifeguards or personnel,
including directives to not enter or to leave the park. Failure to obey such a
request or directive is a violation of this chapter and shall be grounds for
immediate removal from the park and may result in suspension or revocation of
the applicable admission pass.
   (C)   Group activities. The use of Green's Park by a group of more than ten
persons that are not immediate family members of one another must be reserved
at least one week in advance through the village offices by completing a
written application and paying the required fee as set by resolution of the
Village Council and which may be based upon the day of the week, the size of
the group, the length of the gathering, additional lifeguard and/or other
staffing required and any other factors the Village Council determines to be
appropriate. Reservations shall be confirmed by a group park pass which shall
specify the exact hours between which the pass is valid. The group must leave
when the pass expires.
   (D)   Rules and regulations.
      (1)   No person shall start or maintain a fire within the boundaries of
the park except in picnic stoves, fireplaces or places provided for such
purpose. All fires shall be put out before leaving the park. Charcoal and
burning material shall be properly disposed of and shall be placed in
receptacles marked for such purposes only.
      (2)   The beach and lake area are for swimming, kayaking, canoeing and
paddle boarding only, from dawn to dusk. Specific locations and regulations to
be determined by resolution of the Village Council. Open swimming is not
allowed during scheduled swimming lessons.
      (3)   Persons wishing to fish must do so at least 100 feet away from the
beach and swimming area.
      (4)   Any person wishing to use Green's Park to enter the waters of Lake
Orion for the purposes of scuba diving must first obtain a scuba diving permit
from the village office.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05; Am. Ord. 12.06, passed 6-11-18; Am. Ord. 12.08,
passed 4-22-19)
§ 96.11 DISPLAY OF RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   Park rules and regulations shall be posted in a visible area within each
park in the village.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.12 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to be in violations of §§
96.07 through
96.10 shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the
provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
§ 96.13 ENFORCEMENT.
   Officers of the Police Department are hereby authorized to remove and eject
any persons from the parks found violating the provisions of §§
96.07 through
96.10.
(Ord. 12.04, passed 7-25-05)
BOATING REGULATIONS
§ 96.15 DEFINITIONS.
   All words and phrases used in this subchapter shall be construed and have
the same meanings as those words and phrases defined in Public Act 303 of 1967,
as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 281.1001 et seq.
(Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78)
§ 96.16 CHANGES TO CODE.
   R281.763.9 of the Michigan Administrative Code, 1979 edition, is amended to
read as follows:
   Regulation No. 63, Oakland County.
   R 281.763.9. Lake Orion; prohibited conduct.
   Rule 9.
      (1)   On the waters of Lake Orion and the canals and channels connected
thereto, sections 2, 3, 10, and 11, T4N, Rl0E, Village of Lake Orion and Orion
Township, Oakland County, it is unlawful for the operator of a vessel to exceed
a slow — no wake speed when within 100 feet of any shore, dock, raft, buoyed or
occupied bathing area, or vessel moored or at anchor, except when water skiers
are being picked up or dropped off if that operation is otherwise conducted
with due regard to the safety of persons and property and in accordance with
the laws of this state.
      (2)   On the waters of Lake Orion and the canals and channels connected
thereto, sections 2, 3, 10, and 11, T4N, R10E, Village of Lake Orion and Orion
Township, Oakland County, it is unlawful, during the period of one hour after
sunset to one hour before sunrise to:
         (a)   Operate a vessel at high speed.
         (b)   Have in tow, or otherwise assist in the propulsion of, a person
on water skis, a water sled, kite, surfboard, or other similar contrivance.
      (3)   On the waters of Lake Orion and the canals and channels connected
thereto, sections 2,3, 10, and 11, T4N, R10E, Village of Lake Orion and Orion
Township, Oakland County, it is unlawful at any time to operate a vessel at a
speed in excess of 40 miles per hour (64 kilometers per hour).
(Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78)
§ 96.17 MOTORBOATS MUST HAVE MUFFLERS.
   (A)   A person shall not operate a motorboat on the waters of Lake Orion
unless the motorboat is equipped with a muffler, underwater exhaust, or other
modern noise reduction device in good working order and in constant operation
from which emission measured at not less than 50 feet from the motorboat, does
not exceed 86 decibels on the “A” scale on a sound meter having characteristics
of a general purpose sound meter as defined by American Standards Association
S1, 4-1966.
   (B)   If a motorboat is equipped with a muffler or any other modern noise
reduction device, including, but not limited to, a water injected exhaust, but
is also equipped with the capability of disengaging that device through the use
of any equipment such as, but not limited to, a water turnoff valve, bypass, or
similar device, this shall be prima facie evidence that the muffler or noise
reduction device is not in constant use, and shall be considered a violation of
this chapter.
(Ord. 2.12, passed 4-27-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 96.18 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
LAKE STREET BOAT LAUNCH REGULATIONS
§ 96.30 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   A RESIDENT is defined as an individual who owns, rents, leases or resides in
real property within the boundaries of the Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 12.05, passed 9-8-14)
§ 96.31 RESIDENTS USE ONLY. 
   The Lake Street boat launch is provided for the use of the village residents
only. It is a violation of this section for a non-resident to use the launch,
and in addition for a resident to allow a non-resident to use the launch. The
penalties for said violation are set forth herein.
(Ord. 12.05, passed 9-8-14)
§ 96.32 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   In order to utilize the launch, a resident must obtain an access code
to the lock on the gate from the Lake Orion Police Department dispatch center.
   (B)   The resident shall not provide the access code to any other person.
   (C)   After each use, the resident shall re-secure the gate prior to leaving
the launch area.
   (D)   The residents shall immediately report new or found damage or any
other hazardous circumstances to the Lake Orion Police Department.
   (E)   There shall be no parking, standing or storage of unoccupied vehicles
or trailers at or near the launch area or on any public right-of-way on Lake
Street or North Shore Street.
   (F)   Litter and refuse shall be placed in the garbage receptacle at the
launch area.
   (G)   Noise levels shall be at the minimum level required and consistent
with normal levels of conversation and boat launching operation.
(Ord. 12.05, passed 9-8-14)
§ 96.33 PENALTY.
   Any violation of §
96.32 above shall be a municipal civil infraction and shall result in a 30-day
suspension of ramp use. A second violation in the same calendar year shall
result in the suspension for the remainder of that calendar year.
(Ord. 12.05, passed 9-8-14)
§ 96.34 TRESPASSING.
   Unauthorized use by a non-resident or a suspended resident is considered to
be trespassing and will be punished as a misdemeanor.
(Ord. 12.05, passed 9-8-14)
CHAPTER 97: SECURITY ALARM SYSTEMS
Section
   
97.01   Short title
   
97.02   Definitions
   
97.03   Audible or visual alarms
   
97.04   Separate systems required
   
97.05   False alarm fees
   
97.06   Exception to alarm fees
   
97.07   False alarm notice
   
97.08   Waiver requests
   
97.09   Defective alarms
   
97.10   Violations
§ 97.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and referred to as the “Alarm System Ordinance.”
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALARM SYSTEM. Any mechanical or electrical device that when activated emits
a sound or transmits a signal or message and to which the Police or Fire
department may be summoned to respond. An Alarm System is designed for use for
one or any combination of the following: the detection of an unauthorized entry
or attempted entry into a building, structure or facility; the alerting of
others to the commission of an unlawful act within a building, structure or
facility; and/or the detection of fire, smoke or heat within a building,
structure or facility.
   ALARM USER. Any person on whose premises an alarm system is maintained
within the village, except for alarm systems on motor vehicles.
   FALSE ALARM. The activation of an alarm system through mechanical failure,
malfunction, improper installation, or the negligence of the owner or user of
an alarm system, or negligence of the occupant of the residence and/or building
in which the alarm system is located or of their employees or agents. “False
alarm” also means any activation of an alarm system that indicates a crime or
situation other than that which it was designed to indicate or in the case of a
fire alarm any alarm condition not resulting from a fire or potential fire
condition.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.03 AUDIBLE OR VISUAL ALARMS.
   (A)   No person, firm or corporation shall maintain an alarm system that
when activated causes an audible and/or visible signal that can be heard or
seen outside the premises and that is disturbing to the peace and quiet of the
surrounding area, unless that person has first provided the Police Department
with the following information: his name and telephone number, the name and
telephone number of one other person, who, having access to the alarmed
premises, can be contacted at any time and can respond within 30 minutes to
deactivate the alarm system.
   (B)   No person, firm or corporation shall use, install or direct to be
installed any audio alarm system that emits a sound alarm for a period of
longer than 15 minutes.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.04 SEPARATE SYSTEMS REQUIRED.
   Buildings having more than one occupant who utilize separate entrances for
access to the individual unit shall have separate alarm systems for each unit.
This section shall not be construed to require the installation of alarm
systems but only to require separate systems for separate units.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.05 FALSE ALARM FEES.
   (A)   Not withstanding any penalties provided for upon conviction for any
violation of this chapter and notwithstanding the fact that prosecution for
violation of this chapter has or has not commenced, any person, firm or
corporation operating an alarm system that signals more than two false alarms
as defined herein within one calendar year, shall pay to the village a false
alarm fee based upon the following schedule:
 
Number of False Alarms            Fee
First and second false alarms     No Fee
Third false alarm                 $50
Fourth false alarm                $100
Fifth and subsequent false alarmS $150
 
   (B)   Failure to pay said false alarm fee within 30 days of the issuance by
the Village of Lake Orion of an invoice therefor shall constitute a violation
of this chapter.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.06 EXCEPTION TO ALARM FEES.
   Alarm conditions existing under the following circumstances shall not
constitute a false alarm and no fee shall be assessed:
   (A)   Alarm system malfunctions, if corrective measures have been instituted
within a 72-hour period with notification to the Police Department, provided
that the alarm user presents documentation of repair service having been
performed by the alarm company to remedy a malfunction.
   (B)   Alarm conditions being activated by a person working on the alarm
system with prior notification to the Police Department and notification to the
Police Department when work has been completed.
   (C)   Alarms that can be substantiated as being activated by disruption or
disturbance of Michigan Bell Telephone Company facilities or motor vehicle
utility pole accidents or by storm conditions.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.07 FALSE ALARM NOTICE.
   The Police or Fire Department shall mail a false alarm notice to the alarm
user following each false alarm occurrence indicating therein the appropriate
warning or fee as prescribed by this chapter.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.08 WAIVER REQUESTS.
   (A)   Within ten working days of the receipt of a false alarm notice, an
alarm user wishing a waiver based on one of the conditions enumerated in §
97.06, may file a written request for waiver of the false alarm fee.
   (B)   The request for waiver shall be directed to the Chief of Police and
shall contain documentation of the condition, as outlined in §
97.06, that is the basis of the application for waiver.
   (C)   Within ten working days of the receipt of the application for waiver
of fee by the Police Department, the Chief of Police shall make a
determination, approving or disapproving the application, and shall notify the
alarm user of his decision in writing.
   (D)   In the event that the alarm user is not satisfied with the decision
rendered by the Chief of Police, within ten working days of the receipt of the
written decision of the Chief of Police, the alarm user may file an additional
written request for waiver of the false alarm fee and required documentation
with the Village Manager.
   (E)   Within ten working days of the receipt of the request for waiver, the
Village Manager or his designated representative shall review the request, make
a determination, approving or disapproving the application, and shall notify
the alarm user of his decision in writing. The decision of the Village Manager
shall be final.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.09 DEFECTIVE ALARMS.
   An alarm system signaling more than five false alarms within the calendar
year is presumed to be defective and upon written notice to owner or lessee of
the alarm system by the Police Department, the owner or lessee shall have the
system inspected and if necessary repaired by a licensed alarm system
contractor who shall within ten working days file a written report to the
Police Department of the results of its inspection of the system. Failure to
complete said inspection and required repairs within the 10- day period shall
constitute a violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 34.01, passed 11-13-84)
§ 97.10 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 98: WATERCRAFT REGULATIONS
Section
Regulations for use of Pelton and Green’s Park Public Boat Docks
by Boats Excluding Personal Watercrafts
   
98.01   Definitions
   
98.02   Dock pass required
   
98.03   Operations
 
   
98.99   Violations/penalties
REGULATIONS FOR USE OF PELTON AND GREEN’S PARK PUBLIC BOAT DOCKS
BY BOATS EXCLUDING PERSONAL WATERCRAFTS
§ 98.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOATS. A small vessel propelled on water by oars, sails, or an engine.
(Ord. 12.07, passed 8-28-17; Ord. 12.09, passed 8-28-23)
§ 98.02 DOCK PASS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Use of Pelton Point and Green’s Park public boat dock is restricted to
those with a valid dock pass issued by the village, for boats, and not for
personal watercraft, jet skis, kayaks, canoes or wave boards.
   (B)   Seasonal dock passes will be issued by the Village Clerk for a fee as
established by resolution of the Village Council.
   (C)   Seasonal dock passes will be valid from April 1 to October 31 in the
year the pass is issued.
   (D)   All boats must be properly registered with the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 12.07, passed 8-28-17; Ord. 12.09, passed 8-28-23)
§ 98.03 OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Boats must be maintained in a safe and seaworthy condition in
accordance with Coast Guard regulations.
   (B)   Boats must be moored and secured in a safe manner.
   (C)   No boat shall be moored for more than three continuous hours.
   (D)   Use of the docks is for visitors to the downtown, not for employee or
business owner use.
   (E)   Use is on “first come first serve” basis, no reservations allowed.
   (F)   Boats may not be moored overnight.
   (G)   The waters of the marina shall not be fouled in any way. Toilet
facilities shall be equipped with holding tanks and must be in compliance with
all the laws of the State of Michigan. No garbage, oil, sludge, refuse matter,
sewage or waste material of any kind shall be thrown, deposited, or permitted
to fall in the water or upon the piers, docks or shore areas of the marina.
Siphoning of bilge water using the municipal water supply is permitted ONLY in
case of emergency. At all times, when siphoning of bilge water is in use, the
boat owner must be in attendance.
   (H)   Dock pass must be affixed to boat next to the MCL sticker and visible
from dock.
   (I)   Permit holders must immediately notify the Village of Lake Orion
Police Department in the event of any damage to boat dock.
   (J)   Litter and other refuse shall be placed in a garbage receptacle.
   (K)   Noise levels shall be at the minimum level required and consistent
with normal levels of conversation.
   (L)   All other ordinances of the Village of Lake Orion shall be complied
with.
(Ord. 12.07, passed 8-28-17; Ord. 12.09, passed 8-28-23)
§ 98.99 VIOLATIONS/PENALTIES.
   (A)   The first violation of this chapter will be a civil infraction with a
fine of $100.
   (B)   The second violation of this chapter will be a civil infraction with a
fine of $500.
   (C)   The third violation of this chapter will be a civil infraction with a
fine of $500, and revocation of dock pass.
(Ord. 12.07, passed 8-28-17; Ord. 12.09, passed 8-28-23)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
      
111.   AMUSEMENTS
      
112.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
113.   ELECTRIC AND GAS SUPPLY FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
      
114.   MARIHUANA
      
115.   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: PEDDLERS, ITINERANT MERCHANTS, AND SOLICITORS
Section
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Definitions
   
110.03   License requirement
   
110.04   Application procedures
   
110.05   Requirements for all applications
   
110.06   Requirements of all vendors, solicitors and peddlers
   
110.07   Revocation/appeal process
   
110.08   Time limits
 
   
110.99   Violations/penalty
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to license and regulate the movement,
location, business practices and hours of operation of commercial vendors,
peddlers and solicitors in the village; to reduce vehicular and pedestrian
traffic congestion; to promote the safe use of the streets and sidewalks; to
protect the citizens' quiet enjoyment and peace while leaving ample business
opportunity and means for commercial vendors, peddlers and solicitors; and to
protect the health, safety and welfare of the people of the village.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17)
§ 110.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CANVASSER. A person who is a representative of a non-profit organization or
agency and as benefit to the agency or organization approaches persons,
businesses or homes for the purpose of soliciting contributions or collecting
signatures, distributing information or seeking volunteers. CANVASSERS also
include persons engaged in non-commercial religious canvassing and persons
engaged in the distribution of handbills and/or pamphlets, signed or unsigned,
political or otherwise.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, co-partnership, corporation, company,
association, or joint stock association, church, religious sect or
denomination, society, organization or league, and includes any trustee,
receiver, assignee, agent or other similar representative.
   SOLICITING MATERIAL. Printed or similar materials, including, but not
limited to, the labels, posters, brochures, flyers, pamphlets, magazines,
booklets, books and other like items used in the course of and for the purposes
of soliciting.
   SOLICITOR. Any person or commercial enterprise that travels by foot or
automotive vehicle from place to place or from street to street or a person who
hires, uses, or occupies any building, structure, room, shop, or any other
place for the purpose of exhibiting samples or soliciting material, taking
orders for future delivery, or those that carry, convey, or transport goods,
wares and merchandise, including food products, offering and exposing the same
for sale or making sales and delivering articles to purchasers, or taking or
attempting to take orders for the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, books
or magazines, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future delivery,
or for services to be furnished presently or performed in the future, whether
or not such individual has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the
subject of such sale or whether the subject is collecting advance payments on
such sales or not. The term SOLICITOR shall include but not be limited to
commercial vendors, canvassers, peddlers, and hawkers.
   SOLICITS. The act of offering or attempting to offer wares, merchandise,
services, items of personal property, real property, either for immediate or
future delivery; or the act of seeking or attempting to seek contributions
either in money or services for charitable or commercial purposes.
   SPECIAL EVENT VENDOR. Any vendor, any solicitor or canvasser engaged in the
sale of goods, wares or merchandise, including food products, or in the
activities of a canvasser, while at a stationary or fixed location during a
special event in the physical footprint of the special event, and shall be
controlled and approved at the discretion of the special event director and is
exempt from the requirements of this chapter.
   TEMPORARY SPECIAL EVENT DIRECTOR. The person, entity, corporation, and/or
organization that is sponsoring and/or conducting a temporary event and the
holder of the permit to do so.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17; Ord. 13.06, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.03 LICENSE REQUIREMENT.
   License required. No person shall engage in commercial vending, soliciting
or peddling without a license authorized and issued by the Village Clerk, as
required under this chapter. Applications shall be completed in person and
given to the Village Clerk no later than seven days prior to the requested
effective date. Commercial vendor applications shall be filed with the Village
Clerk no later than 14 days prior to the requested effective date. In the event
that the application is made by an organization, group, association,
partnership, corporation, trust, business entity or any combination of the
above, an application must be made for each and every agent or employee who
shall be engaging in the act of soliciting. Special event vendors must comply
with license requirements of
Chapter 115 of the Village of Lake Orion Code of Ordinances.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17; Ord. 13.06, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.04 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Form. The license application shall be made upon a form provided by
the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Fees. License and application fees shall be set from time to time by
the Village Council by resolution.
   (C)   The following persons shall be exempt from the licensing requirements,
administration and/or license fee, and license identification card requirements
of this chapter, but shall be subject to the other provisions herein:
      (1)   Persons engaging in the occupation of sale or of distribution of
newspapers.
      (2)   Persons engaging in soliciting on foot within one-half mile of
their residence.
      (3)   Persons engaged in noncommercial, religious or charitable
canvassing.
      (4)   Persons engaged in the distribution of handbills, signed and
unsigned, political or otherwise.
      (5)   Persons duly licensed under Act 359 of 1921, M.C.L.A. §§ 35.441 et
seq. (Qualified veterans).
      (6)   Special event vendors.
   (D)   License period. The license term for special event vendors,
solicitors, and peddlers shall be limited to the time frame as the application
and permit fees allow. Amended only as specified above and in this Section, the
Code of Lake Orion shall remain in full force and effect.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17; Ord. 13.06, passed 8-28-23)
§ 110.05 REQUIREMENTS FOR ALL APPLICATIONS.
   Applications. All applicants for a license under this chapter shall pay to
the village the fee required, and file with the Village Clerk a sworn
application in the form required by the Village Clerk, which shall include the
following:
   (A)   The name of the person(s) who will engage in vending, soliciting or
peddling within the village, including the person's current address of
residence and length of residence at such address, business address if other
than the residence address, business and residence telephone numbers, driver's
license number, and a physical description including height, weight, and color
of hair and eyes.
   (B)   A brief description of the business or activity to be conducted
including the methods to be used and a description of the types of goods or
services to be sold.
   (C)   The dates, hours and location for which the right to engage in
vending, soliciting or peddling is sought.
   (D)   Proof that the applicant has obtained all licenses or permits required
by state law.
   (E)   The place where the wares, merchandise, services, items or personal
property or real property are located, manufactured or produced, where such
items are located at the times said application is filed and the proposed
method of delivery.
   (F)   If employed and acting as an agent, the name, address and telephone
number of the parent organization who is being represented, and when and where
this organization was formed, including the form of its organization.
   (G)   A statement as to whether the applicant or its parent organization has
ever been found to have violated a municipal ordinance regulating vending,
soliciting or peddling.
   (H)   A statement as to whether the applicant or an officer or director of
the applicant's parent organization has ever been convicted of a felony, and if
so, the date and location of such conviction, and a brief description of the
offense.
   (I)   One photograph of the applicant by state identification card or from
the applicant's state driver's license, and a copy of said state driver's
license or state identification card to be attached to the applicant's
application.
   (J)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted of
any felony, misdemeanor or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature of
the offense and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
   (K)   The application shall be signed by the applicant stating that the
information contained therein is true and correct, that the village shall have
the right to investigate and verify the information contained in the
application, and that the applicant has read the vendors, solicitors and
peddlers ordinance and agrees to abide by its terms.
   (L)   Such other information as the Village Clerk shall determine to be
appropriate.
   (M)   The application will be denied if the applicant has had a conviction
for any felony crime or any crime involving theft, embezzlement, larceny, home
invasion, burglary, or crimes of indecencies, including misdemeanors.
   (N)   Any vehicle used in soliciting must be identified on the application,
with a copy of the state registration.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17)
§ 110.06 REQUIREMENTS OF ALL VENDORS, SOLICITORS AND PEDDLERS.
   (A)   Requirements of all vendors, solicitors and peddlers.
      (1)   No loud noises, speaking devices, lights, drums, loudspeaker,
amplifier, or other instrument or device which creates noise, or flashing
lights which are for the purpose of attracting attention to commercial or
noncommercial enterprises so as to annoy or disturb the quiet, comfort or
repose of persons in any office, dwelling or other residence, or other place of
employment or repose shall be used and may be treated as a violation.
      (2)   Frozen confection vendors shall not utilize any bell, chime or
other noisemaking device beyond a moderate noise level for the purpose of
attracting persons to buy the frozen confection. This prohibition shall not be
construed to exclude the customary horn required under the motor vehicle laws
of the state.
      (3)   Off-limit locations. No vendor, peddler or solicitor shall conduct
business within 50 feet of any school, church, synagogue or place of worship
during services or within one hour of services; courthouse; police station; or
other public location unless specifically authorized pursuant to the terms of
the license. In addition, the Village Manager shall have power to designate
such streets, sidewalks, parts of streets, or sidewalks, districts or areas
where it shall be unlawful for any licensee to operate or conduct her/his
business, such designation to be made based upon congested traffic conditions,
character of the neighborhood, or if the conduct of such business constitutes a
public nuisance.
      (4)   “No Soliciting” signs and “No Soliciting” list. No solicitor or
peddler shall enter into property that has a posted “No Soliciting’ sign or
shall remain on property after being requested to leave by the occupant. No
solicitor or peddler shall solicit or peddle their wares or enter any property
that is listed on the no soliciting list on file at the Village Clerk's office.
      (5)   Threatening or harassing behavior. No vendor, solicitor or peddler
shall threaten or harass any citizen in the course of their activities or in
any way engage in conduct that threatens the health and safety of another or
causes a nuisance.
      (6)   Effect of delinquent personal property taxes. No vendor, solicitor
or peddler license shall be granted to any person owing any personal property
taxes or other indebtedness to the village, or who contemplates using any
personal property on which personal property taxes are owed, in the operation
of such business.
      (7)   Sales limited to products on application. Vendors, solicitors and
peddlers shall be limited to the sale of products specified on their
application. Amendments to originally approved applications must be submitted
to the Village Clerk for review and approval, and shall not be effective prior
to such approval. An application fee of an amount established in the schedule
of fees, charges, bonds and insurance must accompany each request for an
amendment.
      (8)   Licenses non-sellable and non-transferable. Vendor, solicitor and
peddler's licenses issued under the authority of this chapter shall be non-
sellable and non-transferable, either as to persons or as to location.
   (B)   Traffic regulations, obstructing public places.
      (1)   Vendors, solicitors and peddlers shall observe all traffic and
parking regulations. Unless specifically approved, vendors, peddlers and
solicitors shall not conduct business in a congested area, or occupy a
stationary location on a public street, sidewalk, parkway, park, parking lot,
or any other public property which is to be used by pedestrians or persons
operating motor vehicles. Such vendors, peddlers and/or solicitors shall be
presumed to have occupied a location if he/she has conducted business in any
such public place for a period in excess of ten minutes.
      (2)   Solicitation from and sales to any person standing in roadway,
vehicles at red lights and to vehicles in moving traffic lanes are prohibited.
   (C)   Display of license required. 
      (1)   All vendors, solicitors and peddlers shall display the license
provided by the Village Clerk, on his or her person or in a prominent place on
their vehicle or removable or non-permanent stand. The failure of a vendor,
peddler and/or solicitor to conspicuously and constantly exhibit such license
when engaged in his/her licensed business shall be sufficient cause for the
suspension or revocation of his/her license.
      (2)   Any certificate or license required by the Oakland County Health
Department shall also be prominently displayed on any vehicle or stand subject
to this article.
   (D)   Prices posted. A vendor and frozen confection vendor shall have posted
on their vehicle, removable stand or non-permanent stand, the current prices
charged for each item sold and no item shall be sold for more than the posted
price.
   (E)   Litter clean-up required. Vendors shall (at their own expense) keep
the sidewalks, streets, and other public places adjoining and adjacent to their
locations of business clean and free from any refuse generated or resulting
from the operation of their business.
      (1)   Under no circumstances may any vendor, solicitor or peddler use any
village trash can, dumpster or other receptacle, drain or sewer to dispose of
any litter, refuse, substance, fluid, liquid or grease.
      (2)   Violation of this division more than twice during one license year
may constitute license revocation.
   (F)   Cash deposit for litter clean-up. Vendors shall file with the village
a cash deposit for the removal of any litter on any sidewalk, street and/or
other public place adjoining and adjacent to their locations in the event the
vendor fails to maintain such areas in compliance with this article. The amount
of the cash deposit shall be set forth in the schedule of fees, charges, bonds
and insurance. If the vendor fails to remove any such litter, the village may
remove the litter and charge the costs against the cash deposit. In the event a
vendor exhausts its cash deposit, the vendor shall be invoiced by the village
for any restoration or litter on village property in excess of the amount of
the deposit.
   (G)   Peddlers and solicitors shall obtain insurance as set forth in the
schedule of fees, charges, and bonds. Insurance is required for permits for 90
days and more.
   (H)   Commercial vendors shall agree to indemnify and hold the village
harmless, the language of which is set forth in the schedule of fees, charges,
bonds.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17)
§ 110.07 REVOCATION/APPEAL PROCESS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk or Police Department is authorized to revoke any
license issued under this chapter for violation of the provisions of this
chapter, including, but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Vendor, solicitor or peddler has violated any provision of this
chapter, any provision of this code, state or Federal laws or rules or
regulations.
      (2)   Vendor, solicitor or peddler has made a false material statement in
the application or has otherwise become disqualified for issuance of the
license.
      (3)   Vendor, solicitor or peddler has had a written complaint filed
against it for violation of this chapter and probable cause exists for
substantiation of the complaint.
      (4)   Vendor, solicitor or peddler has acted in a manner contrary to the
public health, safety or welfare of the citizens of village.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall provide the vendor, solicitor or peddler with
written notice at the address on the application for the license for the
revocation of the license. The written revocation notice will clearly set forth
in writing the grounds for revocation, and allow the vendor, solicitor or
peddler to file a written request with the Village Clerk's office for a hearing
to appeal the revocation; such request shall be filed with the Village Clerk
within 15 days from the date appearing on the notice of revocation. The hearing
shall be held by the Village Clerk.
   (C)   If a vendor's, solicitor's or peddler's appeal of the revocation to
the Village Clerk is not reversed, the vendor, solicitor or peddler has seven
days to file a written appeal of the revocation to the Village Council, so that
the appeal can be placed on the next available Village Council agenda for
consideration of the appeal. The order and findings of the Village Council
shall be final.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17)
§ 110.08 TIME LIMITS.
   Soliciting may take place within the village between the hours of 9:00 a.m.
and 9:00 p.m. from April 1 through October 31, then the hours of solicitation
are from 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m.
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17)
§ 110.99 VIOLATIONS/PENALTY.
   The Police Chief and officers of the police department, or such code
officials as are designated by the Village Manager, are hereby authorized to
issue and serve appearance tickets to any person, firm or corporation
determined to have been in violation of the provisions of this chapter and
shall be responsible for a misdemeanor and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. 13.01, passed 9-11-17)
CHAPTER 111: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Pinball Arcades
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   License required
   
111.03   License application
   
111.04   Inspection of premises
   
111.05   Regulations
   
111.06   Denial of license
   
111.07   License fees
   
111.08   Granting of licenses
   
111.09   Conduct of premises
   
111.10   Renewal and transferability
   
111.11   Revocation
   
111.12   Violations
PINBALL ARCADES
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   OPERATOR. Proprietor, lessee, manager or employee of any pinball arcade.
   PINBALL ARCADE. Any place of business or establishment containing three or
more mechanical or electrical devices that provide amusement or entertainment,
which may be operated or set in motion upon the insertion of a coin or token.
This definition shall not apply to any place of business or establishment
licensed by the Liquor Control Commission of the state providing for
consumption of alcoholic beverages, beer or wine, upon the premises so
licensed.
   PINBALL MACHINE. Any mechanical or electrical device that provides amusement
or entertainment, which may be operated or set in motion upon the insertion of
a coin or token. A jukebox or coin-operated music reproducing machine shall not
be included in the definition of a “pinball machine.”
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78; Am. Ord. 9.03, passed 8-10-81)
§ 111.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No pinball arcade shall be established, maintained or conducted in the
village by any person or corporation without first obtaining a license to
operate such place from the Village Council and no operator, as defined herein,
shall allow or permit the use of a pinball machine unless a license for such
use shall have been obtained from the Village Council.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.03 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Every person or operator as defined herein desiring to obtain a
license as required by this chapter shall file a written application to the
Village Clerk on forms approved by the Village Clerk together with an
application fee of $100 or as hereinafter provided by resolution of Council.
   (B)   The application shall include the following information:
      (1)   (a)   The applicant's age, correct name, post office address and
residence, the length of time the applicant has resided within this state, and
where, and his places of residence for the past five years immediately before
the time of such application;
         (b)   Whether or not he has ever been convicted of any crime involving
moral turpitude; and giving references in such applications to at least five
reputable citizens of such community wherein he has last resided within this
state; and
         (c)   The written recommendations of at least two such citizens of
such community respecting his moral character.
      (2)   (a)   Every such application shall be accompanied by a fee as
herein specified payable to the Village Treasurer for the use of the village
upon issuing of license to the applicant; and
         (b)   The applicant shall specify in such application the type of
business and the exact location of the place thereof for which he requests a
permit.
      (3)   (a)   In case the applicant for such license is a corporation
authorized to do business in this state, the application shall be made by the
agent of such corporation who will have principal charge of the place proposed
to be established, and such application shall contain all of the statements and
furnish all the facts and recommendations in respect to such agent as are
required in the case of a private individual herein.
         (b)   Such license to a corporation shall be revocable upon the
occurrence of a change in the agent so managing such place, and a new license
may be required by the Village Council before any new agent shall take charge
of such place for such corporation.
         (c)   In case of a partnership, each active partner in such business
shall join in the application for such license, and shall furnish all of the
information and recommendations required of an individual applicant.
      (4)   Information included on the application shall describe machines to
be covered by the license, including type, name mechanical features, name of
manufacturer and serial number, a statement as to ownership of machines to be
covered by the license and the fingerprints of the applicant, or in the case of
a corporation, the fingerprints of the executive officers of said corporation,
together with the names of all stockholders of said corporation.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.04 INSPECTION OF PREMISES.
   Before any pinball arcade license shall be issued, investigation of the
application and inspection of the premises shall be made by the Village
Building Department, Fire Chief, Police Department and such other village
departments or agencies as may be deemed necessary to determine whether the
premises fully comply with all pertinent provisions of this code and any other
ordinances and regulations of the village. Before any pinball arcade license
may be recommended for approval, it must be determined by the Police Department
and such other agencies or departments as deemed necessary that the applicant
is providing sufficient off-street parking and sufficient aids and regulations
whereby vehicular traffic shall not constitute a nuisance or danger. For a
standard for such determination, minimum off-street parking facilities shall be
as required by the Zoning Code adopted by reference in Chapter 156, with
additional facilities for general peak load parking requirements of the
business being operated. Before the Fire Chief approves the same, he must
determine that adequate space is provided between the pinball machines to
permit safe ingress and egress in the premises.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78)
§ 111.05 REGULATIONS.
   Each licensee shall:
   (A)   At all times open each and every portion of the licensed premises for
inspection by the Police Department and other village departments for the
purpose of enforcing any provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   At all times display the license granted hereunder in a conspicuous
place near the entrance to the licensed establishment.
   (C)   Have at least one adult operator on the premises at all times that the
premises are open to the public who has not been convicted of a crime involving
moral turpitude and who has been so certified by the Police Department.
   (D)   Not open the licensed premises for business between the hours of 1:00
a.m. and 7:30 a.m. (local time). However, premises may open for business during
the aforesaid hours on the granting of a special permit by the Chief of Police
upon the showing by the licensee:
      (1)   That the premises are being used for the holding of a tournament;
or
      (2)   That the licensee desires the premises to remain open during said
hours on a legal holiday.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78)
§ 111.06 DENIAL OF LICENSE.
   No license shall be issued:
   (A)   Where the individual operator, managing agent of a corporation, or
active partner has been convicted of a felony or of a crime involving moral
turpitude.
   (B)   For any premises unless the Building Code, Fire Code and other
pertinent provisions of all this code and any other ordinance of the village,
as far as can be determined, are being complied with.
   (C)   For any pinball arcade proposed to be located within 1,000 feet of
another pinball arcade.
   (D)   For any premises, unless the applicant gives notice by regular mail to
all property owners located within 300 feet of the premises on which the
business is operated of his intention to seek a license.
   (E)   For any premises that are located within 1,000 feet of any school
building attended by students below the age of 16 years of age. Measurement
shall be made from front door to front door, along the street line.
   (F)   For any premises that do not provide space for safe ingress and egress
in such premises.
   (G)   For any premises that have living quarters with direct entry to the
premises.
   (H)   Whenever the Council deems that the granting of such license will not
be in the best interest of the public health, safety and welfare of the
village.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78; Am. Ord. 9.03, passed 8-10-81)
§ 111.07 LICENSE FEES.
   The fee to be paid upon granting of licenses issued hereunder shall be $100
plus $10 for each pinball machine on the premises, or as set by resolution of
the Village Council. The application fee established in §
111.03 shall be applied toward the payment of fees established in this section.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78)
§ 111.08 GRANTING OF LICENSES.
   After review and recommendation by all village agencies and departments, but
in no event later than 45 days from the date of filing the application, the
Village Manager shall present the application to the Village Council at its
next regular meeting. The Village Council upon receiving such application, if
presented in due form, shall pass upon the same at its next regular meeting or
any adjournment thereof and, if satisfied, that such applicant possesses the
qualifications herein prescribed, shall grant such licenses for a term expiring
on December 31 of each year. All such licenses shall be in such form as the
Village Council may prescribe and shall contain the name, address, place of
business, the number of pinball machines on the premises, and the date of
expiration of the license, and shall be authenticated by the signature of the
Village Clerk.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78)
§ 111.09 CONDUCT OF PREMISES.
   No licensee, by himself, directly or indirectly, or by any servant, agent or
employee shall:
   (A)   Permit any indecent, immoral or profane language, or indecent, immoral
or disorderly conduct.
   (B)   Permit the licensed premises to become a resort for disorderly persons
of any type.
   (C)   Permit gambling or the use, possession or presence of gambling
paraphernalia in the premises. The winning of anything of value as a result of
the operation of a pinball machine shall constitute gambling. However, the
winning of a prize that does not exceed $100 in value in a scheduled tournament
shall not constitute gambling.
   (D)   Permit intoxicated persons to loiter on the premises.
   (E)   Permit any persons under the age of 16 years to be upon the premises
during the hours in which the village's public schools are in session.
   (F)   Permit the possession or use of any alcoholic liquor on the premises,
nor shall the licensed premises be accessible in any way to any place where
alcoholic liquor is kept, sold, distributed or given away. This prohibition
shall not apply while a Michigan Liquor Control Commission License is in effect
at the licensed premises.
   (G)   Permit the possession or use of any unlawful drug or narcotic,
including marijuana, on the premises.
   (H)   Permit noise or music to emerge from licensed premises which is
disturbing to the surrounding area.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 111.10 RENEWAL AND TRANSFERABILITY.
   Any license issued in accordance with this act may be renewed for an
additional year upon the same terms and subject to the same requirements as
provided herein for an original license. Whenever the holder of such license
desires to effect a change of place of doing business, he shall notify the
Village Council and make application for a license for such new place in the
same manner as in the first instance, excepting that proof of good character
may be dispensed with by such Village Council. No license issued pursuant to
this act shall be assignable or transferable, nor shall any person excepting
the person to which it was issued be permitted to do business thereunder,
either directly or indirectly.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78)
§ 111.11 REVOCATION.
   The Village Council shall have the right to revoke any license once granted
or deny annual renewal thereof when it appears to their satisfaction that any
licensee has violated this chapter or any other ordinance of the village or
statute of the state. The revocation of any license or the denial of renewal
thereof shall not be made without a hearing. Notice must first be given to the
applicant or licensee setting forth the time and place of hearing and the
reasons for such revocation or denial of renewal of said license. Any
conviction of a violation of this chapter, this code or any other ordinance of
the village or statute of the state involving moral turpitude, by the licensee
or his employees shall be grounds for revocation of any license or the refusal
to renew the same.
(Ord. 9.02, passed 7-24-78)
§ 111.12 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 112: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
   
112.01   Adoption by reference
   
112.02   Violations
§ 112.01 ADOPTION BY REFERENCE.
   An ordinance passed by the village, numbered 16.05, and all amendments
thereto, regulating cable communications service, is hereby adopted by
reference into this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Copies of this
ordinance and the amendments thereto are available for public inspection from
the office of the Village Clerk.
(Ord. 16.05, passed - - ; Am. Ord. 16.08, passed 8-24-92; Am. Ord. 16.09,
passed 10-27-93; Am. Ord. 16.10, passed 11-22-93; Am. Ord. 16.11, passed 4-25-
94; Am. Ord. 16.12, passed 8-10-98; Am. Ord. 16.14, passed 1-10-00; Am. Ord.
16.15, passed 6-26-00; Am. Ord. 16.16, passed 3-26-01; Am. Ord. 16.17, passed
3-26-07; Am. Ord. 16.18, passed 9-9-13)
§ 112.02 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 113: ELECTRIC AND GAS SUPPLY FRANCHISE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
113.01   Short title
   
113.02   Purpose and findings
   
113.03   Definitions
   
113.04   Franchise requirement
      
113.05   Right-of-way limitations
   
113.06   No waiver
   
113.07   Notices
Franchise Application Requirements and Process
   
113.20   Application information
   
113.21   Application processing
   
113.22   Franchise approvals
   
113.23   Franchise terms and conditions
General Franchise Terms and Conditions
   
113.35   Franchise rights
   
113.36   Term, revocation and termination
   
113.37   Nonexclusive
   
113.38   Assignment
   
113.39   Compliance with laws and ordinances
   
113.40   Right-of-way disruption prohibited
   
113.41   Village rights paramount
   
113.42   Vacation
   
113.43   Public emergencies
   
113.44   Interpretation
   
113.45   Assumption of risk
   
113.46   No village liability
   
113.47   Indemnity
   
113.48   Insurance
   
113.49   Disclosures
   
113.50   Supply requirements
   
113.51   Franchise fees
   
113.52   Village costs
   
113.53   Reservation of village rights
Franchise Terms and Renewals
   
113.65   Franchise term
   
113.66   Renewals and extensions
Violations and Penalties
   
113.80   Transaction of business without franchise
   
113.81   Right-of-way restoration
   
113.82   Separate offenses
   
113.83   Injunctive relief
   
113.84   Election of remedies
Cross-reference:
   Grant of franchise to specific grantees, see
T.S.O. II
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 113.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Village of Lake Orion
Electric and Gas Supply Franchise Ordinance.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.02 PURPOSE AND FINDINGS.
   (A)   Pursuant to Section 29 of Article 7 of the Michigan Constitution of
1963, use of the highways, streets, alleys and other public places for
operation of a public utility requires the consent of the village and the
transaction of local business in the village by a public utility requires that
a franchise first be obtained. This chapter is adopted for the purpose of
confirming and providing the process, terms and conditions for suppliers of
electricity and natural gas to obtain the required consents and franchises and
to fully exercise the village’s constitutional authority which includes the
reasonable control of its highways, streets, alleys and public places.
   (B)   As a result of regulatory changes that have or may occur, and
interpretations of existing laws, at the state and federal levels, specifically
including the Michigan Public Service Commission (deregulation), the persons
that may be authorized to supply electricity and natural gas to customers in
the village are no longer limited to the public utility that owns and operates
the facilities used to deliver electricity and natural gas to customers. This
chapter is adopted in recognition of the deregulations which has and may
continue to occur, with the intent and purpose of confirming that all persons
supplying electricity or natural gas to customers in the village are required
to have a franchise as provided in this chapter, regardless of whether it is
required as a condition of state or federal regulatory permits, approvals or
certificates.
   (C)   The village will incur costs and expenses in reviewing and acting on
franchise requests, and upon granting a franchise, monitoring and enforcing its
terms and conditions. Such costs and expenses should be paid by franchise
applicants and holders as provided in this chapter.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CLERK. The Village Clerk.
   CUSTOMER. A residential, commercial or industrial end-user of electricity or
natural gas in the village.
   DISRUPTION. A physical change, modification, alteration, disturbance, injury
and/or damage to or in a right-of-way, including but not limited to,
construction, installation, location, maintenance, modification, alteration,
replacement or repair of facilities, and the removal or alteration of a right-
of- way surface grade or material, tree, sign, marker, hydrant or other
material or object.
   FACILITY or FACILITIES. Any overhead or underground cable, wire line, main,
pipe, pole, building, structure, equipment and all other man-made or placed
materials or objects or combinations thereof, for the transmission or
distribution of electricity or natural gas to customers.
   FRANCHISE. A nonexclusive limited authorization to transact a local business
and the right to incidental use of right-of-way under this chapter.
   GRANTEE. The holder of a valid and effective franchise granted by the
village.
   MPSC. Michigan Public Service Commission.
   PERSON. A natural person, company, corporation, partnership, joint venture,
voluntary association, organization or other form of legal entity.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. Any and all public rights-of-way, streets, highways, roads,
sidewalks, alleys, thoroughfares, public easements and public places located
within the village.
   SUPPLIER. A person that supplies electricity (electric generation) or
natural gas to customers in the village through facilities in the village in
which it has no ownership, operation, leasehold, repair or maintenance rights
or responsibilities.
   UTILITY. A person that owns, operates, and maintains facilities used to
provide electricity or natural gas to customers in the village.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.04 FRANCHISE REQUIREMENT
   Being a supplier of electricity or natural gas to customers in the village
is a transaction of local business of a public utility, which shall not be done
without a franchise.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.05 RIGHT-OF-WAY LIMITATIONS.
   A franchise granted under this chapter constitutes the village’s consent to
grantee’s limited and incidental use of right-of-way to the extent that
facilities are located within it.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.06 NO WAIVER.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a waiver of any of the rights,
remedies and/or authority of the village pursuant to any laws, ordinances,
codes or regulations of the village, and the village reserves the right to
exercise all authority and take any and all action granted to it by any
constitution, law, village ordinance, code and/or regulation. Nothing in this
section shall be construed to limit and/or preclude the village from exercising
its right of eminent domain.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.07 NOTICES.
   Any notices required to be sent to the grantee by this chapter may be
delivered, or may be sent by first-class mail to the grantee at the address
listed in the franchise application or such other address as grantee has
provided to the Clerk in writing.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
FRANCHISE APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS AND PROCESS
§ 113.20 APPLICATION INFORMATION.
   Applications for franchises shall be made to the Clerk by providing the
following written information and documents.
   (A)   A nonrefundable franchise application fee of $3,500.
   (B)   The name, age if an individual, and address of the applicant, and if
the applicant is not a natural person, the date, state and form of business
organization.
   (C)   A description of the local business the applicant proposes to
transact.
   (D)   Copies or certificates, articles, permits, approvals, licenses, last
annual report and other written documentation of applicant’s lawful
incorporation, organization, existence, authorization and good standing to
conduct its proposed business in the State of Michigan. If any of the listed
items have not been received, documentation that they have been applied for
must be provided.
   (E)   If applicable, applicant’s minimum quantity requirements of existing
and potential customers.
   (F)   The length of the franchise term being requested, which shall have a
duration of not longer than ten years.
   (G)   An acknowledgment and agreement to accept and comply with a franchise
in the form of an ordinance that contains and incorporates by reference all of
the terms and conditions contained in §§
113.35 through
113.53 of this chapter.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.21 APPLICATION PROCESSING.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a franchise application, the Clerk shall schedule the
application and a proposed ordinance that would grant the franchise requested,
for introduction at the first available Village Council meeting.
   (B)   The applicant or its representative shall receive notice and may
appear at the meeting when its franchise request is introduced. If the
application meets the requirements of this chapter, the proposed ordinance will
be accepted for introduction and scheduled for possible adoption at the first
meeting thereafter that allows time to satisfy any publication and legal
requirements for adoption of a valid franchise ordinance.
   (C)   After all publication and other legal requirements for adoption of a
valid franchise ordinance have been satisfied, at a regular or special meeting,
the Village Council may adopt, reject or table adoption of a proposed franchise
ordinance.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.22 FRANCHISE APPROVALS.
   After a franchise ordinance is adopted and all publication and other legal
requirements for it to become effective are satisfied, a certified copy of the
ordinance shall be delivered or mailed to the approved grantee together with a
written acceptance for the approved grantee to sign under oath, confirming its
acknowledgment, agreement and acceptance of the franchise and all of its terms
and conditions. If the required signed and notarized acceptance is not
delivered to the Clerk within 30 days of the delivery or mailing of the
franchise ordinance and agreement to grantee, the effectiveness of the
ordinance will be automatically terminated. Upon the approved grantee’s timely
acceptance of the franchise ordinance, it shall constitute a contract between
the village and grantee.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.23 FRANCHISE TERMS AND CONDITIONS.
   Unless amended by the individual franchise ordinance, all of the definitions
in §
113.03, terms and conditions in §§
113.35 through
113.53 and §§
113.65 and
113.66 and penalties and relief in §§
113.80 through
113.84 shall apply and be incorporated by reference as part of every supplier’s
individual franchise ordinance. Any amendments tot his chapter shall be
automatically included in every franchise.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
GENERAL FRANCHISE TERMS AND CONDITIONS
§ 113.35 FRANCHISE RIGHTS.
   Subject to all terms and conditions in this subchapter and the individual
franchise ordinance, a franchise grants the grantee the right to transact a
local business of supplying electricity or gas, as designated in the individual
franchise ordinance, to customers in the village using facilities of an
identified utility to the extent that it is lawful under applicable
legislation, administrative rules, including those of the MPSC, and express or
implied contract or agreement with the utility. A franchise does not grant the
right to own, construct, operate, maintain or repair facilities in the village.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.36 TERM, REVOCATION AND TERMINATION.
   The term of a franchise, which shall be stated in the individual franchise
ordinance, is subject to revocation at the will of the village and may be
surrendered and terminated by the grantee on 30 days written notice to the
village. Any unsatisfied obligations of grantee to the village shall survive
revocation or termination and be enforceable by the village as provided in the
franchise, as amended.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.37 NONEXCLUSIVE.
   A franchise is nonexclusive and does not restrict the village from approving
additional franchises or establish any priority between grantees to transact
local business and the incidental use of right-of-way.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.38 ASSIGNMENT.
   A franchise may not be sold, leased, assigned, transferred or used by any
person other than the grantee without the written approval of the village by
ordinance amendment.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.39 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS AND ORDINANCES.
   A franchise requires grantee compliance with all applicable current and
future village, state and federal ordinances, laws, rules and regulations and
any permit, approval, certificate or license requirements and conditions under
such laws and shall not be construed as a waiver by grantee of any of its
rights under state or federal law.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.40 RIGHT-OF-WAY DISRUPTION PROHIBITED.
   Disruption or obstruction of, and physical entry in or upon a right-of-way
by a grantee, its personnel or equipment is prohibited.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.41 VILLAGE RIGHTS PARAMOUNT.
   A franchise and the rights granted by it shall at all times be subject to
the paramount rights of the village in its right-of-way, and shall be subject
to immediate suspension or termination by the village in the interest of the
public health, safety and welfare.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.42 VACATION.
   If a right-of-way is vacated, discontinued, abandoned, terminated or
released, a grantee's incidental right to use the right-of-way shall
immediately terminate.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.43 PUBLIC EMERGENCIES.
   Without prior notice, the village has the right to remove, damage, destroy
or otherwise disrupt and/or order a cessation of use of facilities used by
grantee or its customers, when necessary due to a public emergency. Public
emergency means any situation which, in the opinion of the village official
authorized to declare an emergency, presents an immediate threat to persons or
property in the village. The village shall have no liability or responsibility
for repairing or restoring facilities damaged by actions taken under this
section.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.44 INTERPRETATION.
   A franchise shall not be construed in any manner as a waiver or limitation
of the village's discretion and authority or rights to regulate and control the
use of right-of-way.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.45 ASSUMPTION OF RISK.
   A grantee assumes all risks of damages or injuries to its officers,
employees, agents and contractors from dangerous right-of-way conditions, if
any.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.46 NO VILLAGE LIABILITY.
   The village and its officials, employees, agents and contractors shall have
no liability for damages or injuries to any person or property, including
grantee, that arise from the granting, enforcement or exercise of rights under
a franchise.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.47 INDEMNITY.
   A grantee shall, at its sole cost and expense, defend, indemnify and hold
harmless the village and its officials, employees, agents, contractors, right-
of-way and property from all claims and liability for damages or injury to
persons or property caused by or resulting from the actions or omissions of
grantee and/or its officers, employees, agents and contractors. This obligation
extends to all costs and expenses, including attorney fees that may be incurred
by the beneficiaries of grantee's obligation. The village shall notify grantee
of any claim or liability that is covered by grantee's obligation, and shall
not be prevented from participating in the defense of any claim by its own
attorney, the cost of which shall be grantee's responsibility.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.48 INSURANCE.
   The village reserves the right to require the grantee to have, maintain and
provide specified liability insurance coverages.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.49 DISCLOSURES.
   Grantee shall provide and update written disclosure to the Village Clerk of
its contact person(s), address, telephone numbers, fax numbers, Email
addresses, if applicable, and procedures for service requests and complaints,
together with a written disclosure of pricing, billing, warranty and contract
rates, terms, policies and procedures.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.50 SUPPLY REQUIREMENTS.
   Grantee shall supply electricity or natural gas in accordance with all
applicable laws.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.51 FRANCHISE FEES.
   Every three years commencing after December 31, 2001, the village has the
right, after providing prior notice and an opportunity to comment to grantee,
to require the payment by grantee on a periodic basis, of a franchise fee,
provided that any such fee is applied equally to all grantees under this
chapter that are supplying the same commodity (electricity or natural gas) as
grantee. Such a franchise fee would be an additional franchise term and
condition, to be adopted and presented to the grantee for acknowledgment,
agreement and acceptance as an ordinance amendment as provided in §
113.22. In any such fee review, the grantee shall disclose and the village may
consider if grantee pays a franchise fee, charge or other periodic payment for
a franchise to any other Michigan municipalities and the manner in which such
fees are computed. It is a condition of a franchise that the grantee notify the
village of any such fees that are paid and the village shall have the right to
inspect grantee's books and records to monitor, enforce and determine grantee's
compliance and the accuracy of amounts paid or to be paid by grantee under this
section.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.52 VILLAGE COSTS.
   Grantee shall reimburse the village for any costs it incurs, including
reasonable attorney fees, in enforcing franchise terms and conditions.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.53 RESERVATION OF VILLAGE RIGHTS.
   A franchise shall at all times be subject to the rights of the village,
which are hereby reserved, to make all regulations, take all actions and do all
things provided for in its Charter.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
FRANCHISE TERMS AND RENEWALS
§ 113.65 FRANCHISE TERM.
   No franchise granted under this chapter shall be for longer than ten years.
The term of each franchise shall be stated in the individual franchise
ordinance.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.66 RENEWALS AND EXTENSIONS.
   There is no right to a franchise renewal or extension. Franchise renewal or
extension may be applied for and approved as provided in §§
113.20 through
113.23.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES
§ 113.80 TRANSACTIONS OF BUSINESS WITHOUT FRANCHISE
   Any person transacting business without a franchise required by this chapter
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and shall pay a fine in
the following amount:
   (A)   First offense          $3,500.00
   (B)   Second or subsequent offense   $5,000.00
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.81 RIGHT-OF-WAY RESTORATION.
   Any person in violation of the franchise requirement of this chapter or a
franchise issued under it who damages a right-of-way shall be responsible for
restoration of the right-of-way to the condition that existed prior to the
violation. If such person fails or refuses to restore the right-of-way after 30
days notice from the village, and if the village determines that the civil
infraction remedy is inadequate under the circumstances, the village may
initiate proceedings in the appropriate court to recover the cost estimated to
accomplish the restoration, or recover such costs as have been actually
expended by the village in achieving the restoration, as the case may be. Such
costs shall include finance and reasonable administrative costs estimated or
incurred.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.82 SEPARATE OFFENSES.
   Each occurrence of a violation, and each day a violation exists, shall
constitute a separate offense.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.83 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   Violations of this chapter or a franchise issued under it, are considered to
be a nuisance per se with such violations and correction of any conditions
resulting from violations subject to abatement by injunctive or other
appropriate order by a court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
§ 113.84 ELECTION OF REMEDIES.
   Violations of this chapter and franchises issued under it subject the
violator to franchise revocation, if applicable, and village enforcement
through one or more of the remedies provided in this subchapter, and the
election by the village to pursue one form of remedy does not waive or restrict
the village’s option to pursue other remedies at the same or later time.
(Ord. 19.01, passed 6-12-00)
CHAPTER 114: MARIHUANA
Section
   
114.01   Marihuana establishments/regulations
   
114.02   Definitions
   
114.03   Prohibitions
   
114.04   Medical marihuana provisioning centers and marihuana retailers
   
114.05   Permit applications
   
114.06   Application fee
   
114.07   Application review
   
114.08   Permit requirements
   
114.09   Transfer of permits
   
114.10   Term of permits
   
114.11   Annual permit renewal
   
114.12   Revocation or suspension of a permit
   
114.13   Procedure for nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation of permit
   
114.14   Criteria for nonrenewal, suspension, or revocation of permit
 
   
114.99   Penalty
§ 114.01 MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS/REGULATIONS.
   This chapter is created to regulate the sale of marihuana in the Village of
Lake Orion; to allow certain medical marihuana facilities and marihuana
establishments to operate in the village pursuant to the Medical Marihuana
Facilities Licensing Act and Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act;
to provide for standards and procedures to permit and regulate such facilities;
to provide for the imposition of permit application fees; to provide penalties;
and to impose conditions for the operation of such facilities.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person who applies for a permit to operate a medical marihuana
provisioning center or marihuana retailer under this chapter.
   CHURCH. A building used for regular public worship services and exempt from
taxation under the General Property Tax Act of the state.
   CLERK. The Clerk of the Village of Lake Orion.
   COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Lake Orion.
   DEPARTMENT. The State of Michigan Department of Licensing and Regulatory
Affairs or its successor agency.
   MARIHUANA. As defined in the MRTMA.
   MARIHUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, product, material, or combination of
equipment, products, or materials, which is specifically designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing marihuana into the human body.
   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marihuana grower, marihuana safety compliance
facility, marihuana processor, marihuana microbusiness, marihuana retailer,
marihuana secure transporter, or any other type of marihuana-related business
licensed under the MRTMA.
   MARIHUANA GROWER. A person licensed under the MRTMA to cultivate marihuana
and sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA MICROBUSINESS. A person licensed under the MRTMA to cultivate not
more than 150 marihuana plants; process and package marihuana; and sell or
otherwise transfer marihuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or
to a marihuana safety compliance facility, but not to other marihuana
establishments.
   MARIHUANA PROCESSOR. A person licensed under the MRTMA to obtain marihuana
from marihuana establishments; process and package marihuana; and sell or
otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
   MARIHUANA RETAILER. A person licensed under the MRTMA to obtain marihuana
from marihuana establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to
marihuana establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
   MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A person licensed to test marihuana,
including certification for potency and the presence of contaminants.
   MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed under the MRTMA to obtain
marihuana from marihuana establishments in order to transport marihuana to
marihuana establishments.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA FACILITY. Any facility, entity, establishment or center
that is required to be licensed under the MMFLA and this chapter, including a
medical marihuana grower, medical marihuana processor, medical marihuana
provisioning center, medical marihuana safety compliance facility, and/or a
medical marihuana secure transporter.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA GROWER. The term "grower" as defined in the MMFLA.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROCESSOR. The term "processor" as defined in the MMFLA.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROVISIONING CENTER. The term "provisioning center" as
defined in the MMFLA.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. The term "safety compliance
facility" as defined in the MMFLA.
   MEDICAL MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. The term "secure transporter" as
defined in the MMFLA.
   MMFLA. The Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, Act 281 of 2016,
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq.
   MRTMA. The Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, Initiated Law
1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq.
   PARK. An area of land dedicated for public use and accepted by the village,
with or without facilities for rest and recreation.
   PERMITTEE. A person who receives a permit to operate a medical marihuana
facility or marihuana establishment under this chapter.
   SCHOOL. A public or private school offering education to students enrolled
in kindergarten, or one or more grades of one through 12.
   STAKEHOLDER. The officers, directors, and managerial employees of an
applicant and any persons who hold any direct or indirect ownership interest in
the applicant.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter, no person shall sell
marihuana or sell or display marihuana accessories within a 1,000 foot radius
of any parcel upon which is located any preexisting school, within a 1,500 foot
radius of any parcel upon which is located any preexisting church, within a
1,500 foot radius of any parcel upon which is located any preexisting park,
within a 250 foot radius of any Village Single Family Residential Zoning
District (RV), within a 250 foot radius of any Lake Single Family Residential
Zoning District (RL), or within a 250 foot radius of any Multiple Family
Residential Zoning District (RM). This division shall apply if the school,
church, park, or Residential Zoning Districts RV, RL, and RM are located within
the village.
   (B)   No person shall operate a medical marihuana facility or a marihuana
establishment in the village without first obtaining any relevant license
required by the MMFLA or MRTMA and a permit from the village in accordance with
the provisions of this chapter. A separate permit is required for each medical
marihuana facility or marihuana establishment.
   (C)   No person shall consume marihuana in a public place within the
boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20) Penalty, see §
114.99
§ 114.04 MEDICAL MARIHUANA PROVISIONING CENTERS AND MARIHUANA RETAILERS.
   (A)   Pursuant to section 205(1) of the MMFLA and section 6 of the MRTMA,
the village authorizes two permits total for medical marihuana provisioning
centers and marihuana retailers; provided, however, for purposes of this
limitation on the number of authorized permits in the village, the village
shall be deemed to have issued only one permit to a permittee who receives a
permit to operate a medical marihuana provisioning center and also a permit to
operate a marihuana retailer at the same location as the medical marihuana
provisioning center.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided in this section, the village shall not
permit or authorize the operation of any other type of marihuana establishment
or medical marijuana facility.
   (C)   This section shall not be interpreted to allow the operation of
marihuana establishments and medical marihuana facilities at more than two
locations in the village at the same time.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.05 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   Any person seeking to operate a medical marihuana provisioning center
or marihuana retailer shall file a permit application with the Clerk upon a
form provided by the village. The application shall include the following
information:
      (1)   The full name, date of birth, physical address, email address, and
telephone number of the applicant in the case of an individual, or, in the case
of an entity, all stakeholders thereof;
      (2)   If the applicant is an entity, the entity's articles of
incorporation or organizational documents.
      (3)   If the applicant is an entity, the entity's employer identification
number;
      (4)   If the applicant is an entity, the entity's operating agreement or
bylaws;
      (5)   A proposed marketing, advertising, and business promotion plan for
the proposed medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer;
      (6)   A description of planned tangible capital investment in the
village;
      (7)   An explanation of the economic benefits to the village and job
creation to be achieved, including the number and type of jobs the medical
marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer is expected to create, the
amount and type of compensation expected to be paid for such jobs, and the
projected annual budget and revenue of the medical marihuana provisioning
center or marihuana retailer;
      (8)   A description of the financial structure and financing for the
proposed medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer;
      (9)   Short-term and long-term business goals and objectives for the
proposed medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer;
      (10)   A criminal background report of the applicant's criminal history.
Such reports shall be obtained by the applicant through the Internet Criminal
History Access Tool (ICHAT) for applicants residing in Michigan and/or through
another state sponsored or authorized criminal history access source for
applicants who reside in other states or have resided in other states within
five years prior to the date of the application. The applicant is responsible
for all charges incurred in requesting and receiving the criminal history
report and the report must be dated within 30 days of the date of the
application;
      (11)   A description of proposed community outreach and education
strategies;
      (12)   A description of proposed charitable plans, whether through
financial donations or volunteer work;
      (13)   A description of the security plan for the proposed medical
marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer that is consistent with the
requirements of the department;
      (14)   A floor plan of the proposed medical marihuana provisioning center
or marihuana retailer;
      (15)   A scale diagram illustrating the property upon which the proposed
medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer is to be operated,
including all available parking spaces, and specifying which parking spaces are
handicapped-accessible;
      (16)   A depiction of any proposed text or graphic materials to be shown
on the exterior of the proposed medical marihuana provisioning center or
marihuana retailer;
      (17)   An affidavit that neither the applicant nor any stakeholder of the
applicant is in default to the village for any fees or taxes;
      (18)   Proof of premises liability and casualty insurance consistent with
the requirements of the Department;
      (19)   A location area map that identifies the relative locations of, and
distances from, the nearest school, church, park, Village Single Family
Residential Zoning District, Lake Single Family Residential Zoning District, or
Multiple Family Residential Zoning District, and computed by measuring a
straight line from the nearest property line of the parcel used for the
purposes stated in this subsection to the nearest property line of the parcel
to be used as a medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer.
   (B)   Except as provided by law, all materials submitted to the village as
part of an application shall be exempt from disclosure under the Freedom of
Information Act.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.06 APPLICATION FEE.
   An application for a permit shall be accompanied by an application fee to
help defray administrative and enforcement costs associated with the operation
of the medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer, which shall
be set by resolution of the Council, but shall not exceed $5,000.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.07 APPLICATION REVIEW.
   (A)   After the effective date of this section, the Clerk shall begin
accepting applications for medical marihuana provisioning centers and marihuana
retailers within 45 days. The Clerk must set a 30 day application period during
which applicants may apply for a permit to operate a medical marihuana
provisioning center or marihuana retailer.
   (B)   The Clerk shall review each application to ensure that it is complete,
that the information required by this chapter has been submitted, and that the
application fee has been paid. The Clerk may reject any application that is not
complete and may deny an application for failure to pay the application fee.
   (C)   Upon receipt of a completed application meeting the requirements of
this chapter and the appropriate permit application fee, the Clerk shall refer
a copy of the application to each of the following for their approval: the
Village Fire Department, the Building Department, the Village Planner, and the
Treasurer.
   (D)   No application shall be approved unless:
      (1)   The Village Fire Department and the Building Department have
inspected the proposed location for compliance with all laws for which they are
charged with enforcement and for compliance with the requirements of this
chapter;
      (2)   The Village Planner has confirmed that the proposed location
complies with the Lake Orion Zoning Ordinance and this chapter;
      (3)   The Treasurer has confirmed that the applicant and each stakeholder
of the applicant are not in default to the village.
   (E)   The Clerk shall assess, evaluate, score and rank all applications for
permits to operate a medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana
retailer submitted during the 30 day application period set forth in this
chapter.
   (F)   In its application assessment, evaluation, scoring, ranking, and
deliberations related to permits to operate a medical marihuana provisioning
center or a marihuana retailer, the Clerk shall assess, evaluate, score, and
rank each application based upon a scoring and ranking procedure developed by
the Clerk consistent with the requirements, conditions, and provisions of this
chapter in each of the following categories:
      (1)   Whether the proposed medical marihuana provisioning center or
marihuana retailer will be consistent with land use for the surrounding
neighborhood and not have a detrimental effect on traffic patterns and resident
safety. The maximum number of scoring points in this category shall be ten
points;
      (2)   Planned outreach on behalf of the proposed medical marihuana
provisioning center or marihuana retailer, and whether the applicant or its
stakeholders have made, or plan to make, significant physical improvements to
the building housing the medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana
retailer, including plans to eliminate or minimize traffic, noise, and odor
effects on the surrounding neighborhood. The maximum number of scoring points
in this category shall be ten points;
      (3)   Whether the applicant has reasonably and tangibly demonstrated it
possesses sufficient financial resources to fund, and the requisite business
experience to execute, the submitted business plan and other plans required by
this chapter. The maximum number of scoring points in this category shall be 15
points;
      (4)   Whether the applicant has applied for and proposes to co-locate a
medical marihuana provisioning center and marihuana retailer. The maximum
number of scoring points in this category shall be 20 points;
      (5)   Whether adequate off-street parking is provided by the applicant.
The maximum number of scoring points in this category shall be ten points;
      (6)   Whether the proposed facility will have a detrimental impact on
children and areas where children congregate in the village or surrounding
region, as judged by the proximity of the proposed medical marihuana
provisioning center or marihuana retailer to other structures or properties,
including any parcel upon which is located an existing school, church, and
park, or any parcel located within an RV, RL, or RM Residential Zoning
District. This division shall apply if the school, church, park, or Residential
Zoning Districts RV, RL, and RM are located within the village. Such distance
between the school, church, or park, or Residential Zoning Districts RV, RL,
and RM, and the contemplated location shall be computed by measuring a straight
line from the nearest property line of the parcel used for the purposes stated
in this division to the nearest property line of the parcel to be used as a
medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer. The maximum number
of scoring points in this category shall be 20 points, with the maximum points
being awarded if the proposed medical marihuana provisioning center or
marihuana retailer will be located more than 50% further than the applicable
distances provided under §
114.03;
      (7)   Whether the applicant has demonstrated an economic commitment to
the village by a proposal to create no less than five full-time jobs and
proposes a living wage to all employees. The maximum number of scoring points
in this category shall be 15 points and shall be awarded based upon the number
of jobs proposed and the pay structure proposed by the applicant;
   (G)   Overall scoring and ranking shall be conducted and applied by the
Clerk on the basis of assigned points from zero points to 100 points with the
lowest overall total score as zero points and the highest possible total score
being 100 points.
   (H)   The Clerk shall award permits to the two highest scoring applicants.
In the event of an evaluation scoring tie that causes there to be more than two
applicants who achieve scores sufficient to qualify for a permit, the scoring-
tied applicants will be entered into a random draw. Those applications randomly
selected shall be eligible to receive a permit to operate a medical marihuana
provisioning center or a marihuana retailer, as applicable. If, after awarding
the first two permits to the highest scoring applicants, additional permits may
be issued for one or more of the same locations in accordance with §
114.04(A) of this chapter, the Clerk shall award such other permits to eligible
applicants. In the event that the number of medical marihuana provisioning
center and/or marihuana retailer permits initially awarded is less than the
maximum number authorized under this chapter or subsequently falls below the
maximum number authorized under this chapter, the Clerk shall not be required
to score applicants. Instead, the Clerk shall evaluate applications in the
order that they are submitted and shall award permits for medical marihuana
provisioning centers and/or marihuana retailers to an applicant who submits a
complete application, receives the approvals required in this chapter, and
otherwise meets the requirements of this chapter. However, in no event shall
the number of medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer
permits exceed the maximum number authorized under §
114.04 of this chapter.
   (I)   The Clerk shall award permits to operate a marihuana retailer to the
two highest scoring marihuana retailer applicants. In the event of an
evaluation scoring tie, which causes there to be more than two applicants who
achieve scores sufficient to qualify for a marihuana retailer permit, the
scoring-tied applicants will be entered into a random draw. Those applications
randomly selected shall be eligible to receive a permit to operate a marihuana
retailer. In the event that the number of marihuana retailer permits initially
awarded is less than the maximum number authorized under this chapter or
subsequently falls below the maximum number authorized under this chapter, the
Clerk shall not be required to score applicants. Instead, the Clerk shall
evaluate applications in the order that they are submitted and shall award
permits for marihuana retailers to an applicant who submits a complete
application, receives the approvals required in this chapter, and meets the
requirements of this chapter. However, in no event shall the number of
marihuana retailer permits exceed the maximum number authorized under this
chapter.
   (J)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to confer a property or other
right, duty, privilege or interest in a permit of any kind or nature whatsoever
including, but not limited to, any claim of entitlement.
   (K)   The Clerk may engage professional expert assistance in performing the
Clerk's duties and responsibilities under this chapter.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.08 PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   A medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer permit issued
under this chapter shall be subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   Compliance with the requirements of this chapter, other applicable
village ordinances and codes, and applicable state laws;
   (B)   For a medical marihuana provisioning center, compliance with the
provisions of the MMFLA and any rules promulgated thereunder;
   (C)   For a marihuana retailer, compliance with the provisions of the MRTMA
and any rules promulgated thereunder;
   (D)   Medical marihuana provisioning centers and marihuana retailers shall
not operate and be open to the public before 9:00 a.m. or after 9:00 p.m.
daily;
   (E)   Signs displayed on the exterior and interior of any medical marihuana
provisioning center or marihuana retailer shall conform to village ordinance
requirements. No signs shall contain the words "marihuana, "marijuana," or
"cannabis," nor shall any sign contain marihuana leaves, or green crosses;
   (F)   Operation of a marihuana facility or marihuana establishment shall not
cause or create, directly or indirectly, any noise, dust, vibration, glare,
fumes, or odors constituting a nuisance and which are detectable to normal
human senses beyond the boundaries of the property on which the marihuana
facility or marihuana establishment is operated.
   (G)   A permit that is issued under this chapter shall be posted at all
times inside the medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer in
a conspicuous location near the entrance.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.09 TRANSFER OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permittees may transfer a permit issued under this chapter to a
different location upon receiving written approval from the Clerk and the
Department pursuant to the MMFLA or MRTMA and rules promulgated by the
Department. In order to request municipal approval to transfer a permit
location, the permittee must make a written request to the Clerk, indicating
the current location of the medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana
retailer and the proposed new location. Upon receiving the written request, the
Clerk shall refer a copy of the written request to the Village Fire Department
and the Village Planner. No permit transfer shall be approved unless each such
department or entity gives written approval that the proposed permit location
meets the standards identified in this chapter and the department or board
approves the transfer.
   (B)   Permittees may transfer a permit issued under this chapter to a
different individual or entity upon receiving written approval from the Clerk
and the Department pursuant to the MMFLA or MRTMA and rules promulgated by the
Department. For purposes of this division, a change in, transfer of, or
acquisition of control of the permittee is considered to be a transfer. In
order to request municipal approval to transfer a permit to a different
individual or entity, the permittee must make a written request to the Clerk,
indicating the current permittee and the proposed permittee. The Clerk shall
grant the request so long as the Department authorizes the transfer pursuant to
the MMFLA or MRTMA and rules promulgated by the Department.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.10 TERM OF PERMITS.
   Approval of a permit shall be for a period of one calendar year from the
date of issuance subject to review by the Clerk upon continued compliance with
the regulations of this chapter.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.11 ANNUAL PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   Application for a permit renewal shall be made in writing to the Clerk
at least 30 days prior to the expiration of an existing permit.
   (B)   An application for a permit renewal required by this chapter shall be
made under oath on forms provided by the Clerk, and shall contain all of the
information required in an initial application.
   (C)   An application for a permit renewal shall be accompanied by a renewal
fee to help defray administrative and enforcement costs associated with the
operation of the medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer,
which shall be set by resolution of the Council, but shall not exceed $5,000.
   (D)   Upon receipt of a completed application for a permit renewal meeting
the requirements of this chapter and the permit renewal fee, the Clerk shall
refer a copy of the renewal application to the Village Fire Department and the
Building Department.
   (E)   No application for a permit renewal shall be approved unless:
      (1)   The Village Fire Department and the Building Department or another
relevant department have, within the past calendar year, inspected the location
for compliance with all state and local building, electrical, fire, mechanical
and plumbing requirements;
      (2)   The Village Planner or another relevant department has confirmed
that the location complied with the Lake Orion Zoning Ordinance at the time the
permit was granted;
      (3)   The permittee possesses the necessary state licenses or approvals,
including those issued pursuant to the MMFLA or MRTMA;
      (4)   The permittee has operated the medical marihuana provisioning
center or marihuana retailer in accordance with the conditions and requirements
of this chapter;
      (5)   The permittee is operating the medical marihuana provisioning
center or marihuana retailer in accordance with MMFLA or MRTMA.
   (F)   If written approval is given by each department or entity identified
in this section, the Clerk shall issue a permit renewal to the permittee. The
renewal shall be deemed approved if the village has not issued formal notice of
denial within 60 days of the filing date of the application.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.12 REVOCATION OR SUSPENSION OF A PERMIT.
   Each medical marihuana provisioning center or marihuana retailer within the
village for which a permit is granted shall be operated and maintained in
accordance with all applicable laws, rules, and regulations. Upon any violation
of this section or any section of this chapter, the Clerk may, after a notice
and hearing, revoke or suspend such permit as hereinafter provided.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.13 PROCEDURE FOR NONRENEWAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   The Clerk shall notify an applicant or permittee of the reasons for denial
of an application for a permit or permit renewal or for revocation of a permit
or any adverse decision under this chapter and provide the applicant or
permittee with the opportunity to be heard. Any applicant or permittee
aggrieved by the denial or revocation of a permit or adverse decision under
this chapter may appeal to the Clerk, who shall appoint a hearing officer to
hear and evaluate the appeal and make a recommendation to the Clerk. Such
appeal shall be taken by filing with the Clerk, within 14 days after notice of
the action complained of has been mailed to the applicant or permittee's last
known address on the records of the Clerk, a written statement setting forth
fully the grounds for the appeal. The Clerk shall review the report and
recommendation of the hearing officer and make a decision on the matter. The
Clerk's decision may be further appealed to the Council if applied for in
writing to the Council no later than 30 days after the Clerk's decision. The
review on appeal of a denial or revocation or adverse action shall be by the
Council pursuant to this chapter. Any decision by the Council on an appeal
shall be final for purposes of judicial review. The Clerk may engage
professional experts to assist with the proceedings under this section.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.14 CRITERIA FOR NONRENEWAL, SUSPENSION, OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT.
   In addition to any other reasons set forth in this chapter, the village may
refuse to issue a permit or grant renewal of the permit or suspend or revoke
the permit for any of the following reasons:
   (A)    A material violation of any provision of this chapter.
   (B)    Any conviction of a disqualifying felony by the permittee or any
stakeholder of the permittee that would disqualify that person from obtaining a
state license under the MMFLA or MRTMA.
   (C)    Failure of the permittee to obtain or maintain a license from the
state pursuant to section 14 of the MMFLA or MRTMA.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
§ 114.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal
civil infraction as defined in §
10.99.
(Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20)
CHAPTER 115: MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   General provisions
   
115.03   Permits
   
115.04   Authority of Fire Department
   
115.05   Administration
   
115.06   Enforcement and penalties
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the following meanings:
   APPLICANT(S). An individual, corporation, association, partnership, trust,
firm, or similar entity.
   MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A licensed and operable motor vehicle or trailer,
which includes any commercial kitchen equipment used for cooking that operates
in a transient or permitted static location and involves the preparation,
cooking, and sale of food and/or nonalcoholic beverages in a ready-to-consume
state for consumption either on or off the premises, but not within the motor
vehicle and/or trailer.
   PRIVATE EVENT. An event that is not open to the general public, including,
but not limited to, private parties, church events, private fundraisers, and
block parties, that lasts no longer than three days.
   PUBLIC VILLAGE EVENT. Events coordinated or sponsored by the village and
located within the village or designated as such by resolution of the Village
Council, that lasts no longer than five days.
   STATIC MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A mobile food establishment parked and/or
operating in a permitted fixed location for greater than a five-hour period or
on a consistent basis at the same location.
   TEMPORARY OR TRANSIENT MOBILE FOOD ESTABLISHMENT. A mobile food
establishment parked and/or operating in any one area for less than a five-hour
period.
(Ord. 13.05, passed 5-23-22; Am. Ord. 13.07, passed 8-26-24)
§ 115.02 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   Mobile food establishments shall comply with the following standards:
   (A)   Permission.
      (1)   Mobile food establishments operating on private or public property
must receive the property owner's written consent prior to operation.
      (2)   Approval for each mobile food establishment in an event, whether
public or private, must receive prior written approval from the event
organizer/sponsor, and must be parked and located within the defined event
space.
      (3)   Mobile food trucks cannot park within the village limits, unless
within the approved event space.
   (B)   Location. Mobile food establishments that meet the standards of this
chapter may be permitted in all zoning districts, unless restricted,
prohibited, or otherwise regulated by the Village Zoning Ordinance or any other
applicable village ordinance.
   (C)   Insurance. All mobile food establishments shall have proper vehicle
registrations and current/valid registration plates. All vehicles shall be
properly insured in accordance with state law.
   (D)   Alcoholic liquor. Mobile food establishments shall not serve alcoholic
liquor or allow the consumption of alcoholic liquor in their service area(s) or
dining area(s) unless applicant has obtained all appropriate permits required
by the State of Michigan and any necessary approvals from the village.
   (E)   Hours of operation. Mobile food establishments shall not operate
before 6:00 a.m. or after 10:00 p.m. unless otherwise permitted expressly in
writing by the village as part of a village event.
   (F)   Service area. The area(s) where customers stand in line to place or
pick up an order (service area(s)) for mobile food establishments shall not be
located on a street, road, or within the road right-of-way, and, if in a
parking lot, shall be located a safe distance from the travel lanes of a
parking lot. Allowable service areas are subject to village and township Fire
Department approval.
   (G)   Dining areas. The area(s) where customers may sit or stand at tables
to consume food or beverages (dining area(s)) shall not be located on a street,
road, or within the road right-of-way, and, if in a parking lot, shall be
located a safe distance from the travel lanes of a parking lot. Allowable
dining areas are subject to village and township Fire Department approval.
   (H)   Preparation and storage. Food shall not be prepared, sold, or
displayed outside of the mobile food establishment as set forth as follows:
      (1)   Outdoor preparation. Outdoor cooking facilities, including grills
not contained within a mobile food establishment, are prohibited.
      (2)   Materials, food, and supplies. All materials, food, and supplies
must be stored within a mobile food establishment, or may be adjacent to a
mobile food establishment, if in an enclosed container. Food and condiments may
be displayed on shelving attached to the mobile food establishment.
   (I)   Obstructions. Mobile food establishments and their respective service
areas and dining areas shall not obstruct or impede vehicular, pedestrian, or
non-motorized travel or movement, nor create visual obstructions for vehicular
traffic.
   (J)   Awnings. Any awning shall have a minimum clearance of seven feet
between the ground and the lowest point of the awning when fully extended.
   (K)   Waste. Waste associated with mobile food establishments shall be
managed as set forth as follows:
      (1)   Waste container. Mobile food establishments must be equipped with
sufficient garbage or refuse containers to handle their waste, including one
provided for patrons.
      (2)   Daily cleaning. All waste, spilled food, food byproducts, and
litter left by customers associated with each mobile food establishment
(collectively “waste”), shall be cleaned up and collected, and thereafter
properly and lawfully disposed of, by the mobile food establishment operator at
least daily.
      (3)   Dumping of fluids. Dumping of gray water, grease, or any other
fluid onto land or any street or into any storm sewer is prohibited.
   (L)   Noise. Mobile food establishments shall not make or cause any
unreasonable or excessive noise that is in violation of village ordinances.
   (M)   Lighting. Lighting associated with mobile food establishments shall
not cause distractions for motorists or create negative impacts for surrounding
properties.
      (1)   Non-steady lights. Flashing, blinking, or moving lights are
prohibited when a mobile food establishment is parked or serving customers.
      (2)   Shielding. All exterior lights greater than 800 lumen, equivalent
to a 60 watt incandescent light bulb, shall have an opaque shield to direct
illumination downwards.
   (N)   Signage. Only signs attached to, or mounted on, the mobile food
establishment shall be authorized, and all signs shall conform to the location,
size, height, number, and other standards set forth in the Village Sign
Ordinance.
   (O)   Fire Code. Mobile food establishments shall be subject to an annual
inspection by the Orion Township Fire Department to confirm compliance with
Michigan Fire Protection Code standards, including, but not limited to,
standards required for fire extinguishers, fire extinguishing systems,
compressed gas/liquid propane gas, generators, electrical, location, and
general fire safety.
   (P)   Water. Mobile food establishments shall not be temporarily connected
to a water source unless the applicant provides verification to the village and
township that it is a potable water source.
   (Q)   Sewer. Mobile food establishments shall not be connected to sanitary
or storm sewer facilities.
   (R)   Wheel chocks. Mobile food establishments shall use wheel chocks while
parked to prepare or distribute food.
   (S)   Overnight parking and equipment storage.
      (1)   In any zoning district, other than commercial or industrial zones,
unless stored entirely within an enclosed building, overnight parking of a
mobile food establishment and outside overnight storage of any equipment
associated with a mobile food establishment, including, but not limited to,
tables, chairs, and waste receptacles ("associated equipment"), is prohibited,
except as may be expressly permitted for mobile food establishments associated
with a village event.
      (2)   On properties within commercial or industrial zoning districts, and
if allowed by the terms of its permit, a mobile food establishment may be
parked outside overnight; however, overnight storage of a mobile food
establishment's associated equipment outside of an enclosed building, or
outside of a mobile food establishment, is prohibited.
   (T)   Display of permits. Mobile food establishments shall prominently
display any required permits and licenses while in operation.
(Ord. 13.05, passed 5-23-22; Am. Ord. 13.07, passed 8-26-24)
§ 115.03 PERMITS.
   It shall be a violation of this chapter to operate a mobile food
establishment without the necessary licenses, permits, and approvals, as set
forth below.
   (A)   Mobile food establishment permit. Open mobile food establishments
shall obtain a permit on an annual basis as set forth in more detail below,
which shall be valid for one calendar year, provided that the applicant remains
in compliance with the permit requirements.
   (B)   Oakland County Health Department permit. All mobile food
establishments must obtain and maintain any permits and approvals required by
the Oakland County Health Department.
   (C)   State of Michigan. All mobile food establishments must obtain and
maintain any permits, licenses, and approvals required by the Michigan
Department of Agriculture and Rural Development.
   (D)   Others. All mobile food establishments must obtain and maintain any
other permits, approvals, or licenses required by law.
   (E)   Transferability. A license or permit issued under this chapter shall
not be transferred from person to person or to another mobile food
establishment.
(Ord. 13.05, passed 5-23-22; Am. Ord. 13.07, passed 8-26-24)
§ 115.04 AUTHORITY OF FIRE DEPARTMENT.
   The Township of Orion, a Michigan Municipal Corporation, whose address is
2323 Joslyn Road, Lake Orion, MI 48360, and its Fire Department, Fire Code
Official and personnel shall serve as the Village of Lake Orion's ordinance
permitting agency that shall administer and enforce this chapter in and on
behalf of the Village of Lake Orion as authorized by the Urban Cooperation Act
of 1967, 1967 Public Act 7, M.C.L.A. §§ 124.501, et seq. The Township of Orion
shall be vested with all lawful authority to administer and enforce the Village
of Lake Orion's Mobile Food Establishment Ordinance and it shall be deemed
sufficient in any action for enforcement of the provisions hereof as a
violation of this code.
(Ord. 13.05, passed 5-23-22; Am. Ord. 13.07, passed 8-26-24)
§ 115.05 ADMINISTRATION.
   This chapter shall be administered by the Charter Township of Orion, Fire
Chief and/or their designee, as outlined below.
   (A)   Order of process. The following shall be the order of process in
obtaining a mobile food establishment permit:
      (1)   Applicant submits permit application to the Orion Township Fire
Department.
      (2)   Fire Department schedules an inspection with the applicant.
      (3)   Fire Department conducts the inspection.
      (4)   If the mobile food truck establishment meets all requirements of
this chapter and the Village Zoning Ordinance (where applicable), the Fire
Department shall issue an operating permit under this chapter. The Fire
Department shall also provide the applicant with a mobile food truck sticker
and applicant shall prominently display its sticker on the outside of the
mobile food establishment.
   (B)   Mobile food establishment permit application. A mobile food
establishment permit shall include the following materials:
      (1)   A signed and completed application form;
      (2)   Description of the proposed annual event(s);
      (3)   The Village of Lake Orion shall receive and approve all depictions
of all locations where the mobile food establishment will be parked and
providing services and where dining areas will be located, and, if in a parking
lot, how the service/dining areas will be delineated for safety purposes;
      (4)   Any necessary written permission from property owners;
      (5)   A fee, as adopted by resolution of the Village of Lake Orion; and
      (6)   Any additional information necessary to determine compliance with
this chapter and other applicable ordinances, laws, permits, and regulations.
   (C)   Timely submission. Mobile food establishments shall submit a permit
application two business days before any needed inspection to operate. In the
event an applicant requests a permit for a mobile food establishment and is in
need of an inspection with less than two business days' notice, the applicant
shall be subject to payment of an increased permit fee as set forth by
resolution of the Village of Lake Orion.
   (D)   Complete and accurate. Submission of an application constitutes a
representation that all of the information is complete and accurate.
   (E)   Issuance. Annual mobile food establishment operating permits shall be
issued by the Township Fire Chief and/or their designee after accepting the
permit applicant has passed an inspection conducted by the Fire Department. All
permits issued by the Fire Department shall expire on December 31 of every
calendar year as long as the applicant remains in compliance with the
provisions of this chapter and other applicable ordinances, permits,
regulations, and laws. The review shall be conducted in consultation with the
Fire Chief or their designee and other applicable entities and agencies.
   (F)   Operating without a permit. In the event a mobile food establishment
is found to be operating without a permit, it shall constitute a violation of
this chapter and shall constitute a civil infraction as defined by Michigan law
and shall be subject to a civil fine of not more than $500, as set forth in
this chapter.
   (G)   Withholding permit. Issuance of any license or permit may be withheld
pending verification that any other necessary approvals have been granted.
   (H)   Conditions. Reasonable conditions may be placed on approvals, as
outlined below.
      (1)   Health, safety, and welfare. Conditions shall be designed to
protect the health, safety, and welfare of the patrons, vendors, adjacent
property owners, and the community as a whole.
      (2)   Police power. Conditions shall be related to the valid exercise of
the police power and purposes affected by the activity.
      (3)   Compliance. Conditions shall be designed to ensure compliance with
the provisions of this chapter, other village ordinances, county requirements,
and state and federal law.
   (I)   Suspension and revocation. As outlined below, an approval may be
immediately suspended on a temporary or permanent basis by the Orion Fire Chief
and/or their designee.
      (1)   Notice. The applicant shall receive written notice of the possible
suspension or revocation, including the reason for the suspension or
revocation, and actions necessary, if any, to prevent the suspension or
revocation.
         (a)   Decision criteria. The Village of Lake Orion may issue an order
to suspend or revoke a mobile food establishment permit if the Board of
Trustees makes any of the following findings: An imminent threat exists to the
health, safety, or welfare of persons or neighboring properties; or
         (b)   The applicant has violated or currently fails to comply with any
condition of its license or permit or with any applicable ordinance, county
requirement, or state or federal law.
      (2)   Effect. Upon revocation of an approval, all activity shall cease
immediately, except for work related to securing the site or correcting a
violation, as determined by the Lake Orion Police Department and/or their
designee.
   (J)   Appeal. Appeals of decisions made in the administration of this
chapter shall be heard and decided by the Village Council.
(Ord. 13.05, passed 5-23-22; Am. Ord. 13.07, passed 8-26-24)
§ 115.06 ENFORCEMENT AND PENALTIES.
   A violation of this chapter or any license, permit, or condition issued
under this chapter is a municipal civil infraction and subject to enforcement,
as set forth below.
   (A)   Party to violation. Any person who violates this chapter, or fails to
comply with its terms, or with any of the conditions of any license or permit,
shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction. Any property owner who
violates or allows a violation of this chapter on his or her property shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
   (B)   Each day. Each day that any violation exists or continues shall be
deemed a separate offense.
   (C)   Penalty. Any person or other entity who causes or permits to continue
a public nuisance as prohibited by the chapter is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction as defined by Michigan law and is subject to a civil fine of
not more than $500, plus costs, which may include all direct or indirect
expenses to which the Village of Lake Orion has incurred in connection with the
violation. A violator of this chapter shall also be subject to such additional
sanctions, remedies, and judicial orders as are authorized under Michigan law.
Each day a violation of this chapter continues to exist constitutes a separate
violation.
(Ord. 13.05, passed 5-23-22; Am. Ord. 13.07, passed 8-26-24),
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      
130.   OFFENSES AGAINST VILLAGE REGULATIONS
CHAPTER 130: OFFENSES AGAINST VILLAGE REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.001   Sales on residential property; garage sales
   
130.002   Offensive noises
   
130.003   Refrigerators, icebox containers or other similar equipment
   
130.004   Offenses against public rights, safety and morals
   
130.005   Marihuana regulations
   
130.006   Possession of narcotics
   
130.007   Violation of SDM licenses
   
130.008   Violations
   
130.009   Trespassing
Weapons
   
130.020   Definitions
   
130.021   Aiming weapons
   
130.022   Discharge of weapons
   
130.023   Reckless use of weapons
   
130.024   Possessing or use of weapons while under influence
   
130.025   (Reserved)
   
130.026   Hunting
   
130.027   Minors
   
130.028   Sales to minors
   
130.029   Unlawful act of parent or guardian
   
130.030   Forfeiture of weapons
Curfew
   
130.040   Curfew
   
130.041   Parent's responsibilities
   
130.042   Abetting a minor
House Parties
   
130.050   Basis and intent; short title
   
130.051   Definitions
   
130.052   Prohibition
   
130.053   Exemption
Littering
   
130.065   Basis and intent; short title
   
130.066   Littering and accumulation of litter prohibited
   
130.067   Definition
   
130.068   Presumptions
Retail Fraud
   
130.080   Short title; intent and purpose
   
130.081   Retail fraud
Alcoholic Beverages
   
130.095   Consumption of alcohol in public places
   
130.096   Age limit
   
130.097   Alcohol and minors
   
130.098   Minors purchasing, consuming or possessing alcohol
Human Rights
   
130.100   Intent
   
130.101   Definitions
   
130.102   Discriminatory housing practices
   
130.103   Discriminatory public accommodations practices
   
130.104   Discriminatory employment practices
   
130.105   Other prohibited practices
   
130.106   Information and investigation
   
130.107   Exceptions
   
130.108   Rights and remedies
Tobacco Regulations
   
130.120   Tobacco free areas
   
130.121   Restricting smoking and use of tobacco and marihuana products in
village parks and beaches
 
   
130.999   Violations and penalties
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.001 SALES ON RESIDENTIAL PROPERTY; GARAGE SALES.
   (A)   The sale of goods, wares or merchandise from residentially zoned
property in the village is hereby prohibited except as hereinafter provided.
   (B)   The prohibition contained herein does not apply to isolated garage
sales at a residence. An isolated garage sale is hereby defined as the sale of
used personal property from a person’s residence for a continuous period of not
more than ten days and conducted not more than once each year. A permit for a
garage sale will be obtained at the Village Clerk's office for a fee set by the
Village Council by resolution, from time to time. The permit shall be displayed
during the garage sale and is applicable to a one-time use.
(Ord. 27.01, passed 11-27-72; Am. Ord. 6.24, passed 4-8-24) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.002 OFFENSIVE NOISES.
   (A)   Regulations. It shall be unlawful to cause or permit any of the
following acts to occur out-of-doors:
      (1)   Sound amplification from motor vehicle or boat. Operation or
control of a parked or moving motor vehicle, or anchored or moving boat with
any sound amplification equipment in or on such vehicle or boat producing sound
that is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the vehicle or boat, provided,
however, if a person demonstrates in advance to the Village Council that this
provision results in an unreasonable restraint upon desired expression, and
that there are no other reasonablemeans of expression with respect to speech
intended to be disseminated by such person, the Village Council shall grant
such person the right to use sound amplification equipment for the specified
time, place and manner that will reasonably afford the opportunity of
expression.
      (2)   Construction noises. The creation of noise that is clearly audible
beyond the property from which it is emanating, resulting from the erection
(including excavation), demolition, alteration or repair of any building, and
the excavation of streets and highways, during the period that begins one hour
after sunset and ends one hour prior to sunrise, Monday through Saturday, and
at any time prior to 10:00 a.m. and after 6:00 p.m. on Sunday. A deviation from
such limitation shall be authorized if a permit is obtained in advance from the
Village Manager or the Manager's designee, upon a showing that the noise will
not result in an unreasonable disturbance of one or more residential occupants.
      (3)   Animal and bird noises. The keeping of any animal or bird which, by
causing continuous or substantially continuous noise for more than 15 minutes
which is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the property line of the
property from which the noise is emanating.
      (4)   (a)   Radio, stereo equipment, television sets and musical
instruments on property, or from any motor vehicle or boat. The playing of any
radio, stereo equipment and television set, or musical instrument in a manner
and/or with such volume, from any property, motor vehicle or boat so as to
produce sound that is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the property,
motor vehicle or boat from which it is emanating.
         (b)   However, this provision shall not be applicable to a commercial
or noncommercial recreational institution or a religious institution with
respect to such noises that occur during the period that begins one hour prior
to sunrise and ends one hour after sunset.
      (5)   Loud expressions at night. Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling,
singing, or the making of other loud noise by a person or persons during the
period that begins one hour after sunset and ends one hour prior to sunrise,
where such expressions are clearly audible more than 50 feet from the property
line of the property from which such expressions are emanating, or from the
motor vehicle or boat from which such expressions are emanating.
      (6)   Removal of solid waste. The creation of noise audible more than 50
feet from the source of the noise in connection with the removal of solid waste
from any premises, except during the period that begins one hour prior to
sunrise and ends one hour after sunset.
      (7)   Unloading of materials. The creation of noise in connection with
the loading or unloading of materials, goods or other merchandise by the use of
motorized equipment, metal-tired hand trucks, racks, conveyors, or other types
of equipment that occurs during the period that begins one hour after sunset
and ends one hour prior to sunrise, where the noise from such loading and/or
unloading is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the property from which the
noise is emanating.
      (8)   Recreational equipment. Utilization of recreational equipment, such
as skateboards, snowmobiles, off-the-road vehicles, jet skis, and the like,
during the period that begins one hour after sunset and ends one hour prior to
sunrise where the noise emanating from such activity is clearly audible more
than 50 feet from the property line, or, in the case of jet skis, from the
location from which the noise is emanating.
   (B)   Exemptions. The terms and provisions of this section shall not apply
to police, fire, ambulance or other emergency vehicles, publicly or privately
owned vehicles while in the course of plowing or removing snow and shall not
apply to excavations or repairs of streets, highways, bridges and/or utilities
on behalf of the county, village, township, state or federal government and/or
duly authorized utility during the evening hours when the public health, safety
and/or welfare renders it necessary and/or appropriate to perform such work
during the evening hours and/or on Sunday.
   (C)   Governing rules in the event of conflicting code or ordinance
provisions. In the event of conflicting code or ordinance provisions regulating
noise and sound, the code or ordinance provision having the most restrictive
regulation shall be applicable.
(Ord. 7.07, passed 1-14-91; Am. Ord. 6.16, passed 7-25-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.003 REFRIGERATORS, ICEBOX CONTAINERS OR OTHER SIMILAR EQUIPMENT.
   No person, firm or corporation shall permit or suffer to remain in the
village at any place where children might have access thereto any refrigerator,
icebox container or other similar equipment, without first removing the doors
or the locks or latches, or without first taking other precautions to
effectively prevent children from being inadvertently or otherwise locked
therein.
(Ord. 98, passed 10-26-53) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.004 OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC RIGHTS, SAFETY AND MORALS.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      DANGEROUS DRUG. Any drug defined as a narcotic by the statutes of the
state, any barbiturate, any amphetamine, phencyclidine hydrochloride, d-
lysergic acid diethylamide (LSD) or other drug possessing similar
hallucinogenic properties.
      OBSTRUCT. To render difficult of passage without unreasonable
inconvenience or hazard.
      PEACE OFFICER. Any public servant vested by law with a duty to maintain
public order or to make arrests for crime, whether that duty extends to all
crimes or is limited to specific crimes.
      PROPERTY. Any money, personal property, real property, thing in action,
evidence of debt or contract, or article of value of any kind.
      PUBLIC PLACE. A place to which the public or a substantial group of
persons has access, and includes but is not limited to highways, transportation
facilities, schools, places of amusement, parks, playgrounds and hallways,
lobbies, and other portions of apartment houses not constituting rooms or
apartments designed for actual residence.
   (B)   Acts prohibited. No person shall:
      (1)   (a)   Commit an assault, or an assault and battery on any person,
including his or her spouse or former spouse, an individual with whom he or she
has had a dating relationship, an individual with whom he or she has had a
child in common, or a resident or former resident of his or her household. As
used in this section DATING RELATIONSHIP means frequent, intimate associations
primarily characterized by the expectation of affectional involvement. This
term does not include a casual relationship or ordinary fraternization between
two individuals in a business or social context. If no other punishment is
prescribed by law, a person who violates this section is guilty of a
misdemeanor punishable by imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of
not more than $500, or both.
         (b)   The penalty provision of division (1)(a) above is authorized by
state law, 1999 PA 55, and shall supersede the penalties provided in §
10.99.
      (2)   Engage in any indecent, insulting, immoral or obscene conduct in
any public place.
      (3)   Utter vile, profane or obscene language in any public place.
      (4)   Make any immoral exhibition or indecent exposure of his or her
person.
      (5)   Print, engrave, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit or
publish, or have in his possession for any purpose, any obscene, lewd,
lascivious, indecent, or immodest book, pamphlet, paper, picture, cast
statuary, image, or representation or other article of an indecent or immoral
nature, or any book, paper, print, circular, or writing made up principally of
pictures or stories of immodest deeds, lust or crime, or exhibit any such
article within the view of any passerby.
      (6)   Willfully destroy, remove, damage, alter, or in any manner deface
any property not his own, or any public school building, or any public
building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light, street sign, traffic
control device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter, or shade tree belonging
to the village or located in the public places of the village, or mark or post
hand bills on, or in any manner mar the walls of any public building, or fence,
tree, or pole within the village, or destroy, take or meddle with any property
belonging to the village, or remove the same from the building or place where
it may be left, placed, or stored, without proper authority, or disturb, tamper
with, disconnect, or damage any village water meter without proper authority.
      (7)   Destroy, injure or in any manner deface any drinking fountain
located in the village, or throw or deposit any substance therein, or in any
manner pollute the water in the basin of any fountain or detach the cups or
other parts of such drinking fountains.
      (8)   Play any ball game in any public street or sidewalk or otherwise
obstruct traffic on any street or sidewalk by collecting in groups thereon, for
any purpose.
      (9)   Engage in an act of prostitution.
      (10)   Attend, frequent, operate or be an occupant or inmate of any place
where prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating liquor, or where
any other illegal or immoral business or occupation is permitted or conducted.
      (11)   Engage in prostitution, gambling, the illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor, or any other illegal or immoral business or occupation. Proof of recent
reputation for engaging in prostitution, gambling, illegal sale of intoxicating
liquor or other illegal or immoral occupation or business shall be prima facie
evidence of being engaged or occupied therein.
      (12)   Solicit or accost any person for the purpose of inducing the
commission of any illegal or immoral act.
      (13)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution is
practiced, encouraged or allowed for the purpose of enabling such person to
engage in gambling or in any illegal or immoral act.
      (14)   Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming tables, or any policy or
pool tickets, used for gaming, or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming
tables, or any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played or sold on
any premises occupied or controlled by him.
      (15)   Obstruct, resist, hinder, or oppose any member of this police
force, or any peace officer in the discharge of his duties as such.
      (16)   Unlawful possession of drug paraphernalia. A person commits the
offense of “unlawful possession of drug paraphernalia” if he has or possesses a
hypodermic needle, syringe, spoon, pipe, or any other instrument, implement or
device adapted for the use or administration of any dangerous drug, by
subcutaneous injection, intracutaneous injection or any other manner or method
of introducing such drug into the body, and which is possessed for that
purpose, unless such possession is authorized by the certificate of a licensed
medical doctor or osteopathic physician issued within the period of one year;
provided that the prohibition contained in this section shall not apply to
manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers, licensed medical technicians,
technologists, nurses, hospitals, research teaching institutions, clinical
laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic physicians, dentists, chiropodists,
veterinarians, pharmacists, and embalmers in the normal legal course of their
respective business or profession, nor to persons suffering from diabetes,
asthma, or any other medical condition requiring self-injection.
      (17)   Obstructing government operations.
         (a)   A person commits the offense of “obstructing government
operations” if he obstructs, impairs, or hinders the performance of a
governmental function or the use of government property by using or threatening
to use violence, force, physical interference or obstacle or summons, or causes
or be summoned, without good reason therefore, by telephone or otherwise, the
police or fire department or any public or private ambulance to go to any
address where the service called is not needed.
         (b)   For purposes of this section GOVERNMENT includes any principal
subdivision or agency of the United States, State of Michigan, or any agency of
local government operating within the village; GOVERNMENT FUNCTION includes any
activity that a public agency or public servant is legally authorized to
undertake.
      (18)   Harassment. A person commits the offense of “harassment” if, with
intent to harass, annoy or alarm another person, he:
         (a)   Strikes, shoves, kicks or otherwise touches a person or subjects
him to physical contact; or
         (b)   Follows a person in or about a public place or places; or
         (c)   Engages in a course of conduct or repeatedly commits acts that
alarm or seriously annoy another person and that serve no legitimate purpose.
      (19)   Menacing. A person commits the crime of “menacing” if, by physical
action, he intentionally places or attempts to place another person in fear of
imminent serious physical injury.
      (20)   Malicious mischief. A person commits the offense of “malicious
mischief” if, having no right to do so or any reasonable ground to believe that
he has such right, he intentionally damages public property or private property
belonging to another person.
      (21)   Theft of property. A person commits the offense of “theft of
property” if he takes, steals or appropriates to his own use public property or
private property belonging to another person.
      (22)   Theft of services. A person commits the offense of “theft of
services” if he intentionally obtains services known by him to be available
only for compensation by deception, threat, false token or other means to avoid
payment for the services.
      (23)   Disorderly conduct; no person shall recklessly, knowingly, or
intentionally:
         (a)   Engage in fighting;
         (b)   Engage in conduct that results in or is likely to result in
serious bodily injury to a person or substantial damage to property;
         (c)   Make unreasonable noise and continue to do so after being asked
to stop;
         (d)   Disrupt a lawful assembly of persons;
         (e)   Obstruct vehicular or pedestrian traffic;
         (f)   Participate in an assembly of two or more persons whose common
objective is to commit an unlawful act. Prior concert is not necessary to form
an unlawful assembly; or
         (g)   Enter or remain in a park after posted park hours.
      (24)   Loitering.
         (a)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law- abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
         (b)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by
a police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
         (c)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
(Ord. 6.01, passed 9-27-71; Am. Ord. 6.02, passed 11-27-72; Am. Ord. 6.10,
passed 1-12-98; Am. Ord. 6.11, passed 5-13-02; Am. Ord. 6.13, passed 9-24-07;
Am. Ord. 6.17, passed 7-25-16) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.005 MARIHUANA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Definitions. The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this
section, shall have the meanings ascribed to them in this division, except
where the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
      CULTIVATE. To propagate, breed, grow, harvest, dry, cure, or separate
parts of the marihuana plant by manual or mechanical means.
      DEPARTMENT. The department of licensing and regulatory affairs.
      INDUSTRIAL HEMP. A plant of the genus cannabis and any part of that
plant, whether growing or not, with a delta-9 tetrahydrocannabinol
concentration that does not exceed 0.3% on a dry-weight basis, or per volume or
weight of marihuana-infused product, or the combined percent of delta-9-
tetrahydrocannabinol and tetrahydrocannabinolic acid in any part of the plant
of the genus cannabis regardless of moisture content.
      LICENSEE. A person holding a state license.
      MARIHUANA. All parts of the plant of the genus cannabis, growing or not;
the seeds of the plant; the resin extracted from any part of the plant; and
every compound, manufacture, salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the
plant or its seeds or resin, including marihuana concentrate and marihuana-
infused products. For purposes of this section, MARIHUANA does not include:
         (a)    The mature stalks of the plant, fiber produced from the stalks,
oil or cake made from the seeds of the plant, any other compound, manufacture,
salt, derivative, mixture, or preparation of the mature stalks, except the
resin extracted from those stalks, fiber, oil, or cake, or any sterilized seed
of the plant that is incapable of germination;
         (b)   Industrial hemp; or
         (c)   Any other ingredient combined with marihuana to prepare topical
or oral administrations, food, drink, or other products.
      MARIHUANA ACCESSORIES. Any equipment, product, material, or combination
of equipment, products, or materials, which is specifically designed for use in
planting, propagating, cultivating, growing, harvesting, manufacturing,
compounding, converting, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing,
packaging, repackaging, storing, containing, ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise
introducing marihuana into the human body.
      MARIHUANA CONCENTRATE. The resin extracted from any part of the plant of
the genus cannabis.
      MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENT. A marihuana grower, marihuana safety compliance
facility, marihuana processor, marihuana microbusiness, marihuana retailer,
marihuana secure transporter, or any other type of marihuana-related business
licensed by the department.
      MARIHUANA GROWER. A person licensed to cultivate marihuana and sell or
otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana establishments.
      MARIHUANA-INFUSED PRODUCT. A topical formulation, tincture, beverage,
edible substance, or similar product containing marihuana and other ingredients
and that is intended for human consumption.
      MARIHUANA MICROBUSINESS. A person licensed to cultivate not more than 150
marihuana plants; process and package marihuana; and sell or otherwise transfer
marihuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or to a marihuana
safety compliance facility, but not to other marihuana establishments.
      MARIHUANA PROCESSOR. A person licensed to obtain marihuana from marihuana
establishments; process and package marihuana; and sell or otherwise transfer
marihuana to marihuana establishments.
      MARIHUANA RETAILER. A person licensed to obtain marihuana from marihuana
establishments and to sell or otherwise transfer marihuana to marihuana
establishments and to individuals who are 21 years of age or older.
      MARIHUANA SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A person licensed to test
marihuana, including certification for potency and the presence of
contaminants.
      MARIHUANA SECURE TRANSPORTER. A person licensed to obtain marihuana from
marihuana establishments in order to transport marihuana to marihuana
establishments.
      MUNICIPALITY. A city, village, or township.
      MUNICIPAL LICENSE. A license issued by the city that allows a person to
operate a marihuana establishment.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company,
partnership of any type, trust, or other legal entity.
      PROCESS or PROCESSING. To separate or otherwise prepare parts of the
marihuana plant and to compound, blend, extract, infuse, or otherwise make or
prepare marihuana concentrate or marihuana-infused products.
      STATE LICENSE. A license issued by the department that allows a person to
operate a marihuana establishment.
      UNREASONABLY IMPRACTICABLE. That the measures necessary to comply with
the rules or ordinances adopted pursuant to this section subject licensees to
unreasonable risk or require such a high investment of money, time, or any
other resource or asset that a reasonably prudent businessperson would not
operate the marihuana establishment.
   (B)   Scope. Unauthorized activities with marihuana and marihuana
accessories; limitations; application of privileges, rights, immunities, and
defenses under other marihuana laws; employer rights; and property owner
rights.
      (1)   No person shall:
         (a)   Operate, navigate, or be in physical control of any motor
vehicle, aircraft, snowmobile, off-road recreational vehicle, or motorboat
while under the influence of marihuana;
         (b)   Transfer marihuana or marihuana accessories to a person under
the age of 21;
         (c)   Under the age of 21 possess, consume, purchase or otherwise
obtain, cultivate, process, transport, or sell marihuana;
         (d)   Separate the plant resin by butane extraction or another method
that utilizes a substance with a flashpoint below 100 degrees Fahrenheit in any
public place, motor vehicle, or within the curtilage of any residential
structure;
         (e)   Consume marihuana in a public place or smoke marihuana where
prohibited by the person who owns, occupies, or manages the property;
         (f)   Cultivate marihuana plants if the plants are visible from a
public place without the use of binoculars, aircraft, or other optical aids or
outside of an enclosed area equipped with locks or other functioning security
devices that restrict access to the area;
         (g)   Consume marihuana while operating, navigating, or being in
physical control of any motor vehicle, aircraft, snowmobile, off-road
recreational vehicle, or motorboat, or smoke marihuana within the passenger
area of a vehicle upon a public way;
         (h)   Possess marihuana accessories or possess or consume marihuana on
the grounds of a public or private school where children attend classes in
preschool programs, kindergarten programs, or grades first through twelfth, or
in a school bus; or
         (i)   Possess more than 2.5 ounces of marihuana within a person's
place of residence unless the excess marihuana is stored in a container or area
equipped with locks or other functioning security devices that restrict access
to the contents of the container or area. The maximum marihuana allowed is 10
ounces.
      (2)   This section does not limit any privileges, rights, immunities, or
defenses of a person as provided in the Michigan medical marihuana act, 2008 IL
1, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 to 333.26430, the Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act, 2016 PA 281, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 to 333.27801, or any other
law of this state allowing for or regulating marihuana for medical use.
      (3)   This section does not require an employer to permit or accommodate
conduct otherwise allowed by this section in any workplace or on the employer's
property. This section does not prohibit an employer from disciplining an
employee for violation of a workplace drug policy or for working while under
the influence of marihuana. This section does not prevent an employer from
refusing to hire, discharge, discipline, or otherwise take an adverse
employment action against a person with respect to hiring, tenuring, terms,
conditions, or privileges of employment because of that person's violation of a
workplace drug policy or because that person was working while under the
influence of marihuana.
      (4)   This section allows a person to prohibit or otherwise regulate the
consumption, cultivation, distribution, processing, sale, or display of
marihuana and marihuana accessories on property the person owns, occupies, or
manages, except that a lease agreement may not prohibit a tenant from lawfully
possessing and consuming marihuana by means other than smoking.
   (C)   Lawful activities by person 21 years of age or older; terms,
conditions, limitations, and restrictions; and denial of custody or visitation
prohibited. A person 21 years of age or older may:
      (1)   Possess, use or consume, internally possess, purchase, transport,
or process 2.5 ounces or less of marihuana, except that not more than 15 grams
of marihuana may be in the form of marihuana concentrate;
      (2)   Within the person's residence, possess, store, and process not more
than 10 ounces of marihuana and any marihuana produced by marihuana plants
cultivated on the premises and cultivating not more than 12 marihuana plants
for personal use, provided that no more than 12 marihuana plants are possessed,
cultivated, or processed on the premises at once;
      (3)   Assist another person who is 21 years of age or older in any of the
acts described in this section; and
      (4)   Give away or otherwise transfer without remuneration up to 2.5
ounces of marihuana, except that not more than 15 grams of marihuana may be in
the form of marihuana concentrate, to a person 21 years of age or older, as
long as the transfer is not advertised or promoted to the public.
   (D)   Civil/criminal penalties.
      (1)   A person who possesses, cultivates, delivers, without receiving any
remuneration to a person who is at least 21 years of age, between 2.6 ounces
and 5 ounces of marihuana or not more than 20 ounces in the residence, or is
cultivating 13 to 24 plants:
         (a)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished by a fine of not more than $100 and forfeiture of the
marihuana.
         (b)   For a second violation, is responsible for a state civil
infraction and may be punished by a fine of not more than $1,000 and forfeiture
of the marihuana.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, is guilty of a state
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 and
forfeiture of the marihuana.
      (2)   A person under 21 years of age who possesses not more than 2.5
ounces of marihuana or who cultivates not more than 12 marihuana plants:
         (a)   For a first violation, is responsible for a civil infraction and
may be punished as follows:
            1.   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100, community service, forfeiture of the marihuana, and completion
of 4 hours of drug education or counseling; or,
            2.   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $100 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
         (b)   For a second violation, is responsible for a civil infraction
and may be punished as follows:
            1.   If the person is less than 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500, community service, forfeiture of the marihuana, and completion
of 8 hours of drug education or counseling; or
            2.   If the person is at least 18 years of age, by a fine of not
more than $500 and forfeiture of the marihuana.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, is guilty of a state
misdemeanor and may be punished by a fine of not more than $2,000 and
forfeiture of the marihuana.
      (3)   A person who possesses, or delivers, without receiving any
remuneration to a person who is at least 21 years of age, more than 5 ounces,
more than 20 ounces in the home, and over 24 plants shall be responsible for a
93-day misdemeanor, but shall not be subject to imprisonment unless the
violation was habitual, willful, and for a commercial purpose or the violation
involved violence.
(Ord. 6.04, passed 1-15-80; Am. Ord. 6.20, passed 6-10-19) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.006 POSSESSION OF NARCOTICS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to be under the influence of any
narcotic drug in any public place.
(Ord. 6.04, passed 1-15-80) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.007 VIOLATION OF SDM LICENSES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to store, dispense,
offer for sale, or give away any gasoline or diesel motor fuel from premises
that have been granted an SDM license.
(Ord. 6.05, passed 1-14-85) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.008 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of §§
130.001,
130.002,
130.003,
130.040,
130.041,
130.042 or
130.066 of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2). Violations of the remaining sections shall be deemed to be a
misdemeanor, and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(1).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
§ 130.009 TRESPASSING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully enter upon the lands or
premises of another without lawful authority, after having been forbidden to do
so by the owner or the occupant, or the agent or servant of either, and it
shall be unlawful for any person being upon the land or premises of another
who, upon being notified to depart therefrom by the owner or the occupant or
the agent or servant of either, neglects or refuses to depart therefrom.
(Ord. 6.12, passed 8-11-03) Penalty, see §
10.99(A)(1)
WEAPONS
§ 130.020 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   WEAPON. Any instrument used in the propulsion of shot, shell, bullets,
darts, B-B's, or projectiles or any combination thereof, by the action of
gunpowder exploded within it, or by means of any propellant, gas, spring action
or compressed air. A “slingshot” shall be deemed a weapon within the meaning of
this subchapter.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71)
§ 130.021 AIMING WEAPONS.
   No person shall intentionally, with or without malice, point or aim any
weapon at or toward any other person.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.022 DISCHARGE OF WEAPONS.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, except a police officer or
any other peace officer in the discharge of his duties, to fire or discharge
any gun, pistol, shotgun, rifle, revolver or any other firearm or air gun, air
rifle, air pistol, slingshot, or any other instrument calculated to propel or
throw any missile within the village.
      (2)   However, nothing in division (A)(1) shall prohibit any person from
discharging such weapons in the necessary defense of his person, family or
property; further provided that nothing in this subchapter shall prevent the
discharge of weapons in a regularly licensed shooting gallery of the village or
target ranges under suitable regulations for the protection and safety of its
citizens and inhabitants.
   (B)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person with a rifle, revolver,
pistol, gun, shot gun or other firearm or with a slingshot, air gun, air
pistol, air rifle, or any other weapon to destroy, injure or damage any
electric light or equipment or any animal or any other real or personal
property, public or private, within the village.
      (2)   This division (B) shall not apply to any police officer acting in
the discharge of his duties.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.023 RECKLESS USE OF WEAPONS.
   No person shall use, carry, handle or discharge any weapon carelessly and
heedlessly in willful or wanton disregard of the rights, safety or property of
others, or without due caution or circumspection.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.024 POSSESSING OR USE OF WEAPONS WHILE UNDER INFLUENCE.
   No person while under the influence of intoxicating liquor or exhilarating
or stupefying drugs shall carry, have in his possession or under his control,
or in any manner use or discharge any weapon.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.025 (RESERVED).
§ 130.026 HUNTING.
   No person shall hunt any fowl, wild game or animals of any type with a
weapon, loaded or unloaded, within the village.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.027 MINORS.
   (A)   Except when accompanied by a person over 21 years of age in a
regularly licensed shooting gallery or target range with regulations for
protection of persons and property and except in conjunction with courses of
instruction as may be approved by the Police Department, it shall be unlawful
for any person under the age of 21 to use or have in his possession outside the
curtilage [i.e., yard] of his home within the village, an air gun, air rifle,
air pistol, slingshot or other weapon as defined herein. The Chief of Police or
any member of the police force shall have authority and it shall be his duty to
confiscate any air gun, air rifle, air pistol, slingshot or other weapons, as
defined herein, found in the possession of any person under the age of 21
years.
   (B)   A person under the age of 21 years shall be permitted to have in his
possession an air gun, air rifle, air pistol, or slingshot when traveling
between his home and any shooting gallery or target range or course of
instruction in the use of said weapons as may be approved by the Police
Department; provided, that the minor is accompanied by a person over the age of
21 years during the time the minor is traveling to and from the course of
instruction, shooting gallery or target range.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.028 SALES TO MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to sell, offer to
sale, give away or distribute any firearm, slingshot, air gun, air rifle, air
pistol or other like weapon to any person in the village who is under the age
of 21 years.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.029 UNLAWFUL ACT OF PARENT OR GUARDIAN.
   It shall be unlawful for any parent, guardian or other person having custody
or charge of any person under the age of 21 years to knowingly permit such
minor to have in his possession or use any firearm, slingshot, air gun, air
rifle, air pistol, or other weapons, as defined herein, except in a duly
licensed shooting gallery or target range.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.030 FORFEITURE OF WEAPONS.
   All weapons carried, possessed, aimed, discharged and used contrary to this
subchapter are hereby declared forfeited to the Village of Lake Orion and may
be seized by any police officer of the village and can be redeemed only at the
discretion of the Chief of Police after all court fines and costs have been
paid.
(Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
CURFEW
§ 130.040 CURFEW.
   It shall be unlawful for any minor under the age of 17 years to loiter,
idle, wander, stroll, frequent, travel, in or upon a motor vehicle, watercraft,
or otherwise be or remain in or upon any of the public sidewalks, streets,
alleys, parks, or public buildings or places of amusement or entertainment or
other public grounds or places in the village between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 6:00 a.m., immediately following, unless such minor is accompanied by a
parent, guardian, custodian, or some adult delegated by the parent or guardian,
custodian, or some such minor is in the performance of an errand or duty
directed by such parent, guardian, custodian, or unless such minor is returning
directly home from a school, church, or civic function or entertainment or
unless the employment of such minor makes it necessary to be upon the streets,
alleys, or other public places during the prohibited hours hereinabove
mentioned.
(Ord. 5.01, passed 9-27-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.041 PARENT'S RESPONSIBILITIES.
   It shall be unlawful for the parent, guardian, custodian or other person
having legal care and custody of any minor under the age of 17 years, to allow
or permit any such minor to violate the provisions of this subchapter unless
such presence of such minor shall fall within one of the exceptions of §
130.040.
(Ord. 5.01, passed 9-27-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.042 ABETTING A MINOR.
   No person shall assist, aid, abet or encourage any minor under the age of 17
years to violate the provisions of this section.
(Ord. 5.01, passed 9-27-71) Penalty, see §
10.99
HOUSE PARTIES
§ 130.050 BASIS AND INTENT; SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   Basis and intent. The Village Council has found that the unregulated
use of alcohol and drugs by minors creates social problems, and that the use of
alcohol and drugs by minors can have devastating effects on the lives and
property of minors and others, and on the public at large, including, without
limitation, injuries caused by vehicles operated by persons under the influence
of alcohol and/or drugs. The Village Council has further found and concluded
that adults could significantly alleviate alcohol and drug problems of minors
by assuming the responsibility for house parties that occur at their
residences. It is the intent of this subchapter to encourage adults to assume
such responsibility.
   (B)   Short Title. This subchapter shall be known as the “Ordinance to
Regulate the Use of Alcoholic Beverages and Drugs by Minors at House Parties.”
(Ord. 6.07, passed 8-10-87)
§ 130.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADULT. A person 17 years of age or older.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than ½ of 1% of alcohol by
weight. The percentage of alcohol by weight shall be determined in accordance
with the provisions of M.C.L.A. § 436.2, as amended.
   CONTROL. Any form of regulation or domination including the exercise of
ownership and/or possessory right.
   DRUG. A controlled substance as defined by Public Act 196 of 1971, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.7101 through 333.7109 and successor or
superseding legislation.
   HOUSE PARTY. A gathering of persons at a residence, other than, and/or in
addition to, the owner or those with rights of possession or their immediate
family members, on the premises by express permission or by acquiescence.
   MINOR. A person not legally permitted by reason of age to possess or consume
alcoholic beverages pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 436.33b, as amended.
   RESIDENCE. A home, apartment, condominium, or other dwelling unit, together
with the curtilage of such dwelling unit.
(Ord. 6.07, passed 8-10-87)
§ 130.052 PROHIBITION.
   An adult having control of any residence shall not allow a house party to
take place at such residence if any alcoholic beverage or drug is possessed or
consumed at such residence by any minor where the adult knew or reasonably
should have known that an alcoholic beverage or drug was in the possession of
or being consumed by a minor at such residence, and where the adult failed to
take reasonable steps to prevent the possession or consumption of the alcoholic
beverage or drug at such residence.
(Ord. 6.07, passed 8-10-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.053 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to legally recognized
religious observances, or legally recognized educational activities, which are
conducted under the guidance of an ordained or duly licensed person.
(Ord. 6.07, passed 8-10-87)
LITTERING
§ 130.065 BASIS AND INTENT; SHORT TITLE.
   (A)   Basis and intent. The Village Council has found that the unregulated
littering of public and private property and waters has serious and significant
effects on the lives and properties of the residents of the village creating
blighting influences and health hazards. It is the intent of this subchapter to
prohibit the littering of public and private property and waters.
   (B)   Short title. This subchapter shall be known as the “Village of Lake
Orion Littering Ordinance.”
(Ord. 6.08, passed 10-11-88)
§ 130.066 LITTERING AND ACCUMULATION OF LITTER PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Littering. No person shall knowingly dump, deposit, place, throw or
leave, or cause or permit the dumping, depositing, placing, throwing or leaving
of litter onto any public or private property or waters other than property
designated and set aside for such purposes. The phrase public or private
property or waters includes, but is not limited to, the right-of-way and any
road or highway, any body of water or water course, or the shores or beaches
thereof, and including the ice above such waters, any park, playground,
building or recreation area, and any residential property.
   (B)   Accumulation of litter. It shall be unlawful for any person to allow
the accumulation of litter, or allow litter to remain outdoors on property
owned or controlled by such person for a period of more than 15 days, when
allowing such litter to remain on property would be reasonably likely to result
in a safety and/or health hazard either in and of itself or if such condition
were to prevail on several other properties in one area.
(Ord. 6.08, passed 10-11-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.067 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   LITTER. All rubbish, refuse, waste material, garbage, offal, paper, glass,
cans, bottles, trash, debris or other foreign substances of every kind and
description.
(Ord. 6.08, passed 10-11-88)
§ 130.068 PRESUMPTIONS.
   (A)   Except as provided in division (C) of this section, in a proceeding
for a violation of this act involving litter from a motor vehicle or vessel,
proof that the particular vehicle or vessel described in the citation,
complaint or warrant was used in the violation, together with proof that the
defendant named in the citation, complaint or warrant was the registered owner
of a vehicle or vessel at the time of violation constitutes in evidence a
presumption that the registered owner of the vehicle or vessel was the driver
of the vehicle or vessel at the time of the violation.
   (B)   The driver is presumed to be responsible for litter that is thrown,
dropped, dumped, deposited, placed or left from the vehicle or vessel on public
or private property, or waters defined in this code. For purposes of this
section, VEHICLE means every motor vehicle registered under Public Act 300 of
1949, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 through 257.923; and a vessel
registered under Public Act 303 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 281.1001
and 288.1199.
   (C)   In a proceeding for a violation of this section involving litter from
a leased motor vehicle or leased vessel, proof that the particular vehicle or
vessel described in the citation, complaint, or warrant was used in the
violation together with proof that the defendant named in the citation,
complaint or warrant was the lessee of the vehicle or vessel at the time of
violation, constitutes in evidence a presumption that the lessee of the vehicle
or vessel was the driver of the vehicle or vessel at the time of the violation.
(Ord. 6.08, passed 10-11-88) Penalty, see §
10.99
RETAIL FRAUD
§ 130.080 SHORT TITLE; INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of
Lake Orion Retail Fraud Ordinance.”
   (B)   The Council has determined that the protection and promotion of the
public health, safety and welfare requires the adoption of this subchapter to
define crime committed in stores open to the public and to provide a penalty
for the commission of such crime in retail establishments throughout the
village.
(Ord. 6.09, passed 7-10-89)
§ 130.081 RETAIL FRAUD.
   A person who does any of the following in any retail and/or wholesale
establishment whose business is to offer property for sale, or in the immediate
vicinity of such an establishment or within the area of the sidewalk, parking
lot, adjacent yard or outdoor storage lot and/or within the area in which
business is being conducted, shall be guilty of retail fraud:
   (A)   While a store is open to the public, alters, transfers, removes and
replaces, conceals, or otherwise misrepresents the price at which property is
offered for sale, with the intent not to pay for the property or to pay less
than the price at which a product is offered for sale.
   (B)   While a store is open to the public, steals property of the store that
is offered for sale.
   (C)   With intent to defraud, obtains or attempts to obtain money or
property from the store as a refund of exchange for property that was not paid
for and belongs to the store.
(Ord. 6.09, passed 7-10-89) Penalty, see §
10.99
ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
§ 130.095 CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOL IN PUBLIC PLACES.
   No person shall consume any alcoholic liquor, beer and/or wine on public
streets or highways, village parks, places of amusement and all other places
open to the public within the village, not licensed to sell for consumption on
the premises.
(Ord. 114, passed 4-6-59) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.096 AGE LIMIT.
   No person under the age of 21 years shall purchase or knowingly possess,
transport, or have under his control in any motor vehicle any alcoholic liquor,
beer and/or wine, unless said person is employed by a licensee under the Liquor
and Habit Forming Drugs Act, or possessing, transporting or having such
alcoholic liquor in a motor vehicle under his control during regular working
hours and in the course of his employment.
(Ord. 114, passed 4-6-59) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.097 ALCOHOL AND MINORS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to furnish, provide or give alcoholic
liquor or beverage as defined under the statutes of the state to a person under
the age of 21.
(Ord. 6.03, passed 2-13-79) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.098 MINORS PURCHASING, CONSUMING OR POSSESSING ALCOHOL.
   Purchase, consumption, or possession of alcoholic liquor by minor; attempt;
violation; fines; sanctions; furnishing fraudulent identification to minor; use
by minor; prior violation; screening and assessment; prior judgment; chemical
breath analysis; notice to parent, custodian, or guardian; exceptions;
recruitment of minor for undercover operation prohibited; affirmative defense;
definitions.
   (A)   A minor shall not purchase or attempt to purchase alcoholic liquor,
consume or attempt to consume alcoholic liquor, possess or attempt to possess
alcoholic liquor, or have any bodily alcohol content, except as provided in
this section. A minor who violates this subsection is responsible for a civil
infraction or guilty of a misdemeanor as follows:
      (1)   For the first violation, the minor is responsible for a civil
infraction and shall be fined not more than $100. The court may order a minor
under this subdivision to participate in substance use disorder services as
defined in Section 6230 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6230,
and designated by the administrator of the office of substance abuse services,
and may order the minor to perform community service and to undergo substance
abuse screening and assessment at his or her own expense as described in
division (E). A minor may be found responsible or admit responsibility only
once under this subdivision.
      (2)   If a violation of this subsection occurs after one prior judgment,
the minor is guilty of a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor under this subdivision is
punishable by imprisonment for not more than 30 days if the court finds that
the minor violated an order of probation, failed to successfully complete any
treatment, screening, or community service ordered by the court, or failed to
pay any fine for that conviction or juvenile adjudication, or by a fine of not
more than $200, or both. The court may order a minor under this subdivision to
complete a term of probation, participate in substance use disorder services as
defined in Section 6230 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6230,
and designated by the administrator of the office of substance abuse services,
to perform community service, and to undergo substance abuse screening and
assessment at his or her own expense as described in division (E).
      (3)   If a violation of this subsection occurs after two or more prior
judgments, the minor is guilty of a misdemeanor. A misdemeanor under this
subdivision is punishable by imprisonment for not more than 60 days, if the
court finds that the minor violated an order of probation, failed to
successfully complete any treatment, screening, or community service ordered by
the court, or failed to pay any fine for that conviction or juvenile
adjudication, or by a fine of not more than $500, or both, as applicable. The
court may order a minor under this subdivision to complete a term of probation,
to participate in substance use disorder services as defined in Section 6230 of
the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.6230, and designated by the
administrator of the office of substance abuse services, to perform community
service, and to undergo substance abuse screening and assessment at his or her
own expense as described in division (E).
   (B)   An individual who furnishes fraudulent identification to a minor or,
notwithstanding division (A), a minor who uses fraudulent identification to
purchase alcoholic liquor, is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by
imprisonment for not more than 93 days or a fine of not more than $100, or
both.
   (C)   If an individual who pleads guilty to a misdemeanor violation of
division (A)(2) or offers a plea of admission in a juvenile delinquency
proceeding for a misdemeanor violation of subsection (A)(2), the court, without
entering a judgment of guilt in a criminal proceeding or a determination in a
juvenile delinquency proceeding that the juvenile has committed the offense and
with the consent of the accused, may defer further proceedings and place the
individual on probation. The terms and conditions of that probation include,
but are not limited to, the sanctions set forth in division (A)(3), payment of
the costs including minimum state cost as provided for in Section 18m of
Chapter XIIA of the Probate Code of 1939, 1939 PA 288, MCL 712A.18m, and
Section 1j of Chapter IX of the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1927 PA 175, MCL
769.1j, and the costs of probation as prescribed in Section 3 of Chapter XI of
the Code of Criminal Procedure, 1927 PA 175, MCL 771.3. If a court finds that
an individual violated a term or condition of probation or that the individual
is utilizing this subsection in another court, the court may enter an
adjudication of guilt, or a determination in a juvenile delinquency proceeding
that the individual has committed the offense, and proceed as otherwise
provided by law. If an individual fulfills the terms and conditions of
probation, the court shall discharge the individual and dismiss the
proceedings. A discharge and dismissal under this section is without
adjudication of guilt or without a determination in a juvenile delinquency
proceeding that the individual has committed the offense and is not a
conviction or juvenile adjudication for purposes of disqualifications or
disabilities imposed by law on conviction of a crime. An individual may obtain
only one discharge and dismissal under this subsection. The court shall
maintain a nonpublic record of the matter while proceedings are deferred and
the individual is on probation and if there is a discharge and dismissal under
this subsection. The secretary of state shall retain a nonpublic record of a
plea and of the discharge and dismissal under this subsection. These records
shall be furnished to any of the following:
      (1)   To a court, prosecutor, or police agency on request for the purpose
of determining if an individual has already utilized this subsection.
      (2)   To the department of corrections, a prosecutor, or a law
enforcement agency, on the department's, a prosecutor's, or a law enforcement
agency's request, subject to all of the following conditions:
         (a)   At the time of the request, the individual is an employee of the
Department of Corrections, the prosecutor, or the law enforcement agency, or an
applicant for employment with the department of corrections, the prosecutor, or
the law enforcement agency.
         (b)   The record is used by the department of corrections, the
prosecutor, or the law enforcement agency only to determine whether an employee
has violated his or her conditions of employment or whether an applicant meets
criteria for employment.
   (D)   A misdemeanor violation of division (A) successfully deferred,
discharged, and dismissed under division (C) is considered a prior judgment for
the purposes of division (A)(3).
   (E)   A court may order an individual found responsible for or convicted of
violating division (A) to undergo screening and assessment by a person or
agency as designated by the department-designated community mental health
entity as defined in Section 100a of the Mental Health Code, 1974 PA 258, MCL
330.1100a, to determine whether the individual is likely to benefit from
rehabilitative services, including alcohol or drug education and alcohol or
drug treatment programs. A court may order an individual subject to a
misdemeanor conviction or juvenile adjudication of, or placed on probation
regarding, a violation of division (A) to submit to a random or regular
preliminary chemical breath analysis. The parent, guardian, or custodian of a
minor who is less than 18 years of age and not emancipated under 1968 PA 293,
MCL 722.1 to 722.6, may request a random or regular preliminary chemical breath
analysis as part of the probation.
   (F)   The Secretary of State shall suspend the operator's or chauffeur's
license of an individual convicted of a second or subsequent violation of
division (A) or of violating division (B) as provided in Section 319 of the
Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA 300, MCL 257.319.
   (G)   A peace officer who has reasonable cause to believe a minor has
consumed alcoholic liquor or has any bodily alcohol content may request that
individual to submit to a preliminary chemical breath analysis. If a minor does
not consent to a preliminary chemical breath analysis, the analysis shall not
be administered without a court order, but a peace officer may seek to obtain a
court order. The results of a preliminary chemical breath analysis or other
acceptable blood alcohol test are admissible in a civil infraction proceeding
or criminal prosecution to determine if the minor has consumed or possessed
alcoholic liquor or had any bodily alcohol content.
   (H)   The Village of Lake Orion Police Department, on determining that an
individual who is less than 18 years of age and not emancipated under 1968 PA
293, MCL 722.1 to 722.6, allegedly consumed, possessed, or purchased alcoholic
liquor, attempted to consume, possess, or purchase alcoholic liquor, or had any
bodily alcohol content in violation of division (A) shall notify the parent or
parents, custodian, or guardian of the individual as to the nature of the
violation if the name of a parent, guardian, or custodian is reasonably
ascertainable by the Village of Lake Orion Police Department. The Village of
Lake Orion Police Department shall notify the parent, guardian, or custodian
not later than 48 hours after the Village of Lake Orion Police Department
determines that the individual who allegedly violated division (A) is less than
18 years of age and not emancipated under 1968 PA 293, MCL 722.1 to 722.6. The
Village of Lake Orion Police Department may notify the parent, guardian, or
custodian by any means reasonably calculated to give prompt actual notice
including, but not limited to, notice in person, by telephone, or by first-
class mail. If an individual less than 17 years of age is incarcerated for
violating division (A), his or her parents or legal guardian shall be notified
immediately as provided in this division.
   (I)   This section does not prohibit a minor from possessing alcoholic
liquor during regular working hours and in the course of his or her employment
if employed by a person licensed by this act, by the commission, or by an agent
of the commission, if the alcoholic liquor is not possessed for his or her
personal consumption.
   (J)   The following individuals are not considered to be in violation of
division (A):
      (1)   A minor who has consumed alcoholic liquor and who voluntarily
presents himself or herself to a health facility or agency for treatment or for
observation including, but not limited to, medical examination and treatment
for any condition arising from a violation of Sections 520b to 520g of the
Michigan Penal Code, 1931 PA 328, MCL 750.520b to 750.520g, committed against a
minor.
      (2)   A minor who accompanies an individual who meets both of the
following criteria:
         (a)   Has consumed alcoholic liquor.
         (b)   Voluntarily presents himself or herself to a health facility or
agency for treatment or for observation including, but not limited to, medical
examination and treatment for any condition arising from a violation of
Sections 520b to 520g of the Michigan Penal Code, 1931 PA 328, MCL 750.520b to
750.520g, committed against a minor.
         (c)   A minor who initiates contact with a peace officer or emergency
medical services personnel for the purpose of obtaining medical assistance for
a legitimate health care concern.
   (K)   If a minor who is less than 18 years of age and who is not emancipated
under 1968 PA 293, MCL 722.1 to 722.6, voluntarily presents himself or herself
to a health facility or agency for treatment or for observation as provided
under division (J), the health facility or agency shall notify the parent or
parents, guardian, or custodian of the individual as to the nature of the
treatment or observation if the name of a parent, guardian, or custodian is
reasonably ascertainable by the health facility or agency.
   (L)   This section does not limit the civil or criminal liability of a
vendor or the vendor's clerk, servant, agent, or employee for a violation of
this act.
   (M)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by a minor who is enrolled in a
course offered by an accredited postsecondary educational institution in an
academic building of the institution under the supervision of a faculty member
is not prohibited by this act if the purpose of the consumption is solely
educational and is a requirement of the course.
   (N)   The consumption by a minor of sacramental wine in connection with
religious services at a church, synagogue, or temple is not prohibited by this
act.
   (O)   Division (A) does not apply to a minor who participates in either or
both of the following:
      (1)   An undercover operation in which the minor purchases or receives
alcoholic liquor under the direction of the person's employer and with the
prior approval of the local prosecutor's office as part of an employer-
sponsored internal enforcement action.
      (2)   An undercover operation in which the minor purchases or receives
alcoholic liquor under the direction of the state police, the commission, or a
local police agency as part of an enforcement action unless the initial or
contemporaneous purchase or receipt of alcoholic liquor by the minor was not
under the direction of the state police, the commission, or the local police
agency and was not part of the undercover operation.
   (P)   The state police, the commission, or a local police agency shall not
recruit or attempt to recruit a minor for participation in an undercover
operation at the scene of a violation of division (A), Section 701(1), or
Section 801(2).
   (Q)   In a prosecution for the violation of division (A) concerning a minor
having any bodily alcohol content, it is an affirmative defense that the minor
consumed the alcoholic liquor in a venue or location where that consumption is
legal.
   (R)   As used in this section:
      (1)   “Any bodily alcohol content” means either of the following:
         (a)   An alcohol content of 0.02 grams or more per 100 milliliters of
blood, per 210 liters of breath, or per 67 milliliters of urine.
         (b)   Any presence of alcohol within a person's body resulting from
the consumption of alcoholic liquor, other than consumption of alcoholic liquor
as a part of a generally recognized religious service or ceremony.
      (2)   “Emergency medical services personnel” means that term as defined
in Section 20904 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.20904.
      (3)   “Health facility or agency” means that term as defined in Section
20106 of the Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, MCL 333.20106.
      (4)   “Prior judgment” means a conviction, juvenile adjudication, finding
of responsibility, or admission of responsibility for any of the following,
whether under a law of this state, a local ordinance substantially
corresponding to a law of this state, a law of the United States substantially
corresponding to a law of this state, or a law of another state substantially
corresponding to a law of this state:
         (a)   This section or Section 701 or 707.
         (b)   Section 624a, 624b, or 625 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 PA
300, MCL 257.624a, 257.624b, and 257.625.
         (c)   Section 80176, 81134, or 82127 of the natural resources and
environmental protection act, 1994 PA 451, MCL 324.80176, 324.81134, and
324.82127.
         (d)   Section 167a or 237 of the Michigan Penal Code, 1939 PA 328, MCL
750.167a and 750.237.
(Ord. 6.14, passed 6-22-09; Am. Ord. 6.15, passed 3-23-15; Am. Ord. 6.19,
passed 11-27-17)
HUMAN RIGHTS
§ 130.100 INTENT.
   It is the intent of the village that no person be denied equal protection of
the laws; nor shall any person be denied the enjoyment of his or her civil or
political rights or be discriminated against because of actual or perceived
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, height, weight, condition of
pregnancy, marital status, physical or mental limitation, source of income,
family status, sexual orientation or gender identity.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.101 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   AGE. Chronological age.
   DISCRIMINATE and DISCRIMINATION. To make a decision, offer to make a
decision or refrain from making a decision based in whole or in part on the
race, color, religion, national origin, sex, age, height, weight, condition of
pregnancy, marital status, physical or mental limitation, source of income,
family status, sexual orientation or gender identity of another person, that
person's relatives, or that person's associates.
      (1)   Discrimination based on sex includes sexual harassment, which means
unwelcome sexual advances, requests for sexual favors, and other verbal or
physical conduct or communication of a sexual nature when:
         (a)   Submission to the conduct or communication is made a term or
condition either explicitly or implicitly of obtaining or maintaining
employment, public accommodations or housing;
         (b)   Submission to or rejection of the conduct or communication by an
individual is used as a factor in decisions affecting the individual's
employment, public accommodations or housing; and/or
         (c)   The conduct or communication has the purpose or effect of
substantially interfering with an individual's employment, public
accommodations or housing, or creating an intimidating, hostile, or offensive
employment, public accommodations or housing environment.
      (2)   Discrimination based upon actual or perceived physical or mental
limitation includes discrimination because of the use by an individual of an
adaptive device or aid.
   EDUCATIONAL INSTITUTION. A public or private institution, or a separate
school or department thereof, including an academy, college, elementary or
secondary school, extension course, kindergarten, nursery, local school system,
university, or a business, nursing, professional, secretarial, technical, or
vocational school. For the purposes of this subchapter, educational institution
includes an agent of the institution.
   EMPLOYER. Any person employing one or more persons, and includes an agent of
the employer.
   EMPLOYMENT AGENCY. A person regularly undertaking, with or without
compensation, to procure, refer, recruit, or place an individual in an
employment relationship with an employer.
   FAMILY STATUS. Two or more individuals related by blood within three degrees
of consanguinity, marriage, adoption, foster care relationship or other legal
custody relationship. For purposes of this definition, FAMILY STATUS shall
include an individual who is pregnant.
   GENDER. The actual biological state of being male or female as of birth, or
subsequent alteration through surgical procedure, and without regard to any
outward physical display or expression of gender identity.
   GENDER IDENTITY. A person's actual or perceived gender, including a person's
appearance, expression, identity or behavior as being either male or female,
whether or not that appearance, expression, identity or behavior is different
from that traditionally associated with the person's sex at birth as being
either female or male.
   HOUSING ACCOMMODATION. Any improved or unimproved real property or part
thereof, dwelling unit or facility used or intended, arranged, or designed to
be used or occupied as a home, domicile, or residence of one or more
individuals.
   LABOR ORGANIZATION. An organization of any kind, an employee representation
committee, group, association, or plan which employees participate in or are
members of, and which exists for the purpose, in whole or part, of dealing with
employers concerning grievances, labor disputes, wages, rates of pay, hours, or
other terms or conditions of employment of its participants or members, whether
or not such organization is subordinate to or affiliated with a national or
international labor organization.
   MARITAL STATUS. The state of being married, unmarried, divorced or widowed.
   PERCEIVED. The perception of the person who acts, and not the perception of
the person for or against whom the action is taken.
   PHYSICAL OR MENTAL DISABILITY. A determinable physical or mental
characteristic of an individual, which may result from disease, injury,
congenital condition of birth, or functional disorder, if the characteristic
substantially limits a major life activity of that individual and is unrelated
to the individual's ability to perform the duties of a particular job or
position, is unrelated to the individual's ability to utilize and benefit from
a place of public accommodation, or is unrelated to the individual's ability to
acquire, rent, or maintain property. For the purposes of this definition,
PHYSICAL OR MENTAL DISABILITY does not include any condition caused by the
current illegal use of a controlled substance or the use of intoxicating
liquors by an individual.
   PLACE OF PUBLIC ACCOMMODATION. A business, educational, refreshment,
entertainment, recreational, health, or transportation facility, organization
or institution of any kind, whether licensed or not, whose goods, services,
facilities, privileges, advantages, or accommodations are extended, offered,
sold, or otherwise made available to the public.
   PRIVATE CLUB. An establishment that is not open to the public. A private
club is one whose members' association with each other and the club is
sufficiently intimate, small and exclusive that it is not open to the public.
   SEXUAL ORIENTATION. Male or female homosexuality, heterosexuality or
bisexuality, whether by orientation or practice.
   SOURCE OF INCOME. Any legal source from which a person obtains money.
   VILLAGE MANAGER. The Manager of the Village of Lake Orion or his or her
designee.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.102 DISCRIMINATORY HOUSING PRACTICES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter:
   (A)   No person shall discriminate in leasing, selling or otherwise making
available any housing accommodation;
   (B)   No person shall discriminate in the terms, conditions, or privileges
of a real estate transaction or in the furnishing of facilities or services in
connection with any housing accommodation;
   (C)   No person shall discriminate in providing financing for the purchase,
repair, or remodeling of any housing accommodations;
   (D)   No person shall discriminate in making referrals, listings or
otherwise providing information regarding housing accommodations; and
   (E)   No person shall promote real estate transactions by representing that
changes are occurring or will occur in an area with respect to race, religion
or national origin.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.103 DISCRIMINATORY PUBLIC ACCOMMODATIONS PRACTICES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter:
   (A)   No person shall discriminate in making available full and equal access
to all goods, services, facilities, privileges, advantages or accommodations of
any place of public accommodation; and
   (B)   No person shall prohibit a breastfeeding mother from, or segregate a
breastfeeding mother within, any public accommodation where she and the child
would otherwise be authorized to be.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.104 DISCRIMINATORY EMPLOYMENT PRACTICES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter:
   (A)   No person shall discriminate in the employment, compensation, work
classifications, conditions or terms, promotion or demotion, or termination of
employment of any person;
   (B)   No person shall discriminate in limiting membership, conditions of
membership, or termination of membership in any labor organization; and
   (C)   No employment agency shall discriminate in the procurement, referral,
recruitment, or placement of an individual in an employment relationship with
an employer.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.105 OTHER PROHIBITED PRACTICES.
   Except as otherwise provided in this subchapter:
   (A)   No person shall adopt, enforce or employ any policy or requirement,
publish, post, or broadcast any advertisement, sign, solicitation or notice in
the village which discriminates or suggests discrimination in providing
housing, public accommodations, or employment;
   (B)   No person shall discriminate in the publication or distribution of
advertising material, information, or solicitation in the village regarding
housing, public accommodations, or employment;
   (C)   No agent, broker, labor union, employment agency, or any other
intermediary shall discriminate in making referrals, listings, or providing
information with regard to housing, public accommodations, or employment;
   (D)   No person shall coerce, threaten, or retaliate against a person for
making a complaint or assisting in any investigation regarding a violation or
alleged violation of this subchapter. A person shall not require, request,
conspire with, assist, or coerce another person to retaliate against a person
for making a complaint or assisting in an investigation; and
   (E)   No person shall conspire with, assist, coerce, or request another
person to discriminate in any manner prohibited by this subchapter.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.106 INFORMATION AND INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Any person claiming a violation of this subchapter shall file a
signed, written complaint with the Village Manager setting forth the details,
including the names, dates, witnesses, and other factual matters relevant to
the claim, within 180 days of the incident forming the basis of the complaint.
   (B)   No person shall provide false information to any authorized village
official investigating a complaint regarding a violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   Within 30 days of a written complaint being filed, the Village Manager
or his or her designee shall review the complaint and undertake an
investigation of any complaint alleging a violation of this subchapter not
currently recognized or proscribed by Michigan or federal anti-discrimination
statutes, and cause all other complaints to be referred to an appropriate state
or federal agency for review.
   (D)   In the course of the investigation, the Village Manager may request a
person to produce books, papers, records, or other documents which may be
relevant to a violation or alleged violation of this subchapter. If said person
does not comply with such request, the Village Attorney may apply to the
Oakland County District Court for an order requiring production of the
requested materials.
   (E)   After the completion of an investigation, the Village Manager or his
or her designee shall provide written notice of the results of the
investigation to the person filing the complaint and to the person accused of
the violation. If the investigation establishes that a violation of this
subchapter occurred, the Village Manager or his or her designee shall, by using
informal methods of conference, conciliation and persuasion, endeavor to work
with the person filing the complaint and the accused person to correct the
violation or prevent a further violation from occurring. During the course of
informal negotiations, the village may enter into a conciliation agreement with
the person accused of the violation whereby said individual shall agree to
methods of terminating discrimination or to reverse the effects of past
discrimination. A violation of a conciliation agreement shall be a violation of
this subchapter. The Village Attorney may commence a civil action to enforce a
conciliation agreement.
   (F)   If, after 90 days, the Village Manager or his or her designee is
unable through informal methods to resolve the violation or prevent further
violations, the Village Manager or his or her designee shall cause a civil
infraction citation to issue to the person accused of the violation and shall
refer the matter to the Village Attorney to prosecute the violation as a
municipal civil infraction.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.107 EXCEPTIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything contained in this subchapter, the following
practices shall not be violations of this subchapter:
   (A)   For a religious organization or institution to restrict any of its
housing facilities or accommodations which are operated as a direct part of
religious activities to persons of the religion involved or to restrict
employment opportunities for officers, religious instructors and clergy to
persons of that religion. It is also permissible for a religious organization
to restrict employment opportunities, educational facilities, housing
facilities, and homeless shelters or dormitories that are operated as a direct
part of its religious activities to persons who are members of that religious
organization.
   (B)   For the owner of an owner-occupied one-family or two-family dwelling,
or a housing facility or public accommodation facility, respectively, devoted
entirely to the housing and accommodation of individuals of one gender, to
restrict occupancy and use on the basis of gender.
   (C)   To limit occupancy in a housing project or to provide public
accommodations or employment privileges or assistance to persons of low income,
persons over 55 years of age, or disabled persons.
   (D)   To engage in a bona fide effort to establish an affirmative action
program to improve opportunities in employment for minorities and women
consistent with applicable state and federal law.
   (E)   To discriminate based on a person's age when such discrimination is
required by state, federal or local law.
   (F)   To refuse to enter a contract with an unemancipated minor.
   (G)   To refuse to admit to a place of public accommodation serving
alcoholic beverages a person under the legal age for purchasing alcoholic
beverages.
   (H)   To refuse to admit persons under 18 years of age to a business
providing entertainment or selling literature which the operator of said
business deems unsuitable for minors.
   (I)   For an educational institution to limit the use of its facilities to
those affiliated with such institution.
   (J)   To provide discounts on products or service to students, minors and
senior citizens.
   (K)   To discriminate in any arrangement for the shared ownership, lease, or
residency of a dwelling unit in which the person acting is one of the sharing
parties.
   (L)   To restrict use of lavatories and locker room facilities on the basis
of gender.
   (M)   For a governmental institution to restrict any of its facilities or to
restrict employment opportunities based on duly adopted institutional policies
that conform to federal and state laws and regulations.
   (N)   To restrict participation in an instructional program, athletic event,
or on an athletic team on the basis of age, gender, height, or weight.
   (O)   To restrict membership in a private club that is not open to the
public except to the extent that private clubs which permit members to invite
guests on the premises are not exempted as it concerns a member's guest.
   (P)   To restrict employment opportunities with respect to members of one's
family.
   (Q)   To provide for marital or family status limitations in a health or
pension plan if such limitations conform to federal and state laws and
regulations.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
§ 130.108 RIGHTS AND REMEDIES.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed to limit in any way
the remedies, legal or equitable, which are available to the village or to the
person claiming a violation of this subchapter for the prevention or correction
of discrimination.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
TOBACCO REGULATIONS
§ 130.120 TOBACCO FREE AREAS.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this subchapter is to protect the public
health and welfare by regulating tobacco in work sites, public places and
certain other areas.
   (B)   Findings. The United States Surgeon General has determined that: (1)
secondhand smoke exposure causes disease and premature death in people who do
not smoke; (2) children exposed to secondhand smoke are at an increased risk
for sudden infant death syndrome, acute respiratory problems, ear infections
and asthma attacks; (3) exposure of adults to secondhand smoke has adverse
effects on the cardiovascular system and causes heart disease and lung cancer;
and (4) there is no risk-free level of exposure to secondhand smoke. These
findings are adopted. It is also found that tobacco smoke is a major
contributor to indoor air pollution. People who are at special risk from
secondhand smoke include infants, children, teens, pregnant women, elderly
people, nonsmokers with long-term exposure to secondhand smoke, individuals
with cardiovascular disease, and individuals with impaired respiratory
function. Establishing smoke-free workplaces is the most effective way to
ensure that exposure to secondhand smoke does not occur in the workplace. The
U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) considers e-cigarettes to be a tobacco
product and has not approved e-cigarettes as a quit tobacco device. The FDA has
reported finding ingredients of e-cigarette cartridges to contain levels of
cancer-causing and toxic chemicals. The World Health Organization warns that
nicotine exposure, whether through inhalation, ingestion, or skin contact, can
be hazardous to the health and safety of children, young people, pregnant
women, nursing mothers, people with heart conditions, and the elderly. The
Michigan Department of Health and Human Services indicates that e-cigarettes
are not a safe alternative to other forms of tobacco. These findings are
adopted. The U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention has found that smokeless tobacco causes leukoplakia, a
disease causing white patches to form in the user's mouth that can become
cancerous; and smokeless tobacco products are known to cause lung, larynx,
esophageal, and oral cancer. The National Institutes of Health has recognized
the carcinogens NNN and NNK are found in the saliva of those who use chewing
tobacco. The Mayo Clinic has recognized that the candy-like appearance or
flavors of smokeless tobacco products make them attractive to children and
ingestion of these products can cause nicotine poisoning. Effects of nicotine
poisoning in children may include nausea, vomiting, weakness, convulsions,
unresponsiveness, impaired breathing and death. Saliva spit from smokeless
tobacco contains nicotine, as well as infectious bacteria and diseases. Smoking
and use of other tobacco products in parks and beaches sends a deleterious
health message to youth and a public health approach to tobacco addiction
should include preventing initiation of use, facilitating cessation, and
promoting abstinence from all tobacco products by current users. These findings
are adopted.
   (C)   Definitions. 
      BUSINESS. Any partnership, joint venture, corporation or other for-profit
or not-for-profit entity, including but not limited to any retail
establishment, where goods are sold or services are delivered.
      BUSINESS VEHICLE. A car, bus, van or other motorized unit which is owned
or leased by an employer for the use of employees.
      CHEWING TOBACCO. Loose tobacco or a flat, compressed cake of tobacco
which is inserted into the mouth to be chewed or sucked.
      E-CIGARETTE. An electronic, noncombustible device that employs a heating
element, power source, electronic circuit, battery, or other electronic,
chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to
produce vapor from nicotine in a solution or other form and the use or
inhalation of which simulates smoking. This term shall include any device,
whether manufactured, distributed, marketed, or sold as an e-cigarette, e-
cigar, e-pipe, or under any other such product name or descriptor
      EMPLOYEE. Any person who is employed by any employer, whether for wages,
profit, or on a volunteer basis.
      EMPLOYER. Any person or business, including any governmental entity that
has one or more employees besides the owner of the business.
      ENCLOSED AREA. All space between a floor and ceiling which is enclosed on
all sides by solid walls or windows (exclusive of door or passage ways) which
extend from the floor to the ceiling, including all of the space inside.
      FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT. The term FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT has the
same meaning as it does in the Michigan Public Health Code, 1978 PA 368, as
amended, and includes bars. When a portion of a facility is licensed as a FOOD
SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT, then only that portion of the facility shall be
considered a FOOD SERVICE ESTABLISHMENT under this subchapter.
      LIQUID NICOTINE. A liquid or other substance containing nicotine in any
concentration that is sold, marketed, or intended for use in a noncombustible
product that employs a heating element, power source, electronic circuit, or
other electronic, chemical, or mechanical means, regardless of shape or size,
that can be used to produce vapor from nicotine or any other substance, and the
use or inhalation of which simulates smoking.
      NICOTINE. A colorless, oily, water-soluble, highly toxic alkaloid found
in tobacco.
      NON-RETALIATION. It shall be unlawful for any person or employer to
discharge, refuse to hire, or in any manner retaliate against any employee or
applicant for employment because that person seeks enforcement of this
subchapter.
      OUTSIDE SMOKING. Smoking is prohibited within 15 feet of entrances, open
windows and ventilation systems of all places where smoking is otherwise
prohibited by this subchapter. This prohibition shall not apply to persons who
pass by such an entrance, open window, or ventilation system while traveling on
a public street or sidewalk.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any enclosed area to which the public is invited or in
which the public is permitted, including but not limited to any business,
retail store, health facility, manufacturing facility, convention hall, meeting
hall, sports arena, theater, gymnasium, health spa, swimming pool, roller rink,
ice rink, bowling alley, laundromat, professional office, school, or public
building.
      SCHOOL DISTRICT. A school district, local act school district or
intermediate school district, as those terms are defined in the School Code of
1976, Act No. 451 of the Public Acts of Michigan of 1976 (M.C.L.A. § 380.1 et
seq.), as amended, or a consortium or cooperative arrangement consisting of any
combination of these.
      SCHOOL PROPERTY. A building, facility or structure or other real estate
owned, leased or otherwise controlled by a school district.
      SMOKING or SMOKE. 
         (a)   Inhaling, exhaling, burning or carrying any lighted cigar,
cigarette, e-cigarette, pipe, mechanical or glass device designed to enable
smoking, weed, plant or related substance or product.
         (b)   The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe,
mechanical or glass device designed to enable smoking, or other lighted smoking
device, including, but not limited to electronic cigarettes or inhalants.
      TOBACCO PRODUCT. A preparation of tobacco to be inhaled, chewed or placed
in a person's mouth, including e-cigarettes.
      TOBACCO SNUFF. Shredded, powdered or pulverized tobacco which may be
inhaled through the nostrils, chewed or placed against the gums.
      USE OF A TOBACCO PRODUCT AND/OR NICOTINE PRODUCT. Any of the following:
         (a)   The carrying by a person of a lighted cigar, cigarette, pipe,
other lighted smoking device and/or electronic cigarette;
         (b)   The inhaling or chewing of a tobacco product;
         (c)   The placing of a tobacco product in one's month.
      VAPOR PRODUCT. A noncombustible product that employs a heating element,
power source, electronic circuit, or other electronic, chemical, or mechanical
means, regardless of shape or size, that can be used to produce vapor from
nicotine or any other substance, and the use or inhalation of which simulates
smoking, including an electronic cigarette, electronic cigar, electronic
cigarillo, electronic pipe, or similar product or device and a vapor cartridge
or other container of nicotine or other substance in a solution or other form
that is intended to be used with or in an aforementioned device.
      WORKSITE. Any enclosed area under the control of an employer which
employees frequent during the course of their employment, including but not
limited to: work areas, common areas, lounges, restrooms, lobbies, conference
rooms, class rooms, cafeterias and hallways. A private residence is not a
WORKSITE unless it is used as a child care, adult day care or health care
facility.
   (D)   Prohibitions. Smoking is prohibited in all enclosed areas of all of
the following places and sites:
      (1)   Worksites;
      (2)   Public places;
      (3)   Buses, taxicabs, and other means of public transit and including
bus shelters;
      (4)   Business vehicles that are occupied by more than one person;
      (5)   Semi-private rooms of health facilities;
      (6)   Lobbies, hallways, and other common areas in apartment buildings,
condominiums, trailer parks, retirement facilities, nursing homes, and other
multiple-unit residential facilities;
      (7)   Public places where bingo games are held;
      (8)   Public places in hotels and motels, plus at least 80% of the rooms
rented to guests at each hotel and motel; and
      (9)   Any facility, site or vehicle where the owner, operator, or manager
of such facility, site or vehicle has prohibited smoking and has posted that
prohibition prominently in writing or has given actual notice of the
prohibition to the person who is smoking or who is intending to smoke.
   (E)   Persons under 18. A person under 18 years of age shall not possess or
smoke cigarettes or cigars, or chew, suck or inhale chewing tobacco or tobacco
snuff, or possess or use tobacco or nicotine in any other form, on a public
highway, street, alley, park, beach or other lands used for public purposes, in
a public place of business or amusement or on school property.
   (F)   Smoking on school property. Except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter, a person shall not smoke on school property.
   (G)   Responsibility. Both the person who is smoking and the employer,
owner, operator, or manager of the area in which smoking is prohibited is
responsible for violations of this subchapter.
   (H)   Exemptions. The following areas are exempt from the requirements of
this subchapter:
      (1)   Private residences and private vehicles, except when used or in
connection with the child care, health care facility or adult day care
facility;
      (2)   Tobacco specialty stores.
   (I)   Other laws. This subchapter shall not be interpreted or construed to
permit smoking where it is otherwise restricted or prohibited by other
applicable laws or public health regulations.
   (J)   Sale of tobacco products to minors; prohibition, penalty; public
health department sign.
      (1)   A person shall not sell, give, or furnish a tobacco product, vapor
product, or alternative nicotine product to a minor, including, but not limited
to, through a vending machine. A person who violates this division is guilty of
a misdemeanor punishable by a fine as follows:
         (a)   For a first offense, not more than $100;
         (b)   For a second offense, not more than $500;
         (c)   For a third or subsequent offense, not more than $2,500.
      (2)   A person who sells tobacco products, vapor products, or alternative
nicotine products at retail shall post, in a place close to the point of sale
and conspicuous to both employees and customers, a sign produced by the
Department of Health and Human Services that includes the following statement:
         "The purchase of a tobacco product, vapor product, or alternative
nicotine product by a minor under 18 years of age and the provision of a
tobacco product, vapor product, or alternative nicotine product to a minor are
prohibited by law. A minor who unlawfully purchases or uses a tobacco product,
vapor product, or alternative nicotine product is subject to criminal
penalties."
      (3)   Beginning 90 days after the effective date of this section, a
person who sells tobacco products at retail shall post, in a place close to the
point of sale and conspicuous to both employees and customers, a sign that
includes the following statement:
         "The purchase of tobacco products by a minor under 18 years of age and
the provision of tobacco products to a minor are prohibited by law. A minor
unlawfully purchasing or using tobacco products is subject to criminal
penalties."
      (4)   If the sign required under division (J) is more than six feet from
the point of sale, it shall be five and one-half inches by eight and one-half
inches, and the statement required under division (J) shall be printed in 36-
point boldface type. If the sign required under division (J) is six feet or
less from the point of sale, it shall be two inches by four inches, and the
statement required under division (J) shall be printed in 20-point boldface
type. For purpose of this section, a PERSON WHO SELLS TOBACCO PRODUCTS AT
RETAIL means a person whose ordinary course of business consists, in whole or
in part, of the retail sale of tobacco products subject to state sales tax.
(Ord. 6.23, passed 7-13-20)
§ 130.121 RESTRICTING SMOKING AND USE OF TOBACCO AND MARIHUANA PRODUCTS IN
VILLAGE PARKS AND BEACHES. 
   (A)   Smoking and use of tobacco and marihuana products prohibited in public
parks and beaches. A person shall not smoke or use tobacco or marihuana
products in any public park area or beach area owned or operated by the
village. All parks and beaches owned or operated by the village shall be so
posted.
   (B)   Violations and penalties. A person who violates or fails to comply
with this section shall be subject to any one or more of the following:
      (1)   Being asked to stop smoking or using tobacco or marihuana products;
      (2)   Being asked to leave the premises;
      (3)    Responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to the
civil fines set forth in §
130.999.
(Ord. 6.23, passed 7-13-20)
 
§ 130.999 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   A violation of any provision of §§
130.100 through
130.108 is a civil infraction, punishable by a fine of not more than $500, plus
all costs of the action. Upon a finding or an admission of responsibility, the
Court may issue and enforce any judgment, writ, injunction, or order necessary
to enforce this subchapter. This may include reinstatement, payment of lost
wages, hiring and promotion, sale, exchange, lease or sublease of real
property, admission to a place of public accommodation, or other relief deemed
appropriate.
   (B)   Each day upon which a violation occurs shall constitute a separate and
new violation.
   (C)   A violation proved to exist on a particular day shall be presumed to
exist on each subsequent day unless it is proved that the violation no longer
exists.
(Ord. 6.18, passed 9-26-16)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE
      
151.   DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
      
152.   (RESERVED)
      
153.   (RESERVED)
      
154.   PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
      
155.   SIGN REGULATIONS
      
156.   (RESERVED)
      
157.   SUBDIVISIONS
      
158.   ZONING CODE
CHAPTER 150: STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE
Section
   
150.01   Administration and enforcement of State Construction Code Act and Code
   
150.02   Enforcing agency
   
150.03   Violations and enforcement
   
150.04   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
   
150.05   Construction Board of Appeals
   
150.06   Fees
   
150.07   Electrical Code
   
150.08   State registration and licensing
   
150.09   Mechanical Code
   
150.10   Building Code
   
150.11   Plumbing Code
§ 150.01 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT OF STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE ACT AND
CODE.
   (A)   The Village of Lake Orion assumes responsibility for administering and
enforcing the Stille- DeRossett-Hale single state construction code act, Act.
No. 230 of the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, and state construction code
prepared and promulgated as provided in that Act (referred to in this chapter
as the State Construction Code and Act) within the boundaries of the village.
   (B)   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, in
accordance with Section 8(b) of Act 230, of the Public Acts of 1972, as
amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall be enforced by the
Village Building Official within the Village of Lake Orion.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05; Am. Ord. 31.24, passed 10-10-06)
§ 150.02 ENFORCING AGENCY.
   (A)   The position of Village Building Official is hereby established and
designated as the enforcing agency to administer and enforce the State
Construction Code and Act in the village. The Village Building Official shall
be an official or agent of a governmental subdivision that is registered under
the Building Officials and Inspectors Registration Act, 1986 PA 54, M.C.L.A. §§
338.2301 to 338.2313, as amended, that is qualified by experience or training
to perform the duties associated with construction code administration and
enforcement and shall be appointed by resolution of the Village Council.
   (B)   To assist and allow the Village Building Official to fulfill the
responsibilities of the village and its enforcing agency in the manner required
by the State Construction Code and Act, the Village Council shall contract for,
appoint or otherwise secure the services of necessary:
      (1)   Building, electrical, plumbing and mechanical officials, inspectors
and plan reviewers registered under the Building Officials and Inspectors
Registration Act, 1986 PA 54, M.C.L.A. §§ 338.2301 to 338.2313, as amended,
that are qualified by experience or training to perform the duties associated
with construction code administration and enforcement; and
      (2)   Administrative and clerical personnel.
   (C)   The Village Manager, as the chief administrative officer of the
village responsible for supervision and management of village services and
enforcement of ordinances of the village and laws of the state pursuant to the
Village Charter, shall be responsible for communications to, from or regarding
the enforcing agency, authorizing court enforcement actions in the name of the
village, coordination of the enforcing agency's administration and enforcement
of the State Construction Code and Act with the administration and enforcement
of other village ordinances and codes, and notices or reports to the enforcing
agency and Village Council regarding the enforcing agency's administration and
enforcement of the State Construction Code and Act.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.03 VIOLATIONS AND ENFORCEMENT.
   Violations of the State Construction Code and/or Act are municipal civil
infractions related to the use or occupancy of land, with violations punishable
by a civil fine of up to $500 plus costs, all of which shall be established and
enforceable as provided in Act No. 12 of the Public Acts of 1994, as amended,
and may be enforced by the village with the same power and authority it
possesses for violations of village ordinances, with the village to retain any
fines imposed upon a finding of responsibility. In addition, a person
determined to be responsible shall pay damages and expenses incurred by the
village in responding to a violation, including any costs in securing or
placing a structure or property in a safe condition. Each occurrence of a
violation of the State Construction Code and/or Act, and each day a violation
exists, shall constitute a separate offense. Violations of the State
Construction Code and/or Act are considered to be a nuisance per se, with such
violations and correction of any conditions resulting from violations, subject
to abatement by, and injunctive or other appropriate order of a court of
competent jurisdiction. Violations of the State Construction Code and/or Act
subject the violator to village enforcement through one or more of the remedies
provided in this section, and the election by the village to pursue one form of
remedy does not waive or restrict the village's option to pursue other remedies
at the same or later time.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.04 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled "Flood Insurance Study, Oakland County, Michigan and Incorporated
Areas", and dated September 29, 2006, the Flood Insurance Rate Maps (FIRMS)
panel numbers 26125CO236F, 26125CO238F, 261125CO217F, 25125CO219F dated
September 29, 2006, are adopted by reference and declared to be part of Section
1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code.
(Ord. 31.24, passed 10-10-06)
§ 150.05 CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS.
   A Village Construction Board of Appeals is hereby created to consist of five
members appointed by resolution of the Village Council. Appointees shall be
qualified by experience or training to perform the duties of members of the
Construction Board of Appeals, shall be appointed for two-year terms and shall
perform their duties as provided in Section 14 of the State Construction Code
Act.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.06 FEES.
   Reasonable fees charged and collected for the acts and services performed by
the enforcing agency or Construction Board of Appeals under the State
Construction Code and Act being administered and enforced by the village shall
be established and may be amended from time to time by resolution of the
Village Council, with said fees to bear a reasonable relation to the cost,
including overhead, in administering and enforcing the State Construction Code
and Act and to only be used for the operation of the enforcing agency and/or
Construction Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.07 ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The Electrical Code is part of the State Construction Code being
administered and enforced by the village.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.08 STATE REGISTRATION AND LICENSING.
   An electrical contractor, master electrician, electrical journeyman, fire
alarm contractor, fire alarm specialty technician, sign specialty contractor,
sign specialist and others shall be licensed, and an apprentice electrician,
fire alarm specialty apprentice technician and others shall be registered as
required and provided in the Electrical Administrative Act, Act No. 217 of the
Public Acts of 1956, as amended.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.09 MECHANICAL CODE.
   The Mechanical Code is part of the State Construction Code being
administered and enforced by the village.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.10 BUILDING CODE.
   The Building Code is part of the State Construction Code being administered
and enforced by the village.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
§ 150.11 PLUMBING CODE.
   The Plumbing Code is part of the State Construction Code being administered
and enforced by the village.
(Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05)
CHAPTER 151: DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Definitions
   
151.002   Title
   
151.003   Purpose
   
151.004   Intent
   
151.005   Conflicts
   
151.006   Variance from standards
   
151.007   Interpretation
   
151.008   Right to revise standards
General Requirements and Procedures
   
151.020   Detailed engineering plans
   
151.021   Plans and specifications
   
151.022   Plan review fees
   
151.023   Specifications by reference
   
151.024   Existing utilities and site conditions
   
151.025   Easements
   
151.026   User or access to private property
   
151.027   Village mapping
   
151.028   Phased construction
   
151.029   Codes, ordinances, laws and regulations
   
151.030   Submittals for review and approval
   
151.031   Agency approval
   
151.032   Submittal for construction
   
151.033   Meetings
   
151.034   Guarantee
   
151.035   Construction observation
   
151.036   Insurance requirements
General Provisions and Plan Requirements
   
151.050   Intent
   
151.051   Application and site plan requirements
   
151.052   Final plan
General Construction Provisions and Requirements
   
151.065   Intent
   
151.066   General provisions
   
151.067   Working space
   
151.068   Locating work
   
151.069   Survey monuments
   
151.070   Trench backfill
   
151.071   Maintenance and restoration of pavements, road surfaces, structures
and trench backfill
   
151.072   Protection of the public
   
151.073   Preservation of trees
   
151.074   Protection and replacement of landscaping
As-Built Drawing Procedures and Requirements
   
151.090   Intent
   
151.091   Procedure
   
151.092   Certificate of occupancy
   
151.093   Criteria
   
151.094   Certification
Design and Construction Standards for Clearing, Grading, and Surface Drainage
   
151.110   Approval of standards
 
   
151.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter the following definitions shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AASHTO. American Association of State Highway and Transportation Officials.
   APPLICANT. The party or the parties who are submitting development or
improvement plans for review, and approval by the village.
   ANSI. American National Standards Institute.
   AS-BUILTS. Revised plans showing the as-constructed conditions of the site,
including utilities, grading, detention, and the like.
   ASTM. American Society of Testing and Materials.
   AWWA. American Water Works Association.
   DEVELOPER. A person, partnership, or corporation building; one building, for
occupancy by other than the owner, or creating or developing any parcel of land
for any use other than agricultural or form thereof.
   DEVELOPMENT.
      (1)   Shall include a subdivision as defined by Act 288, Public Acts of
1967, as amended, a condominium pursuant to the provisions of Act 59, Public
Acts of 1978, as amended, or any group of dwellings or structures which are
proposed.
      (2)   Shall mean any man-made change to improved or unimproved real
estate, including but not limited to buildings or other structures, mining,
dredging, filling, grading, paving, excavation, or drilling operations.
   FINAL SITE PLAN. A plan showing all features of a proposed development, as
required under the provisions of the Village Zoning Ordinance, including all
engineering such as paving, grading, utilities, detention, and the like.
   LANDOWNER. The person who owns or holds a recorded easement on the property
or who is engaged in construction in a public right-of-way in accordance with
§§ 13, 14, 15, and 16 of Act No. 368 of the Public Acts of 1925, as amended.
   MDOT. Michigan Department of Transportation.
   MUNICIPALITY. The Village of Lake Orion.
   MUNICIPALITY'S ENGINEER or VILLAGE ENGINEER. The staff engineer or
professional engineer employed by the village.
   OWNER. Any person who has dominion over, control of, title to and/or any
other proprietary interest in designated wetland and/or watercourse areas, or
title to an obstruction, natural or otherwise, to wetland and watercourse
properties.
   PUBLIC ROADS. Those which are to be dedicated to the Village of Lake Orion.
   RCOC or OCRC. Road Commission for Oakland County.
   USGS. United States Geological Survey.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Lake Orion, Oakland County, Michigan, acting through
its duly elected Village Council.
   VARIANCE. A modification of the literal provisions of this chapter granted
by the Village Council or Board of Zoning Appeals in situations or under
circumstances where permitted by law.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.002 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the design and construction standards of the
Village of Lake Orion ("village"), and shall hereinafter be referred to as
"standards."
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.003 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the standards is to establish general requirements for the
design and construction of subdivisions, site condominiums, commercial sites,
and all other site improvements under the jurisdiction of the village which
require site plan submittal in conformance with the village's Zoning Ordinance.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.004 INTENT.
   It is the intent of these standards to:
   (A)   Provide a flexible yet reasonable and proper basis for the design and
construction of land improvements, including but not limited to, drainage
facilities, sanitary sewers, storm water management facilities, road and
parking lot improvements, pedestrian activities, landscaping, grading, and
where warranted, water supply, distribution and fire suppression facilities and
sewage collection and disposal systems.
   (B)   Establish uniformity in village requirements and supplement village
ordinances.
   (C)   Outline information required for plans submitted for review so that
the plans are complete and in a proper form.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.005 CONFLICTS.
   If there should exist conflicts or discrepancies between these standards and
other adopted ordinances, these standards shall apply.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.006 VARIANCE FROM STANDARDS.
   The Village Council may authorize a variance from these standards when
practical difficulty may result from strict compliance. In granting any
variance, the Village Council may prescribe conditions that it deems necessary
or desirable for the public safety, health, welfare and interest of the
community. No variance shall be granted unless the Village Council finds that
all of the following is established by the applicant:
   (A)   That strict compliance with these standards would either unreasonably
prevent the owner from using the property for a permitted purpose or that
conformity with the standards would be unnecessarily burdensome;
   (B)   That the variance is the minimum necessary to give appropriate relief
to the applicant, giving consideration to the effect of the variance on
surrounding property owners within 250 feet;
   (C)   That the granting of a variance will not be detrimental to the public
health, safety or welfare or injurious to other properties in the area; and
   (D)   That the variance will be in accordance with the objectives and
policies of the village.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.007 INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   Provisions of these standards shall be held to be the minimum
requirements necessary for promotion and preservation of public health, safety
and general welfare of the village. The standards are not intended to repeal,
abrogate, annul, or in any manner interfere with existing regulations or
ordinances of the Village of Lake Orion, standards or regulations of the County
of Oakland where they have jurisdiction, nor to conflict with any statutes of
the State of Michigan.
   (B)   Proprietors and their engineers are encouraged to design facilities to
provide for actual conditions encountered in their project work area. As site
conditions dictate, the village in the review process may allow more flexible
designs, which are more or less stringent than the minimum requirements
specified herein, provided that the design alternative is in accordance with
village objectives and goals (i.e., preservation of natural features).
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.008 RIGHT TO REVISE STANDARDS.
   The village reserves the right to revise these standards at any time by
amending this chapter and to require that such revised standards be
incorporated into the work at any time prior to final site plan approval. The
village also reserves the right to require revisions or corrections to any
plans, that have been approved for construction due to errors, omissions, or
changes or unforeseen field conditions and to require that such revisions and
corrections be incorporated into the work at any time prior to the final
acceptance of the work.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
GENERAL REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURES
§ 151.020 DETAILED ENGINEERING PLANS.
   Detailed engineering construction plans shall be submitted by the applicant
for site improvements, including but not limited to, storm and sanitary sewers,
storm water management facilities, paving, soil erosion control measures, and
site grading. Where applicable construction plans must also be submitted for
community sewer systems, sewage collection facilities and water supply and
distribution systems. Timing of plan submittal shall follow the requirements of
the ordinances and the procedures set forth by the village.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.021 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All plans submitted for review and approval are to comply with the
requirements specified herein and shall be rejected for failure to comply.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.022 PLAN REVIEW FEES.
   Plan review fees for projects located in the village shall be payable to the
village in the amount as set forth by resolution in the adopted fee schedule.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.023 SPECIFICATIONS BY REFERENCE.
   (A)   Where reference is made in these standards to the specifications of
any technical society, association, governmental agency, and the like, such as
those promulgated by AASHTO, ANSI, MDOT, and the like, said specifications
shall apply and be binding as if fully set forth herein. Such specifications or
standards are incorporated by reference.
   (B)   Reference to standard specifications of any technical society,
organization, association or to codes of local or state authorities, shall mean
the latest standard, code, specifications, or tentative specification adopted
and published unless specifically stated otherwise.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.024 EXISTING UTILITIES AND SITE CONDITIONS.
   It shall be the sole responsibility of the applicant to locate, survey, and
field verify all existing utilities within the construction area. The village
or their engineers may have completed projects in the same area or have utility
information available for review. This information, while intended to assist
the applicant, is not intended to be the only source of such information or to
be utilized solely in lieu of the applicant's own investigation. The village
shall not be held liable or responsible for errors, omissions, and the like of
provided utility information.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.025 EASEMENTS.
   (A)   A developer must provide the village with the necessary easements for
any water mains, sanitary sewers, storm drains, roadways or other facilities
that are to be located on the developed property and which may be maintained by
the village. Easements shall be a minimum width to provide proper access as
determined by the village, or as stated in these standards. Furthermore, it
shall be required that the applicant provide all utility and drainage easements
(i.e., storm sewers, surface drainage, private water and sanitary systems, and
the like) to the village for review and approval prior to final project
approval. The easements shall be subject to a recommendation of approval by the
Village Engineer and the Village Attorney.
   (B)   Proof of ownership shall be provided along with the easement in the
form of title insurance, acceptable to the Village Attorney, to show that the
grantor of the easement is the owner of the property. All parties having a
legal interest in the property shall execute and grant the easement.
   (C)   Easements must be submitted to the village in recordable form prior to
the start of work. The cost of recording with the Oakland County Register of
Deeds shall be borne by the applicant. In the event of a condominium
development, the Master Deed shall be recorded and the cost of recording shall
be borne by the applicant.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.026 USE OR ACCESS TO PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   A contractor shall not enter upon private property for any purpose without
first obtaining written permission from the property owner, and he or she shall
be responsible for the preservation of all public property, trees, survey
monuments, and the like, along, within and adjacent to the private property,
and shall use every precaution necessary to prevent damage or injury thereto.
He or she shall use suitable precautions to prevent damage to pipes, conduits,
and other underground structures.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.027 VILLAGE MAPPING.
   When the submitted plans are prepared in digital format the developer may be
requested to provide the village with electronic files of the approved final
site plan and as-built plans in order to facilitate any village map updates.
Village maps may be modified to incorporate the utilities to service the
subject development.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.028 PHASED CONSTRUCTION.
   On all projects in which construction is to proceed in phases, a separate
plan sheet shall be included in the construction drawings which breaks down all
improvement quantities by item, i.e.: walkways, paths, grading, landscaping,
community septic and sewage collection systems, water supply and distribution
systems, sewer, storm sewer, landscaping, pavement base and wearing courses,
and utilities for each phase. Said phasing limits shall match those approved or
to be approved by the Village. Approval of phased construction shall not
supersede the requirement to obtain site plan approval for each phase of the
construction.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.029 CODES, ORDINANCES, LAWS AND REGULATIONS.
   The contractor and subcontractors shall observe and comply with all federal,
state and local codes, ordinances, laws and regulations in force at the
construction site. The contractor shall pay for and obtain all building
permits, licenses for the work, pay for inspection and testing, and file plans
and specifications to the village department having jurisdiction.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.030 SUBMITTALS FOR REVIEW AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   All plan documents shall be submitted to the village. The applicant
shall contact the village regarding the number of plans to submit and the
review process. No documents shall be submitted directly to the Village
Engineer, Planner, or Attorney unless prior written authorization is given by
the village.
   (B)   All plans, computations, and cost estimates shall be signed and sealed
by a registered professional, licensed to practice in the state. The Village
Engineer shall review and make recommendations to the Village Council. Comments
for approval or non-approval shall be in writing. They may also be marked on a
set of plans at the discretion of the village. Copies of the letter
recommending approval or non-approval and any marked up plans will be forwarded
to the village, the applicant, and the applicant's consultants. The applicant
shall forward revised copies of the plans or documents in question to the
village for further processing and review should additional information or plan
revisions be required.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.031 AGENCY APPROVAL.
   Engineering drawings for proposed subdivision or condominium improvements,
site plan improvements, and utility construction shall be approved by all
jurisdictional agencies and the village prior to the beginning of any
construction. Construction shall not begin until all required approvals and
permits are obtained.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.032 SUBMITTAL FOR CONSTRUCTION.
   Five complete sets of the approved site plan, signed and sealed shall be
submitted for the village's use after final site plan approval and prior to the
pre construction meeting. Additional plan sets, individual plan sheets or
digital files may be requested at the village's discretion.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.033 MEETINGS.
   (A)   A pre-construction meeting shall be held prior to the start of any
site improvements. The pre-construction meeting should include a representative
of the village, the Village Engineer, the applicant or authorized
representatives, the contractor, and where necessary any utility company
officials whose underground, overhead, or at grade utilities may conflict in
any manner with the proposed project, state, county, and local government
persons who may be involved, directly or indirectly, with the proposed project,
and any other persons who may be able to contribute information in regard to
the construction of the subject project.
   (B)   It shall be the applicant and/or contractor's responsibility to
contact the village at least seven days prior to planned construction
commencement to arrange for a preconstruction meeting. The project shall not be
permitted to commence until such time that the applicant and/or contractor has
secured all required permits, submitted observation (inspection) escrow funds,
and submitted all insurance and bonds in accordance with the village's
requirements.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.034 GUARANTEE.
   The applicant shall be required to deposit with the village, cash, certified
check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, whichever the applicant selects,
in an amount sufficient to guarantee the completion of the construction of all
required improvements, as shown on the approved final site plan. Copies of
contractor contracts with the applicant or estimates of cost provided by the
applicant shall be required to be submitted to the Village Engineer for
approval and for review prior to establishment of the required security. The
final release of security will only be made after the improvements have been
final inspected and accepted by the village and only upon written request by
the applicant.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.035 CONSTRUCTION OBSERVATION.
   (A)   Full-time or part-time observation shall be required for all site
improvements associated with subdivisions, site condominiums, commercial sites,
and elsewhere as determined by the village. Part-time observation may also be
required for improvements covered by other governmental agencies. Observation
personnel shall be provided by the village or its agents. The developer shall
pay all applicable observation fees as established by the village. The
contractor shall notify the village and the Village Engineer's supervising
field observer at least 48 hours prior to commencing construction. Any work
installed without field observation as required by the village may not be
accepted by the village.
   (B)   In such an event, the village's decision regarding removing or
exposing covered work, testing, or any other appropriate course of action,
shall be final and binding on the applicant.
   (C)   The applicant shall deposit with the village at least 48 hours prior
to the start of construction, an observation escrow based on the estimated
observation time required as determined by the village. The observation escrow
amount shall be determined prior to or at the pre-construction meeting. The
village may assess an administration fee to cover the construction portion of
the project. The observation fees will be billed to the village on a time and
material basis by the Village Engineer and deducted from the observation escrow
deposit.
   (D)   A minimum of four hours will be charged against the observation escrow
if the observer keeps a scheduled observation appointment and the contractor
does not work or cancels work with less than 24 hours notice and the observer
cannot be reassigned to another job. In the event of a rain out the contractor
shall notify the appropriate personnel prior to the regular starting time or be
charged the four hour increment. All costs incurred for consulting services and
testing conducted by the village will be billed against the escrow account.
   (E)   The applicant will be notified in the event the escrow deposit has
been depleted and/or additional funds are required. Within three business days
the applicant shall re-establish the deposit so as to prevent the project
construction from being stopped and/or building or occupancy permits withheld.
The account balance upon completion of the project and acceptance of the record
plans will be returned to the applicant and only upon written request by the
applicant.
   (F)   Review of as-constructed or as-built record drawings shall be invoiced
against the observation account.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.036 INSURANCE REQUIREMENTS.
   It is agreed that the contractor for all private developments shall comply
with the following general requirements and provide the village with proof of
the insurance requirement herein prior to the start of construction. All
monetary amounts quoted herein may be revised at the discretion of the village
at any time and without notice.
   (A)   Contractor's comprehensive general liability insurance.
      (1)   The contractor shall procure and shall maintain during the life of
his or her contract, contractor's personal injury insurance in an amount not
less than $1,000,000 for injuries, including accidental death, to each person,
in an amount not less than $1,000,000 on account of each occurrence; and
contractor's property damage insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000
each occurrence; and $1,000,000 aggregate including completed operations and
contractual liability coverage.
      (2)   This comprehensive general liability insurance shall include
coverage for explosion, collapse, underground hazards, and flooding and
coverage assumed in the indemnification clause of this section of the work.
   (B)   Owner's protective public liability insurance. The contractor shall
procure and maintain during the life of his or her contract owner's protective
public liability insurance in the name of the village and Village Engineer in
an amount not less than $1,000,000 for injuries, including accidental death to
each person, and in an amount not less than $1,000,000 on account of each
occurrence; and property damage in an amount not less than $1,000,000 each
occurrence, and $1,000,000 aggregate.
   (C)   Contractor's automobile bodily injury and property damage insurance.
      (1)   The contractor shall procure and shall maintain during the life of
his or her contract automobile bodily injury insurance in an amount not less
than $1,000,000 for injuries, including accidental death, to each person, and
in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for each occurrence; and property damage
in an amount not less than $ 1,000,000 for each occurrence.
      (2)   The contractor shall procure and shall maintain during the life of
his or her contract hired and non-ownership automobile bodily injury and
protection damage insurance in an amount not less than $1,000,000 for injuries,
including accidental death, to each person; and in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 for each occurrence; and property damage in an amount not less than
$1,000,000 for each occurrence.
   (D)   Umbrella or excess liability. The contractor is granted the option of
arranging under a single policy for the full limit required for general
liability and/or automobile liability or by a combination of underlying
policies with the balance provided by an excess or umbrella liability policy
equal to the total limit(s) requested. The umbrella or excess liability shall
be in an amount not less than $2,000,000 per occurrence and $2,000,000
aggregate.
   (E)   Worker's compensation insurance. If requested by the project owner,
the contractor shall procure and shall maintain during the life of his or her
contract, worker's compensation insurance, including employer's liability, in
an amount not less than $500,000 for employer's liability and a statutory rate
for compensation.
   (F)   Indemnification clause. The contractor shall indemnify, defend, and
save harmless the village and the Engineer, their elected officials, officers,
owners, consultants, agents, and employees, from and against all loss or
expense (including costs and attorney fees) by reason of liability imposed by
law upon the village and the Engineer, their elected officials, officers,
owners, consultants, agents, and employees for damages because of bodily
injury; including death at any time resulting therefrom, sustained by any
person or persons or on account of damage to property, including loss of use
thereof, arising out of or in consequence of the performance of this work,
whether such injuries to persons or damage to property is due, or claimed to be
due, to the negligence of the contractor, his or her subcontractors, the
village, the Engineer, and their elected officials, officers, owners,
consultants, agents, and employees, except only as such injury or damage shall
have been occasioned by the sole negligence of the village, or their elected
officials, officers, owners, agents, employees, or consultants.
   (G)   Proof of coverage of insurance. The contractor shall provide the
village certificates of insurance for the required coverage. A guarantee that
30 days notice to the village prior to cancellation or non-renewal of or change
in any such insurance shall be endorsed on each policy and certificate of
insurance.
   (H)   Additional insured. All insurance policies with the exception of
Worker's Compensation, are to include the following additional insured:
      (1)   Village of Lake Orion: all elected officials, officers, owners,
consultants, agents, and employees.
      (2)   The Village Engineer: their owners, officers, consultants, owners,
agents, and employees.
   (I)   Sample forms may be obtained from the village or Village Engineer.
   (J)   The village to be listed as the certificate holder.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
GENERAL PROVISIONS AND PLAN REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.050 INTENT.
   This chapter is to provide the applicant with general plan requirements.
Failure to comply with these requirements may lead to the plans being rejected.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.051 APPLICATION AND SITE PLAN REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The applicant shall submit application packet at least 30 days prior
to the Planning Commission meeting for review. All of the following must be
submitted in order for the village to accept the application for review:
      (1)   Original application form using blue or black ink. Each area must
be completed.
      (2)   Narrative of the project.
      (3)   Site plan requirements checklist with applicable attachments.
      (4)   Proof of ownership of subject property. Consent is required from
all involved property owners and must be included with submittal.
   (B)   Plans submitted for review must include the following:
      (1)   The date, revision date, north arrow, and scale. The scale shall
not be less than one inch equals 20 feet for sites less than three acres in
area and at least one inch equals 50 feet for those sites of three acres or
more. The plan sheet size shall be 24 inches by 36 inches in size.
      (2)   Complete improvement plans bearing the seal of a registered
professional, licensed to practice in the state, shall be submitted prior to
review and approval of any portion thereof.
      (3)   The name and address of the property owner or petitioner, and proof
of ownership or option to purchase.
      (4)   A general location map.
      (5)   Legal and common or popular description of the site, and the
proposed site address, if available.
      (6)   Site area in square feet and acres, gross and net.
      (7)   The existing zoning of the site and all lots abutting it.
      (8)   All lot and/or property lines and setback lines shown and
dimensioned, including building setback lines on corner lots, and front, side,
and rear setback dimensions.
      (9)   The location and height of all existing structures and improvements
on and within 50 feet of the site, and all proposed improvements to the site,
to scale.
      (10)   Proposed and existing building width, length, and distance between
buildings dimensioned.
      (11)   The location, dimensions, and hard surface type of all existing
and proposed drives, sidewalks, walkways, paths, curb openings, curbing, wheel
stops, parking areas including total number of parking spaces, loading/
unloading spaces and areas, and fire lanes.
      (12)   The location, pavement width, and existing and planned right-of-
way width of all abutting roads, streets, alleys, or easements.
      (13)   Acceleration, deceleration, and bypass lanes and cross-access
easements located and diminished.
      (14)   General landscape plan, indicating the type, location, density,
and intended function of existing and proposed landscape materials including
groundcover, trees, shrubs, ornamentals, and other landscape plantings and
features.
      (15)   Location, height, and type of existing and proposed fences and
walls, screening, and greenbelts.
      (16)   Location, height, materials, and cross sections of any screening
walls, fences, or berms.
      (17)   Location and dimensions of any recreation areas, common use areas,
and areas to be conveyed for public use and purpose.
      (18)   Trash receptacle and transformer pad location and method of
screening.
      (19)   Location of existing and proposed service facilities, including
septic systems, drain fields and other wastewater treatment systems; well site
if any; water mains, hydrants, pump houses and building services and sizes;
sanitary sewers and pumping stations; storm water management facilities and
structures including storm sewers, swales, retention and detention basins,
drainage ways and other facilities, including preliminary calculations for
detention/retention facilities; location of easements.
      (20)   Topography showing existing grade at no more than two foot
intervals on the site and 50 feet beyond the site boundaries. If there are
major topographic features/elevation changes in vicinity of the site, the
Planning Commission may require that topographic contours be shown on the plan,
extending up to 100 feet beyond the site boundaries. Areas of cut and fill and
proposed grade changes must be identified along with a statement of how those
changes will be addressed.
      (21)   Floodplain and flood hazard elevations. If there are none on the
site, then a statement included on the plan that there are none. Streams or
other bodies of water or other unbuildable areas, if present on site.
      (22)   Provide construction phasing plan, if applicable.
      (23)   Front, side, and rear building elevations for each building
proposed. All facade materials and colors labeled on the elevations.
      (24)   Dimensioned floor plans for each building, and total and usable
floor area by type of use.
      (25)   The number of residents and/or employees during peak usage.
      (26)   A narrative description of the proposed project and use.
      (27)   Height of all outdoor light fixtures, cut sheets, method of
shielding, and illustration of pole(s) and fixture(s), and a statement that the
site will comply with all lighting requirements.
      (28)   Sign location and type of sign. The plan shall note that all signs
will conform to the village sign ordinance and that the required sign permits
will be obtained.
      (29)   In case of residential uses, the following additional information
and data is required:
         (a)   The proposed number of dwelling units by type (apartment,
condominiums, cooperative, and the like) and the number, size, and location (by
code if necessary) of one-bedroom units, two-bedroom units, and the like. The
total number of bedrooms shall be listed.
         (b)   The proposed density and the residential area of the site in
acres and in square feet, including breakdowns for any sub-areas or staging
areas and gross and net acreage areas and calculations.
         (c)   Location, elevations, and details of community buildings and
facilities, carports, swimming pools, and similar facilities.
      (30)   Owners and their engineers are encouraged to explore alternate
approaches to the site construction that address and treat both storm water
quality and quantity of runoff from the site. These alternate approaches
include the following partial list of BMPs (best management practices):
         (a)   Green roofs;
         (b)   Bio swales;
         (c)   Cisterns;
         (d)   Rain gardens;
         (e)   Porous pavement;
         (f)   Native landscaping; and
         (g)   Filter strips.
      (31)   The village will consider alternate designs that provide for
improved water quality and/or water quantity reduction. In order to substitute
these designs for the minimum standards, documentation must be provided that
addresses the alternate's sustainability and long term maintenance
requirements. Any alternate design must be approved by the village and Village
Engineer.
      (32)   The submission of special data that it deems critical to the
adequate review of the proposed use and its impacts on the site or village may
be required.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.052 FINAL PLAN.
   All applications for final plan approval shall contain the following items:
   (A)   All information required for site plan approval.
   (B)   Storm drainage and retention computations must be shown and must meet
current village stormwater management requirements.
   (C)   Display profiles of the storm sewer, including pipe size, slope, type,
length, and ground rim elevations.
   (D)   Size and location of existing and proposed hydrants, manholes, and
utilities, including proposed connections to public sewer and water supply
system.
   (E)   Soil erosion and sedimentation control plan, subject to requirements
of the Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control Act, Public Act 347 of 1972, as
amended.
   (F)   Grading plan.
   (G)   Indicate the status and location of any known environmental
contamination.
   (H)   A complete landscape plan, including the location of all existing and
proposed landscaping and vegetation; location, size, and type of any trees
larger than three inches in caliper proposed to be removed; plant list with the
number, size at planting, and name of all proposed plant material; maintenance
plan; type of ground cover noted and all grass to be specified as to whether it
will be seeded or sodded; and notation that any dead or diseased plant material
will be replaced within one year in the next appropriate planting season. The
final landscape plan shall be prepared by and bear the seal of a registered
landscape architect.
   (I)   A photometric plan including the proposed location of all outdoor
light fixtures, a photometric grid overlaid upon the site plan showing the
proposed light intensities on the site measured at grade level, a schedule of
light fixtures including the manufacturer and model number of all fixtures, the
maximum, average, and minimum illumination levels proposed in applicable areas
on the site, and a statement of the proposed hours when the luminaries will be
on and when they will be turned off. The plans must note if photocells, time
clocks, motion detectors, or other automatic switching systems are proposed.
   (J)   Complete text and description of purpose of all existing and proposed
easements.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
GENERAL CONSTRUCTION PROVISIONS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.065 INTENT.
   This chapter is intended to provide the applicant with general construction
requirements to be adhered to throughout the duration of the project. Failure
to do so may result in a stop work order being issued to the contractor
following written notice by the village requiring the issue to be resolved
prior to starting work.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.066 GENERAL PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The village or their agents will not act as the general supervisor of
the contract work or be held responsible for on-site safety. This shall be the
responsibility of the property owner, property owner's engineer, and/or
contractor.
   (B)   The village will provide observation/inspection personnel in
accordance with §
151.035 of these standards.
   (C)   Subsequent to any required village plan approvals, and prior to
starting any construction, the contractor must obtain all required permits,
establish all necessary escrow accounts, pay all fees, provide the required
insurance certificates and attend the preconstruction meeting.
   (D)   All improvements must also be field staked under the supervision of a
licensed professional. Staking must be in accordance with the approved plans.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.067 WORKING SPACE.
   (A)   The contractor shall confine the work operations to the minimum space
possible within the project limits. Stockpiling of construction material and
equipment will be permitted as necessary, but in no case shall traveled
roadways, driveways, or entrances be unduly obstructed. Any offsite storage or
disposal areas within the village must be shown on the final site plan drawings
and approved by the village.
   (B)   It shall be the contractor's responsibility to use such methods and/or
materials, including sheeting, so as to prevent any portion of the work from
encroaching on adjacent property.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.068 LOCATING WORK.
   The contractor shall accurately locate the work from reference points
established by the project engineer/surveyor along the surface of the ground
and the line of work. "Cut sheets" for all underground work shall be furnished
to the contractor and the village by the applicant. Reference points shall be
protected and preserved by the contractor.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.069 SURVEY MONUMENTS.
   Monuments or other recognized property boundary markers at street
intersections, section comers, acreage or lot corners, and right-of-way lines
shall be preserved and protected. Where such monuments or markers must be
removed during construction, the village shall be notified and the contractor
shall make all necessary arrangements with a land surveyor registered in the
state to have these monuments or markers properly witnessed prior to
disturbance or removal and later reset by the registered land surveyor at no
cost to the village.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.070 TRENCH BACKFILL.
   (A)   Special backfill shall be used at all locations and of the type called
for on the drawings, and at other locations specified herein whether called for
on the drawings or not. The type and method of backfilling is dependent on its
locations and function and shall conform with the following requirements. The
applicant will supply field testing on the special backfill compaction
requirements.
   (B)   Backfilling of trenches in the shoulder area and under private gravel
drives shall be carried to within six inches of the existing surface as
specified under Trench A or Trench B as required. The shoulder shall be defined
herein as the area within five feet of the pavement edge, or the width of the
existing graveled shoulder, whichever is greater. The remaining depth shall be
backfilled with six inches of compacted 21AA aggregate. Backfilling of trenches
crossing gravel roads or streets shall be carried to within eight inches of the
existing surface and the remaining depth shall be backfilled with eight inches
of compacted 21AA aggregate. Compaction shall be performed by a pneumatic-tired
roller or a vibratory compactor until the compaction requirements as required
for Trench A or Trench B and as detailed in the following divisions are met.
   (C)   The requirements as specified herein are in addition to the conditions
provided for under permit granted by the Road Commission for Oakland County
(RCOC) or the Michigan Department of Transportation (MDOT) where applicable.
   (D)   Trench A. All trenches under graveled, slag or hard surfaced roads,
pavements, hard surfaced parking lots and driveways, sidewalks, curbs and where
the trench edge is within three feet of a pavement shall be backfilled with
bank run sand meeting the requirements of granular material, MDOT Class II. The
material shall be placed by the controlled density method or other effective
means having the approval of the Engineer and is to be compacted to 95% of
maximum unit weight as determined by ASTM D-1557 Modified Proctor. Trenches
under pavement to be constructed in the near future, as noted or shown on the
drawings, shall be backfilled with granular material, meeting the requirements
of current MDOT Standard Specifications for Construction.
   (E)   Trench B. Trench B shall be used where called for on the drawings. All
trenches shall be backfilled with granular material, MDOT Class II to a point
12 inches above the pipe for diameters less than 24 inches and up to the spring
line with materials meeting the requirements of the current MDOT Standards for
diameters 24 inches or larger. This portion of the backfill is to be placed in
layers not exceeding six inches in depth, and shall be thoroughly compacted by
mechanical tamping to not less than 95% of maximum unit weight utilizing ASTM
D-1557 Modified Proctor. The remainder of the backfill shall be made with
suitable excavated material (excluding blue and gray clays, peat, muck, marl or
other organic materials) placed in one foot layers with each layer being
thoroughly compacted by approved mechanical methods, or other effective means
having the approval of the Engineer, to a density of 90% of maximum unit weight
utilizing ASTM D-1557 Modified Proctor.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.071 MAINTENANCE AND RESTORATION OF PAVEMENTS, ROAD SURFACES, STRUCTURES
AND TRENCH BACKFILL.
   (A)   Where trenches cross existing improved roadways or drives or where the
trench parallels an existing improved roadway which is disturbed by the
contractor's operations, the contractor shall consolidate the trench backfill
and shall immediately place a temporary gravel fill, meeting 21AA Aggregate
Gradation at least eight inches thick; and shall, during the life of the
project, maintain the same in good condition with additional gravel as settling
takes place. All structures, including curbing, walks, paving, gravel, or sheet
road surfaces, and the like, that may be damaged or destroyed by the
contractor's operations, shall be repaired and replaced by the contractor at
their expense. In restoring pavement, a saw shall be used and a cut equal to
tire thickness of the existing pavement shall be made on each side of the part
to be restored. Concrete shall be 3500 psi, using six sacks of cement per cubic
yard of concrete, unless otherwise required.
   (B)   If the pavement removed had an asphaltic concrete surface, the surface
shall be removed to a distance one foot beyond the limits of the removed
asphaltic concrete pavement. The butt joint in asphaltic concrete removal shall
be prepared by sawing through the total depth of asphaltic concrete. The
surface shall be replaced with a nominal three inches of MDOT bituminous
surface mixture as required by the village and meeting the requirements of the
Michigan Department of Transportation as to materials and method of replacement
at no extra cost to the village.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.072 PROTECTION OF THE PUBLIC.
   The contractor shall provide sufficient barricades, guard railings, fencing,
advance construction signing, coverings or other means to protect the public
from injury due to the work operations, including completed or uncompleted
work, at all times until final approval of the work by the village.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.073 PRESERVATION OF TREES.
   (A)   The contractor shall protect and preserve all trees and natural areas
along the line of work, and will be held responsible for any damage to trees.
Construction fencing shall be placed to fence off designated areas at the drip
edge of the trees to be protected. Where necessary to preserve a tree and its
main roots, the contractor shall tunnel under such tree. Where specifically
called for on the drawings, the contractor shall remove trees completely,
including stumps and main roots.
   (B)   Where tunneling is required, augering shall be done in a manner to
protect the trees and at a distance away from the tree in accordance with the
following table:
Tunneling or Augering Beneath Tree Roots
Tree Diameter (DBH) Minimum Auger Distance
Tunneling or Augering Beneath Tree Roots
Tree Diameter (DBH) Minimum Auger Distance
Up to 2"            Auger 1 foot from trunk of tree
3 - 4"              Auger 2 foot from trunk of tree
5 - 9"              Auger 5 foot from trunk of tree
10 - 14"            Auger 10 foot from trunk of tree
15 - 19"            Auger 12 foot from trunk of tree
19" and Over        Auger 15 foot from trunk of tree
Note: Diameter Breast Height (DBH) is measured 4.5' above the ground
 
   (C)   The minimum depth of auger within the root zone, as described above,
shall be 24 inches below the soil surface. In any event, the tunneling must be
below the major root system of the tree. All voids around the tunneled or
augured facility shall be backfilled with excavated material and thoroughly
compacted to avoid settlement. Compaction must be completed without compacting
the soil within the root zone.
   (D)   Where tunneling is not required for trees close to the trench and root
trimming is necessary, the contractor shall hand trench ahead of the machine
digging and cut all roots cleanly to minimize damage to the roots.
   (E)   Tree branches shall be tied back to protect them from the contractor's
machinery where necessary.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.074 PROTECTION AND REPLACEMENT OF LANDSCAPING.
   The contractor shall protect, replace and/or restore all shrubbery, trees,
lawns, and landscaping damaged or destroyed by operations under his or her
contract to the satisfaction of the village.
   (A)   Tree replacement requirements. The applicant shall be required to
replace all protected trees being removed having eight inches or more DBH
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The replacement calculations shall indicate the total caliper inch
at DBH of protected trees being removed, as well as any trees being considered
for exemption. The total number of replacement trees and caliper inches shall
be provided and graphically illustrated on a plan.
         (a)   Replacement trees shall be at least three inches caliper and
eight feet in height for evergreens. Trees will be measured at six inches above
finished grade for replacement trees four inches caliper or less and at 12
inches above finished grade for all trees greater than four inches caliper.
         (b)   Larger evergreen trees may be used to fulfill replacement
requirements at the equivalent rate of one inch for each 2.8 feet in height.
         (c)   Consideration may be given to allow smaller caliper trees if
they are part of a replacement plan that specifies a mixture of sizes and
intended to simulate as natural woodland habitat.
      (2)   Replacement rate for protected trees. Protected trees must be
replaced at a rate of 50% of the total DBH removed. Each protected tree(s) must
be replaced with a tree that is a minimum of three inch caliper or seven feet
in height for deciduous shade trees, and six feet in height for evergreen
trees.
      (3)   Diversity of tree species shall be maintained where essential to
preserving a wooded area.
      (4)   The location of transplanted trees and required woodland
replacement trees must be provided on the landscape plan. Transplanted and
replacement trees shall be clearly distinguished from required landscape
elements.
      (5)   Trees required to be planted in accordance with this section shall
be in place and properly supported prior to the issuance of a final certificate
of occupancy.
      (6)   All purchased replacement trees shall satisfy American Association
of Nurseryman standards, including:
         (a)   Nursery grown.
         (b)   Clean and free of weeds and noxious pests and diseases.
         (c)   Tree spade transplanted while in the dormant state, or if not in
the dormant state, having been balled and burlapped with a solid well-laced
root ball when in the dormant state.
         (d)   Number one grade, with straight unscarred trunk and a well-
developed uniform crown. Park grade trees are not acceptable.
         (e)   Staked, watered and mulched in accordance with standard planting
practices.
      (7)   Replacement trees shall be guaranteed for a minimum of one year,
including labor. After one year, dead or diseased trees must be replaced prior
to final village approval.
      (8)   Where it is not reasonable or desirable to relocate or replace
trees on site, relocation or replacement may be made at another approved
location within the village.
      (9)   A protected tree is defined as any tree that is six inches DBH or
greater in size.
   (B)   Tree protection procedures. Prior to construction, land clearing,
filling, and/or land alteration, the applicant shall do the following:
      (1)   All trees for which application is being made for removal shall be
so identified on-site by fluorescent orange spray paint (chalk based) or by
fluorescent orange flagging tape prior to field inspection by the village.
Trees selected for transplanting shall be flagged with a separate
distinguishing color.
      (2)   Protective fencing shall be erected which restricts access to
protected areas.
         (a)   Fencing shall be installed five feet outside the tree drip line
or tree groupings, unless it can be demonstrated that this is not practical.
         (b)   Stakes for fencing shall be staked into the ground, with stakes
spaced at a maximum of ten feet.
         (c)   The protective fencing shall be maintained and all construction
materials, supplies and equipment shall be kept outside of the protective
areas.
         (d)   Fencing material shall be a minimum of 48 inches high.
Acceptable materials include: green or orange snow fence and galvanized or
vinyl-coated chain link.
      (3)   Tree protection shall remain in its approved location until such
time removal is authorized by the village. During construction, no attachments
or wires shall be attached to any trees which are protected. Wood, metal or
other substantial material shall be utilized in the construction of barriers.
      (4)   No activity shall be conducted within ten feet of the tree drip
line, including but not limited to placing of any solvents, material,
construction machinery, vehicles, or soil.
      (5)   The location of fencing may be adjusted, as administratively
approved, in the field to accommodate site-specific conditions or constraints.
      (6)   The developer and/or the builder shall be responsible to inform all
subcontractors, suppliers and tradesmen that they are to help maintain the
trees and will be held responsible for any unauthorized damage to trees and
woodlands.
      (7)   Prior to issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy or
certificate of occupancy, all required replacement trees shall be planted in
accordance with the approved plans, or cash deposit in the amount of the
estimated tree replacement and transplant costs to be refunded in full at time
of completion.
   (C)   Replacement of trees during construction. The developer or builder
shall be required to replace trees originally intended to be preserved when
such trees are damaged during construction. The replacement requirements for
such damaged trees shall be one caliper inch for each one caliper inch DBH of
the damaged trees.
   (D)   Tree maintenance and replacement. If any of the trees required to be
retained or trees planted as part of the landscaping plan should die within a
period of 12 months after completion of the activities associated with the tree
removal permit, the owner of the property shall replace the trees within six
months at a ratio of one-to-one with an approved tree having a minimum of three
inch caliper or eight feet in height for evergreens. Shrubbery or other
plantings that die within 12 months of completion of the activities shall be
replaced in kind within six months.
   (E)   Variances. An appeal may be made to the Zoning Board of Appeals if a
practical difficulty makes strict compliance with this chapter impractical. In
determining the existence of a practical difficulty, the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall consider:
      (1)   The intent and purpose of the chapter.
      (2)   The character and community value of the protected trees affected;
and
      (3)   The presence of unique circumstances which makes compliance with
the chapter physically impractical.
   (F)   Restoration.
      (1)   The contractor shall restore all disturbed areas to the finished
grade shown or to conform with existing grades and provide a smooth and uniform
surface to meet existing ground surface. Ground cover must be established and
conform to the approved site plan and landscaping plan.
      (2)   Where areas are to be planted at a later date or construction
schedules result in areas exposed for extended periods, they are to be
temporarily seeded with an annual rye grass to prevent erosion as soon as rough
grade is established. Replant restored areas as needed to provide a well
established vegetative ground cover.
      (3)   The contractor shall go over the entire area and regrade and fill
any areas that may have settled, including fills made from excess excavated
materials and all other areas that may have been disturbed during construction
operations. Ground covers must be established on all such areas after repair.
      (4)   Where established lawn or grass areas have been disturbed by the
contractor's operations, the contractor shall provide, unless otherwise
specified or called for on the drawings or in the specifications, not less than
tire minimum depth of approved top soil and shall grade, seed, fertilize and
mulch or install Class A sod where directed by the village.
      (5)   Restoration areas are to be kept moist by the contractor for 14
days after planting to insure growth.
   (G)   Public and private utilities.
      (1)   Utilities. The contractor must provide adequate protection for
water, sewer, gas, telephone, TV, cable, fiber optics, drainage, or any other
public or private utilities encountered. The contractor will be held
responsible for any damages to such utilities arising from his or her
operation.
      (2)   When it is apparent that construction operations may endanger the
foundations of any utility conduit, or the support of any structure, the
contractor shall notify the utility owner of this possibility and shall take
steps as may be required to provide temporary bracing or support of conduit or
structures.
      (3)   When construction operations may impact existing drainage
facilities, the contractor shall make necessary provisions to maintain the
integrity of the drainage facility and of flow. In all cases where permits or
inspection fees are required by utilities in connection with changes to or
temporary support of their conduits, the contractor shall secure such permits
and pay all inspection fees.
      (4)   Where it is necessary in order to carry out the work, that a pole,
electric or telephone, be moved to a new location, or moved and replaced after
construction, the contractor shall obtain applicable permits and arrange for
the moving of such pole or poles, and the lines thereof, and shall pay any
charges therefor.
      (5)   Where it is the policy of any utility owner to make repairs to
damaged conduit or other structures, the contractor shall cooperate to the
fullest extent with the utility and shall see that construction operations
interfere as little as possible with the utilities operations. The contractor
shall pay any charges for these repairs.
      (6)   Where existing gas mains and services are encountered, the
contractor shall arrange with the gas company for any necessary relaying, and
shall pay for the cost of such work unless otherwise provided.
   (H)   Pumping, bailing and draining of trenches.
      (1)   The contractor shall provide and maintain adequate pumping and
drainage facilities for removal and disposal of water from trenches or other
excavations. No direct discharge to existing water courses is permitted. The
contractor shall contact the village for approval of the discharge point.
      (2)   In any event, all pumping and drainage shall be done without damage
to any roadway or other property, public or private, and without interference
with the rights of the public or private property owners and in accordance with
the MDEQ and local requirements for soil erosion and sedimentation control.
   (I)   Sheeting, shoring and bracing. Where necessary, in order to construct
the work called for on the approved plans, the contractor shall use and, if
necessary, leave in place, such sheeting, shoring, and bracing as is needed to
carry out the work or to adequately insure the stability of such work, to
protect adjoining areas.
   (J)   Disposal of excavated material. With the exception of an amount of
excavated materials sufficient for backfilling and construction of fills, as
called for on the drawings, all broken concrete, stone, and excess excavated
materials shall be disposed of away from the site by the contractor unless an
on-site disposal area has been reviewed and approved by the village during the
site plan review process. The contractor will be required to obtain his or her
own disposal ground and indicate the location at the pre-construction meeting.
If disposal site is within the village, the site must have prior written
approval from the village.
   (K)   Disposal of waste materials. Unless otherwise directed by the
applicant or village, all scrap lumber, stumps, brush, concrete, other waste
materials and debris resulting from the construction work shall be removed from
the premises. No waste materials may be buried or burned on site. Wood may be
chipped and used on site for landscaping mulch or paths, but wood-chip
stockpile areas must be approved by the village.
   (L)   Tunneling. The contractor shall construct the work in tunnel where
shown on the drawings or required by permits, and at other locations may, at
his or her option, construct the work in tunnel where it crosses existing
roadways, public and private utilities, walks or other structures. Tunnel work
shall be constructed in accordance with the drawings and specifications, road
permit requirements, or as otherwise noted on the drawings.
   (M)   Site dewatering.
      (1)   Any anticipated construction dewatering activity requires approval
by the village during the site plan review process. If the unexpected need for
dewatering arises during construction, dewatering provisions must be submitted
to and approved by the village prior to dewatering.
      (2)   The dewatering provisions shall include the number and location,
depth, and size of all proposed pumps. The maximum flow from each pump should
be indicated. In addition, the provisions shall indicate the precise location
for discharge of the water. All water must be retained on site, unless
extenuating circumstances are demonstrated and the village approves of the
concept to discharge off-site. The contractor shall be responsible for
obtaining permission from the appropriate property owners and regulatory
agencies that may have jurisdiction over the proposed receiving waters for off
site discharge. Proper soil erosion control and water quality measures must be
properly installed at the outlet.
   (N)   Progress of work.
      (1)   The work shall start promptly and continue uninterrupted.
      (2)   If the village determines it is necessary or advisable that certain
portions of the work be done immediately, the contractor, upon written order,
shall proceed with such work without delay.
   (O)   Explosives. If explosives are used, the contractor shall comply with
all laws, rules, and regulations governing their use. The contractor shall be
fully responsible for the safety of all persons and property and any approval
by the village shall not relieve the contractor of such responsibility. It
shall also be the contractor's responsibility to provide written notification
to property owners and tenants within 200 feet of the use of explosives at
least 24 hours in advance.
   (P)   Schedule of operations. If requested by the village, the contractor
shall submit, for the village's review and approval, a schedule of his or her
proposed operations. The contractor's schedule shall be complete and shall show
in detail the manner in which he or she proposes to complete the work under his
or her contract.
   (Q)   Requirements pertaining to work within railroad rights-of-way. Where
the contract drawings call for work within railroad rights-of-way or where the
work crosses under railroad tracks, the contractor shall secure the approval of
the railroad company of the method and schedule of operations and shall carry
out the work in strict accordance therewith, all to the satisfaction of the
railroad company. Plan notes, provisions, requirements, and the like, for the
railroad right-of-way work must be shown on the plans.
   (R)   Dust control. The contractor shall provide adequate measures to
control dust caused by his or her operation. The methods employed, and
frequency of application shall be as approved or as directed by the village.
   (S)   Hours of operation. The applicant shall comply with §
130.02(A)(2) of the this code dealing with construction noises.
   (T)   Testing.
      (1)   Testing shall be required as specified in the respective chapter
detailing the item of work to be completed. Generally, testing will be required
when, but not limited to, engineering fill or trench backfill, pavement
compaction, concrete break testing, subgrade compaction, and the like. Testing
may be required in circumstances where unstable soils are encountered and are
to be removed and replaced. Additional testing as determined by the applicant
is encouraged.
      (2)   The contractor shall obtain the services of a certified testing
laboratory approved by the Village Engineer. This laboratory will perform all
material testing. Copies of the results shall be furnished to the village and
Village Engineer.
      (3)   For materials covered by ASTM, AWWA, state and/or federal
specifications, the required tests are to be made by the manufacturer or
supplier and his or her certificates submitted to the Village Engineer.
      (4)   At the request of the Village Engineer soil density and compaction
tests must be made by a representative of the applicant, and will be paid for
by the applicant. The tests will be reviewed and accepted by the Village
Engineer.
   (U)   Samples.
      (1)   Where requested by the village or these standards, samples of
materials in the quantity required shall be submitted to the Village Engineer
for approval. The work shall be in accordance with approved samples.
      (2)   Samples are to be forwarded to the Village Engineer with all
shipping charges prepaid, boxed or wrapped separately and each labeled with the
name of the material, the name of the producer, the contractor furnishing the
same and use for which the material is intended.
   (V)   Subcontracts. The contractor shall be fully responsible to the village
for the acts or omissions of his or her subcontractors and for anyone employed
directly or indirectly by him or her or them. The contractor shall bind every
subcontractor and every subcontractor shall be bound by these standards, as far
as applicable to his or her work, unless otherwise specifically approved in
writing by the village.
   (W)   Equivalent materials and equipment. Whenever any of the material or
equipment is defined by describing a proprietary product, or by using the name
of a manufacturer or vender, the term "or equal" if not inserted, shall be
implied. The specific article, material, or equipment mentioned shall be
understood as indicating the type, function, minimum standard of design
efficiency and quality desired and shall not be construed in such a manner as
to exclude manufacturers' products of comparable quality, design and
efficiency. Other manufacturers' products will be accepted provided sufficient
information is submitted by the Project Engineer with their approval to use the
alternate material to the Village Engineer to determine that the products
proposed are equivalent to those named. Whenever material or equipment is
submitted for approval as being equal to that specified, the final decision of
whether or not such material or equipment is equal to that specified shall be
made by the Village Engineer. Upon rejection of any material or equipment
submitted as the equivalent of that specifically named, the contractor shall
immediately proceed to furnish the designated material or equipment. The
approval by the Village Engineer of alternate material or equipment as being
equivalent to that specified shall not in any way relieve the contractor of
responsibility for failure of the material, or workmanship, to perform the
functions required of them.
   (X)   Contractor's responsibility. The contractor shall assume full
responsibility for the work, specifically including job site safety, and take
all precautions for preventing injuries to persons and property on or about the
work; shall bear all losses resulting to him or her on account of the amount or
character of the work or because the conditions under which the work is done
are different, or because the nature of the ground in which the work is done is
different from what was estimated or expected, or on account of the weather,
floods, elements or other causes, and in accordance with §
151.036(F) of this chapter he or she shall assume the defense and save harmless
the village, Village Engineer, and their individual officers and agents from
all claims arising out of the work performed or to be performed; and to any
act, or neglect of the contractor, his or her agents or employees.
   (Y)   General requirements for materials and workmanship. The contractor
shall furnish suitable tools and equipment and employ competent labor to
perform the work to be done. Any labor or tools or appliances that shall not,
in the judgment of the Village Engineer, be suitable or competent to produce
this result may be ordered from the work by the Village Engineer.
   (Z)   Storage of materials. Materials and equipment distributed, stored and
placed upon or near the site of the work shall at all times be so disposed as
not to interfere with work of other contractors, with drainage, fire hydrants
or with access thereto and not to hinder traffic.
   (AA)   Contractor's supervision and origination.
      (1)   The general contractor shall give efficient supervision to the
work. The contractor shall at all times keep on the site of the work, during
its progress, a competent superintendent and any and all necessary foremen and
assistants. The superintendent shall represent and have full authority to act
for the contractor in the latter's absence, and all directions given to him or
her shall be as binding as if given to the contractor. On request in each case,
all such directions will be confirmed in writing to the contractor.
      (2)   Copies of the drawings and specifications shall at all times be
kept on file by the contractor at readily accessible points at or near the
work.
   (BB)   Facilities for inspection. The village, their agents, and their
employees shall at all times have the right to enter upon the premises upon
which work is being done, or upon which material is stored, to inspect the work
and materials and to ascertain whether or not the construction is carried out
in accordance with the approved plans. The contractor shall promptly remove
from the premises all materials rejected by the Village Engineer as failing to
meet standard requirements, without expense to the village.
   (CC)   Cleaning up. The contractor shall remove from the site and from all
public and private property, all temporary structures, rubbish and waste
materials resulting from his or her operations on a regular basis so as not to
create a nuisance.
   (DD)   Prohibition of salvaged materials. No secondhand or salvaged
materials will be permitted, except upon specific written authorization from
the village.
   (EE)   Trench enclosures. All trenches shall normally be backfilled at the
end of the workday. Only under special conditions and with the approval of the
Village Engineer, shall trenches be left open overnight. Trenches which are
allowed to be left open overnight shall be completely enclosed with suitable
fencing or lighted barricades. When the trench contains water or when required
by the Village Engineer, the exposed end of the pipe shall be securely closed
with a watertight plug.
   (FF)   Cleanup scheduling.
      (1)   General cleanup, including completion of rough grading of
backfilled trench areas, shall continuously progress along with, and shall lag
no further than 100 feet behind, the pipe installation operations.
      (2)   Fine grading and restoration work not dependent on weather or
subject to seasonal limitations shall also progress concurrently with and shall
lag no further than 500 feet behind pipe installation operations.
   (GG)   Excavation. The trench shall be excavated so that the pipe can be
laid to the alignment and grade shown on the plan, taking into consideration
the bedding specified. Excavation shall include removal of all materials
encountered and disposal (off the site) of those materials not suitable or
needed for backfilling of the trench. Excavation shall not proceed ahead of
pipe laying a distance that will result in a cave in. All adjacent structures
encountered, above and below the ground surface, shall be properly supported.
   (HH)   Width of trench.
      (1)   If the maximum trench widths noted on the plans are exceeded,
unless otherwise authorized by the Village Engineer, the contractor shall
construct a concrete cradle or other type of approved bedding to provide
support for the additional load.
      (2)   When sand bedding is used, the maximum trench widths shall be used
to permit compaction of the bedding around the pipe.
      (3)   If stone bedding is used, a minimum six inch clearance shall be
provided on each side of the pipe with the maximum trench width as tabulated.
   (II)   Pipe bedding.
      (1)   Pipe bedding is defined as the material placed from a minimum of
four inches below the pipe to the centerline of the pipe. It shall consist of
stone or sand, as noted on the bedding detail. The bedding shall be removed
under the bell so that the pipe barrel will be uniformly supported for its full
length.
      (2)   The bedding material shall be placed and compacted uniformly on
both sides of the pipe to prevent lateral movement. Mechanical methods of
tamping shall be used when it is possible to do so without damaging the pipe.
Bedding shall be placed in layers of six inches or less as necessary to obtain
thorough compaction around the pipe.
      (3)   In the event density tests become necessary to resolve a question
of the sufficiency of compaction of bedding material, the minimum acceptable
density shall be considered to be 95% of maximum density as determined by the
AASHTO T99 method.
      (4)   Stone used for bedding shall not lose more than 7% by washing.
Stone used for this purpose shall pass a 3/4 inch sieve and be retained on a 1/
4 inch sieve.
   (JJ)   Concrete cradle. Where called for on the plans, a concrete cradle
shall be constructed using MDOT Grade 30P concrete. The cradle shall extend
half-way up the sides of the pipe.
   (KK)   Laying of pipe.
      (1)   Proper and suitable tools and appliances for the safe and careful
handling, conveying, and laying of the pipe shall be used. Care shall be taken
to prevent the coating of castings or ductile iron pipe from being damaged.
Pipe, valves, hydrants, and fittings strung along the route shall be placed in
such a manner that they will not be submerged or collect water. Dropping of
material directly from a truck or platform is prohibited. All pipe and castings
shall be carefully examined for defects. If any materials are found to be
defective, they shall immediately be removed from the site.
      (2)   All lumps, blisters, and excess coal-tar coating shall be removed
from both the bell and spigot ends of each length of pipe and each fitting. The
outside of each spigot and the inside of each bell shall be wire brushed and
wiped clean, dry, and free from oil or grease immediately prior to
installation. The inside of the pipe shall be free of dirt and debris. Any
damage to exterior pipe coating shall be repaired with an approved coating
before the pipe is laid.
      (3)   Each pipe shall be inspected by the contractor for possible defects
and compliance with the plans before being placed in the trench. Joint surfaces
shall be free of foreign matter. Pipe laying operations shall follow
immediately behind the excavation.
      (4)   Pipe shall be laid from the lower end of the sewer upstream, with
bell ends up grade. The use of brick, lumps of clay, wood, and the like, to
level the pipe will not be permitted. Pipe shall be thrust home and if joints
do not remain tightly closed or construction is in saturated sand, a cable and
winch, or other approved means, shall be used to maintain a tight joint. Under
no circumstances shall pipe be dropped directly into the trench.
      (5)   All pipe shall be laid to line and grade as called for on the
plans. Each pipe as laid shall be checked by the contractor. The trench shall
be excavated to provide equal clearance on both sides of the pipe. After the
pipe is set, care shall be taken in backfilling so as not to disturb its line
or grade. As work progresses, the interior of the pipe shall be thoroughly
cleaned. At all times the open ends of the pipe shall be covered to prevent
foreign matter from entering.
   (LL)   Backfilling.
      (1)   Backfilling is defined as the placement in the trench of approved
material by an acceptable method, from the top of the bedding to proposed
ground surface grade. All backfill material shall be free from cinders, ashes,
refuse, organic matter, boulders, rocks or stones, or other material which, in
the opinion of the Village Engineer, is unsuitable. Unless otherwise authorized
by the Village Engineer, all excavations shall be backfilled at least to a
point one foot above the pipe immediately after installation.
      (2)   From the center of the pipe to a point one foot above the top of
the pipe, the trench shall be backfilled with sand approved by the Village
Engineer, placed in six inch layers, and thoroughly compacted.
      (3)   Backfilling to grade shall not fall more than 100 feet behind pipe
laying unless otherwise permitted by the Village Engineer. In locations where
compaction of the backfill to a specific density is not required by these
standards, backfill may, where practicable, be machined placed. Excavated
material (other than clay) may be used for backfill and compacted by a small
dozer in lifts of not over nine inches loose measure. Machine compaction of
backfill may be required by the Village Engineer.
      (4)   No frozen material shall be buried more than two feet below the
final elevation of ground. At no time shall frozen materials be permitted for
use as backfill under pavement structures.
      (5)   All backfill placed within three feet of manholes, catch basins,
gate wells and other underground structures shall be approved sand, placed in
one foot layers and compacted. After the structure and/or exterior masonry
plaster has set up sufficiently to resist, damage, backfilling shall be
performed in a manner that will not cause unequal pressure on the structure.
   (MM)   Construction in unstable soils or fill sections.
      (1)   Pipe and pipe appurtenances must be supported on a firm foundation.
The trench bottom shall remain stable during backfilling and all subsequent
pipe laying operations. When unstable trench bottoms (wet clays, sands, and the
like) are encountered, it will be necessary to excavate below design depth to
stable, non-compressible ground and backfill to grade with approved select
materials: slag, crushed stone, gravel, and the like, 1/4 inch to 3/4 inch in
size.
      (2)   Where organic materials (peat, marl, muck, and the like) exist at
the trench bottom, it shall be necessary to remove these to stable soils and
backfill to grade with the aforementioned select materials. Where the material
below plan grade is unstable to such a degree that it cannot be removed and
replaced with an approved material, the contractor shall construct supports as
recommended by the Project Engineer and approved by the Village Engineer.
      (3)   Where it is necessary to lay pipe in a fill area, unstable or
unsuitable material shall be removed before fill material is placed. The
embankment shall be of suitable material, one vertical on two horizontal fill
slopes, and shall be placed in layers not exceeding one foot in thickness
compacted to 100% of maximum density as determined by the AASHTO T99 Method, to
the proposed top of the pipe. The embankment shall not be less than four
diameters plus 12 feet wide at the invert of the pipe and shall be continued up
to provide no less than three feet of cover over the pipe.
   (NN)   Pipe clearance in rocks. Rocks, boulders, and stones over two inches
in diameter shall be removed to provide a clearance of at least six inches from
any part of the pipe or appurtenances.
   (OO)   Roadway and waterway crossings. All work within a road right-of-way
or a waterway shall be performed in accordance with the requirements of the
governmental body having jurisdiction over the right-of-way involved. Notice
and permits as required shall be given and secured from said governmental body
before work starts.
   (PP)   Trench box. If the trench box rides below the top of the pipe, then
care must be taken to protect the integrity of the pipe bedding, particularly
when movement of the trench box leaves a void in the pipe bedding. Care must
also be taken to ensure that movement of the trench box does not pull the pipe
joints apart and, if necessary, the pipe lines should be secured with a wood
cross-block, cable, and winch at the downstream manhole.
   (QQ)   Bored and jacked casings.
      (1)   Requirement. The boring and jacking of steel casings shall be
installed in any areas considered to be detrimentally affected by open cut
construction in the opinion of the village.
      (2)   Materials.
         (a)   Casing pipe. Steel casing pipe shall be electronic-fusion welded
pipe, conforming to the requirements of ASTM A-39, Grade B, with minimum 1/
4 inch wall thickness. Pipe ends shall be prepared for field welding of
circumferential joints.
         (b)   Carrier pipe.  Pipe materials shall conform to that specified in
the applicable sections of these standards.
         (c)   Grout. Grout material shall be cement-sand mixture containing
not less than one part cement to one part sand, unless otherwise approved by
the Village Engineer.
         (d)   Pipe skid. Necessary skidding materials required to protect the
pipe during installation shall be approved by the Village Engineer and
furnished by the contractor.
      (3)   Installation.
         (a)   Casing pipe. Casing pipe shall be installed in a continuous
augering (or mining) and jacking operation with the casing pipe installation
following directly behind the face of the excavation. Water shall not be
introduced during the boring-jacking operation.
         (b)   Grouting. The annular space between the outside surface of pipe
and the inside surface of casing pipe shall be pressure grouted with approved
materials. The diameter of the casing pipe shall be of sufficient size to
ensure proper placement of the pipe to plan line and grade and to allow the
proper installation of pressure grouted material. The ends of the casing pipe
shall be closed with a masonry bulkhead at least eight inches thick.
         (c)   Minimum boring distances. All work shall be performed from
boring and jacking pits adequately sheeted to prevent damage to the roadway,
railway, and the like. The minimum distance from the edge of the pavement to
the trench or boring and jacking pit for dual highway and interstate routes
shall be 30 feet. For curb or guardrail section, railway track, or two-lane
highway, the minimum distance will vary from shoulder point to the toe of
slope, as shown on the plans or as directed by the Village Engineer.
   (RR)   Rip-rap.
      (1)   Rip-rap shall be installed at all locations as indicated on the
plans.
      (2)   Typically, all rip-rap shall be installed on a suitable geotextile
fabric.
      (3)   Rip-rap material shall be natural stone, limestone, or broken
concrete free of any reinforcement.
      (4)   Average diameter shall be as indicated on the plans.
      (5)   Rip-rap shall be placed so individual stones are fit together to
form an interlocking mat. Smaller stones are to fill any large voids.
      (6)   Grouting rip-rap is permitted in lieu of supplementing settlement.
   (SS)   Maintenance of traffic.
      (1)   During the progress of the work, the contractor shall accommodate
both vehicular and pedestrian traffic as provided in these specifications and
as indicated on the drawings. In the absence of specific requirements, traffic
shall be maintained in accordance with the current edition of the Michigan
Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices. Access to lire hydrants and water
valves shall always be maintained. The contractor's truck and equipment
operations on public roads shall be governed by county regulations, all local
traffic ordinances, and requirements of the Fire and Police Departments.
      (2)   Small road openings necessary for manholes, alignment holes, sewer
connections, and the like will be permitted. Such holes shall not be open
longer than necessary and shall be protected and any traffic detouring
necessary shall be done to the satisfaction of the village. Wherever possible,
small openings shall be covered with steel plates at pavement level secured in
place during periods that work is not being performed.
      (3)   Where roads are partially obstructed, the contractor shall place
and maintain temporary driveways, ramps, bridges and crossings which in the
opinion of the village are necessary to accommodate the public. In the event of
the contractor's failure to comply with the foregoing provisions, the village
may, with or without notice, cause the same to be done at the contractor's
expense.
      (4)   The contractor shall provide flagmen, warning lights, signs,
fencing and barricades necessary to direct and protect vehicular and pedestrian
traffic.
      (5)   The contractor shall inform the Police and Fire Departments in
advance of work operations of road obstructions and detours, so that they can
set up plans for servicing the area in case of an emergency. The Village
Manager's Office, Police, and Fire Department shall be notified one week prior
to obstructing any road, except for emergencies.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
AS-BUILT DRAWING PROCEDURES AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 151.090 INTENT.
   Prior to the village's final approval of any site improvements or the final
acceptance of any public utilities, which the village will accept for
maintenance and operation, as-built drawings must be submitted to the village
for review and acceptance.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.091 PROCEDURE.
   As-built drawings shall be initially submitted in the form of two sets of
prints with blue or black lines. Upon the approval of the as-built drawings by
the Village Engineer, complete sets, of reproducible mylar drawings, a minimum
of three mils thick, together with two complete sets of blue-line or black-line
prints, shall be submitted to the Village Engineer for distribution and
archives. The village may, at their discretion, also require the plans to be
submitted in digital format. The number of as-built mylar plan sets shall be
determined by the village. The applicant shall receive copies of any
inspection/observation reports from the Village Engineer. This information is
only intended to supplement their own, as-built survey, contractor reports, and
own field observation and are not intended to be a complete record for all
construction activities for the subject project or the only source of
documentation to provide the as-built information required herein.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.092 CERTIFICATE OF OCCUPANCY.
   As-built drawings shall be provided prior to a full certificate of
occupancy.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.093 CRITERIA.
   As-built drawings shall contain, but are not limited to, the following
information:
   (A)   General plan requirements. The plans shall contain all information as
shown on the approved plans:
      (1)   The as-built plans shall include all information as included in §§
151.050 through
151.052, such as location map, legend, project contacts, and the like;
      (2)   The plans shall be clearly labeled as-built on each sheet;
      (3)   All as-built survey data shall tie into the same site benchmarks as
those used for the construction plans.
   (B)   Grading, site drainage and open channel storm systems. As-built
grading plans shall include, but are not limited to the submittals of a Master
Grading Plan with any deviations from the approved Grading Plan noted on the
drawing. The plan must also include all drainage courses and open ditch or
swale drainage conveyance facilities. In general, the as-built Grading Plan is
to provide the village with an accurate plan to verify that individual plot
plans, where applicable, conform to the overall grading and drainage pattern.
   (C)   Enclosed storm sewer system. As-built storm sewer system plans shall
include, but are not limited to, length, diameter, invert and rim elevations
and percentage of grade in plan and profile view. As-built plans shall also
include structure locations (shown with a minimum of two offsets from property
lines or an as-built coordinate table), material and joint type used, and
quantities.
   (D)   Storm water management facilities. As-built detention or retention
plans shall include, but are not limited to, as-built contours, adequate spot
grades to substantiate these contours, all overflow and outlet invert
elevations, and labels identifying the permanent water, high water, and
freeboard elevations. Also, as-built volumetric calculations must be included
in the plans which include the required volume calculations from the approved
plans and as-built calculations. It must be certified on the as-built drawings
that any maximum basin side slopes, as stipulated on the approved plans, have
not been exceeded, and also the required storage volume for the basin(s) has
been provided. If the approved plans required perimeter fencing, it must also
be shown and properly as-built. Furthermore, any restrictor location and size
must also be as-built.
   (E)   Paving. As-built paving plans for roads, parking lots, sidewalk paths,
and the like shall include, but are not limited to, centerline elevations, curb
and gutter elevations, where installed, pavement widths, and sidewalk lengths.
Also, any entrance improvements such as turn lanes, acceleration/deceleration
lanes, and the like must also be properly as-built.
   (F)   Sanitary sewer collection system. As-built sanitary sewer system plans
shall include, but not be limited to, length, diameter, invert and run
elevations and percentage of grade in plan and profile view. As-built plans
shall also include structure location (shown with a minimum of two offsets from
property lines or an as-built coordinate table), material and joint type, and
quantities. Also, sanitary sewer house lead information is required. This shall
include lead length, distance of wye from downstream manhole, a triangulation
dimension and invert depth below grade. This information can be shown in an as-
built table or using the symbology as provided by the Village Engineer.
   (G)   Water distribution facilities. As-built water system plans shall
include, but not be limited to lengths, diameters, gate well and hydrant
finished elevations, locations of all hydrants, structures, gate wells, tapping
sleeve and wells, meter pits, PRV's, and the like (shown with offsets from
property lines or an as-built coordinate table), materials used including the
make and model of the hydrants and quantities.
   (H)   Fire suppression facilities. As-built plans shall include, but not be
limited to, where applicable, all dry hydrant dimensions, all dry hydrant
assembly parts/fittings information, supply size (i.e., tank dimensions, pond
contours and calculations. For fire suppression mains serving building
suppression systems, tapping sleeve and valve box locations and building Fire
Department connections must be as-built.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.094 CERTIFICATION.
   All as-built plans shall contain a statement by a licensed professional who
is currently registered in the state, certifying the drawings to be as-built.
All plans must also contain the seal and signature of the registered
professional.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS FOR CLEARING, GRADING, AND SURFACE DRAINAGE
§ 151.110 APPROVAL OF STANDARDS.
   The Village Council may approve by resolution design and construction
standards, including, but not limited to the following subject matters:
   (A)   Clearing, grading and surface drainage;
   (B)   Soil erosion control;
   (C)   Storm water management;
   (D)   Storm sewers;
   (E)   Wetlands;
   (F)   Flood plains;
   (G)   Streets, driveways, pedestrian facilities and paving;
   (H)   Water mains;
   (I)   Sanitary sewer collection systems; and
   (J)   Franchised utilities.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Any person who violates the provisions of this chapter, as amended, shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, subject to civil fine, court
order enforcement, and any remedies mandated by the court for violations.
(Ord. 31.26, passed 5-13-13)
CHAPTER 152: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 153: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 154: PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
Section
Property Maintenance
   
154.01   Short title; intent and purpose
   
154.02   Definitions
   
154.03   Environmental requirements
   
154.04   Plumbing and fixture requirements
   
154.05   Mechanical and electrical requirements
   
154.06   Administration and enforcement
Condemnation of Dangerous Buildings
   
154.20   Dangerous housing prohibited
   
154.21   Dangerous building; defined
   
154.22   Notice of unsafe or dangerous condition; contents; hearing officer;
service
   
154.23   Hearing; testimony; order; noncompliance; notice; lien; collection
   
154.24   Appeals
   
154.25   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Nuisances, see
Ch. 95
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE
§ 154.01 SHORT TITLE; INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Village of
Lake Orion Property Maintenance Ordinance.”
   (B)   In the Council's considerations and deliberations with respect to the
adoption of this subchapter, the Council has determined that the protection and
promotion of the public health, safety and welfare requires the adoption of
regulations that apply to existing residential and nonresidential structures,
including, without limitation, in the following respect:
      (1)   Establishing minimum maintenance standards.
      (2)   Providing for the completion of structures, and ongoing
maintenance, in light of the recognition that if a significant number of
structures in a given area were not completed, or existed in a condition of
disrepair for extended periods of time, such conditions could lead to a state
of frustration and disincentive in and to other property owners in the area in
relation to completion and maintenance of other properties, and, would result
in the public nuisance condition of wide-spread reduction of property values,
deterioration of existing structures, and the general blighting of the village
and its residents and property.
      (3)   Fixing the responsibilities of owners, operators, and occupants of
all structures.
      (4)   Providing for administration, enforcement and penalties.
(Ord. 30.02, passed 6-22-87)
§ 154.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONDITION OF DISREPAIR. The condition of all, or any portion, of a structure
that has not been maintained in a workmanlike manner, normal wear and tear for
reasonable periods excepted, including, without limitation, instances where
structures have windows and/or doors boarded up or which otherwise violate a
provision of this subchapter, and shall also mean the lack of substantially
continuous and material pursuit of initial construction of a structure toward
obtaining a certificate of occupancy or other required approval for a period in
excess of six months.
   STRUCTURE. Any building or structure for which a permit must be obtained for
construction under any ordinance or code of the village.
   WORKMANLIKE. The care in carrying out such activities as maintenance and
repair in a reasonably skillful manner, i.e., the manner in which a reasonably
prudent person would expect or require if another person were hired to perform
maintenance or repairs on his or her structure of the type in question.
(Ord. 30.02, passed 6-22-87)
§ 154.03 ENVIRONMENTAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   In general.
      (1)   All exterior property areas and premises shall be maintained in a
clean, safe and sanitary condition free from accumulation of rubbish or
garbage, except when assembled regularly for removal for transport to a proper
receptacle.
      (2)   The owner and person in possession of every establishment producing
garbage, vegetable wastes, or other putrescible materials shall provide, and at
all times cause to be used, leak proof approved containers provided with close
fitting covers for the storage of such materials until removed from the
premises for disposal.
   (B)   Exterior structure.
      (1)   The exterior of a structure shall be maintained in good repair,
structurally sound and sanitary so as not to impose a threat to the health,
safety, or welfare of the occupants and so as to protect the occupants from the
adverse effects of the environment. Construction of the exterior of a building
or structure shall, following issuance of a building permit, be pursued to
completion and issuance of a certificate of occupancy, with work being
regularly and actively performed, and such pursuit shall not be completely or
substantially discontinued for a period in excess of six months. Moreover, the
exterior of the building or structure shall be maintained so as not to be in a
condition of disrepair for a period of six months.
      (2)   All supporting structural members of all structures shall be kept
structurally sound, free of deterioration and maintained capable of safely
bearing the dead and live loads imposed upon them.
      (3)   Every foundation, exterior wall, roof, and all other exterior
surfaces shall be maintained in a workmanlike state of maintenance and repair.
      (4)   All foundation walls shall be maintained so as to carry the safe
design and operating dead and live loads, and shall be maintained plumb and
free from open cracks and breaks, so as not to be detrimental to public safety
and welfare.
      (5)   Every exterior wall, window, trim and the like, shall be free of
holes, breaks, loose or rotting boards or timbers, and other conditions that
might admit rain or dampness to the interior portions of the walls or to the
occupied spaces of the building. All exterior surface materials, including,
without limitation, wood, composition, or metal siding, shall be maintained
weatherproof and shall be properly surface coated when required to prevent
deterioration.
      (6)   All cornices, entablatures, felt courses, corbels, terra cotta
trim, wall facings and similar decorative features shall be maintained in good
repair with proper anchorage and in a safe workmanlike condition.
      (7)   All canopies, marquees, signs, metal awnings, stairways, fire
escapes, stand pipes, exhaust ducts, and similar overhang extensions shall be
maintained in good repair and be properly anchored so as to be kept in a safe
and sound condition. They shall be protected from the elements and against
decay and rust by the periodic application of a weather-coating material such
as paint or other protective treatment.
      (8)   Every stair, porch, fire escape, balcony, and all appurtenances
attached thereto shall be so constructed as to be safe to use and capable of
supporting the anticipated loads and shall be maintained in sound condition and
good workmanlike repair.
      (9)   Every window, door and frame shall be constructed and maintained in
much relation to the adjacent wall construction so as to exclude rain as
reasonably possible, and to substantially exclude wind from entering the
dwelling or structure. Windows and exterior doors shall be fitted reasonably in
their frames to be weather-tight, and constructed so as to exclude wind or rain
from entering the dwelling or structure. Windows, other than fixed windows,
shall be capable of being opened with reasonable ease, and shall be held in
position by appropriate window hardware.
      (10)   Every basement hatchway shall be so constructed and maintained as
to prevent the entrance of vermin, rain and surface drainage water into the
structure.
   (C)   Interior structure.
      (1)   The interior of a structure and its equipment shall be maintained
in good repair, structurally sound and in a sanitary condition so as not to
pose a threat to the health, safety or welfare of the occupants or visitors,
and to protect the occupants from the environment.
      (2)   The supporting structural members of every building shall be
maintained structurally sound, not showing any evidence of deterioration that
would render them incapable of carrying the imposed loads.
      (3)   The interior of every structure shall be maintained free from any
accumulation of rubbish, refuse or garbage, other than normal accumulations
made for limited periods for disposal purposes. Any rubbish, garbage and/or
refuse accumulated on the property for disposal purposes shall be kept inside
temporary storage facilities and/or containers.
(Ord. 30.02, passed 6-22-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.04 PLUMBING AND FIXTURE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Every dwelling unit shall include its own plumbing facilities for
sanitary purposes, which are in proper operating condition, and which can be
used in private and are adequate for personal cleanliness and the disposal of
human waste.
   (B)   All plumbing fixtures shall be maintained in a safe, sanitary and
usable condition. All plumbing fixtures shall be approved nonabsorbent
material.
(Ord. 30.02, passed 6-22-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.05 MECHANICAL AND ELECTRICAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   All cooking and heating equipment shall be maintained free from fire,
health and accident hazards. All installations and repairs shall be made in
accordance with the provisions of the building code, and other laws or
ordinances applicable.
   (B)   All fuel burning equipment shall be connected to an approved chimney,
flue or vent, or shall otherwise be approved by the fire marshall.
   (C)   All required clearances to combustible materials shall be maintained.
   (D)   Fireplaces, and other construction and devices intended for use
similar to a fireplace, shall be stable and structurally safe and connected to
approved chimneys.
   (E)   All electrical equipment, wiring and appliances shall be installed and
maintained in a condition that will not result in a hazard to life and/or
property. Applicable laws and codes shall be utilized in determining the
existence of a hazard. However, the mere fact that there is not compliance with
an applicable code adopted subsequent to installation of the equipment, wiring,
appliances, or the like, shall not, in and of itself, be proof of a hazard.
   (F)   If, in the opinion of the duly authorized village official inspecting
the system, the electrical system in a structure constitutes a hazard to life
and/or property by reason of inadequate service, improper fusing, inefficient
outlets, improper wiring or installation, deterioration or damage, or for
similar reasons, such condition shall constitute a material violation of this
subchapter.
(Ord. 30.02, passed 6-22-87) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 154.06 ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Whenever the Village Manager, the Building Official, or designate,
determines that there has been a material violation of this subchapter, or has
reasonable ground to believe that a material violation has occurred, the
village may proceed by way of appearance ticket, Circuit Court action, or by
giving a notice to the owner or the person or persons responsible for the
premises in the manner prescribed below.
   (B)   The notice referenced in division (A), above, shall:
      (1)   Be in writing.
      (2)   Include a description of the real property sufficient for
identification.
      (3)   Include a statement of the reason or reasons why the notice is
being issued.
      (4)   Include a correction order allowing a reasonable time for the
repairs, actions and/or improvements required to bring the structure into
compliance with the provisions of this subchapter.
      (5)   Include a statement that if all corrections ordered to be made in
the notice have not been completed within a reasonable time, as specified in
the notice, a hearing shall be conducted before the Village Council at a time,
date and place, also specified in the notice, and, that at such hearing, the
property owner, or the property owner's representative, shall be entitled to be
heard with respect to why the ordered corrective repairs, actions and/or
improvements shall not be required.
   (C)   The notice shall be sent by certified mail to the person or entity
responsible for the property, which may be based upon the name and address on
the records of the Assessing Department. In addition, if the notice specifies
an order requiring the vacation of occupancy and/or the physical demolition of
all or part of a structure, a copy of the notice shall be posted on the
property in a conspicuous place.
   (D)   After the expiration of the time established in the notice for curing
of all violations, but before the date fixed in the notice for the hearing, the
building official, or designate, shall ascertain and report to the Village
Manager whether the corrections have been complete.
   (E)   If all corrections of violations have not been completed within the
time required by the notice referenced in divisions (A) and (B), above, the
Village Manager shall direct that an additional notice be sent by regular mail
to the person or entity responsible for the property clarifying the position of
the village that the corrections required in the prior notice have not been
made and that a hearing shall be conducted. The notice shall reiterate the
date, time and place of the hearing to be conducted. The Village Council shall
conduct a hearing on the date fixed in the notices, which hearing may be
adjourned from time-to-time by the Council as needed to properly complete the
hearing.
   (F)   The property owner, and/or representative, shall be given an
opportunity to be heard at the hearing.
   (G)   At the conclusion of the hearing, the Council shall determine, in its
discretion, whether a violation exists. If the Council determines that a
violation does exist, it shall order specific corrective repairs, actions, and/
or improvements, including, if necessary and in the discretion of the Council,
a vacation of occupancy and/or a physical demolition of the structure,
provided, however, demolition of the structure shall not be ordered unless a
health or safety hazard exists, or unless a condition of disrepair shall have
existed for a continuous period of at least one year. The Council shall
prescribe a time within which the corrective repairs, actions and/or
improvements must be completed.
   (H)   If the corrective repairs, actions and/or improvements ordered by the
Council include the vacation of occupancy of the premises and/or a physical
demolition of all or part of a structure, and the property owner or other
responsible person has not completed all curative repairs, actions and/or
improvements within the time fixed in the order, the village may commence an
action in the Circuit Court seeking a declaratory judgment, based upon the
record made at the Village Council hearing, praying for an adjudication that:
      (1)   The procedure undertaken by the village was proper.
      (2)   The village's action and order did not constitute a breach of
discretion and/or violate the constitution of law.
      (3)   The village is authorized to carry out the curative order, with all
costs and expenses incurred by the village in taking such curative action to be
paid by the property owner within 30 days of billing from the village, and
failing full payment by the property owner, the balance due shall be deemed
delinquent and be placed on the tax roll with respect to the property and
billed and collected along with the real property taxes of the village
according to law.
(Ord. 30.02, passed 6-22-87)
CONDEMNATION OF DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 154.20 DANGEROUS HOUSING PROHIBITED.
   It is unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
dwelling or part thereof that is a dangerous building as defined in §
154.21.
(Ord. 31.03, passed 6-14-76)
§ 154.21 DANGEROUS BUILDING; DEFINED.
   As used in this subchapter, DANGEROUS BUILDING means any building or
structure that has any of the following defects or is in any of the following
conditions:
   (A)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of exit
does not conform to the approved fire code of the community wherein the
property lies, it shall be considered that such dwelling does not meet the
requirements of this subchapter.
   (B)   Whenever any portion has been damaged by fire, wind, flood, or by any
other cause in such a manner that the structural strength or stability is
appreciably less than it was before such catastrophe and is less than the
minimum requirements of this subchapter or any building code of the village for
a new building or similar structure, purpose or location.
   (C)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance is likely to fall or to
become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property.
   (D)   Whenever any portion has settled to such an extent that walls or other
structural portions have materially less resistance to winds than is required
in the case of new construction by this subchapter or the building code of the
village.
   (E)   Whenever the building or structure or any part, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting such building or portion thereof, or for other reason, is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fall or give way.
   (F)   Whenever for any reason whatsoever the building or structure or any
portion is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used.
   (G)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire, wind
or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become an
attractive nuisance to children who might play therein to their danger, or as
to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or as to enable
persons to resort thereto for the purpose of committing a nuisance or unlawful
or immoral acts
   (H)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty
construction or arrangement or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit for human
habitation or is in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease
when so determined by the Health Officer, or is likely to work injury to the
health, safety or general welfare of those living within.
   (I)   Whenever any building becomes vacant, dilapidated and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
(Ord. 31.03, passed 6-14-76)
Cross-reference:
   Nuisance buildings and dwellings, see §§
95.15 et seq.
§ 154.22 NOTICE OF UNSAFE OR DANGEROUS CONDITION; CONTENTS; HEARING OFFICER;
SERVICE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, when the whole
or any part of any building or structure is found to be in a dangerous or
unsafe condition, the enforcing agency shall issue a notice of the dangerous
and unsafe condition.
   (B)   Such notice shall be directed to each owner of or party in interest in
the building in whose name the property appears on the last local tax
assessment records.
   (C)   The notice shall specify the time and place of a hearing on the
condition of the building or structure at which time and place the person to
whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show cause why the
building or structure should not be ordered to be demolished or otherwise made
safe.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall be appointed by the Village President to
serve at his pleasure. The enforcing agency shall file a copy of the notice of
the dangerous and unsafe condition with the hearing officer.
   (E)   All notices shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to
whom they are directed personally, or in lieu of personal service may be mailed
by certified mail; return receipt requested addressed to such owner or party in
interest at the address shown on the tax records, at least ten days before the
date of the hearing described in the notice. If any person to whom a notice is
directed is not personally served in addition to mailing the notice, a copy
thereof shall be posted upon a conspicuous part of the building or structure.
(Ord. 31.03, passed 6-14-76)
§ 154.23 HEARING; TESTIMONY; ORDER; NONCOMPLIANCE; NOTICE; LIEN; COLLECTION.
   (A)   The hearing officer shall take testimony of the enforcing agency, the
owner of the property and any interested party. The hearing officer shall
render his decision either closing the proceedings or ordering the building to
be demolished or otherwise made safe.
   (B)   If it is determined by the hearing officer that the building or
structure should be demolished or otherwise made safe, he shall so order,
fixing a time in the order for the owner, agent or lessee to comply therewith.
   (C)   If the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear or neglects or refuses
to comply with the order, the hearing officer shall file a report of his
findings and a copy of his order with the legislative body of the village and
request that the necessary action be taken to demolish or otherwise make safe
the building or structure. A copy of the findings and order of the hearing
officer shall be served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed
in §
154.22.
   (D)   The Village Council shall fix a date for hearing, reviewing the
findings and order of the hearing officer and shall give notice to the owner,
agent or lessee in the manner prescribed in §
154.22 of the time and place of the hearing. At the hearing the owner, agent or
lessee shall be given the opportunity to show cause why the building should not
be demolished or otherwise made safe and the Village Council shall either
approve, disapprove or modify the order for the demolition or making safe of
the building or structure.
   (E)   The cost of the demolition or making the building safe shall be a lien
against the real property and shall be reported to the assessing officer of the
village who shall assess the cost against the property on which the building or
structure is located.
   (F)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon
the last local tax assessment records shall be notified of the amount of such
cost by first class mail at the address shown on the records. If he fails to
pay the same within 30 days after mailing by the Assessor of such notice of the
amount thereof, the Assessor shall add the same to the next tax roll of such
village and the same shall be collected in the same manner in all respects as
provided by law for the collection of taxes by such village.
(Ord. 31.03, passed 6-14-76)
§ 154.24 APPEALS.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the Village Council
under §
154.23 may appeal the decision or order to the circuit court by filing a
petition for an order of superintending control within 20 days from the date of
the decision.
(Ord. 31.03, passed 6-14-76)
§ 154.25 VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the enforcement provisions set forth in this chapter, any
person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 155: SIGN REGULATIONS
Section
   
155.01   Purpose
   
155.02   Definitions
   
155.03   General standards
   
155.04   Permitted in all districts without a sign permit
   
155.05   Signs prohibited in all districts
   
155.06   District regulations
   
155.07   Regulations for specific sign types
   
155.08   Abandoned, damaged, illegal and unsafe signs
   
155.09   Permits
   
155.10   Variance authority
   
155.11   Non-conforming signs
§ 155.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate signage in all zoning
districts so the village may:
   (A)   Reduce visual clutter that is unsightly, confusing and distracting;
   (B)   Preserve architectural character of buildings and streetscapes, so
they are not overwhelmed or obscured by signage;
   (C)   Promote the use of creative and appropriate signage which will enhance
the economic viability of the village;
   (D)   Regulate the construction, alteration, repair and maintenance of all
signs with respect to structural and fire safety;
   (E)   To effect the removal of illegal and nonconforming signs; and
   (F)   Ensure the health, safety and welfare of the residents of the village
by prohibiting signage that creates a traffic hazard or otherwise adversely
impacts public safety.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.02 DEFINITIONS.
   The following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates
or requires a different meaning:
   ABANDONED SIGN. A sign that advertises a business, lessor, owner, product,
service or activity that is no longer located on the premises where the sign is
displayed. Whether a sign has been abandoned or not shall be determined by the
intent of the owner of the sign and governed by applicable law.
   ADD-ON SIGN. A sign that is attached as an appendage to another sign or sign
support.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1697.jpg]
 
   ANIMATED SIGN. Any sign, display, device or portion of sign which is
designed to provide movement of any part of the sign. Animated signs also
include any artificial light which flashes, scrolls or which gives the
appearance of movement at any time (see FLASHING or MOVING SIGN).
   AWNING. A retractable or fixed roof-like shelter projecting from and
attached to the exterior wall of a building, typically located over a window or
door.
   AWNING SIGN. Any sign that is painted on, printed on, cut out from,
projected on, or attached to the surface of an awning.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1699.jpg]
 
   BANNER SIGN. Any sign on paper, cloth, fabric, adhesive material or other
non-rigid material of any kind, with or without frames.
   BILLBOARD. A sign which directs attention to a business, commodity, service
or entertainment conducted, sold or offered other than on the premises (see
OFF-PREMISES SIGN).
   CANOPY. A roof-like architectural structure or shelter without walls that is
usually free-standing, as in a gas pump canopy.
   CANOPY SIGN. Any sign that is painted on, printed on, cut out from,
projected on, or attached to the surface of a canopy.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (ELECTRONIC). A sign or part of a sign where the
individual letters, images, numbers or any part of the sign face can be changed
electronically in display. Electronic changeable copy signs do not include
animated signs or flashing or moving signs, as defined herein.
   CHANGEABLE COPY SIGN (MANUAL). A sign or part of a sign that is designed so
that the message can be changed or rearranged without altering the face or
surface of the sign, by physically replacing the characters, letters or
illustrations, but not by electronic or electric means.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1701.jpg]
 
   DIRECTIONAL SIGN. A sign located on the premises of an establishment which
indicates traffic flow.
   DOUBLE-FACED SIGN. A sign on which both sides are visible and used as signs.
A sign is considered double-faced when the angle of intersection of the faces
is less than 90 degrees.
   ENTRANCEWAY SIGN. An architectural feature that defines, identifies, and
differentiates the entrance to a residential subdivision, apartment community,
condominium development, mobile home park or office, business or industrial
park, or similar development.
   FLAG. A banner of distinctive design used as a symbol, standard or emblem.
   FLASHING OR MOVING SIGN. A sign or any part of a sign that has
intermittently reflecting lights, or which uses intermittent, flashing,
scintillating, or varying intensity of illumination or color to
create the appearance of movement, or that has any visible portions in motion,
either constantly or at intervals, whether caused by artificial or natural
means (see ANIMATED SIGN).
   GROUND SIGN. A sign supported by one or more uprights, poles, braces, a
masonry base, or a monument(s) placed in or upon the ground, fastened to a
secure and permanent foundation, and not attached to any building. Ground signs
include monument signs, pole and pylon signs.
      (1)   MONUMENT SIGN. A ground sign mounted on a base that is in contact
with the ground.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1703.jpg]
 
      (2)   MONUMENT SIGN BASE. The lower part of a monument sign, which may
appear as a separate architectural feature, typically constructed of brick,
stone or other masonry, and which serves as the sign's ground support.
      (3)   POLE OR PYLON SIGN. A ground sign mounted on a freestanding pole(s)
or other support(s) with a clear space between the bottom of the sign face and
the grade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1705.jpg]
 
   HISTORICAL MARKER. Any sign issued by the State of Michigan Historical
Commission or other state or Federal historical agency.
   ILLUMINATED SIGN. A sign that is lighted by a direct or indirect source of
light.
   INCIDENTAL SIGN. A small sign designed and located to be read only by people
within the site and generally not visible or legible from the right-of-way or
adjacent properties. Examples include, but are not limited to, credit card
signs, signs indicating hours of business, open or closed signs, no smoking
signs, signs on ATMs, vending machines, kiosks, charitable collection boxes and
similar structures, signs used to designate bathrooms, handicapped signs,
traffic control signs that conform to the requirements of the Michigan Manual
of Uniform Traffic Control Devices, and other signs providing information to be
read at close proximity.
   INFLATABLE SIGN. A sign that is either expanded or its full dimensions are
supported by gases contained within the sign, or a sign part, at a pressure
greater than atmospheric pressure.
   LOT. See ZONING LOT.
   MARQUEE. A permanent, roofed structure attached to and supported by the
building and projecting over public property.
   MARQUEE SIGN. A sign attached to or hung from a marquee, projecting from and
supported by the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1707.jpg]
 
   MURAL. A large picture, image, design or representation of artistic nature
painted, adhered, drawn or sculpted on a vertical exterior building wall which
may or may not contain text, logos, or symbols.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1709.jpg]
 
   NEON SIGN. A sign consisting of glass tubing, filled with neon or another
gas, which glows when electric current is passed through it.
   NONCONFORMING SIGN. Any sign that was lawfully erected and maintained prior
to the effective date of this chapter and any amendments thereto, and that
fails to conform to all applicable chapter regulations.
   OFF-PREMISES SIGN. A sign which contains a message unrelated to a business
or profession conducted on the premises, or to a commodity, service or
activity, not sold or offered upon the premises on which the sign is located
(see BILLBOARD).
   PENNANT. A long, tapering, triangular flag, often bearing an emblem.
   PERMANENT SIGN. A sign attached or affixed to a building, window, structure
or to the ground in a manner that enables the sign to resist environmental
loads, such as wind, and that precludes ready removal or movement of the sign
and whose use appears to be indefinite.
   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign constructed to be readily movable from one location to
another and not permanently affixed to a building, structure or the ground,
such as, but not limited to "A" frame, "T" shaped or inverted "T" shaped
structures, including those mounted on wheeled trailers. Portable signs shall
not include yard signs as defined in this chapter (see VEHICLE SIGN).
   PREMISES. A lot, combination of lots or parcels of property in the same
ownership or control which are not divided by a public street, and which form a
complete parcel of land for development purposes.
   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign attached at one end to a building, other structure
or any part thereof, and extending beyond the attachment surface by more than
12 inches. A projecting sign is typically mounted perpendicular to the building
wall and is distinguished from a wall sign based on the distance the sign
extends from the surface of the building.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1711.jpg]
 
   ROOF SIGN. Any sign mounted upon, above or supported by the roof of any
building or structure, except that a sign mounted upon a mansard fascia that
does not project above the highest point of the roof or parapet shall be a WALL
SIGN.
   SIGN. The name, identification, description, object, device, structure,
display or illustration that is affixed to, or painted, or represented directly
or indirectly upon a building, structure or piece of land, and which directs
attention to an object, product, place, activity, person, institution, service,
event, organization or business by any means, including words, letters,
figures, design, symbols, fixtures, colors, illumination or projected images,
and which is visible from any public street, sidewalk, alley, park or public
property. This definition does not include signs primarily directed at persons
who are inside the building or goods displayed in a business window.
   SIGN SETBACK. The distance measured from the street property line from which
the sign is to be primarily viewed to the nearest edge of the sign.
   SPINNER. A rotating disc or propeller-like sign that rotates in the wind or
from some other source of power and is typically threaded on a line with other
spinners to attract attention.
   STREAMER. Any long, narrow material that is intended to float and move in
the wind.
   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign, with or without a structural frame, that is not
permanently fastened to any structure and is intended for a limited period of
display, including but not limited to portable signs, inflatable signs,
banners, pennants, spinners, streamers, yard signs, and temporary wall signs
and temporary window signs.
   VEHICLE SIGN. A sign painted or attached to a vehicle. Vehicles which are
generally used daily off-site and which are not parked in a location intended
to draw attention to the sign or site, are not included in this definition.
   WALL SIGN. A sign which is attached directly to or painted upon a building
wall and which does not extend above the height of the wall to which it is
attached, nor more than 12 inches therefrom, with the exposed face of the sign
in a plane parallel to the building wall. Wall signs include signs mounted flat
against the building facade, provided those signs do not protrude beyond any
boundary of the facade.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1713.jpg]
 
   WINDOW SIGN. A temporary or permanent sign painted on or affixed to a window
surface, suspended so as to hang more or less parallel with the window surface,
or otherwise displayed in a manner intended to be viewed from outside the
window.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1715.jpg]
 
   YARD SIGN. A temporary sign that is freestanding, not permanently anchored
or secured to the ground, and typically having a metal or wire support
structure.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1717.jpg]
 
   ZONING LOT. All or parts of a lot or group of contiguous lots under single
or common ownership that are considered to be a single undivided lot under the
Village Zoning Ordinance Nos. 13.06 through 13.09, as amended. The term LOT as
used in this chapter shall mean ZONING LOT.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.03 GENERAL STANDARDS.
   The following shall apply to all signs:
   (A)   Measurement of signs.
      (1)   Sign area. The entire area within a rectangle or square enclosing
the extreme limits of writing, representation, emblem, or any figure of similar
character, together with any frame, tower, or other material, color or
internally illuminated area forming an integral part of the display or used to
differentiate such sign, shall be included in the measurement. Parts of a sign
shall be deemed to be a single sign whenever the proximity, design, content or
continuity reasonably suggests a single unit, notwithstanding any physical
separation between parts.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/507a40beda9c053b6b8b370323d405ef7618fcfe/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1719.jpg]
 
      (2)   Two faces. Where a sign has two or more faces, the area of all
faces shall be included in determining the sign area, except that where two
such faces are placed back to back and are at no point more than two feet from
one another, the area of the sign shall be taken as either:
         (a)   The area of one face, if the two faces are of equal area; or
         (b)   The area of the larger face, if the two faces are of unequal
area.
      (3)   Sign height. Unless otherwise stated in this chapter, sign height
shall be measured as the distance from the grade to the highest point of the
sign structure, including any supportive or decorative appendages, excluding
any berm, landscaping, grading, or artificially or unnaturally constructed
raised portion of land at the point of measurement.
      (4)   Grade. The elevation of the public sidewalk closest to the sign
base.
   (B)   Illumination.
      (1)   Sign illumination shall be designed, installed and maintained in a
manner that minimizes off-site glare, light trespass and light pollution, and
fits the character of the district. All lighting shall be shielded and
concentrated within the area of the sign to prevent glare upon the street or
adjacent property.
      (2)   Sign illumination shall be provided solely by electrical means or
devices, and shall not be flashing, intermittent, moving or animated.
      (3)   Sign illumination shall not exceed a brightness level of 0.3 foot
candles above ambient light as measured using a foot candle (Lux) meter and
certification from the sign manufacturer stating that the sign and/or light
source is capable of complying with these brightness provisions must be
provided.
      (4)   Underground wiring shall be required for any signs not attached to
a building.
   (C)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   Materials and design. All signs shall be designed, constructed and
maintained in conformity with the latest adopted edition of the state building
code. Signs shall be constructed of permanent, all-weather materials.
      (2)   Fastenings. All signs must be erected in such a manner and with
such materials to remain safe and secure during the period of use and all
bolts, cables, and other parts of such signs shall be kept painted and free
from corrosion. Any defect(s) shall be repaired by the property owner.
      (3)   Maintenance/landscaping. The property surrounding any ground sign
shall be kept clean, sanitary and free from obnoxious and offensive substances,
weeds, debris, rubbish, and flammable material. All plants and other landscape
materials surrounding a ground sign shall be maintained on a regular basis,
including pruning, mowing, watering, fertilizing and replacement of dead and
diseased materials.
      (4)   Structural maintenance. All signs and components, including
supports, braces, and anchors shall be kept in good repair. Peeling or missing
paint, holes, broken, cracked, bent, ripped, warped, rotted, discolored,
sagging, out-of-plumb, worn, rusted or missing material parts shall be repaired
by the property owner.
   (D)   Legibility and design. All signs within the village must meet the
following standards in the determination of the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   Contrast. All lettering shall contrast with the background on which
they are applied.
      (2)   Lettering. The font style and size used shall be clearly legible
from all adjacent public rights-of-way.
   (E)   Additional regulations.
      (1)   Public right-of-way. Except for signs established and maintained by
the village, county, state or Federal government, and other signs as
specifically identified in this chapter, no sign shall be located in or project
into a public right-of-way or dedicated public easement.
      (2)   Clear vision. No sign shall obscure the vision of drivers or
conflict with traffic control signals on any street. Signs shall not be placed
within the clear vision triangle.
      (3)   Site changes. Upon the change of use of the land, building, or use
in a building, all signs must be brought into conformity with this chapter.
      (4)   Audio levels. The audio level of speakers and electronic broadcast
media associated with any sign shall be restricted so as to not be audible from
adjacent residences or beyond the lot lines of the premises on which the sign
is located, whichever is less distant.
      (5)   Content neutrality. To prevent any inadvertent favoring of
commercial speech or message over noncommercial speech or message, any lawful
sign under the provisions of this chapter may contain a non-commercial message.
This provision prevails over any more specific provision to the contrary.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.04 PERMITTED IN ALL DISTRICTS WITHOUT A SIGN PERMIT.
   The following signs shall not count toward the maximum permitted number and
area of signs, and shall be permitted in all districts without obtaining a sign
permit prior to installation. This exemption shall not relieve the owner of the
sign from responsibility for its proper location, erection, maintenance and
removal.
   (A)   For purposes of identification by emergency personnel (fire, police,
EMS) for essential for public safety and emergency response, all businesses,
offices, industrial buildings, apartment complexes, and multiple and single-
family residences shall prominently display their street address on the front
side (facing the street) of their building, upon ground signs or at the
building entranceways. All street addresses shall be large enough to be easily
read from the street and in all buildings with more than one unit, each
individual unit's address shall be clearly marked. All numerals shall contrast
with the surface to which they are applied, shall be mounted high enough to be
seen from the street, and shall not be obstructed from view by trees, shrubs or
any other material.
      (1)   Non-residential street address signs exceeding three square feet in
area, unless the sign area exceeding three square feet is counted in the
maximum sign area calculation.
      (2)   Address signs for single family dwellings, duplexes and individual
dwelling units in a multiple family building shall not exceed one per dwelling
unit, and shall not exceed two square feet in area.
   (B)   Incidental signs not exceeding two square feet in area. The total area
of all such signs on a premises shall not exceed eight square feet.
   (C)   Signs on a building wall that are cut into a masonry surface or
constructed of bronze or other incombustible material, not exceeding two square
feet in area.
   (D)   Historical markers issued by the State of Michigan Historical
Commission and other state/Federal Historical Commission shall be permitted on
any premises that is a designated historic site. Historical markers are not
calculated as part of the maximum total sign area and the following shall not
require a permit:
      (1)   Building-mounted historical marker. 
         (a)   All buildings and zoning districts. A building mounted
historical marker up to two square feet in area shall be permitted on any
building in any zoning district.
         (b)   Non-residential buildings. A building mounted historical marker
up to six square feet in area shall be permitted on any non-residential
building in any zoning district.
      (2)   Freestanding historical marker.
         (a)   All sites and zoning districts. A freestanding historical marker
up to six square feet in area shall be permitted in any zoning district.
         (b)   Non-residential sites. A freestanding historical marker up to 16
square feet in area shall be permitted on any non-residential site in any
zoning district.
   (E)   Temporary, non-illuminated signs attached to vehicles, trailers,
watercraft and recreational vehicles, not exceeding two square feet in area.
   (F)   Signs on vehicles legally parked on a residential lot in the RL or RV
district, owned and/or occupied by the operator of the vehicle and driven in
the course of his or her business.
   (G)   Flags bearing the official design of a nation, state, municipality,
educational institution or non-profit organization when not displayed in
connection with a commercial promotion or as an advertising device. So as to
not overwhelm the streetscape and to remain in character with the small town
context of the village, the flagpole shall be no taller than the height limit
of the district, and the flag no longer than one quarter the height of the flag
pole.
   (H)   Any lawful sign in a public or private right-of-way installed by an
authorized public agency, including but not limited to traffic safety and
control signs, legal notices, railroad crossing, public safety signs, danger
and other emergency notices.
   (I)   Private traffic control signs which conform to the requirements of the
Michigan Manual of Uniform Traffic Control Devices.
   (J)   Directional and informational signs required for the purpose of
orientation when established by the village, county, state or Federal
government.
   (K)   Signs erected on a governmentally-owned or controlled building or land
by the authorized public agency, including but not limited to community
identification signs and streetscape banners erected by the municipality.
   (L)   Persons wearing costume(s), with or without another sign, who call
attention to a site, provided the person is not standing within the public
right-of-way, but on private property. Compliance with the village's
solicitation and other applicable Ordinances is required.
   (M)   Temporary signs, including but not limited to yard signs, temporary
wall signs, and temporary window signs, in accordance with the provisions of §§
155.06 and
155.07, unless otherwise prohibited by or provided in this chapter.
   (N)   Temporary, seasonal decorations that are displayed in a manner that
does not promote commercial activity, and that are commonly associated with any
national, local or religious holiday.
   (O)   Signs not visible beyond the boundaries of the premises upon which
they are located, or from any road or public right-of-way.
   (P)   Any sign located completely inside an enclosed building and not
visible from outside the building.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.05 SIGNS PROHIBITED IN ALL DISTRICTS.
   The following signs are prohibited in all districts:
   (A)   Signs not expressly permitted.
   (B)   Animated, flashing signs or revolving signs with any visible moving /
revolving part(s) of any description achieved by electrical, electronic
pulsations, or by mechanical means, including intermittent electrical
pulsations, or by action of normal wind currents (excludes electronic
changeable copy signs, § 155.07(L)) and linear lighting (including neon,
fluorescent, rope-lighting and low voltage strip-lighting) primarily intended
as an architectural highlight to attract attention or used as means of
identification or advertisement.
   (C)   Signs in the public right-of-way (including person(s) wearing costumes
with or without a sign) or on public property, except as specifically permitted
by this chapter.
   (D)   Any sign or sign structure unlawfully installed, erected, maintained
or determined to be structurally unsafe, a hazard to safety or health by reason
of inadequate maintenance, dilapidation or abandonment, not kept in good
repair, capable of causing electrical shocks to persons likely to come in
contact with it, or abandoned.
   (E)   Any sign which by reason of its size, location, content, coloring or
manner of illumination, constitutes a traffic hazard or a detriment to traffic
safety by obstructing the vision of drivers, or by obstructing, or detracting
from the visibility of any traffic sign or control device on public streets and
roads. This includes signs with wording such as "stop", "look", "danger", or
any other words, phrases, symbols or characters in such a manner as to
interfere with, mislead or confuse vehicular traffic.
   (F)   Any sign which obstructs free ingress/egress to a required door,
window, fire escape or other exit way.
   (G)   Roof signs.
   (H)   Portable signs, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, and
banners, flags, balloons or other inflatable objects, pennants, streamers and
spinners, except as a banner or flag used as otherwise permitted in this
chapter.
   (I)   Billboards. The study for billboard regulations in the village has led
to the following conclusions: traffic volume on State Highway M-24 make this
corridor the focus for billboard placement; M-24 is a seriously congested
commercial corridor; commercial development on M-24 has occurred with minimal
road setbacks; heavy traffic volume and multiple curb cuts contribute to the
confusing and dangerous traffic situation; billboards of the typical size and/
or height are out of proportion with the small scale of the village, and would
detract from the community's residential/lakefront image; the aesthetic impact
of billboard structures impresses heavily on the enjoyment and value of
property and the general welfare; billboards have the potential to hinder
visibility of driveways, intersections and streets, particularly along the M-24
commercial strip where traffic problems already exist; billboard structures on
the smaller lots and parcels within the village would tend to obstruct motor
vehicle sight distance/clear view and be detrimental to the appearance and
other aesthetic objectives in the village; billboards tend to foster places
which gather refuse/paper and the dumping of dirt, debris and filth; therefore
there is no reasonable location for billboards in the village.
   (J)   Signs painted, posted, ingrained, or mounted on trees, rocks, or other
natural features, fences, fence posts, telephone/light/utility poles, wireless
towers, sidewalks, benches, flower boxes, and perimeter of privacy walls.
Notwithstanding, such signs, less than two square feet in area, shall be
allowed without a permit in the RL and RV Districts on lots containing a single
family dwelling.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.06 DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   RV, RL, MU, DC Districts: Single Family and Duplex Dwelling Lots Only.
 
Sign Type  Number       Location (a)  Maximum Area  Maximum       Specific
                                                    Height        Regulations
                                                                  Wall signs
                                                                  may use free-
                                                                  floating
                                                                  channel
                                                                  letters or
                                                                  other applied
                                                                  letters, and
                                                                  be either
                                                                  internally or
                                                                  externally
                                                                  illuminated
                                                                  and shielded.
                                                                  Wall signs
                                                                  painted on a
                                                    15 ft. or the building wall
                                                    height of the shall not be
           1 per                                    wall to which permitted
Wall sign  dwelling     -             1 sq. ft.     sign is       unless
                                                    attached,     approved by
                                                    whichever is  the Planning
                                                    less          Commission by
                                                                  site plan
                                                                  approval, or
                                                                  as a mural.
                                                                  A wall sign
                                                                  affixed flat
                                                                  or applied to
                                                                  the surface
                                                                  of a wall
                                                                  shall not
                                                                  exceed the
                                                                  height of the
                                                                  wall to which
                                                                  it is
                                                                  attached.
                                                                  1 per
           One per                    6 sq. ft.     5 ft.         premises
           premises                                               permitted at
                        No closer                                 any time
Temporary               than 5 ft. to                             For 1, 90-day
yard sign               any other                                 period per
           4 per lot,   premises      6 sq. ft. per               calendar year
           per calendar               sign; 24 sq.  5 ft.         may display
           year                       ft. total                   up to 4 yard
                                                                  signs on the
                                                                  premises
Private    1 per        Driveways to                              Pole sign
drive sign driveway     public roads  2 sq. ft.     5 sq. ft.     permitted
           entrance     only
(a)   No sign shall be permitted on the lake side of any premises, other than
one permitted temporary yard sign.
 
   (B)   RV, RL, RM, MU and DC Districts: residential uses, residential
developments (i.e. subdivisions, multi-family complexes, etc.); and RV, RL, and
RM Districts: non-residential uses.
Sign Type Number Location (a) Maximum Area Maximum Height Specific Regulations
Sign Type    Number       Location (a) Maximum Area Maximum       Specific
                                                    Height        Regulations
                          At entrance
                          to the major
Ground       2 per major  point of
monument or  point of     entry or in               6 ft. for
entrance way entry for    landscap ed  24 sq. ft.   sign/ 8 ft.      -
sign         each         entrance                  for structure
             development  island if
                          conditio ns
                          met
                                                                  May include
             1 per non-                             6 ft. for     manual
Ground sign  residential  -            15 sq. ft.   sign / 8 ft.  changeable
             premises                               for structure copy, not to
                                                                  exceed 30% of
                                                                  the sign area
                                                    15 ft. or the May include
                                                    height of the manual
             1 per non-                             wall to which changeable
             residential  -            15 sq. ft.   sign is       copy, not to
             premises                               attached,     exceed 30% of
                                                    whichever is  the sign area
Wall sign                                           less
                          In street                 15 ft. or the
                          front yard                height of the
             1 per non-   or on the                 wall to which
             residential  street front 6 sq. ft.    sign is       -
             building     building                  attached,
                          wall                      whichever is
                                                    less
                          On a wall of                            Display not
                          the                       Not to exceed to exceed a
Temporar y   1 per non-   principal                 15 ft. for a  15-day
banners and  residential  building or  15 sq. ft.   wall sign or  duration, or
flags        premises     over the                  8 ft. for a   more than 4
                          permanent                 ground sign   times per
                          sign face                               calendar year
             1 per
             premises                  6 sq. ft.    5 ft.         -
             permitted at              per sign
             any time
Temporary                                                         For 1, 90-day
yard sign    4 per        -            6 sq. ft.                  period per
             premises per              per sign; 24               calendar year
             calendar                  sq. ft.      5 ft.         may display
             year                      total                      up to 4 yard
                                                                  signs on the
                                                                  premises
             1 per        At driveways                            Pole sign
Ground sign  driveway     to public    2 sq. ft.    5 ft.         permitted
             entrance     road only
(a)   No sign shall be permitted on the lake side of any premises, other than
one permitted temporary yard sign.
 
   (C)   Signs in the DC District: non-residential uses.
Sign Type Number Location (a) Maximum Area (b)  Maximum Height Specific
                              (c)                              Regulations (d)
Sign Type   Number       Location (a)  Maximum Area Maximum     Specific
                                       (b) (c)      Height      Regulations (d)
            1 on each
Wall sign:  facade which
single      has a                      -
tenant      separate
building    public
            entrance
Wall sign:                             10% of front
Multi-      1 per        Shall not     wall area                Building units
tenant      building     project more  per busine               with a second
building    unit, plus 1 than 12       ss, up to a              story visible
(units with additional   inches from   max. 50 sq.  No projec   from M-24 are
individual  wall sign    the face of   ft. per      tion above  permitted 1
public                   the building  busine ss    roof or     additional
entrance )               or any                     parape t    secondary wall
            1 on each    permanent                              sign facing M-
Wall sign:  facade which architectural                          24, not to
Multi-      has a        feature                                exceed 32 sq.
tenant      separate                                            ft. in area
building    public
(units with entrance ;                 -
shared      plus 1
public      additional
entrance )  wall sign
            (12 sq. ft.
            or less)
Ground
sign:
single                   Located       24 sq. ft.   5.5 ft.
tenant                   completely on
building                 the site to
                         which it
                         pertains,                              Pole signs are
                         shall not                              subject to
            1 per        affect line                            Planning
            premises ;   of sight on                            Commission
            individual   abutting                               review and may
Ground      business     streets or be                          not exceed 20
sign:       ground signs located                                ft. or the
multi-      not          within the    50 sq. ft.   7.5 ft.     height of the
tenant      permitted    clear vision                           building,
building                 triangle and                           whichever is
                         setback a                              less
                         minimum of 50
                         ft. to any
                         resident ial
                         district


                                       25% of the   Min. 8 ft.  No underlit
Awning /    1 per        Placed flat   total area   clearance   awnings; not
canopy sign building     on awning     of the       above       permitted above
            unit                       awning or    sidewalk    the first floor
                                       canopy
                                       9 sq. ft. in
                                       addition to
                                       max. sign
                                       area         Min. 8 ft.
Projecting  1 per        Placed        otherwise    clearance   See §
sign        building     perpendicular permit ted;  above       155.08(H).
            unit         to front wall up to 12 sq. sidewalk
                                       ft. with
                                       Planning
                                       Commission
                                       approval
            1 per                      Included in  Min. 8 foot
Marquee     building     Placed flat   calculation  clearance   See §
sign        unit         on marquee    of total     above       155.08(D).
                                       sign area    sidewalk
                                       Changeable
            1 ground or  Integrated    copy sign
            wall sign    into an       area not to
Changeable  per premises otherwise     exceed 30%               Electronic
copy sign   may include  permitted     of the area  -           changeable copy
(manual)    changeable   wall or       of the sign              is prohibited
            copy         ground sign   within which
                                       it is
                                       located
Private     1 per        Driveways to                           Pole sign
drive sign  driveway     public road   2 sq. ft.    5 ft.       permitted
            entrance     only
                                       50 sq. ft.
                                       maximum;                 No wording,
                                       larger                   logos or other
Mural       -            Upon any      murals may   -           representations
                         building wall be approved              that constitute
                                       by the                   a commercial
                                       Planning                 message
                                       Commission
                         Placed along
                         the bottom or Max. 20% of              Signs placed
Permanent                the top of    the area of              less than 8
or                       the window so the window               inches apart
temporary   -            as not to     within which -           are considered
window sign              block view of it is placed             a single sign
                         activity      (e)                      for measurement
                         within the                             of sign area
                         building
Portable    1 per        -             (e)          -           §
sign        premises                                            155.07(J)
Temporary
banners,    -            -             Total of 32  -           §
flags or                               sq. ft.(e)               155.07(J)
pennants
            1 per
            premises     -             12 sq. ft.   5 ft.       -
            permitted at               (e)
            any time
Temporary                              12 sq. ft.               For 1, 90-day
wall or                                per sign                 period per
yard sign   4 per                      maximum; 24              calendar year
            premises     -             sq. ft.      5 ft.       may display up
                                       total of all             to 4 yard signs
                                       such signs               on the premises
                                       (e)
(a)   No sign other than a wall sign or projecting sign shall be located nearer
than 50 ft. to another sign.
(b)   No sign or multiple of signs shall exceed the greater of 50 sq. ft., or
20% of total wall area of the side of the building facing the front street. In
no event shall a sign or multiple of signs exceed 75 square feet if the 20%
computation is used.
(c)   Corner lots shall be permitted additional permanent sign area not
exceeding 10% of the total square footage of that side of the building facing
the side street. That additional wall signage shall be placed flat on the side
of the building facing the side street. In no case shall the area of a sign
along the side street exceed the area of the front façade sign.
(d)   No sign shall be permitted on the lake side of any premises, other than
one permitted temporary yard sign
(e)   Temporary signs do not count toward the maximum total area of signs on
the premises, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
 
   (D)   CC and MU Districts: non-residential uses.
                               Maximum Area                  Specific
Sign Type (a) Number Locations (b) (c)       Maximu m Height Regulations (d)
                                                             (e)
Sign Type   Number     Locations     Maximum Area (b) (c)                                                      Maximu m  Specific Regulations (d) (e)
(a)                                                                                                            Height
Permanent   1 on each
wall sign:  facade
single      which has                -
tenant      a separate
building    public
            entrance
Permanent   1 wall
wall sign:  sign per
multi-      building
tenant      unit, plus Shall not     10% of front wall façade area per busine ss, up to a max. 60 sq. ft. per
building    one        project more  busine ss
(units with addition   than 12                                                                                 Shall not
individual  al wall    inches from                                                                             projec t
public      sign       the face of                                                                             above the -
entrance)              the building                                                                            roof or
            1 on each  or any                                                                                  parape t
            facade     permanen t
Permanent   which has  architec
wall sign:  a separate tural feature
multi-      public
tenant      entrance ,
building    plus 1                   -
(units with addition
shared      al wall
public      sign not
entrance)   to exceed
            12 sq. ft.
            in area
Ground                 Located                                                                                           A second ground sign may be permitted for a
sign:       1 per      completely on                                                                           5.5 ft.   corner lot if the one ground sign permitted
single      premises   the site to   24 sq. ft.                                                                (f)       cannot be oriented so that it is legible
tenant                 which it                                                                                          from both abutting streets (See §
building               pertains,                                                                                         155.07(G)
                       shall not
                       affect line
                       of sight on
Ground      1 ground   abutting
sign:       sign per   streets or be
multi-      premises   located
tenant      Individual within the    75 sq. ft.                                                                8 ft. (f)
building    business   clear vision
(shopping   ground     triangle and
center or   signs not  setback a
other)      permitted. minimum of 50
                       ft. to any
                       residential
                       district
                                                                                                               Min. 8
Awning or   1 per      Placed flat                                                                             foot      No underlit awnings shall be permitted. No
canopy sign building   on awning     25% of the total area of the awning or canopy                             clearance awning or canopy sign shall be permitted
            unit                                                                                               above     above the first floor
                                                                                                               sidewalk
                                     Sign area is in addition to max. sign area otherwise permitted            Min. 8
Projecting  1 per      Placed        9 sq. ft. permitted                                                       foot      See §
sign        business   perpendicular Up to 12 sq. ft. with Planni ng Commis sion approv al, see §             cleara    155.07(H)
                       to front wall 155.07 (H)                                                                nce above
                                                                                                               sidewa lk
                                                                                                               Min. 8
Marquee     1 per      Placed flat                                                                             foot
sign        building   on marquee    -                                                                         cleara    -
                                                                                                               nce above
                                                                                                               sidewa lk
                       Integrated
            1 ground   into an
            or wall    otherwise
Changeable  sign per   permitted
copy sign   premises   wall or       Changeable copy sign area shall not to exceed 30% of the area of the sign -         Electronic changeable copy subject to §
(manual or  may        ground sign   within which it is locate d                                                         155.07(L)
electronic) include    Only
            changeable permitted
            copy       along M-24
                       frontage
Private     1 per      Driveway s to
drive sign  driveway   public road   2 sq. ft.                                                                 5 ft.     Pole sign permitted
            entrance   only
                       Placed along
                       the bottom or
Permanen t             the top of
or temporar            the window so                                                                                     Signs placed less than 8 inches apart shall
y window    -          as not to     Max. 20% of the area of the window in which it is located (h)             -         be considered to be connected and a single
signs                  block view of                                                                                     sign for measurement of sign area
                       activity
                       within the
                       building
Portable    1 per      -             (h)                                                                       -         §
Signs       premises                                                                                                     155.07(J)
Temporary
Banners,    -          -             Total of 32 sq. ft. (h)                                                   -         §
Flags or                                                                                                                 155.07(J)
Pennants
            1 per
            premises
            permitted                12 sq. ft. (h)                                                            5 ft.     -
Temporary   at any
Wall or     time       -
Yard Signs  4 per
            premises                                                                                                     For 1, 90-day period per calendar year may
            per                      12 sq. ft. per sign maximum; 24 sq. ft. total (h)                         5 ft.     display up to 4 yard signs on the premises
            calendar
            year
(a)   Street address signs, up to 3 sq. ft. in area on each building are exempt from permitting and do not count toward the maximum number and area of signs.
(b)   No sign or multiple of signs shall exceed the greater of 75 sq. ft., or 30% of total wall area of the side of the building facing the front street. In no
event shall a sign or multiple of signs exceed 100 square feet if the 30% computation is used.
(c)   Corner lots shall be permitted additional permanent sign area not exceeding 10% of the total square footage of that side of the building facing the side
street. That additional wall signage shall be placed flat on the side of the building facing the side street. In no case shall the area of a sign along the side
street exceed the area of the front façade sign.
(d)   No sign other than a wall or projecting sign shall be located nearer than 50 ft. to another sign.
(e)   No sign shall be permitted on the lake side of any premises, other than one permitted temporary yard sign.
(f)   Pole signs are subject to Planning Commission approval under the requirements of §
155.03(F)(5)(c). A pole sign may not exceed the height of the building to which it is accessory or 20 ft. whichever is less.
(g)   For each approved drive-through lane, the Planning Commission may permit up to two additional ground signs. These signs shall be located no more than 6 feet
from the drive-through lane, have maximum areas of 16 and 32 sq. ft. respectively, be no greater than 7 feet in height and shall not be readable from off site.
(h)   Temporary signs do not count toward the maximum total area of signs on the premises, except as otherwise provided in this chapter.
 
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.07 REGULATIONS FOR SPECIFIC SIGN TYPES.
   (A)   Wall signs.
      (1)   Construction type. Wall signs may use free-floating channel letters
or other applied letters, and be either internally or externally illuminated
and shielded. Wall signs painted on a building wall shall not be permitted
unless approved by the Planning Commission by site plan approval, or as a
mural.
      (2)   Height limit. A wall sign affixed flat or applied to the surface of
a wall shall not exceed the height of the wall to which it is attached.
   (B)   Ground signs.
      (1)   General. All permanent ground signs shall be monument signs, except
as more specifically provided in this chapter. Ground signs shall be integrated
into the landscape and shall be compatible with the design and materials used
for the building(s) on the premises.
      (2)   Monument signs.
         (a)    Shall be located on a base of masonry or similar durable
material; the base shall have a minimum height of 18 inches and shall not
exceed a height of 30 inches. The base of a monument sign shall be no less than
75% of the greatest horizontal dimension of the sign face, and the vertical
separation between the lowest point of the sign face and the highest point of
the sign base shall be no greater than 12 inches. Any masonry or decorative
features enclosing the sides or top of the face of the sign shall not extend
beyond the maximum allowable height of the sign.
         (b)   The base shall be excluded from the calculation of sign area for
a distance of 30 inches above grade, and no sign message shall be located lower
than 30 inches above grade. Streetscape and landscape features, which in the
determination of the Zoning Administrator, are an integral part of the sign
design shall also be excluded from the calculation of sign area.
      (3)   Pole or pylon signs. 
         (a)   A pole sign may be permitted by the Planning Commission upon
finding that one of the following conditions exist:
            1.   A monument sign would block the vision of drivers; or
            2.   A wall or projecting sign could not be legally established on
a side facing a public street.
         (b)   When permitting a pole or pylon sign, the Planning Commission
shall permit the minimum height necessary to achieve visibility, provided it
does not exceed the height of the building to which it is accessory to or 20
feet, whichever is less. The area shall include the entire area of the sign
upon which copy, lettering, drawings or photographs could be placed, excluding
necessary uprights or supports.
   (C)   Window signs.
      (1)   For paper or other temporary window signs, the sign area shall
include the entire area of the paper. Where adjacent paper or other temporary
window signs are within eight inches of each other they shall be measured as a
single sign.
      (2)   Shall be placed along the bottom or top of the window so as to not
block the view of activity within the building and shall only be permitted on
windows or doors located on the first or ground floor and on windows and doors
on the façade facing a public right-of-way or commonly used as a main entrance
to the premises.
   (D)   Awnings, canopies, and marquee. 
      (1)   Signs mounted on awnings, marquees and canopies shall comply with
the sign area standards of §
155.03. The total area of the lettering and logo shall not exceed 25% of the
total area of the awning or canopy that is visible from the street. The awning,
marquee or canopy shall not be considered the sign frame.
      (2)   Signs on an awning, marquee or non-freestanding canopy shall be
exempt from the limitations on projections of signs from the face of the wall
of any building or structure, provided that such sign:
         (a)   Shall be affixed flat to the surface of the awning, marquee or
non-freestanding canopy;
         (b)   Shall not extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits of
the awning, marquee or canopy; and
         (c)   Shall not be internally illuminated.
      (3)   No signs shall be permitted on an awnings or canopies above the
first floor. Marquee signs must not extend past the building roof height.
   (E)   Freestanding canopy signs.
      (1)   One sign shall be permitted on each face of a freestanding canopy
that fronts a road right-of-way.
      (2)   Shall not exceed 25 square feet in area and shall be counted
towards the total amount of signage permitted in the district.
   (F)   Entranceway signs.
      (1)   Height. Maximum sign height: six ft. Maximum structure height:
eight ft.
      (2)   Sign type. Monument ground signs only with landscaping. If sign is
on private property, evidence of an easement must be submitted.
      (3)   Island option. An entranceway sign may be located on a landscaped
entranceway island, provided that:
         (a)   The nearest edge of the sign must be set back a minimum of ten
feet from the right-of-way of the intersecting street.
         (b)   Such signs shall comply with the clear vision triangle so as to
maintain visibility for drivers.
      (4)   Number permitted. Two signs per major point of entry.
   (G)   Additional ground signs permitted by the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission may approve up to two additional ground signs on a site
zoned CC or MU, subject to site plan review and approval and the following:
      (1)   Shall be located no farther than six feet from a drive lane.
      (2)   Shall not exceed seven feet in height.
      (3)   One sign shall not exceed 16 square feet and the other shall not
exceed 32 square feet in area.
      (4)   The structure's framing shall not be calculated as part of the sign
area.
      (5)   Shall be single-sided, and oriented so that it is only readable on-
site.
      (6)   Cannot be located between the building and the front property line.
      (7)   All speaker systems shall comply with the sound limits of §
155.03(E). The Planning Commission shall have the discretion to place
additional restrictions on the hours of operation and volume of the speakers
based on the location of the specific site, proximity to residential uses and
upon receipt of input or concerns from the neighboring property owners.
      (8)   Only up to four square feet of said sign may include electronic
changeable copy signage.
      (9)   In addition, the Planning Commission may grant approval of a
modified sign area, subject to the following:
         (a)   Only one of the signs may be increased in area.
         (b)   The sign shall be completely screened from the roadway.
         (c)   Under no circumstances shall said sign exceed 48 square feet in
area.
   (H)   Projecting signs.
      (1)   Shall be attached to a wall of the building or to the underside of
a canopy or awning by supports painted with a single neutral color that differs
from the message area of the sign. The permitted area of a projecting sign
shall exclude the braces and supports unless the same are designed or decorated
to be integral to the sign's content or appearance. The sign shall not exceed a
thickness of six inches.
      (2)   May extend over the public right-of-way but shall set back from the
traveled surface of any road by not less than three feet. The projecting sign
shall extend not more than five feet from the building wall, unless attached to
a canopy or awning, in which case the projecting sign shall not extend above or
horizontally beyond the canopy or awning limits.
      (3)   A clearance of not less than eight feet shall be maintained above
the traveled surface of any sidewalk or other pedestrian-accessible surface
beneath the sign.
      (4)   No projecting sign or part of a projecting sign shall exceed the
height of 12 feet above the traveled surface of the sidewalk or other
pedestrian surface.
      (5)   No projecting sign shall be closer than ten feet to another
projecting sign.
      (6)   Projecting signs shall not be constructed to include internal or
tube illumination. Any illumination provided for a projecting sign shall be
cast from an external source. If the spotlights are projected onto the surface
of the sign face, the lights shall be properly shielded to prevent glare from
projecting onto adjacent streets or disturbing those living in nearby dwelling
units.
      (7)   The area of a projecting sign shall not exceed nine square feet
except as may be permitted by the Planning Commission in accordance with the
following. The Planning Commission may permit a larger projecting sign up to a
maximum of 12 square feet in area, subject to findings of compliance with the
below listed standards.
      (8)   Shall not block the view of nearby signs, or create a hazard to the
public health, safety or general welfare:
         (a)   The appearance, color, and materials of the sign will not
adversely affect neighboring property values.
         (b)   The appearance of the building exterior with the signage will be
in general harmony with other buildings already existing in the immediate
neighborhood, and the historic character of the downtown area.
         (c)   The sign size and location shall be in scale with the building
to which it is attached.
      (9)   Construction, maintenance, safety, and inspection requirements not
specified in this chapter shall be regulated by the current building code for
the village.
   (I)   Murals. Murals shall be permitted only on facades of buildings or
structures located in the DC, CC, and MU District, and may not contain any
commercial message or identify the occupant of a premises or relate solely to
the use, business, establishment, or profession conducted, or to a principal
product or service sold, offered provided or produced. Murals may be of any
size, may be externally illuminated, and may not include any commercial
message. Murals larger than 50 square feet shall require Planning Commission
review and approval.
   (J)   Temporary signs - permit required.
      (1)   Banners, flags and pennants. Banners, flags or pennants may be
permitted as temporary signs subject to the following:
         (a)   Signs under this section shall be permitted only by the Village
Council in conjunction with a temporary special event permit, as an exempt flag
or streetscape banner under §
155.04 or in accordance with the standards of §
155.06 for non-single family dwelling uses in the RV, RL, and RM districts, and
in the CC, DC and MU districts.
         (b)   Signs made of cloth, canvas or similar non-durable temporary
materials, flags, pennants or banners may be erected for a period not to exceed
15 days. Permits for these signs shall be granted not more than four times per
calendar year for any individual business, tenant or owner.
         (c)   No temporary sign under this section shall project beyond the
property line, and no temporary sign shall be strung across any vehicle lane or
parking space, except as may be approved by the village in the DC district, or
erected so as to create an obstruction to the passage of pedestrians or
vehicles, or to create a public safety hazard.
         (d)   No temporary flag, banner or pennants or combination of these
temporary signs shall exceed a total area of 32 square feet in the CC, DC and
MU districts, or 15 square feet in the RV, RL and RM districts. No temporary
flag, banner or pennant sign shall be of a greater height than the top of the
wall to which it is attached.
         (e)   The temporary signs shall be removed promptly at the end of the
approved display period.
      (2)   Portable signs. There shall be two classes of portable signs (where
a Class 1 and Class 2 permit shall not be issued to run concurrently on the
same property), as follows:
         (a)   A Class 1 portable sign shall be of the manual changeable letter
type, may be mounted on a trailer, and shall be permitted as follows:
            1.   A Class 1 portable sign shall measure not greater than the
equivalent of eight feet in width by four feet in height, or 32 square feet in
area, but in no case shall exceed five feet in height. The area of a Class 1
sign is in addition to the maximum sign area otherwise permitted.
            2.   Not more than three Class 1 portable sign permits shall be in
effect in the village at any given time.
            3.   At no time shall there be more than one Class 1 portable sign
on any premises.
            4.   Class 1 portable sign permits shall be rotated among area
businesses, as determined to be reasonable by the Village Administrator, and an
individual tenant, owner or business may not receive more than two Class 1
portable sign permits during any given calendar year.
            5.   A Class 1 portable sign permit shall be for a period not
exceeding one month.
            6.   Class 1 portable signs shall be permitted only for lots
abutting M-24. No such sign shall be displayed on the lake side of any lot.
            7.   Illumination of a Class 1 portable sign shall be permitted;
however, all lighting shall be of a single color and not flash, strobe or
otherwise interfere with vision.
         (b)   A Class 2 sign shall be of the sandwich board type and shall be
permitted as follows:
            1.   Class 2 portable signs shall be permitted in the DC, CC and MU
districts only. No such sign shall be displayed on the lake side of any lot.
            2.   A Class 2 portable sign may be located on a sidewalk in the DC
District only if located directly in front of and advertising the same
business. In no case shall a Class 2 portable sign obstruct a public sidewalk,
and not less than three feet of unobstructed width, or whatever greater width
is required by federal or other regulations, shall be maintained at all times
along such public sidewalks where a Class 2 sign is placed.
            3.   Shall measure not greater than the equivalent of three feet in
width by four feet in height, or 12 square feet in area, but in no case shall
exceed four (4) feet in height. The area of Class 2 portable sign is in
addition to the maximum sign area otherwise permitted.
            4.   Not more than ten Class 2 portable sign permits shall be in
effect in the DC District at any given time. No more than 20 Class 2 portable
sign permits shall be in effect in the village at any one time.
            5.   Permits shall be rotated among area businesses, as determined
by the Village Administrator and the permit shall be for a period not exceeding
three consecutive months.
            6.   Permit shall be renewable subject to determination by the
Village Administrator that the subject sign is in conformance with the
provisions of this chapter. There shall be no limit on the number of Class 2
portable sign permits that an individual tenant, owner or business may receive
during any given calendar year.
            7.   Display shall be during regular business hours only.
            8.   Shall be maintained in a safe manner. If, as determined by the
Village Administrator, an unsafe or otherwise hazardous condition exists or
will exists, such sign may be ordered to be removed until such time as the
Village Administrator determines that such unsafe or otherwise hazardous
condition has been abated.
            9.   No illumination of a Class 2 portable sign shall be permitted.
            10.   Shall be located on any lot so as to obstruct the view of a
driver of a vehicle approaching an intersection, or entering or exiting a
driveway. No such sign shall be located within the clear vision triangle, or in
the case of a driveway, in the triangular area formed by each driveway curb
line and the street line at points ten feet from the intersection of the
driveway line and the street line.
            11.   On a CC or MU lot with multiple tenants, such as in a
shopping center, more than one Class 2 sign may be permitted. A minimum
distance of 50 feet shall be provided on a multiple tenant lot between any two
Class 2 signs.
   (K)   Temporary signs.
      (1)   General requirements.
         (a)   No temporary yard or wall sign shall be illuminated.
         (b)   No temporary wall or yard sign shall be placed in or project
into a public right-of-way except with the permission of the authorized public
entity, and shall only be placed on private property with the prior permission
of the property owner.
         (c)   No temporary yard or wall sign shall be placed in such a manner
as to obstruct the view of vehicle drivers when leaving or entering a street,
driveway, or parking space.
         (d)   Every such sign shall have identified on it the name, address,
and telephone number of the person(s) who posted or had caused the posting of
the sign.
         (e)   Signs under this section may be erected for a period not to
exceed 30 days. A permit shall be required to place more than one temporary
wall or yard sign on a premises at the same time, as provided in each district
under §
155.06.
         (f)   The sign area and number shall not exceed the limits specified
for each district in §
155.06.
      (2)   Limited duration signs.
         (a)   A permit shall be required to display any temporary wall or yard
sign for a period longer that 30 days.
         (b)   The permit for a limited duration sign shall specify the date by
which the sign shall be removed, however, no permit for extended display shall
exceed 90 days. One permit renewal may be approved, subject to the sign being
in compliance with all requirements of this chapter.
   (L)   Electronic changeable copy signs.
      (1)   Shall be permitted only in the CC and MU districts, and only along
the M-24 frontage.
      (2)   Shall be integrated into the site's permitted ground sign and shall
not occupy more than 30% of the ground sign's area.
      (3)   The message change cycle shall not be less than one message per
minute.
      (4)   The images and messages displayed shall be static, and the
transition from one static display to another shall be instantaneous with no
special effects or the transition may provide a black screen for at least one
second.
      (5)   Signs shall not include animation, full motion video, flashing,
scrolling, strobing, racing, blinking, changes in color, fade in or fade out in
any manner imitating movement, or any other means not providing constant
illumination.
      (6)   The images and messages displayed must be complete in themselves,
without continuation in content to the next image or message or to any other
sign.
      (7)   All such signs shall be required to have automatic dimming
capability that adjusts the brightness to the ambient light at all times of the
day and night.
      (8)   Shall be designed and equipped to freeze the device in one position
if a malfunction occurs. The displays must also be equipped with a measure to
immediately discontinue the display if it malfunctions.
   (M)   Vehicle signs. Vehicles with signs that are parked on a non-single
family residential lot or in the DC, CC or MU districts for a period of over 24
hours and which are visible from the public right-of-way, shall be counted as
part of the signage on that premises and require a permit.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.08 ABANDONED, DAMAGED, ILLEGAL AND UNSAFE SIGNS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this ordinance shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of the Village of Lake Orion Code of
Ordinances, §
10.99(A)(2) Penalties for Municipal Civil Infractions. The village shall be
absolved of all liability caused by or resulting from the removal of such
signs. If any confiscated damaged, illegal, unsafe, and abandoned sign is not
claimed and collected by the owner and all fines and costs associated with
confiscation of said sign are not paid within 14 days, it shall be destroyed.
   (A)   Damaged signs. Damaged signs shall be secured, repaired, replaced or
removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building
or structure upon which the damaged sign is located. Damaged signs may be
removed by the Zoning Administrator at the expense of the sign or property
owner after that owner has been ordered in writing to remove or replace the
sign by the Zoning Administrator and has not done so within ten days of the
order's deadline. Repairs to damaged signs must be completed within 30 days.
   (B)   Illegal signs. Illegal signs may be removed by the Zoning
Administrator at the expense of the sign or property owner after that owner has
been ordered in writing to remove the sign by the Zoning Administrator and has
not done so within 30 days.
   (C)   Unsafe signs. Unsafe signs shall be immediately removed or made to
conform to the provisions of this chapter by the owner, agent or person having
the beneficial use of the building or structure upon which that sign is found.
If such action is not taken within 48 hours of notice by the Zoning
Administrator, the unsafe signs may be removed or secured by the Zoning
Administrator, either at the expense of the owner of the property on which the
sign is located or to the owner of the sign.
   (D)   Abandoned signs. If a building or unit is vacated for a period of 180
days or more, the sign(s) used or owned by that building or unit shall be
deemed abandoned and must be brought into conformity with this chapter, or
shall be removed forthwith by the owner, at the expense of the property owner.
Removal of an abandoned sign shall include the removal of the entire sign face,
supporting structure, and structural trim. If the owner of the property on
which an abandoned sign is located fails to remove the abandoned sign, the sign
may be removed by the Zoning Administrator at the expense of the property
owner.
   (E)   Collection of damaged, illegal, unsafe and abandoned signs. If any
confiscated sign is not claimed and collected by the owner and all fines and
costs associated with confiscation of said sign are not paid within 14 days, it
shall be destroyed.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.09 PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits required.
      (1)   No sign shall be erected, or affixed or applied to any structure,
constructed, altered or relocated without first obtaining a permit from the
village and making payment for such fee as established by Village Council,
except the following:
         (a)   Signs specified in §
155.04, Signs permitted in all districts without a sign permit, and those
specifically exempted under other sections of this chapter.
         (b)   A permit is not required for minor repairs, painting, servicing
or cleaning of an existing sign, provided that the sign is restored to its
original design and all work is in compliance with this chapter and all other
village ordinances.
      (2)   For each sign application which requires Planning Commission
review, the Village Clerk shall, by first class mail, give notice of the
receipt of the application and of the time and place at which said application
will be reviewed by the Planning Commission, not less than 15 days prior to
said Planning Commission meeting. The notice shall be sent to all owners of
record of property listed on the most recent assessment roll whose property is
located within 100 feet of the boundaries of said application property. If a
public hearing is required, the notice shall also be published in a newspaper
of record in the village, not less than 15 days prior to the hearing.
   (B)   Application. An applicant for a sign permit shall complete an
application form supplied by the village. The application shall be accompanied
by plans, drawings, and specifications necessary to fully describe the type,
size, shape, construction and materials of the sign, along with a location map,
showing exactly where the sign will be placed on the building, or in proximity
to zoning lot structures/lot lines. A legible rendering of the proposed sign,
showing colors, letter relationships, letter type and all features of the sign
is required.
   (C)   Inspection fees. At the time of permit issuance, the applicant shall
pay an inspection fee as established by the Village Council per sign to defray
the cost of inspecting signs for chapter compliance.
   (D)   License and insurance. Every person who engages in the business of
erecting, altering or dismantling signs in the village shall first submit proof
of appropriate licenses and a liability insurance policy that indemnifies the
Village of Lake Orion and its prior, present and future officials,
representatives and employees from all damage suits or actions of every nature
brought or claimed against the erector for injuries or damages to persons or
property sustained by any person or persons through any act of omission or
negligence of said erector, and their servants, agents or employees. Said
policy shall contain a clause whereby it cannot be canceled or changed until
after written notice has been filed with the Zoning Administrator at least 30
days prior to the date of cancellation.
   (E)   Permit. The Zoning Administrator shall issue a permit for the sign
upon determining that the proposed sign meets the requirements of this and any
other applicable village ordinance and after payment is collected.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.10 VARIANCE AUTHORITY.
   (A)   General. 
      (1)   The Village of Lake Orion Board of Zoning Appeals (BZA) pursuant to
the Village Zoning Ordinance shall be authorized to grant variances and hear
appeals regarding any sign regulation from an interpretation or administrative
decision of an official of the Village of Lake Orion or a decision made by the
Planning Commission.
      (2)   Except as modified herein, the application notice processes and
proceedings shall be as provided in the Village Zoning Ordinance. Such a
variance request shall be published in a newspaper of general circulation a
minimum of five days and maximum of 15 days prior to the scheduled meeting and
notice shall be sent to all properties within 100 feet of the site for which a
variance is requested.
   (B)   Required findings. The BZA shall determine whether the application
shall be granted for a variance upon a showing of the following:
      (1)   The variance would not be contrary to the public interest or
general purpose and intent of this chapter;
      (2)   The variance does not adversely affect properties in the immediate
vicinity of the proposed sign; and
      (3)   The petitioner has a practical difficulty resulting from the
unusual characteristics of the property that precludes reasonable use of the
property.
   (C)   Considerations. When determining whether an application complies with
the variance standards above, the BZA shall consider the following, however,
the BZA may decline to grant a variance even if the following considerations
exist:
      (1)   Permitted signage could not be easily seen by passing motorists due
to the configuration of existing buildings, trees, or other obstructions, which
cannot be legally and/or practically removed.
      (2)   Permitted signage could not be seen by passing motorists in
sufficient time to permit safe deceleration and exit. In determining whether
such circumstances exist, the BZA shall consider the width of the road, the
number of moving lanes, the volume of traffic, and speed limits.
      (3)   Existing signs on nearby parcels would substantially reduce the
visibility or advertising impact of a conforming sign on the premises.
      (4)   A conforming sign would require removal/severe alteration to
natural features on the premises, including: tree removal, natural topography
alteration, wetland filling, or natural drainage course obstruction.
      (5)   A conforming sign would obstruct the vision of motorists or
otherwise endanger the health or safety of passers-by.
      (6)   The sign is clearly distinguishable from public safety and traffic
signs so as to not cause confusion or mislead the public.
      (7)   The sign is compatible in appearance with the visual character of
the surrounding area, i.e. scale and placement to the building, color
relationships, and dissimilarity of shape and lettering.
      (8)   Such a sign variance may further be granted in those instances in
which there has been a demonstrated showing by the applicant that the
particular sign sought to be approved is suitable to the village or has some
value that comports with the history or development of the community and would
not, if a variance were granted, be materially in conflict with applicable
underlying district regulations.
   (D)   Appeals. As provided in the village's zoning ordinance, any applicant
who is denied relief hereunder has the right to an appeal to the Oakland County
Circuit Court within the applicable limits established by this chapter or state
law. Such an appeal will only be on the basis of the decision from which the
appeal has been taken.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
§ 155.11 NON-CONFORMING SIGNS.
   (A)   Elimination of nonconforming signs. The nonconforming regulations
established in the Zoning Ordinance for nonconforming structures shall not be
applicable to signs which exist on the effective date of this chapter where
those signs fail to comply with the provisions described herein. The village
may acquire by purchase, condemnation, or other means any nonconforming sign
which it deems necessary to preserve the health, safety, and welfare of the
residents. The elimination of nonconforming signs is a public purpose and a
public service for the following reasons:
      (1)   They constitute a nuisance to the village resulting from their
incompatibility due to excessive size, poor location, relationship to existing
structures, excessive quantity in a small geographic area;
      (2)   They are detrimental to the public health, safety and welfare
arising from quantity, location and bulk having an adverse or detrimental
impact upon police and fire protection, causing confusion for motorists; and
blocking signage on adjoining lots;
      (3)   They are incompatible with the adopted sign regulations governing
sign location, size, placement and features which have been deemed necessary
for public purposes;
      (4)   Technological advancements in signage have created the opportunity
to locate places quicker, minimize maintenance, enhance safety and decrease
size requirements;
      (5)   Readability is limited due to the ill-proportioned nature of many
older nonconforming signs; whereas technological advancements often allows
instantaneous information or format enhancing readability; and
      (6)   Age has resulted in the physical deterioration of the signs and
thus no longer represents the desired aesthetic conducive to a particular
district.
   (B)   Nonconforming regulations. Nonconforming signs shall not be:
      (1)   Expanded, replaced or changed to another nonconforming sign.
      (2)   Relocated, or altered so as to prolong the life of the sign, or so
as to change the shape, size, type, placement, or design of the sign's
structural or basic parts.
      (3)   Enhanced with any new feature including the addition of
illumination.
      (4)   Repaired, except if such repair brings the sign into chapter
conformance, if such repair necessitates:
         (a)   An expense that exceeds 50% of the sign's value, as determined
by the village; or
         (b)   The replacement of the sign's primary support pole(s), frame or
other support structure.
         (c)   Re-established after the activity, business, or use which it
represents has been discontinued for 180 consecutive days or longer, in which
case the sign shall be deemed to be abandoned, per §
155.08.
      (C)   Permitted modifications. A nonconforming sign may be modified only
by a change in the wording of the copy or routine repair to maintain the sign
in a safe and aesthetically attractive condition as it existed at the time of
this chapter's enactment.
(Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18)
CHAPTER 156: (RESERVED)
CHAPTER 157: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Title
   
157.02   Purpose
   
157.03   Authority
   
157.04   Definitions
   
157.05   Submission of preliminary plat for tentative approval
   
157.06   Village Council review - preliminary plat - tentative approval
   
157.07   Submission of preliminary plat for final approval
   
157.08   Village Council review - preliminary plat - final approval
   
157.09   Submission of final plat for final approval
   
157.10   Village Council review - final plat - final approval
   
157.11   Land divisions not requiring platting
   
157.12   Variances
Dividing and Partitioning Land
   
157.20   Authority
   
157.21   Purpose and scope of application
   
157.22   Definitions
   
157.23   Application requirements
   
157.24   Approval procedures
   
157.25   Standards for granting approval
   
157.26   Recording of final action
   
157.27   Fees
   
157.28   Violations
Cross-reference:
Planning Commission, see §§
30.15 through
30.22
Zoning Code Adopted, see
Ch. 158
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 TITLE.
   Sections
157.01 through
157.12 shall be known as the Village of Lake Orion Subdivision Control
Ordinance.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of §§
157.01 through
157.12 is to regulate and control the subdivision of land within the village to
promote the public safety, health and general welfare.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.03 AUTHORITY.
   (A)   These regulations shall apply to all divisions of land within the
village corporate limits, except those divisions of land undertaken in or as
part of the formation of condominium projects as defined in §
157.04.
   (B)   No building permit or certificate of occupancy shall be issued for any
lot or parcel created by improper subdivision after the effective date of §§
157.01 through
157.12.
   (C)   No excavation of land or construction of any public or private
improvements shall be permitted which does not conform to §§
157.01 through
157.12.
   (D)   Sections
157.01 through
157.12 shall not repeal, abrogate, annul or in any way impair or interfere with
existing provisions of other laws, ordinances, regulations, or with private
restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant, or other private
agreements. Where §§
157.01 through
157.12 impose a greater restriction on land than is imposed or required by an
existing provision of any private restriction or other ordinance of this
village, the provisions of §§
157.01 through
157.12 shall control.
   (E)   Sections
157.01 through
157.12 are enacted pursuant to the authority granted by the Subdivision Control
Act of 1967, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A.§§ 560.101 et
seq., which authorizes the village to adopt an ordinance to regulate the
subdivision of land within the village, to secure the public health, safety and
general welfare.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.04 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
157.01 through
157.12, the following terms and phrases, wherever used in §§
157.01 through
157.12 shall have the meanings ascribed to them. All terms as defined in the
Subdivision Control Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., as amended, shall
control unless the context clearly indicates a different meaning.
   (A)   For the purpose of these regulations, the numbers, abbreviations,
terms and words that appear shall be used, interpreted, and defined as
indicated in §§
157.01 through
157.12.
   (B)   Unless the context clearly indicates otherwise, words used in the
present tense include the future tense; words used in the singular include the
plural; THESE REGULATIONS or THIS ORDINANCE means the Subdivision Control
Ordinance of the village, being §§
157.01 through
157.12 of this code.
   ALLEY. A strip of land not more than 30 feet in width dedicated and improved
for public use that affords a secondary access to abutting property but is not
intended for general traffic circulation or for parking, standing or loading.
   BLOCK. A subdivided parcel of land surrounded on all sides by one or more of
the following barriers: streets, public parks, cemeteries, railroad rights-of-
way, shorelines of waterways, unsubdivided acreage, boundary lines of the
village, the exterior boundary of the subdivision, or any other barriers to the
continuity of development.
   BUILDING or STRUCTURE.  Building includes a structure and a building or
structure includes any of its parts.
   BUILDING LINE. A line within a platted lot that is parallel to the front lot
line at the minimum required front setback line pursuant to the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.04 and all
amendments thereto.
   CAPTION. The name by which the plat is legally and commonly known.
   CONDOMINIUM PROJECT. A project consisting of not less than two condominium
units established in conformance with the Condominium Act, Michigan Public Act
59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 et seq.
   COUNTY DRAIN COMMISSIONER. The Oakland County Drain Commissioner.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Oakland County Health Department.
   COUNTY PLAT BOARD. The Oakland County Plat Board.
   COUNTY ROAD COMMISSION. The Oakland County Road Commission.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the property owner of the use of a strip of land by the
public, a corporation, or private person for specific uses or purposes, which
shall be designated as a public or private easement depending on the nature of
the use.
   FLOODPLAIN. That area of land that is typically adjacent to a river, stream,
or other body of water, and is designated as subject to flooding from the 100
year base flood indicated on the Flood Boundary and Floodway Map prepared by
the Federal Emergency Management Agency.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, pedestrian/bicycle
paths, water mains and lines, storm and sanitary sewers, utilities, bridges,
drainage, street trees and other additions to the natural state of land that
increases the land's value, utility and habitability.
   LOT. As defined in the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot having two adjacent sides, both of which abut their full
length upon a street, provided that the two sides intersect at an angle of not
more than 135 degrees. Where a lot is on a curve, if the tangents through the
extreme point of the street lines of such lot make an interior angle of not
more than 135 degrees, it shall be considered a corner lot. In the case of a
corner lot with a curved street line, the corner is that point on the street
lot line nearest to the point of intersection of the tangents described above.
(A tangent is a straight line extended from the outer edges of a curve that
intersect to form a corner.)
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot having frontage on two more or less parallel
streets. In the case of a row of double frontage lots, one street shall be
designated as the front street for all lots in the plat and in a request for a
zoning compliance permit or building permit. If there are existing buildings in
the same block fronting on one or both of the streets, the required minimum
front yard setback shall be observed on those streets where buildings presently
front.
   LOT AREA. As defined in the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
   LOT DEPTH. As defined in the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
   LOT FRONTAGE. As defined in the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
   LOT LINES. As defined in the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
   LOT WIDTH. As defined in the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
   NON-RESIDENTIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision whose intended use is other than
residential, such as commercial or office.
   OCCUPIED. See USED or OCCUPIED below.
   PARCEL (OR TRACT). A continuous area or acreage of land that can be
described as provided in the Subdivision Control Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101
et seq.
   PERSON. Includes a corporation, a partnership, and an incorporated
association of persons such as a club.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the village.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      PRELIMINARY PLAT. A map showing the salient features of a proposed
subdivision submitted to the village for purposes of preliminary consideration
prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Control Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 et seq. and §§
157.01 through
157.12.
      FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision prepared and certified
by a registered engineer or land surveyor substantially conforming to the
preliminary plat and prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Control Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. and §§
157.01 through
157.12, and suitable for recording by the county register of deeds. Such map
must meet the requirements of he Subdivision Control Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 et seq. and §§
157.01 through
157.12.
   PUBLIC RESERVATION. Part of a subdivision set aside for eventual public use
and made available for public acquisition.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. All persons, firms, corporation, co-partnerships or
municipal or other public authorities providing gas, electricity, water, steam,
telephone, sewer or other services of a similar nature.
   RESERVE STRIP. A strip of land in a subdivision that extends across the end
of a street proposed to be extended by future platting or a strip that extends
along the lengths of a partial width street proposed to be widened by future
platting.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A strip of land occupied or intended to be occupied by a
street, walkway, railroad, road, electric transmission line, oil or gas
pipeline, water main, sanitary or storm sewer main, or for another use. Every
right-of-way strip established and shown on a final plat is to be distinct from
the lots or parcels adjoining it. Rights-of-way intended to be maintained by a
public agency shall be dedicated to public use.
   SHALL/WILL. These terms are always mandatory.
   STREET. Any avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct or other way
that is an existing state, county or municipal roadway or any road or way shown
in a plat previously approved pursuant to law. A STREET includes the land
between the right-of-way lines, whether improved or unimproved and may comprise
pavement, shoulders, gutters, parking areas and lawns.
      BOULEVARD STREET. A street with two one-way pavements separated by a
median.
      COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to serve as a major means of access
from local streets to major streets and county primaries. COLLECTOR STREETS may
both serve abutting properties and carry traffic generated by other local
streets.
      CUL-DE-SAC. A short minor street with one end open to vehicular traffic
and the other end permanently terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      DEAD END OR STUB STREET. A street with one end open to vehicular traffic
and no vehicle turnaround at the other end, which provides for eventual
extension of the street onto unplatted land.
      HALF STREET. A street containing less than the required right-of-way
width.
      LOCAL STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily to provide
access to abutting residential properties.
      MAJOR STREET (THOROUGHFARE). An arterial street of great continuity
intended to serve as a large volume trafficway for both the immediate municipal
area and region beyond and may be designated in the Village Master Plan as a
major thoroughfare, parkway, expressway or equivalent term to identify those
streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan.
      MARGINAL ACCESS STREET OR MINOR STREET. A local street that is parallel
to and adjacent to a major street that provides access to abutting properties
and protection from through traffic and not carrying through traffic.
   STREET WIDTH. The shortest distance between the lines delineating the right-
of-way of a street.
   STRUCTURE. See BUILDING or STRUCTURE above.
   SUBDIVIDER OR PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership,
corporation or combination of any of these that may hold any ownership interest
in land, whether recorded or not.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. Act 288 of the Michigan Public Acts of 1967, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
   USED or OCCUPIED. As applied to any land or building shall be construed to
include the words "intended, arranged or designed to be used or occupied."
   VILLAGE PLANNER. The person or professional planning consultant designated
as the Village Planner by the Planning Commission.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. The person or professional engineering consultant
designated as the Village Engineer by the Village Council.
   ZONING ORDINANCE. The Zoning Ordinance of the village,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.05 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT FOR TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   Every person, firm or corporation that shall hereafter submit a proposed
preliminary plat to the village for tentative approval, shall submit 10 legible
copies of the proposed preliminary plat. These copies must contain, as a
minimum, the following information and fees:
   (A)   Show topography of the area proposed to be platted with not more than
two foot contour intervals.
   (B)   Indicate street and road layout.
   (C)   Indicate lot layout, showing size and shape of proposed lots.
   (D)   Show the location of sanitary sewer and water lines that will be
accessed to provide service for the subdivision.
   (E)   Indicate the general location and size of any floodplain located
within the area to be platted.
   (F)   Show, in general, the methods proposed for storm water disposal.
   (G)   Indicate wetlands found on the site consistent with the provisions of
state and federal regulations.
   (H)   Show the general methods to be employed to prevent soil erosion and
sedimentation on the site.
   (I)   When the proprietor owns or plans to acquire and anticipates platting
adjoining land, he shall submit, with the preliminary plat for tentative
approval, a tentative plan showing the feasibility of the development of such
adjoining land.
   (J)   A fee in an amount as established by resolution of the Village Council
adequate to pay the cost of reviewing the proposed plat.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.06 VILLAGE COUNCIL REVIEW - PRELIMINARY PLAT - TENTATIVE APPROVAL.
   Upon receipt of copies of a proposed plat for tentative approval, the
Village Clerk, on behalf of the Village Council, shall forward copies to the
Planning Commission, the Village Planner and the Village Engineer for
recommendation. The Planning Commission shall examine the proposed preliminary
plat with assistance and review of the Village Planner, Village Engineer and
Village Attorney as the Planning Commission and Village Council may require.
Upon recommendation by the Planning Commission, the Village Council shall
determine whether the proposed preliminary plat complies with all village
ordinances and state statutes and makes adequate provision of the following:
   (A)   Streets.
      (1)   Compliance with the major street thoroughfare plan adopted by the
village.
      (2)   The arrangement of streets shall provide for a continuation of
existing streets from adjoining areas into the new subdivision.
      (3)   Where adjoining areas are not subdivided, the arrangement of
streets in the proposed subdivision shall be extended to the boundary line of
the tract to provide for the future projection of streets into adjoining areas.
However, minor streets within the subdivision shall be so laid out that their
use by through traffic will be discouraged.
      (4)   Where the proposed subdivision abuts or contains a county primary
road or major thoroughfare as defined in the Village Master Plan or the Village
Major Thoroughfare Plan, the Village Council may require marginal access
streets approximately parallel to the right-of-way of the primary road or major
thoroughfare and may require such other improvements as are deemed necessary
for the adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation
of through and local traffic.
      (5)   Private streets may be permitted by the Village Council if the
Village Council finds that private streets within the plat will not adversely
affect public health, safety or welfare.
      (6)   All new streets shall be named as follows: streets with predominant
north-south direction shall be named "Street", streets with predominant east-
west direction shall be named "Avenue"; meandering streets shall be named
"Drive", "Lane", "Path", "Road" or "Trail" and cul-de-sacs shall be named
"Circle", "Court", "Way" or "Place".
      (7)   Streets should intersect at a 90-degree angle or closely thereto
and in no case less than 80 degrees.
      (8)   Where the proposed continuation of a street at an intersection is
not in alignment with an existing street, it must not intersect with the cross
street closer than 175 feet from the opposite existing street, as measured from
the centerline of said streets.
      (9)   The maximum length allowed for residential blocks shall be 1,000
feet.
      (10)   All primary road rights-of-way, as designated by the Village
Council, within or abutting plats hereafter recorded, shall provide a 50-foot
half-width. All other rights-of-way within or abutting such plats shall be not
less than 66 feet in width. Permanent dead-end streets in excess of 660 feet in
length shall be prohibited except upon prior approval of the Village Council,
to be granted only where the topography of the area, rivers, streams, other
natural conditions or the prior development of the area prevents a through
street from being constructed.
      (11)   A subdivision or extension of an existing subdivision creating a
total of 25 or more lots must be developed to provide two or more access
streets.
   (B)   Lots.
      (1)   All lots shall be created consistent with the dimensional and area
requirements of the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
      (2)   Corner lots shall be created with additional width to permit front
yard setback requirements to be attained from both streets.
   (C)   General Provisions.
      (1)   Privately-held reserve strips controlling access to streets shall
be prohibited.
      (2)   Existing natural features which add value to residential
development and that enhance the attractiveness of the community (such as
streams, water courses, historic spots and similar irreplaceable assets) shall
be preserved insofar as possible in the design of the subdivision. The
requirements of the floodplain development regulations set forth in
Chapter 156 of this code shall be complied with in creation of subdivisions
under these regulations.
      (3)   Lands subject to flooding or otherwise determined by the village to
be uninhabitable shall not be platted for residential or nonresidential
purposes. Such lands within a subdivision may be set aside for other purposes
such as parks and open space.
      (4)   If the Village Council determines that the proposed preliminary
plat complies with all applicable ordinances and statutes and the provisions
set forth above, it shall grant tentative approval of the preliminary plat.
Approval shall confer upon the proprietor for a period of one year from date of
approval, approval of lot sizes, lot orientation and street layout. Tentative
approval may be extended for an additional year, in the discretion of the
Village Council, upon application of the proprietor.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.07 SUBMISSION OF PRELIMINARY PLAT FOR FINAL APPROVAL.
   Every person, firm or corporation which shall hereafter submit copies of a
proposed preliminary plat to the Village Council for final approval shall
submit the following relevant data and fees:
   (A)   Evidence that all requirements imposed by the Village Council at the
time of granting tentative approval have been incorporated into the proposed
plan.
   (B)   Detailed working drawings showing grades, drainage structures,
proposed utilities and road construction plans for public and/or private roads
within and adjoining the plat. Prior to submitting copies of the preliminary
plat to the Village Council for final approval, the developer shall document
consultation with the Village Engineer and all public utilities which will be
servicing the subdivision to resolve any conflicts in location between public
utility facilities and other improvements. A preliminary plat shall not be
accepted for review by the Village Council unless the Village Engineer has
approved construction plans for the plat.
   (C)   A fee in an amount as established by resolution of the Village Council
adequate to pay the cost of reviewing the proposed plat.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.08 VILLAGE COUNCIL REVIEW - PRELIMINARY PLAT - FINAL APPROVAL.
   (A)   Upon receipt of all required copies of the preliminary plat for final
approval, the Village Council shall examine the same with such assistance and
review by the Planning Commission, Village Planner, Village Engineer, Village
Attorney and advice from other experts as the Village Council may request. Upon
completing its review, the Village Council shall determine whether said
proposed preliminary plat complies with the requirements imposed by the Village
Council at the time of tentative approval and that the proprietor has obtained
the required statutory approval of other governmental agencies and in addition,
meets the following requirements:
      (1)   All road grades shall not exceed a 7% grade or be less than a 0.5%
grade except upon approval by the Village Engineer.
      (2)   All grades in excess of 3% shall require installation of curb and
gutter. The curb and gutter to be set apart not less than 27 feet as measured
from back to back of the opposite curbs and fully paved between the lip of the
gutters.
      (3)   All road rights-of-way within or abutting such plat shall be
constructed with a base of not less than six inches of compacted 21AA stone or
eight inches of compacted 22A stone. The stone base shall be not less than 24
feet wide and shall be covered with not less than three inches of bituminous
aggregate pavement, 20 feet wide. In the event the minimum County Road
Commission requirements are greater and will result in a more durable road, the
Village may require the proprietor to utilize the
County Road Commission standards rather than the other construction
requirements indicated in this paragraph.
      (4)   All rights-of-way shall be graded to the full width thereof for
proper drainage and prospective future widening and improving. Road grading
shall be accomplished so as to establish a 0.5 foot higher elevation at the
boundary of the right-of-way than at the crown of the traveled roadway. All
trees or other obstructions within the right-of-way which interfere with the
grading and/or drainage shall be removed. The foregoing 0.5 foot elevation and
tree and obstruction removal may be varied or adjusted by the Village Council
upon recommendation of the Village Engineer where valuable trees or obstacles
are involved and as long as drainage and safety will not be impaired.
      (5)   Permanent dead-end streets shall be provided at the closed end with
a turnaround having an outside improved roadway diameter of at least 100 feet
as measured from the centerline of the gutter or back-of-curb and a street
right-of-way diameter of at least 120 feet. Temporary dead-end streets shall be
provided at the closed end with a turn-around constructed the full width of the
right-of-way.
      (6)   All surface waters shall be adequately drained within each plat by
a separate system of drainage structures or through the connection of such
separate system to an adequate adjoining system. Where storm sewers are used,
inlet basins must not be spaced further then 600 feet apart. The determination
of what is equivalent and sufficient drainage shall be left to the Village
Council upon the recommendation of the Village Engineer.
      (7)   Connection to sanitary sewers and water mains will be required by
the Village Council.
      (8)   In the discretion of the Village Council, the proprietor shall make
arrangements for all distribution lines for telephone, electric, television and
other similar services distributed by wire or cable to be placed underground
entirely through the residential subdivided area. Electric distribution lines
shall be defined in accordance with the rules and regulations promulgated by
the Michigan Public Service Commission. Such conduits or cables shall be placed
within private easements provided to such service companies by the proprietor
or within dedicated public ways. All such facilities placed in dedicated public
ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with other underground utilities.
All such facilities shall be constructed in accordance with standards of
construction approved by the Michigan Public Service Commission. Private
easements for underground utilities shall be shown on the preliminary plat.
      (9)   Storm water disposal methods proposed for the subdivision must be
adequate to insure each building site and the roadway will not be flooded. All
necessary easements for storm sewers or open drains that can feasibly be
dedicated to the public for such purposes shall be dedicated at the option of
the village. Onsite water detention must meet the requirements of the County
Drain Commissioner.
      (10)   No land within the subdivision may be isolated from a public
thoroughfare nor may any adjoining land of the proprietor or others be isolated
from a public thoroughfare thereby creating land- locked parcels.
      (11)   Street lighting may be required by the Village Council when the
Council determines that street lighting is necessary for public health, safety
and welfare.
      (12)   Pedestrian and bicycle paths may be required by the Village
Council when the Village Council determines, in its opinion, that paths are
necessary for pedestrian safety, public health, and welfare. When required,
paths shall be constructed of concrete or asphalt, five feet in width, four
inches in depth, upon a two inch minimum sand base.
   (B)   The Village Council shall complete the review and consideration of the
proposed preliminary plat submitted for final approval at the next regular
meeting of the Council or within 20 days after the date of submittal of the
proposed preliminary plat. If the Village Council determines that the
preliminary plat has obtained the required statutory approval of other
governmental agencies and complies with the requirements set forth in §§
157.01 through
157.12, the Village Council shall grant final approval of the preliminary plat
which shall confer upon the proprietor for a period of two years from date of
approval the conditional right that the general terms and conditions under
which said approval was granted will not be changed. The two-year period may be
extended in the discretion of the Village Council upon application by the
proprietor.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.09 SUBMISSION OF FINAL PLAT FOR FINAL APPROVAL.
   Every person, firm or corporation which shall hereafter submit a proposed
final plat to the Village Council for final approval shall also submit the
following relevant data and fees:
   (A)   An abstract of title or title insurance policy showing merchantable
title in the proprietor of the subdivision.
   (B)   A fee in an amount as established by resolution of the Village Council
adequate to pay the cost of reviewing the proposed plat.
   (C)   Other information as may be required by state and federal regulations.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.10 VILLAGE COUNCIL REVIEW - FINAL PLAT - FINAL APPROVAL.
   The Village Council shall review the proposed final plat and determine that:
   (A)   All monuments required to be placed in the subdivision have either
been placed or a cash or equivalent deposit has been made with the village and
a deposit agreement executed by the proprietors.
   (B)   All roads, streets, bridges and culverts have been completed and
installed or a cash or equivalent deposit has been made with the village and a
deposit agreement executed by the proprietors.
   (C)   If the subdivision has any county drains, or other waterways, as set
forth in M.C.L.A. § 560.188, all such county drains and waterways shall be
installed or a cash or equivalent deposit made to the village and a deposit
agreement executed by the proprietors.
   (D)   If any floodplains are involved in the proposed subdivision, then such
floodplains shall be restricted as provided in the Subdivision Control Act,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq. and the village floodplain regulations set
forth in
Chapter 156 of this code, and such restrictions shall be submitted to the
Village Council for review and approval prior to recording and thereafter shall
be recorded in the office of the Oakland County Register of Deeds
contemporaneously with the recording of the plat.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.11 LAND DIVISIONS NOT REQUIRING PLATTING.
   Dividing and partitioning land outside the boundaries of a subdivision as
regulated by §§
157.01 through
157.12 shall be consistent with the provisions of §§
157.20 through
157.27 of this code.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
§ 157.12 VARIANCES.
   Proposed subdivisions shall comply with the requirements of §§
157.01 through
157.12 and all other applicable requirements of the village, county and state.
In the event that unusual hardships or unique circumstances exist that make
compliance with §§
157.01 through
157.12 impractical or impossible, the applicant shall use the following
procedure to request a variance from the strict enforcement of these
regulations.
   (A)   Prior to final approval of the preliminary plat, the applicant shall
state his request for a variance in writing. The written request shall be
submitted to the office of the Village Clerk not less than 14 days prior to a
scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission. The written request shall be
accompanied by such reasonable fees as the Village Council may establish to
defray the costs of review by village representatives. The Village Clerk shall
transmit a properly prepared variance request to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   After receipt of a variance request, the request shall be placed on
the agenda of the Planning Commission for the next regularly scheduled meeting.
The Planning Commission shall schedule a public hearing on the request. Notice
of the hearing shall be provided to all owners of record of real property
located within 300 feet of the proposed subdivision site boundaries. The
notices shall be delivered personally or by mail not less than five days before
the date set for the hearing.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall submit to the Village Council its
findings on the existence of any extraordinary hardships, practical
difficulties or unique circumstances that will result from the strict
enforcement of these regulations. If the Planning Commission finds the
requested variance will not compromise the public interest or the intent of §§
157.01 through
157.12, the Planning Commission may recommend to the Village Council approval
of a variance to these regulations. The Planning Commission may recommend
conditions to the variance consistent with the objectives of these regulations.
   (D)   The Village Council may grant a variance if the Council finds that:
      (1)   The variance will not be detrimental to the public, health, safety
and general welfare nor injurious to other property.
      (2)   The conditions underlying the variance request are unique to the
property and are not generally applicable to other property.
      (3)   Due to particular characteristics, shape or topographical
conditions of the property, a particular hardship to the owner, as
distinguished from inconvenience or monetary loss, will result if these
regulations are enforced.
      (4)   The variance will not violate the requirements of the Zoning Code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto; Master Plan; and Subdivision Control Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 et seq. or any other applicable law or regulation.
   (E)   In approving a variance, the Village Council may impose conditions to
the variance consistent with the objectives of these regulations.
   (F)   If the variance request is denied, any further appeal shall be in
accordance with the procedures set forth in the Zoning code,
Chapter 158 of this code, being Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all
amendments thereto.
(Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96)
DIVIDING AND PARTITIONING LAND
§ 157.20 AUTHORITY.
   The Village Council shall have the sole power to authorize the division and
partitioning of land within the village.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94)
§ 157.21 PURPOSE AND SCOPE OF APPLICATION.
   In the interest of protecting the public health, safety and welfare, the
governing body of the village finds that this subchapter is necessary to
regulate the division and partitioning of parcels of land which are otherwise
not subject to platting procedures and requirements. It shall be unlawful for
any person to divide or partition any lot, outlot, or other parcel of land in a
recorded plat, or to divide or partition any unplatted parcel or tract of land,
except in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, unless the
division or partition is approved and a part of a recorded plat, pursuant to
the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 560.101 et seq.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.22 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACREAGE TRACT or ACREAGE LAND. Land or real estate which is not located in,
or part of, a recorded plat.
   APPLICANT. An individual, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
combination thereof, who holds ownership interest in land and is seeking
approval for a division or partition of land in accordance with this
subchapter.
   DIVIDE OR PARTITION. The splitting or separating of a parcel of land into
parts by changing the boundaries and/or legal description, where such splitting
or separating of land is not accomplished pursuant to platting procedures under
the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 560.101 et seq.
   LAND. The surface area known as real estate.
   LOT. A piece of land, the dimensions and configuration of which are shown on
a subdivision plat recorded in the offices of the Oakland County Register of
Deeds.
   PARCEL. A measured portion of land which is described by virtue of a request
to divide or partition the land in accordance with the provisions of this
Ordinance. A parcel may be a subdivision lot or portion thereof, a combination
of a lot or lots and portions thereof, or an acreage tract or acreage land.
   PERSON. An individual, trustee, executor, other fiduciary, corporation,
firm, partnership, association, organization, or other legal entity acting as a
unit.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land which has been approved in
accordance with the Subdivision Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A strip of land used for ingress and egress to and from land
which does not abut onto a public road, where such land or road is not
dedicated for use by the public.
   PUBLIC FACILITIES. Public services provided by the village or other
governmental units including, but not limited to, public water supplies, public
sanitary sewers, public storm drainage systems, paved roads, and any other
services normally provided by local units of government.
   PUBLIC ROAD. A road which is dedicated for use of the public for travel and
which is maintained by a public agency, such as the Village or Oakland County.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94)
§ 157.23 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General requirements. An application for division or partitioning of
land shall be made on the forms and according to the guidelines provided by the
village. An application shall be accompanied by payment of the necessary fees
and shall provide information as specified in this subchapter.
   (B)   Information required. Applications shall be accompanied by the
following information:
      (1)   Three copies of a sealed 8 ½" x 14" drawing prepared by a
Registered Land Surveyor at a scale of not less than 1 inch = 100 feet, showing
the following:
         (a)   Date (month, day, year) including revision dates.
         (b)   Legal description of property to be divided or partitioned.
         (c)   The north arrow.
         (d)   All parcels that would result from the requested division or
partitioning of land.
         (e)   Existing lot lines shown with broken lines; proposed lot lines
shown with solid lines.
         (f)   The dimensions of and a calculation of the area of all proposed
parcels.
         (g)   Zoning classification of land to be divided or partitioned and
all adjoining land.
         (h)   The location and dimensions of all existing structures on and
within 50 feet of the proposed parcels.
         (I)   The dimensions of the front, rear and side yard setbacks of all
structures from proposed parcel lines.
         (j)   The location of all property irons and monuments found and set.
         (k)   The percentage of land coverage by structures of parcels, both
existing and proposed.
         (l)   Delineation of the floodplain, if applicable.
         (m)   Existing utilities and drainage courses on and within 50 feet of
land to be divided or partitioned.
         (n)   Existing and proposed easements (drainage, utility, access,
etc.) prepared in recordable form.
         (o)   Indication of public or private road upon which the proposed
parcels front.
      (2)   A legal description prepared by a Registered Land Surveyor of all
parcels that would result from the requested division or partitioning of land.
The legal description shall be in a form sufficient for recording with the
Oakland County Register of Deeds and shall indicate the area of all parcels in
square feet and acres.
      (3)   Copies of existing or proposed deed restrictions related to the
proposed parcels.
      (4)   If any portion of the land has been part of a previous application
for division of land, the applicant shall submit the date(s) of such
application(s) and action taken.
      (5)   The Village Manager or Village Council may require additional
information, including topographical information, deemed necessary to make the
determination required by this subchapter.
      (6)   The application shall be signed by all persons who have any legal
or equitable interest in the property.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 157.24 APPROVAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Submission to Village Manager. All applications for division or
partitioning of land shall be submitted, together with the required
information, to the Village Manager.
   (B)   Review by Staff.  
      (1)   The Village Manager shall review the application for completeness
of data and to determine whether it is in compliance with this Ordinance. The
Village Manager may submit the application to various departments, legal
counsel, and consultants of the village for review and recommendation,
including but not limited to departments or consultants having jurisdiction
over legal matters, assessing, planning, engineering, or building code
enforcement functions.
      (2)   In the event submittal to consultants for review and recommendation
shall result in cost incurred by the village for payment of consulting fees or
legal fees, the applicant shall be notified of the estimated amount of these
fees. Prior to further processing of the application, the applicant shall
deposit with the village a sum of cash equal to the amount of the estimated
fees. The applicant shall be charged the exact cost to the village of these
consulting or legal fees, with any fees in excess of the amount of the
applicant's deposit being paid to the village by the applicant prior to Village
Council approval. If the fees are less than the deposit, a refund in the
appropriate amount shall be made to the applicant.
   (C)   Recommendation to the Planning Commission. Upon review of the proposed
division or partitioning of land, and after consideration of the comments
submitted by departments or consultants, the Village Manager shall submit a
recommendation to the Planning Commission which shall review the application
and submit its recommendation to the Village Council, based on the standards
set forth in this subchapter.
   (D)   Decision by Village Council. After reviewing the recommendation
submitted by the Planning Commission, the Village Council shall make the final
decision concerning any application for division or partitioning of land, based
on the standards set forth in this subchapter.
   (E)   Action of Board of Zoning Appeals. The Board of Zoning Appeals shall
hear a request for variations or deviations from the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance, adopted in Chapter 158, but only in cases where the Village Council
has granted approval for the dividing or partitioning of land, conditioned upon
the applicant's successfully obtaining the necessary variances.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94)
§ 157.25 STANDARDS FOR GRANTING APPROVAL.
   The following standards shall be used as the basis upon which applications
for the division or partitioning of land are reviewed and approved:
   (A)   Compliance with state law. An application for division or partitioning
of land shall not be approved unless it is in compliance with the Subdivision
Control Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et
seq. The village may permit the dividing or partitioning of lots, outlots or
other parcels of land into not more than 4 parts; however, any lot, outlot or
other parcel of land not served by public sewer and public water systems shall
not be further partitioned or divided if the resulting lots, outlots or other
parcels are less than the minimum width and area provided for in Section 186 of
the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, being M.C.L.A. § 560.186. A lot which is a
part of a recorded plat may not be divided or partitioned into more than 4
parts in perpetuity. An acreage parcel may be divided or partitioned as
provided in Section 102(d) of the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, being
M.C.L.A. § 560.102(d).
   (B)   Lot dimensional requirements. All parcels created as a result of
division or partitioning of land shall comply with the minimum lot dimensional
requirements, including lot size and lot width, minimum yard setback
requirements and lot coverage requirements of the current village Zoning
Ordinance, adopted in Chapter 158, except in the following circumstances:
      (1)   Where the proposed division or partitioning of land would reduce
the degree of existing nonconformity with Zoning Ordinance standards; or
      (2)   Where the nonconforming parcel created as a result of the division
or partitioning of land is intended to be combined with additional land for the
purposes of creating a building site that conforms with the Zoning Ordinance
requirements.
   (C)   Taxes or assessment liens. Any due or unpaid taxes, special
assessments upon the property, or any amounts due to the municipality relating
to the land which is the subject of the application, such as, but not limited
to, charges for water service, sanitary sewer service, and trash collection
service, shall be paid before the division or partitioning of land is given
final approval.
   (D)   Depth to width ratio. Wherever possible, the depth to width ratio of a
parcel created through land division or partitioning shall not exceed 3 to 1.
   (E)   Disruption to flow of water. No division or partitioning of land shall
be approved if subsequent development would result in disruption to the
existing or natural flow of water within drainage ditches, natural water
courses, or government maintained drains, unless evidence of a feasible
alternate method of drainage is presented.
   (F)   Consideration of deed restrictions. The effect of proposed division or
partitioning of land on deed restrictions shall be considered by the Village
Manager, Planning Commission and Village Council in their review of the
application. However, such deed restrictions shall not be binding upon the
village under this subchapter.
   (G)   Consent of the title holder. No division or partitioning of land shall
be approved without the consent of the title or deed holder of the subject
parcel.
   (H)   Character of surrounding development. In reviewing an application for
division or partitioning of land, the Village Manager, Planning Commission and
Village Council shall consider the impact of subsequent construction on the
character of surrounding development. In evaluating character of surrounding
development, the Village Manager, Planning Commission and Village Council shall
consider the size, dimensions, and proportions of existing surrounding parcels.
   (I)   Parking requirements. An application for division or partitioning of
land shall not be approved if it would result in a loss of parking such that
development on any of the resulting parcels would be unable to comply with the
minimum parking requirements in the Zoning Ordinance.
   (J)   Access. An application for division or partitioning of land shall not
be approved unless all parcels created as a result of such division or
partitioning have direct frontage upon a paved public road or a private road.
Accessibility to each newly created parcel must be directly from the public or
private road and not by easement across another parcel or lot.
   (K)   Public facilities.  
      (1)   An application for division or partitioning of land shall not be
approved unless the resulting parcels are served by public facilities,
including, but not limited to, water, sanitary sewer, and paved rights-of-way.
      (2)   As a condition of approval, the Village Council may require the
applicant to install public facilities in accordance with specifications
established by the village, or to guarantee the installation of public
facilities in the form of a cash performance bond or an irrevocable letter of
credit running in the favor of the village, in the amount of the estimated cost
of the installation of the public facilities, together with the estimated cost
of the review by the Village Engineers of the applicant's proposed plans for
the installation of the public facilities. The entire cost of installation of
public facilities, including the cost of the Village Engineers review plans and
inspection of construction, shall be the responsibility of the applicant.
      (3)   In extraordinary situations, as determined by the Village Council,
where properties cannot feasibly be served by public facilities, and the
Village Council issues a waiver of the requirement of resulting parcels being
served by public facilities, then the minimum width and area of resulting
parcels as required in Section 186 of the Subdivision Control Act of 1967, as
amended, being M.C.L.A. § 560.186, shall apply.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94)
§ 157.26 RECORDING OF FINAL ACTION.
   An approved division or partitioning of land shall be noted upon the
Township assessment roll, and thereafter, each separate parcel shall be
considered to be a single lot, outlot or parcel for tax assessment and other
purposes. In addition, the approved division or partitioning of land shall be
recorded in the office of the Oakland County Register of Deeds in accordance
with Public Act 132 of 1970, as amended by Public Act 280 of 1972, being
M.C.L.A §§ 54.211 through 54.213.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94)
§ 157.27 FEES.
   Each application filed for division or partitioning of land shall be
accompanied by the payment of a non-refundable fee as established by Resolution
of the Village Council.
(Ord. 25.01, passed 9-9-85; Am. Ord. 25.02, passed 1-10-94)
§ 157.28 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil
infraction and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
CHAPTER 158: ZONING CODE
Section
   
158.01   Adoption of Zoning Code
   
158.02   Violations
Cross-reference:
   Lot splits and subdividing, see
Ch. 157
   Planning Commission, see §§
30.15 through
30.22
   Sign regulations, see
Ch. 155
§ 158.01 ADOPTION OF ZONING CODE.
   The Zoning Ordinance of the village, including text and Zoning Map, which is
a compilation of Ordinances 26.01 through 26.64 and all amendments thereto, is
hereby adopted into this chapter as if fully set forth herein. Copies of the
Zoning Ordinance and said amendments can be found at the Village Clerk's
office.
§ 158.02 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm or corporation determined to have been in violation of the
provisions of the zoning ordinance of the Village adopted by reference in §
158.01 of this chapter shall be responsible for a municipal civil infraction
and subject to the provisions of §
10.99(A)(2).
(Ord. A-3, passed 1-13-97)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.
   WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM BONDS
      
II.   FRANCHISES
      
III.   ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
TABLE I: WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM BONDS
 
Ord. No.   Date    Description
                   Providing for extension of water supply system facilities
38.01      2-28-88 and to authorize the issuance of self-liquidating revenue
                   bonds
                   Providing for issuance and sale of revenue bonds to pay part
38.02      1-26-98 of the cost of acquisition, construction of additions,
                   improvements and extensions to the water supply and sewage
                   disposal system
Resolution 11-8-93 Authorizing general obligation unlimited tax bonds for
                   improvements to the village water system.
                   Amending resolution of 11-8-93 authori- zing general
Resolution 5-23-94 obligation unlimited tax bonds for improvements to the
                   village water system.
                   Providing for issuance and sale of revenue bonds to provide
                   for the issuance and sale of revenue bonds, the collections
                   of revenues from system sufficient for the purpose of paying
38.04      5-14-18 the costs of operation and maintenance of the system and to
                   pay for the principal of and interest on the bonds, the
                   segregation and distribution of revenues, the rights of the
                   holders of the bonds, and for other matters relating to the
                   bonds and the system.
                  
 
TABLE II: FRANCHISES
Publisher's Note: This Table has been AMENDED by new legislation (Ord. 16.19,
adopted 9-14-2020). The text of the amendment will be incorporated below when
the ordinance is codified.
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
16.02    2-10-75  Granting Detroit Edison Company a franchise on electric
                  business in the village.
16.07    11-13-90 Granting Consumers Power Company authority for gas rights to
                  the village.
                  Granting an electricity supplier franchise to DTE Energy
19.02    6-12-00  Marketing, Inc. Franchise surrender/termination effective 01-
                  10-03.
16.19    9-14-20  Granting Consumers Energy Company a franchise on local gas
                  business for a period of 30 years.
                 
 
TABLE III: ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT
 
Ord. No. Date     Description
36.01    12-16-85 Approving and adopting a development plan and tax increment
                  financing plan for the downtown development district.
36.02    8-31-87  Approving and adopting a development plan and tax increment
                  financing plan for the downtown development district.
                  Approving Amendment No. 2 to tax increment financing and
36.03    9-25-95  development plan for the downtown development district and
                  amending Ordinance No. 36.01.
                  Approving Amendment No. 3 to tax increment financing and
36.04    4-23-01  development plan for the downtown development district and
                  amending Ordinance No. 36.04.
 
Cross-reference:
Downtown Development Authority, see §§
30.01 through
30.07
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Ordinances
Table of Omitted Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Section Code Section
M.C.L.A. Section      Code Section
24.201 - 24.328       70.01
28.451 - 28.471       94.29
28.601 - 28.616       32.03
35.441 et seq.        110.04
46.171 - 46.185       51.02
117.3(k)              10.99
117.4i                10.99
123.191 - 123.195     51.09
                      94.20,
124.501 et seq.       94.34,
                      94.43,
                      115.04
125.1651 - 125.1657   30.01,
                      30.06
125.1659 - 125.1680   30.01,
                      30.06
125.1662              30.04
125.1663              30.04
125.1664 - 125.1666   30.04,
                      30.05
125.1668              30.06
125.651 et seq.       30.35,
                      30.37
213.321 - 213.332     30.05
257.1 - 257.923       70.40,
                      130.068
257.625               93.05
257.625(1)(c)         10.99,
                      70.40
259.185               93.03,
                      93.05
281.1001 et seq       96.15
281.1001              130.068
288.1199              130.068
323.1                 52.02
324.80176             93.03,
                      93.05
324.81134             93.03,
                      93.05
324.81135             93.03,
                      93.05
324.82101 - 324.82160 70.15
324.82127             93.03,
                      93.05
333.26421 - 333.26430 130.005
333.27101 et seq.     114.02
333.27101 - 333.27801 130.005
333.27951 et seq.     114.02
333.7101 - 333.7109   130.051
338.2301 - 338.2313   150.02
380.1 et seq.      130.120
436.2                 130.051
436.33b               130.051
480.11 - 480.25       70.50
559.101 et seq.       157.04
                      157.03,
                      157.04,
                      157.10,
560.101 et seq.       157.12,
                      157.21,
                      157.22,
                      157.25
560.102(d)            157.25
560.186               157.25
600.101 et seq.       94.36
600.2950              93.03,
                      93.05
600.2950a             93.03,
                      93.05
600.2950i             93.03,
                      93.05
600.8701 et seq.      94.36
600.8709              10.99(B)
750.411a              93.05
                      
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Code Section
Ord. No.   Date      Code Section
16.05      - -       112.01
27         - -       T.S.O. Table II
113        - -       T.S.O. Table I
26         5-23-1899 T.S.O. Table II
64         4-21-30   T.S.O. Table II
81         9-10-45   T.S.O. Table I
81         7-9-51    T.S.O. Table I
90         7-9-51    T.S.O. Table I
98         10-26-53  130.003
112        7-28-58   T.S.O. Table I
114        4-6-59    130.095,
                     130.096
116        12-14-59  T.S.O. Table II
117        12-14-59  T.S.O. Table I
145        5-23-66   51.03
162        4-8-68    91.03
                     51.01,
                     51.02,
                     51.05 -
23.01      9-28-70   51.12,
                     51.25 -
                     51.33,
                     51.98
180        6-28-71   30.35 -
                     30.40
1.01       9-13-71   32.01 -
                     32.05
4.01       9-13-71   130.020 -
                     130.030
5.01       9-27-71   130.040 -
                     130.042
6.01       9-27-71   130.004
                     91.02,
                     91.03,
                     91.17,
                     95.01,
7.01       10-11-71  95.15 -
                     95.24,
                     95.35 -
                     95.39,
                     95.98
                     92.01 -
8.01       10-11-71  92.14,
                     92.25 -
                     92.31
10.01      10-11-71  50.01 -
                     50.05
6.02       11-27-72  130.004
27.01      11-27-72  130.001
23.04      3-12-73   51.26
                     51.50 -
23.05      3-12-73   51.54,
                     51.98
16.02      2-10-75   T.S.O. Table II
18.02      2-10-75   53.20 -
                     53.25
8.02       4-26-76   70.30 -
                     70.32
31.03      6-14-76   154.20 -
                     154.24
22.02      10-12-76  94.01 -
                     94.03
23.10      5-23-77   51.26
23.11      5-23-77   51.25,
                     51.26
23.13      6-12-78   51.02
9.02       7-24-78   111.01 -
                     111.11
2.05       9-11-78   96.15,
                     96.16
18.04      10-23-78  53.01 -
                     53.13
23.14      1-8-79    51.02
23.15      2-13-79   51.28
6.04       1-15-80   130.005,
                     130.006
7.02       1-28-80   90.01 -
                     90.05
9.03       8-10-81   111.01,
                     111.06
23.16      9-14-81   51.02
2.08       4-26-82   70.01 -
                     70.03
                     94.15 -
22.03      12-28-82  94.20,
                     94.22 -
                     94.24
2.09       4-11-83   70.03
18.05      4-11-83   53.08
23.20      7-25-83   51.28
2.10       4-23-84   70.03
34.01      11-13-84  97.01 -
                     97.09
6.05       1-14-85   130.007
23.21      2-11-85   51.26
24.04      3-11-85   30.15 -
                     30.22
29.01      4-8-85    51.05
35.01      8-12-85   30.01 -
                     30.07
25.01      9-9-85    157.20 -
                     157.27
36.01      12-16-85  T.S.O. Table III
23.22      12-23-85  51.28
23.23      2-10-86   51.25,
                     51.26
23.24      2-10-86   51.28
18.06      4-14-86   53.04
37.02      5-27-86   31.01,
                     31.02
2.12       4-27-87   96.17
23.25      5-26-87   51.28
30.02      6-22-87   154.01 -
                     154.06
6.07       8-10-87   130.050 -
                     130.053
36.02      8-31-87   T.S.O. Table III
38.01      2-28-88   T.S.O. Table I
6.08       10-11-88  130.065 -
                     130.068
18.07      10-11-88  53.10
7.04       11-14-88  71.01 -
                     71.04
6.09       7-10-89   130.080,
                     130.081
7.05       7-10-89   71.15 -
                     71.17
23.26      11-27-89  51.25
7.06       1-8-90    71.16,
                     71.17
                     52.01 -
                     52.03,
                     52.15 -
23.27      1-8-90    52.25,
                     52.35 -
                     52.38,
                     52.50 -
                     52.57
16.07      11-13-90  T.S.O. Table II
7.07       1-14-91   130.002
18.08      2-12-91   53.13
2.15       2-11-92   70.03
2.16       2-11-92   70.03
16.08      8-24-92   112.01
2.17       9-14-92   93.01 -
                     93.08
10.10      10-13-92  50.04,
                     50.05
18.09      11-23-92  53.08
18.10      1-11-93   53.08
2.18       2-23-93   70.03
18.11      9-13-93   53.08
2.19       10-12-93  70.03
16.09      10-27-93  112.01
Resolution 11-8-93   T.S.O. Table I
16.10      11-22-93  112.01
25.02      1-10-94   157.20 -
                     157.27
16.11      4-25-94   112.01
Resolution 5-23-94   T.S.O. Table I
                     53.08,
18.12      8-8-94    53.09,
                     53.12
2.20       11-28-94  93.01 -
                     93.08
2.21       1-9-95    70.03
18.13      3-13-95   53.08
2.22       5-22-95   70.03
23.28      5-22-95   51.32
18.14      6-12-95   53.04
36.03      9-25-95   T.S.O. Table III
A-1        3-25-96   Adopting Ordinance
                     71.25 -
7.08       3-25-96   71.29,
                     71.99
2.23       5-28-96   70.03
18.17      5-28-96   53.08
18.18      6-24-96   53.10
A-2        11-12-96  Adopting Ordinance
12.02      11-12-96  96.01 -
                     96.03
25.04      11-25-96  157.01 -
                     157.12
18.19      12-9-96   53.05(I)
                     10.05,
                     10.99,
                     50.06,
                     51.98,
                     53.26,
                     90.06,
                     91.18,
                     92.32,
A-3        1-13-97   95.98,
                     96.18,
                     97.10,
                     111.12,
                     112.02,
                     130.008,
                     154.25,
                     157.28,
                     158.02
A-4        5-27-97   10.99(A)
7.09       6-23-97   71.29(B)
A-5        10-14-97  Adopting Ordinance
6.10       1-12-98   130.004
38.02      1-26-98   T.S.O. Table I
16.12      8-10-98   112.01
18.20      3-22-99   53.04
                     51.25,
23.30      3-22-99   51.26,
                     51.28
18.21      6-14-99   53.08
2.27       12-13-99  70.03
2.28       12-13-99  70.03
16.14      1-10-00   112.01
28         2-7-00    T.S.O. Table II
29         2-17-00   T.S.O. Table II
30         2-27-00   T.S.O. Table II
31         3-10-00   T.S.O. Table II
18.22      5-22-00   53.08
                     113.01 -
                     113.07,
                     113.20 -
                     113.23,
19.01      6-12-00   113.35 -
                     113.53,
                     113.65,
                     113.66,
                     113.80 -
                     113.84
19.02      6-12-00   T.S.O. Table II
16.15      6-26-00   112.01
A-6        12-11-00  Adopting Ordinance
34         12-21-00  T.S.O. Table II
16.16      3-26-01   112.01
36.04      4-23-01   T.S.O. Table III
18.23      5-29-01   53.08
                     52.01 -
23.31      12-10-01  52.04,
                     52.50 -
                     52.60
23.32      4-22-02   51.26
6.11       5-13-02   130.004
18.24      6-25-02   53.08
                     70.01,
2.29       7-22-02   70.40 -
                     70.43
2.30       8-11-03   70.01 -
                     70.04
6.12       8-11-03   130.009
12.03      5-10-04   96.03,
                     96.04
                     Charter
Resolution 11-8-04   5.3,
                     5.4
Resolution 11-22-04  Charter
                     3.2
2.31       3-14-05   93.01 -
                     93.08
                     150.01 -
31.23      3-28-05   150.03,
                     150.05 -
                     150.11
12.04      7-25-05   96.01 -
                     96.13
18.25      8-14-06   53.08
31.24      10-10-06  150.01,
                     150.04
7.10       1-8-07    71.27,
                     71.99
8.04       2-12-07   92.01,
                     92.13
16.17      3-26-07   112.01
7.11       7-23-07   71.28
6.13       9-24-07   130.004
24.06      10-22-07  30.16
24.05      11-26-07  30.16
A-7        12-10-07  Adopting Ordinance
7.12       5-12-08   95.35 -
                     95.39
                     52.03,
                     52.51,
23.33      2-9-09    52.58,
                     52.60 -
                     52.62
                     93.02,
2.32       3-23-09   93.03,
                     93.05
6.14       6-22-09   130.098
                     71.02,
7.13       10-13-09  71.26,
                     71.27
18.26      1-11-10   53.10
37.04      5-10-10   31.01
                     30.15 -
24.08      6-27-11   30.18,
                     30.20,
                     30.21
                     30.15 -
24.07      7-11-11   30.18,
                     30.20,
                     30.21
2.33       4-23-12   70.40,
                     70.43
Resolution 11-13-12  Charter
                     5.4
54         2-19-13   T.S.O. Table II
2.34       4-22-13   70.33
                     151.001 -
                     151.008,
                     151.020 -
                     151.036,
                     151.050 -
31.26      5-13-13   151.052,
                     151.065 -
                     151.074,
                     151.090 -
                     151.094,
                     151.110,
                     151.999
40.01      7-8-13    30.50 -
                     30.53
22.04      8-12-13   94.29
16.18      9-9-13    112.01
12.05      9-8-14    96.30 -
                     96.34
2.35       10-27-14  70.50 -
                     70.53
Resolution 11-10-14  Charter
                     5.4
40.02      2-9-15    33.01 -
                     33.04
2.36       3-23-15   70.15 -
                     70.20
6.15       3-23-15   130.098
18.27      11-9-15   53.08
23.34      11-9-15   51.25,
                     51.26
23.35      2-8-16    51.60 -
                     51.81
6.16       7-25-16   130.002
6.17       7-25-16   130.004
                     130.100 -
6.18       9-26-16   130.108,
                     130.999
A-9        6-12-17   10.99
                     98.01 -
12.07      8-28-17   98.03,
                     98.99
                     110.01 -
13.01      9-11-17   110.08,
                     110.99
23.37      9-25-17   51.28
6.19       11-27-17  130.098
8.05       11-27-17  92.04
38.03      5-14-18   T.S.O. Table I
14.21      5-23-18   155.01 -
                     155.11
18.28      8-28-18   53.08
18.29      6-11-18   53.10
12.06      6-11-18   96.10
22.05      3-11-19   94.29
12.08      4-22-19   96.10
6.20       6-10-19   130.005
7.14       6-10-19   71.01 -
                     71.05
65         6-10-19   T.S.O. Table II
6.21       2-10-20   91.01 -
                     91.18
23.38      2-10-20   51.08
6.23       7-13-20   130.120,
                     130.121
16.19      9-14-20   T.S.O. Table II
13.03      11-3-20   114.01 -
                     114.14
                     94.15 -
22.06      8-9-21    94.20,
                     94.22 -
                     94.24 
13.05      5-23-22   115.01 -
                     115.06
22.07      5-23-22   94.30 -
                     94.36
22.08      5-23-22   94.40 -
                     94.44
22.09      5-23-22   94.50 -
                     94.54
                     51.60,
23.29      4-25-22   51.61,
                     51.71
24.09      6-26-23   34.01 -
                     34.19
                     98.01 -
12.09      8-28-23   98.03,
                     98.99
13.06      8-28-23   110.02 -
                     110.04
24.10      10-9-23   30.60 -
                     30.66
6.24       4-8-24    130.001
                     53.08,
18.30      7-22-24   53.09,
                     53.13
2.37       8-26-24   70.30 -
                     70.33
13.07      8-26-24   115.01 -
                     115.06
                    
 
TABLE OF OMITTED ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
A-3      1-13-1997   Partially repealed by Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21
1        6-24-1891   Repealed by Ord. 55, passed 3-16-25
2        6-24-1891   Superseded by Ord. 50, passed 3-16-25
3        7-15-1891   Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
4        - -         Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
5        7-15-1891   Repealed by Ord. 39, passed 8-3-05
6        7-15-1891   Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
7        7-22-1891   Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
8        6-22-1891   Superseded by Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82
9        7-22-1891   Obsolete
10       8-12-1891   Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
11       8-12-1891   Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
12       8-12-1891   Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
13       2-9-1894    Superseded by Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82
14       5-23-1894   Superseded by Ord. 17, passed 8-14-1896
15       8-8-1894    Repealed by Ords. 45 and 46, passed 8-12-08
16       6-5-1896    Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
17       8-14-1896   Superseded by Ord. 21, passed 10-14-97
18       9-2-1896    Specific nature; codification unnecessary
19       5-26-1897   Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
20       5-26-1897   Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
21       10-14-1897  Obsolete
22       11-11-1898  Superseded by Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82
23       12-18-1898  Superseded by Ord. 50, passed 3-16-25
24       12-7-1898   Superseded by zoning code
25       12-7-1898   Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
32       12-12-00    Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
33       12-12-00    Superseded by Ord. 20.08, passed 4-26-82
35       - -03       Obsolete
36       4-19-04     Repealed by Ord. 38, passed 3-31-05
37       6-8-04      Superseded by Ord. 1.01, passed 9-3-71
38       5-29-05     Superseded by Ord. 71, passed 11-2-33
39       8-30-05     Repeals Ord. 5, passed 7-15-1891
40       8-30-05     Specific nature; Obsolete; codification unnecessary
41       6-11-06     Superseded by Ord. 6.01, passed 9-27-71
42       5-22-07     Superseded by Ord. 50, passed 3-16-25
43       5-22-07     Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
44       7-17-07     Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
45       8-12-08     Repeals Ord. 15, passed 8-8-1894
46       8-12-08     Repeals Ord. 15, passed 8-8-1894
47       - -         Specific nature; codification unnecessary
48       4-2-10      Repealed by Ord. 71, passed 11-20-33
49       9-18-10     Specific nature; Obsolete; codification unnecessary
49       3-16-25     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
50       4-8-12      Repealed by Ord. 71, passed 11-2-33
50       3-16-25     Obsolete
51       - -         Specific nature; codification unnecessary
51       3-16-25     Superseded by Ord. 66, passed 2-27-33, and Ord. 2.08,
                     passed 4-26-82
52       5-13-12     Specific nature; codification unnecessary
52       3-20-25     Renumbered as Ord. 17.01
53       8-6-12      Specific nature; codification unnecessary
53       3-20-25     Superseded by Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90
54       3-16-25     Obsolete
55       4-20-14     Repealed by Ord. 71, passed 11-2-33
55       3-16-25     Superseded by Ord. 6.01, passed 9-27-71
56       9-8-14      Specific nature; codification unnecessary
56       3-16-25     Obsolete
57       5-24-15     Superseded by Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82
57       5-16-25     Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
58       4-10-16     Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
58       4-27-25     Superseded by Ord. 6.01, passed 9-27-71
59       7-7-16      Superseded by Ord. 20.08, passed 4-26-82
59       9-26-27     Specific nature; codification unnecessary
60       8-4-16      Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
60       3-12-28     Specific nature; codification unnecessary
61       7-1-16      Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
61       3-13-33     Superseded by Ord. 10.01, passed 10-11-71
62       8-18-16     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
62       3-13-28     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
63       6-26-18     Superseded by Ord. 20.08, passed 4-26-82
63       7-2-28      Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
64       7-1-18      Obsolete
65       2-9-31      Superseded by Ord. 18.05, passed 4-11-83
66       - -         Specific nature; codification unnecessary
66       2-27-33     Obsolete
67       12-1-19     Obsolete
67       5-8-33      Obsolete
68       7-2-34      Obsolete
69       5-3-37      Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
70       5-23-32     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
71       11-20-33    Repeals Ord. 51, passed 11-2-33; subject matter superseded
                     by state and federal law
72       6-10-34     Milk regulation; obsolete
73       2-24-36     Obsolete
74       7-2-34      Milk regulation; obsolete
75       5-3-37      Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
76       8-21-39     Specific nature; codification unnecessary
77       6-23-41     Superseded by Ord. 4.01, passed 9-13-71
78       7-21-41     Specific nature; codification unnecessary
79       4-27-42     Superseded by Ord. 1.01, passed 9-3-71
80       2-26-45     Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
82       8-5-46      Superseded by zoning code
83       12-16-46    Superseded by zoning code
84       7-6-54      Obsolete
85       6-30-47     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
86       1-23-50     Superseded by Ord. 23.27, passed 1-8-90
87       1-22-51     Specific nature; Obsolete
88       4-2-51      Specific nature; Obsolete
89       4-16-51     Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
91       10-22-51    Superseded by Ord. 161, passed - -
92       5-5-52      Superseded by Ord. 26.01 et seq., zoning code
92       9-18-61     Amends zoning code
93       11-10-52    Repealed by Ord. 151
94       11-10-52    Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
95       6-22-53     Amends zoning code
96       6-22-53     Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
97       - -         Obsolete
99       5-5-54      Obsolete
100      8-2-54      Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
101      2-28-55     Compensation ordinance; codification unnecessary
102      3-14-55     Amends zoning code
103      9-26-55     Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
104      1-30-56     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
105      9-10-56     Specific nature; codification unnecessary
106      10-8-56     Amends zoning code
107      5-6-57      Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
108      8-8-57      Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
109      11-4-57     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
110      12-16-57    Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
111      6-2-58      Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
115      11-2-59     Superseded by state law
118      4-18-60     Superseded by Ord. 22.02, passed 10-12-76; Ord 7.01,
                     passed 10-11-71; and Ord. 7.07, passed 1-4-91
119      4-21-60     Superseded by Ord. 31.14, passed 6-10-85
120      5-2-60      Superseded by Ord.7.01, passed 10-11-71
121      6-27-60     Obsolete
122      7-25-60     Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
123      8-22-60     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
124      9-19-60     Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
125      11-28-60    Obsolete
126      12-27-60    Superseded by Ord. 10.01, passed 10-11-71
127      12-27-60    Superseded by Ord. 18.04, passed 10-23-78
128      - -         Renumbered as Ord. 11.01
129      7-24-61     Superseded by Ord. 25.04, passed 11-25-96
130      - -         Superseded by Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82
131      7-24-61     Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
132      9-18-61     Amends zoning code
133      12-11-61    Specific nature; codification unnecessary
134      3-5-62      Obsolete
135      15-28-62    Superseded by Ord. 6.01, passed 9-27-71
136      6-25-62     Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
137      7-23-62     Water meter installation; provisions obsolete
138      6-10-63     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
139      11-11-63    Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
140      1-27-64     Superseded by Ord. 8.01, passed 10-11-71
141      2-15-65     Repeals part of Ord. 125, passed 11-28-60
142      5-24-65     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
143      9-13-65     Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
144      9-13-65     Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
146      6-20-66     Amends zoning code
147      7-18-66     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
148      8-15-66     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
149      12-6-66     Renumbered as Ord. 24.01
150      3-27-67     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
151      5-8-67      Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
152      6-26-67     Superseded by Ord. 31.14, passed 6-10-85
153      7-10-67     Superseded by Ord. 7.01, passed 10-11-71
154      7-24-67     Renumbered as Ord. 15.02
155      7-24-67     Superseded by Ord. 31.10, passed 6-22-81
156      7-24-67     Superseded by Ord. 31.10, passed 6-22-81
157      8-14-67     Renumbered as Ord. 21.01
158      8-14-67     Obsolete
159      2-26-68     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
160      - -         Renumbered as Ord. 22.01
161      - -         Superseded by Ord. 5.01, passed 9-27-71
163      6-24-68     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
164      8-12-68     Superseded by Ord. 6.01, passed 9-27-71
165      8-12-68     Renumbered as Ord. 20.01
166      9-9-68      Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
167      9-9-68      Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
168      2-24-69     Repealed and replaced by Ord. 2.02, passed 2-10-75
169      - -69       Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
170      5-11-70     Superseded by Ord. 31.14, passed 6-10-85
171      7-1-70      Renumbered as Ord. 18.01
172      6-22-70     Obsolete
173      - -         Not received for codification
174      9-28-70     Renumbered as Ord. 23.01
175      10-26-70    Amends zoning code
176      2-8-71      Repealed and replaced by Ord. 2.02, passed 2-10-75
177      3-8-71      Superseded by Ord. 31.14, passed 6-10-85
178      - -         Not received for codification
179      6-14-71     Repealed by Ord. 12.01, passed 11-12-96
2.01     6-26-78     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
2.02     2-10-75     Superseded by Ord. 2.36, passed 3-23-15
2.03     12-23-74    Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
2.04     8-24-78     Emergency ordinance; limited duration
2.06     7-31-79     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
2.07     9-24-79     Superseded by Ord. 2.08, passed 4-26-82
2.11     - -         Superseded by Ord. 2.15, passed 2-11-92
2.13     8-24-78     Emergency ordinance; limited duration
2.14     8-24-78     Emergency ordinance; limited duration
2.24     - -         Not adopted
2.25     11-8-99     Emergency ordinance; limited duration
2.26     11-8-99     Emergency ordinance; limited duration
6.06     - -         Not received for codification
7.03     8-15-84     Superseded by Ord. 7.05, passed 7-10-89
9.01     5-23-78     Emergency ordinance; limited duration
10.02    9-27-76     Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
10.03    1-23-78     Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
10.04    5-27-80     Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
10.05    3-9-81      Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
10.06    7-11-90     Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
10.07    4-22-90     Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
10.08    7-22-92     Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
10.09    8-24-92     Superseded by Ord. 10.10, passed 10-13-92
11.01    10-11-71    Obsolete
12.01    11-12-96    Superseded by Ord. 12.02, passed 11-12-96
13.02    10-14-19    Superceded by Ord. 13.03, passed 11-3-20
14.01    9-14-70     Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
14.02    12-26-72    Superseded by Ord. 14.06, passed 11-9-87
14.03    2-12-73     Superseded by Ord. 31.15, passed 6-10-85
14.04    8-24-78     Emergency ordinance; limited duration
14.05    10-23-78    Superseded by Ord. 14.06, passed 11-9-87
14.06    2-27-89     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.07    - -         Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.08    - -         Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.09    9-9-85      Emergency ordinance; limited duration; superseded by Ords.
                     14.12 and 14.13, passed 2-27-89
14.10    - -         Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.11    - -         Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.12    2-27-89     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.13    2-27-89     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.14    11-8-93     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.15    11-8-93     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.16    4-22-96     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.17    12-8-97     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.18    3-24-97     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.19    2-22-99     Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
14.20    12-13-10    Superceded by Ord. 14.21, passed 5-23-18
15.01A   11-27-72    Superseded by Ord. 31.14, passed 6-10-85
15.02A   12-26-72    Superseded by Ord. 31.12, passed 8-10-81
15.02B   - -         Superseded by Ord. 31.12, passed 8-10-81
16.01    - -         Not received for codification
16.03    - -         Cable communications ordinance; repealed
16.04    - -         Repealed
16.06    - -         Not received for codification
16.13    12-13-99    Emergency franchise extension ordinance; superseded by
                     Ord. 16.14
17.01    3-16-25     Superseded by state law
18.01    6-22-70     Obsolete
18.03    7-9-73      Obsolete
18.15    6-26-95     Superseded by Ord. 18.17, passed 5-28-96
18.16    1-8-96      Superseded by Ord. 18.17, passed 5-28-96
20.01    8-12-68     Superseded by Ord. 2.05, passed 9-11-78
21.01    8-14-67     Obsolete
22.01    4-18-68     Superseded by Ord. 22.03, passed 12-28-82
22.03    12-28-82    Partially repealed by Ord. 22.06, passed 8-9-21
23.02    7-24-72     Superseded by Ord. 23.21, passed 9-11-85, and superseded
                     by Ord. 23.23, passed 2-10-86
23.03    9-25-72     Partially superseded by Ord. 23.23, passed 2-10-86
23.06    9-24-73     Superseded by Ord. 23.13, passed 6-12-78
23.07    11-13-73    Obsolete
23.08    5-13-74     Superseded by Ord. 23.13, passed 6-12-78
23.09    9-23-74     Obsolete
23.11    5-23-77     “Section 2” omitted because of dated material
23.12    9-26-77     Superseded by Ord. 23.13, passed 6-12-78
23.13    6-12-78     Partially superseded by Ord. 23.16, passed 9-13-82
23.16    9-13-82     Partially superseded by Ords 23.20, 23.24, and 23.25
23.17    9-13-82     Superseded by Ords 23.20 and 23.24
23.18    1-24-83     Superseded by Ord. 23.19, passed 5-23-83
23.19    5-23-83     Superseded by Ord. 23.22, passed 12-23-85
23.23    2-10-86     Partially superseded by Ord. 23.26, passed 11-27-89
23.28    5-22-95     Omitted “Section 12.01” because of dated material
24.01    12-5-66     Superseded by Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85
24.02    8-26-76     Superseded by Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85
24.03    12-28-82    Superseded by Ord. 24.04, passed 3-11-85
25.03    10-28-96    Emergency Ordinance - superseded by Ord. 25.04, passed 11-
                     25-96
26.98    10-14-19    Amends zoning code
28.01    - -         Not received for codification
28.02    6-11-73     Specific property tax exemption; codification unnecessary
30.01    9-22-75     Superseded by Ord. 30.02, passed 6-22-87
31.01    10-15-74    Emergency ordinance; limited duration
31.02    1-13-75     Superseded by Ord. 31.12, passed 8-10-81
31.07    10-24-77    Superseded by Ord. 31.14, passed 6-10-85
31.11    6-22-81     Obsolete
31.13    - -         Not received for codification
31.21    1-13-03     Not approved by state, never effective (See 31.23)
31.22    10-12-04    Not approved by state, never effective (See 31.23)
31.25    9-25-06     Emergency state construction code ordinance; limited
                     duration
32.01    2-8-77      Emergency purchasing ordinance; limited duration
33.02    10-10-06    Superseded by Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05
33.03    9-25-06     Superseded by Ord. 31.23, passed 3-28-05
37.01    4-28-86     Emergency tax ordinance; limited duration
38.02    1-26-98     Specific nature; codification unnecessary
110.01   9-25-72     Renumbers prior ordinances; codification unnecessary
110.02   12-26-72    Renumbers prior ordinances; codification unnecessary
                    
 
