MANCHESTER, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2023 S-6 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ord. 321, passed 7-5-2023
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street * Suite 310 * Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
1-800-445-5588 * www.amlegal.com
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
   Chapter
      
10.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
CHAPTER 10: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses, and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not re-enacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
   
10.12   Municipal civil infractions
 
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code shall constitute and be designated as the Manchester Village Code.
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CODE. The Manchester Village Code as designated in
§ 10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME. The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. County of Washtenaw, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the village, but which is not a crime under this code
or any other ordinance of the village, and for which civil sanctions,
including, without limitation, fines, damages, expenses, and costs, may be
ordered, as authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, being M.C.L.A. §§
600.871 et seq., as amended. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION is not a lesser
included offense of any criminal offense in this code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD, AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board, or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the Village of
Manchester, Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of
the village is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty,
reference to the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her
deputy or authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the Village of Manchester and all
amendments thereto.
      POLICE CHIEF. The chief law enforcement officer of the Village of
Manchester.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association, or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents, or employees thereof who are responsible
for any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The
masculine gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester, Michigan.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL or COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of
Manchester.
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   (A)   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in
boldface type are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the
sections and shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor
as any part of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be
so deemed when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or
re-enacted.
   (B)   No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of
deficiency in any such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter,
subchapter, or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   (A)   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect
any ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
      (1)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the village, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the village or any evidence of the
village’s indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the village;
      (2)   Containing any administrative provisions of the Village Council;
      (3)   Granting any right or franchise;
      (4)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating, and the like, any street or public way in the
village;
      (5)   Making any appropriation;
      (6)   Levying or imposing taxes;
      (7)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the village;
      (8)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
      (9)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the village;
      (10)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the village;
      (11)   Prescribing the number, classification, or compensation of any
village officers or employees;
      (12)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones;
specific speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield
intersections or other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
      (13)   Pertaining to rezoning; and
      (14)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general
and permanent nature.
   (B)   (1)   All the ordinances in division (A) above are hereby recognized
as continuing in full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at
length in this code.
      (2)   The ordinances are on file in the Village Clerk's office.
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES, AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed, or right accruing, accrued, or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture, or punishment incurred, prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted, or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT RE-ENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or re-enacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
re-enacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not
impair or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Manchester Village
Code is hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions shall then be
set out in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Manchester Village Code is
hereby amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which reads as
follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   (1)   By contract or by village personnel, supplements to this code
shall be prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the Village
Council.
      (2)   A supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent
and general parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the
supplement and all changes made thereby in the code.
      (3)   The pages of a supplement shall be so numbered that they will fit
properly into the code and will, where necessary, replace pages which have
become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new pages shall be so prepared
that, when they have been inserted, the code will be current through the date
of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency, or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings, and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings, and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division,” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “§§ _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate the
sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the village, as provided by
Public Act 147 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. § 764.9c, as amended, when the public
servant has reasonable cause to believe that a person has committed an offense
in violation of a village ordinance:
   (A)   Health Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal
   (D)   Fire Chief; and
   (E)   Zoning Inspector.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, paragraph, sentence, clause, and provision of this code is
separable and if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.12 MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Title. This section shall be known and may be cited as the Village of
Manchester Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance.
   (B)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIAL. A peace officer, the Village Code
Administrator, the Zoning Administrator, the Village Construction Code
Official, and other personnel of the village authorized by resolution, this
section, or any other ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction notices and
citations.
      BUREAU. The Village Ordinance Violations Bureau, as established by this
section.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which a person is
alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint prepared by an
authorized village official directing a person to appear in court regarding the
occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation by the person
cited.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by
an authorized village official, directing a person to appear at the Village
Ordinance Violations Bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed
for the violation or as provided for by this section or resolution by Village
Council.
      PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, limited liability company,
corporation or association of persons.
   (C)   Establishment, location and personnel of Ordinance Violations Bureau.
      (1)   Establishment. The Village of Manchester Ordinance Violations
Bureau (hereafter "Bureau") is hereby established pursuant to 1994 Public Act
12 (M.C.L.A. § 600.8396), as it may be amended from time to time, for the
purpose of accepting admissions of responsibility for Village Code and
ordinance violations designated as municipal civil infractions, and to collect
and retain civil fines and costs for such violations as prescribed.
      (2)   Location. The Bureau shall be located at the Village Offices, 912
City Road, PO Box 485, Manchester, MI 48158.
      (3)   Personnel. All personnel of the Bureau shall be village employees.
The Village Council or Manager may designate a Bureau Clerk with the duties
prescribed herein and as otherwise may be delegated.
      (4)   Operational procedure. Village Council may adopt rules and
regulations for operation of the Bureau.
   (D)   Bureau authority. The Bureau shall only have authority to accept
admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions for which a
municipal violation notice has been issued and served, and to collect and
retain the scheduled civil fines and costs for such violations. The Bureau
shall not accept payment of fines and costs from any person who denies having
committed the alleged violation or who admits responsibility only with
explanation. The Bureau shall not determine or attempt to determine the truth
or falsity of any fact or matter relating to an alleged municipal civil
infraction violation.
   (E)   Authorized village officials.
      (1)   The following personnel are authorized to issue municipal civil
infraction violation notices and/or municipal civil infraction citations:
         (a)   Any Peace Officer or Deputy Sheriff;
         (b)   The Village Building and Construction Code Official;
         (c)   The Village Zoning Administrator; and
         (d)   The Village Code Administrator.
      (2)   The Village Council may by resolution authorize other personnel to
issue municipal civil infraction violation notices or citations as it deems
necessary and proper.
   (F)   Municipal civil infraction action; commencement. A municipal civil
infraction action may be commenced by an authorized village official issuance
of:
      (1)   A municipal civil infraction notice directing the alleged violator
to appear at the Bureau; or
      (2)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court.
   (G)   Issuance and service of municipal civil infraction notice or citation.
      (1)   Issuance. An authorized village official may issue a municipal
civil infraction violation notice or citation to a person when:
         (a)   The official witnesses a person who violates an ordinance or
other regulation which provides for municipal civil infraction penalties;
         (b)   Based upon the village official's investigation, the official
has reasonable cause to believe that a person is responsible for a municipal
civil infraction violation; or
         (c)    Based upon an investigation by a village official of a
complaint from someone who witnessed a person violate a regulation that
provides for a municipal civil infraction penalty, and the official has
reasonable cause to believe that a person is responsible for a municipal civil
infraction, and the Village Attorney authorizes issuance of a municipal civil
infraction notice of violation or a citation in writing.
      (2)   Personal service. Except as otherwise provided in subsections (3)
and (4) below, the authorized village official must personally serve a copy of
the municipal civil infraction violation notice or a citation upon the alleged
violator.
      (3)   Exception to personal service for issuance of citation after
service of violation notice.  If an authorized village official issues and
serves a municipal civil infraction violation notice in accordance with this
section, and if an admission of responsibility is not made and the civil fine
and costs are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation may
be issued and filed with the Court, and a copy of the citation may be served on
the violator by first-class mail sent to the alleged violator's last known
address.
      (4)   Posting. If an alleged violation involves the use or occupancy of
land, or a building or other structure, the municipal civil infraction
violation notice, or a citation, may be issued and served by posting the notice
or citation on the land, building or structure, and by mailing a copy of the
notice or citation by first-class mail to the owner of the land, building or
structure at the owner's last known address.
   (H)   Civil infraction notice requirements and process.
      (1)   Contents of notice. A municipal civil infraction violation notice
shall include all of the following:
         (a)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
         (b)   The violation charged;
         (c)   The time, date and location of the alleged violation;
         (d)   The address and telephone number of the Bureau;
         (e)   The days and hours that the Bureau is open;
         (f)   The amount of the scheduled fines/costs for the violation;
         (g)   The time within which the person must appear at the Bureau for
purposes of admitting or denying responsibility for the violation;
         (h)   A statement that the alleged violator may appear at the Bureau
in person or by mail;
         (i)   The method by which the violation may be admitted or denied;
         (j)   The consequences of failing to pay the required fines/costs or
appear at the Bureau within the required time.
      (2)   Denial of responsibility. Where a person fails to admit
responsibility for a violation and pay the required civil fines/costs at the
Bureau within the designated time period, the Bureau Clerk or other designated
village employee(s) shall advise the village official who issued the notice of
violation, and the official shall proceed with issuance and filing of a
citation for the violation. The citation shall be filed in the district court
having jurisdiction of the matter. The citation shall consist of a sworn
complaint containing, at a minimum, the allegations stated in the municipal
civil infraction violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged violator
how to respond to the citation. A copy of the citation may be served by first
class mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator's last known
address. The citation shall thereafter be processed in the manner required by
law.
   (I)   Civil infraction citation requirements and process. Municipal civil
infraction citations shall be issued and served by authorized village officials
as provided in this section and by law. A municipal civil infraction citation
shall comply with the following requirements:
      (1)   The citation shall be in a form approved by the State Court
Administrator.
      (2)   Citations shall be numbered consecutively.
      (3)   The original citation shall constitute a complaint and notice to
appear and shall be filed with the district court. The first copy shall be
retained by the enforcing agency. The second copy shall be served on the
alleged violator in accordance with this section and law.
      (4)   The citation shall be signed by an authorized village official and
shall be treated as made under oath.
      (5)   The citation shall specify the time and place for the violator to
appear in court.
      (6)   The citation shall contain all of the following information:
         (a)   The name and address of the alleged violator;
         (b)   A clear statement of the violation charged with reference to the
ordinance or code section that applies;
         (c)    The name, address, and phone number of the court where the
alleged violator must appear;
         (d)    The time by which the appearance shall be made; and
         (e)   A statement of how the alleged violator must respond to the
citation consistent with the requirements herein below.
      (7)   The citation shall advise the alleged violator of the following
alternatives for responding to the citation:
         (a)   The alleged violator may admit responsibility in the district
court by mail, in person, or by representation.
         (b)   The alleged violator may admit responsibility with explanation.
If the alleged violator wishes to admit responsibility "with explanation" in
person or by representation, the alleged violator must apply to the court in
person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time specified
for appearance.
         (c)    The alleged violator may deny responsibility. If the alleged
violator desires to deny responsibility, the alleged violator must apply to the
court in person, by mail, by telephone or by representation within the time
specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time to appear for a
hearing.
         (d)   Unless a formal hearing is requested by the alleged violator or
the municipality, an informal hearing will be scheduled by the court upon
notice that the alleged violator has denied responsibility for the violation.
         (e)   At an informal hearing the alleged violator must appear before a
judge or magistrate as directed by the court without an attorney.
         (f)   At a formal hearing the alleged violator must appear before a
judge as directed by the court with or without an attorney.
   (J)   Schedule of civil fines and costs to Bureau for violation notices.
      (1)   The Village Council may by resolution establish a schedule of civil
fines and costs payable to the Bureau upon admission of responsibility by
persons served with a municipal civil infraction violation notice.
      (2)   Unless a different schedule of civil fines is provided for by
resolution of Village Council or as provided in an applicable ordinance, the
civil fine payable to the Bureau upon admission of responsibility by a person
served with a municipal ordinance violation notice shall be determined pursuant
to the following schedule:
         (a)   First violation $75
         (b)   Second violation within a 4-year period $150
         (c)   Third violation within a 4-year period $250
         (d)   Fourth or subsequent violation within a 4-year period $400
      (3)   In addition to the above prescribed civil fines, costs in the
amount of $20 shall be assessed by the Bureau if the fine and costs are paid
within 10 days of the date of service of the municipal ordinance violation
notice. Otherwise, costs of $40 shall be assessed by the Bureau.
   (K)   Records and accounting. The Bureau Clerk or other designated village
official/employee shall retain a copy of all municipal civil infraction
violation notices and citations and shall account to the Village Council once a
month or at such other intervals as the Council may require concerning the
number of admissions and denials of responsibility for ordinance violations and
the amount of fines and costs collected with respect to such violations. The
civil fines and costs collected shall be delivered/paid to the Village
Treasurer or his or her designated representative and shall be deposited in the
general fund of the village.
   (L)   Availability of other enforcement options. Nothing in this section
shall be deemed to require the village to initiate municipal civil infraction
enforcement activity by issuance of a violation notice. As to each violation
designated as a municipal civil infraction the village may, at its sole
discretion, proceed directly with the issuance of a citation or take such other
enforcement action as is authorized by law.
(Ord. 311, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   Unless another penalty is expressly provided by this code for any
particular provision or section, every person convicted of a violation of any
provision of this code, or any rule or regulation adopted or issued in
pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500 and costs
of prosecution or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both the
fine and imprisonment; unless there is a fine or penalty specifically set forth
in the ordinance which provides for a greater penalty, and in that event, the
greater penalty shall control. Each act of violation and every day upon which
any such violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty
provided by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided, shall
apply to the amendment of any section of this code whether or not such penalty
is re-enacted in the amendatory ordinance.
   (B)   (1)   Uniform Traffic Code. Violations of this code or any rule or
regulation adopted or issued pursuant hereto as determined by Village Council,
may be punished as civil infractions except for the following: Public Act 62 of
1956, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.951 - 257.954, as amended, The Uniform Traffic
Code. A civil fine not to exceed $500 plus costs may be assessed by a local
municipal court, district court, or any competent court as determined by
Village Council, against the persons responsible for civil infractions.
      (2)   Procedure for civil infractions. The procedures for civil
infraction actions shall be as set forth in Public Act 510 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923.
      (3)   Failure to pay civil fine; misdemeanor. In addition to the civil
contempt remedies provided in Public Act 510 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 -
257.923, the failure to pay a civil fine or costs, or any installment thereof,
shall constitute a misdemeanor and is punishable by up to a $500 fine plus
costs, 90 days imprisonment, or any combination thereof.
      (4)   Effective date. This division (B) shall be in full force and effect
30 days from the date of adoption.
(Ord. 170, passed 9-19-1988)
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
   Chapter
      
30.   VILLAGE OFFICIALS
      
31.   VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
      
32.   DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
      
33.   VILLAGE PLANNING
CHAPTER 30: VILLAGE OFFICIALS
Section
General Provisions
   
30.01   Village elections; terms of office for President and Trustees
   
30.02   Compensation; President and Trustees
Village Treasurer
   
30.15   Establishment of Office of Village Treasurer
   
30.16   Appointment
   
30.17   Duties
   
30.18   Effective date
Village Clerk
   
30.30   Establishment of Office of Village Clerk
   
30.31   Appointment
   
30.32   Duties
   
30.33   Effective date
Village Manager
   
30.45   Establishment of Office of Village Manager
   
30.46   Appointment
   
30.47   Acting Village Manager
   
30.48   Compensation
   
30.49   Duties
   
30.50   Purchasing responsibilities
   
30.51   Dealing with employees
   
30.52   Effective date
Utility Hearing Officer
   
30.65   Appointment; tenure; compensation
   
30.66   Hearings
   
30.67   Appeals
   
30.68   Conflicts
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 30.01 VILLAGE ELECTIONS; TERMS OF OFFICE FOR PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES.
   (A)   Regular village election date. Village elections shall be held
biennially on the first Tuesday following the second Monday in odd-year
Septembers.
   (B)   Village President and Trustees' terms of office and election. Three of
the Village Trustees shall be elected at each biennial village election for the
term of 4 years and until their successors are qualified. The Village President
shall hold his or her office for a term of 4 years and until his or her
successor is qualified.
   (C)   Effective date. This section shall become effective 45 days after its
adoption and legal publication in accordance with the provisions of the Act
governing the same.
(Ord. 250, passed 12-6-2004)
§ 30.02 COMPENSATION; PRESIDENT AND TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The President of the Village of Manchester shall receive compensation
as per Village Council resolution for each regular and/or special meeting of
the Village Council, by him or her attended during his or her term of office.
   (B)   The Trustees of the Village of Manchester shall each receive
compensation as per Village Council resolution each regular and/or special
meeting of the Village Council by them respectively attended during their term
in office.
   (C)   The payment of the sums shall be made out of the General Fund in the
Village Treasury.
   (D)   The President and Trustees shall receive no other compensation for
services performed for and on behalf of the Village during their term of
office, except as otherwise provided in Public Act 1895, No. 3, as amended, or
by other law regulating fees for services, which provides for reimbursement of
business expenses, as may be approved by resolution of the Council.
   (E)   The President and Trustees shall receive no compensation for any
meetings not actually attended.
   (F)   Special meeting compensation to be paid by the petitioner to Council
for special meeting.
(1984 Code, § 1.31) (Am. Ord. 181, passed 2-19-1990; Am. Ord. 198, passed 1-13-
1992; Am. Ord. 204, passed 10-19-1992; Am. Ord. 229, passed 4-20-1998)
VILLAGE TREASURER
§ 30.15 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF VILLAGE TREASURER.
   In accordance with the authority for the appointment of the village officers
as the Council shall deem necessary for the execution of the powers granted to
the village contained in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. II, § 1, being M.C.L.A. §
62.1, as amended, which is the Charter of the village, there is hereby
established the Office of the Village Treasurer. The Village Treasurer is an
administrative officer of the village.
(Ord. 238, passed 8-18-2000)
§ 30.16 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Manager shall be responsible for the employment, suspension, and
discharge of the Village Treasurer subject to Village Council approval. The
Village Manager shall make the recommendations to the Village President who,
with the concurrence of 4 or more Trustees, will effect the actions. The
Treasurer shall serve at the pleasure of the Village Manager and may upon
recommendation of the Village Manager to the Village President, be removed by
the affirmative vote of 4 or more Trustees, but only after a hearing before the
Council. The Village Treasurer will report and be responsible to the Village
Manager for the official functions and activities of the Treasurer’s position
and for the day to day operations of the department and office, except as
otherwise provided by state law. The Village Treasurer shall be selected on the
basis of administrative and technical abilities, with special reference to
achieving and maintaining certification at the appropriate level for the
village.
(Ord. 238, passed 8-18-2000)
§ 30.17 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Treasurer shall possess all the powers vested in and shall be
charged with all the duties imposed upon Treasurers by state law. In addition,
the Treasurer shall perform all other such duties in the manner prescribed by
the Charter of the village, the ordinances of the village, or by state law. The
Treasurer shall perform the other duties as may be assigned or prescribed by
state law, the Village Charter, ordinances of the village, or the Council.
   (B)   The Treasurer shall:
      (1)   Have custody of all monies of the village and all evidence of value
belonging to the village, or held in trust by the village;
      (2)   Receive all monies belonging to and receivable by the village that
may be collected by any officials or employees of the village, including
license fees, taxes, assessments, utility charges, and all other charges
belonging to and payable to the village, and in all cases give a receipt
therefore;
      (3)   Keep and deposit all monies or funds in the manner and only in the
places as may be determined and report the same in detail to the Village
Manager and in accordance with the Charter, state law, ordinances, and polices;
      (4)   Have the powers, duties, and prerogatives as are conferred by law
to enforce the collection of state, county, village, and school taxes upon real
and personal property;
      (5)   Have custody of all investments and invested funds of the village
or in its possession in a fiduciary capacity; and
      (6)   Safely keep all bonds and notes of the village.
(Ord. 238, passed 8-18-2000)
§ 30.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 30.15 et seq. shall become effective 45 days after their adoption.
(Ord. 238, passed 8-18-2000)
VILLAGE CLERK
§ 30.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF VILLAGE CLERK.
   In accordance with the authority for the appointment of the village officers
as the Council shall deem necessary for the execution of the powers granted to
the village contained in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. II, § 1, being M.C.L.A. §
62.1, as amended, which is the Charter of the village, there is hereby
established the Office of the Village Clerk. The Village Clerk is an
administrative officer of the village.
(Ord. 237, passed 8-18-2000)
§ 30.31 APPOINTMENT.
   The Village Manager shall be responsible for the employment, suspension, and
discharge of the Village Clerk subject to Village Council approval. The Village
Manager shall make the recommendations to the Village President who, with the
concurrence of 4 or more Trustees, will effect the actions. The Clerk shall
serve at the pleasure of the Village Manager and may, upon recommendation of
the Village Manager to the Village President, be removed by the affirmative
vote of 4 or more Trustees, but only after a hearing before the Council. The
Village Clerk will report and be responsible to the Village Manager for the
official functions and activities of the Clerk's position and for the day to
day operations of the department and office, except as otherwise provided by
state law. The Village Clerk shall be selected on the basis of administrative
and technical abilities with special reference to achieving and maintaining
certification at the appropriate level for the village.
(Ord. 237, passed 8-18-2000)
§ 30.32 DUTIES.
   (A)   The Clerk shall possess all the powers vested in and shall be charged
with the duties imposed upon Clerks by state law. In addition, the Clerk shall
perform all other such duties in the manner prescribed by the Charter of the
village, the ordinances of the village, or by state law. The Clerk shall
perform the other duties as may be assigned or prescribed by state law, the
Village Charter, ordinances of the village, or the Council.
   (B)   The Clerk shall:
      (1)   Be the Clerk of the Council and keep a permanent journal of its
proceedings;
      (2)   Keep a record of all ordinances, resolutions, and actions of the
Council;
      (3)   Have power to administer all oaths required by state law, this
Charter, and ordinances of the village;
      (4)   Be custodian of the Village Seal, and affix it to all documents and
instruments requiring the Seal and shall attest the same;
      (5)   Be custodian of all papers, documents, and records pertaining to
the village, the custody of which is not otherwise provided for in the Charter;
      (6)   Give the proper officials of the village ample notice of the
expiration or termination of any official bonds, franchises, contracts, or
agreements;
      (7)   Issue and sign all licenses granted after the license fees have
been paid to the Treasurer and register the same;
      (8)   Certify by signature all ordinances and resolutions enacted or
passed by the Council;
      (9)   Conduct elections in accordance with the Charter and state election
law;
      (10)   Be the general accountant of the village and maintain a system of
accounts that conform to the uniform system as may be required by state law;
and
      (11)   Publish and post notices of the village as required by the
Charter, state law, and ordinances of the village.
(Ord. 237, passed 8-18-2000)
§ 30.33 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 30.30 et seq. shall become effective 45 days after its adoption.
(Ord. 237, passed 8-18-2000)
VILLAGE MANAGER
§ 30.45 ESTABLISHMENT OF OFFICE OF VILLAGE MANAGER.
   In accordance with the authority for the appointment of the village officers
as the Council shall deem necessary for the execution of the powers granted to
the village contained in Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. 11, § 2, being M.C.L.A. §
62.2 and Ch. V, § 8, being M.C.L.A. § 65.8, as amended, which is the Charter of
the village, there is hereby established the Office of Village Manager.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 30.46 APPOINTMENT.
   (A)   The President shall, with the concurrence of 4 or more Trustees,
appoint a Village Manager for an indefinite term and the Council may, by
contract, enter into the other terms and conditions as the Manager and Council
deem appropriate. The Manager shall serve at the pleasure of the Council and
may be removed by the affirmative vote of 4 or more Trustees, but only after a
hearing before the Council. The President may, for cause, suspend the Manager
with full pay, until the hearing. The action of the Council in removing the
Manager shall be final.
   (B)   The Manager shall be selected solely on the basis of administrative
and executive abilities with special reference to training and experience.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1998; Am. Ord. 306, passed - - )
§ 30.47 ACTING VILLAGE MANAGER.
   The President, with the concurrence of 4 or more Trustees, shall appoint or
designate an Acting Manager during a vacancy in the office of Village Manager
and shall make a permanent appointment within 180 days from the effective date
of the vacancy.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1998; Am. Ord. 306, passed - - )
§ 30.48 COMPENSATION.
   The Village Manager shall receive compensation as the Council shall
determine annually by resolution or contract.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 30.49 DUTIES.
   The Village Manager shall be Chief Administrative Officer of the village and
shall be responsible to the Village Council for the efficient administration of
all affairs of the village and shall exercise management supervision over all
departments and over all public property belonging to the village. The Manager
shall have the following functions and duties:
   (A)   Attend all meetings of the Village Council and committees thereof and
take part therein but without a vote;
   (B)   Be responsible for personnel management and shall issue, subject to
Council approval, personnel rules applicable to all Village employees. The
Manager shall have the following responsibilities:
      (1)   To appoint, suspend or remove all appointed administrative officers
and department heads, subject to Council approval. The Manager shall recommend
to the Council the salary or wages to be paid each such official.
      (2)   To appoint suspend or remove all other employees of the village.
All such actions shall be based on merit and taken pursuant to personnel rules
approved by the Council. The Manger shall recommend to the Council the salary
or wages to be paid each such official.
   (C)   Exercise supervisory control over all Village Departments.
   (D)   Exercise supervisory responsibility over the accounting, budgeting,
personnel, purchasing and related management functions of the Village Clerk and
Village Treasurer.
   (E)   Shall be authorized to attend all meetings of Village Boards and
Commissions including the Village Planning Commission with the right to take
part therein but without a vote.
   (F)   Prepare and administer the budget as provided for in the Uniform
Budgeting and Accounting Act, 1968 PA 2, as amended.
   (G)   Be the purchasing agent of the village.
   (H)   Prepare and maintain an administrative policy defining the duties and
functions of the several officers and departments of the Village, subject to
approval by the Council.
   (I)   Investigate all complaints concerning the administration of the
Village, and shall have authority at all times to inspect all public books,
records and papers of any agent, employee or officer of the Village.
   (J)   Make recommendations to the Council for the adoption of such measures
as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the improvement or betterment of
the village.
   (K)   Perform other duties required from time to time by the Village
Council.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 30.50 PURCHASING RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The Village Manager shall act as purchasing agent for all village
offices and departments. The Manager may delegate some or all the duties as
purchasing agent to another officer or employee provided that such delegation
shall not relieve the Manager of the responsibility for the proper conduct of
those duties.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product
or service in accordance with the established village purchasing policy as
adopted and amended by the Village Council.
   (C)   The Village Manager shall have the authority to purchase any product
or service regardless of its cost when such purchaser is necessitated by an
emergency condition.
   (D)   EMERGENCY CONDITION is defined to mean any event which presents an
imminent threat to the public health or safety or any event which would result
in the disruption of a Village service which is essential to public health or
safety.
(Ord 231, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 30.51 DEALING WITH EMPLOYEES.
   Neither the Council nor the Village President shall attempt to influence the
employment of any person by the Village Manager or in any way interfere in the
management of departments under the jurisdiction of the Manager. Except for
purpose of inquiry, the President and Council and its members shall deal with
departments under the jurisdiction of the Village Manager through the Manager.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1998)
§ 30.52 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 30.45 et seq. shall become effective 45 days after the date of
adoption. If a petition, signed by not less than 10% of the registered electors
of the village, is filed with the Village Clerk within the 45-day period,
§§ 30.45 et seq. shall not become effective until after they are approved at an
election held on the question as provided by law.
(Ord. 231, passed 11-2-1998)
UTILITY HEARING OFFICER
§ 30.65 APPOINTMENT; TENURE; COMPENSATION.
   The Village Council shall appoint a Utility Hearing Officer, who shall serve
at the pleasure of the Council and who shall receive the compensation, if any,
as is established by resolution of the Council from time to time.
(Ord. 151, passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.66 HEARINGS.
   (A)   (1)   The Utility Hearing Officer shall conduct a hearing at a
reasonable time and place following receipt of a written request by any
customer of any village-owned or operated utility, including but not limited to
village-owned or operated sewer and water facilities, to take evidence and
adjudicate any dispute between the customer and the village utility concerning
charges for utility services.
      (2)   The Hearing Officer shall cause a written notice of the time and
place of the hearing to be mailed to or delivered to the customer.
   (B)   The hearing shall be conducted in an informal manner, and in all
respects conducted in such a manner consistent with due process to the customer
as to promote the fair, speedy, and inexpensive resolution of disputes. The
record for hearing shall consist of file materials and originals or copies of
documentary evidence offered at the hearing, plus written findings and
conclusions of the Hearing Officer. A verbatim record shall not be required. A
form shall be developed under the direction of the Village Manager for use at
the hearings, which shall include provisions for requests for hearings, lists
of witnesses and documentary evidence, and factual findings and conclusions of
the Hearing Officer.
   (C)   The utility and the customer may offer witness testimony or
documentary evidence, and each party may present a written summary of its
position. The Hearing Officer may admit and consider evidence of a type
commonly relied upon by average people in the conduct of their affairs, without
regard to formal rules of evidence. Neither party may be represented by an
attorney, unless the Hearing Officer finds affirmatively that the customer is
in need of legal representation, in which case both parties may be represented
by an attorney at their own expense, but the utility may elect not to be
represented by an attorney at its option.
   (D)   The Hearing Officer shall make written findings of fact and
conclusions, which may be to affirm the bill submitted by the utility, to
reduce the bill, or to cancel the bill in its entirety. The customer and the
utility shall be supplied with a copy of the written findings and conclusions
at the end of the hearing.
(Ord. 151, passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.67 APPEALS.
   Decisions involving more than $500 may be appealed to the Village Council by
the customer. The Village Council shall rehear the matter de novo during an
appeal. Notwithstanding any provision of
§§ 30.65 et seq., the rights of the customer and of the utility to remedies
provided by the courts are preserved, and neither party shall be required to
utilize or to exhaust this administrative remedy before seeking legal remedies
in the courts.
(Ord. 151, passed 11-3-1986)
§ 30.68 CONFLICTS.
   In any case where a provision of
§§ 30.65 et seq. is found to be in conflict with a provision of any Michigan
statute or any ordinance or any adopted code of the Village of Manchester, the
provisions which establish the greater degree of protection of the rights of
the customer shall prevail.
(Ord. 151, passed 11-3-1986)
CHAPTER 31: VILLAGE ORGANIZATIONS
Section
Planning Commission
   
31.01   Scope; purpose; intent
   
31.02   Establishment
   
31.03   Appointments and terms
   
31.04   Removal
   
31.05   Conflict of interest
   
31.06   Compensation
   
31.07   Officers and committees
   
31.08   Bylaws; meetings; records
   
31.09   Annual report
   
31.10   Authority to make master plan
   
31.11   Zoning powers
   
31.12   Capital improvements program
   
31.13   Subdivision and land division requirements
   
31.14   Approval; ratification; reconfirmation
Parks Commission
   
31.15   Membership
   
31.16   Compensation
   
31.17   Vacancies
   
31.18   Removal of members
   
31.19   Organization; officers
   
31.20   Duties
   
31.21   Meetings
   
31.22   Budget
   
31.23   General regulations
   
31.24   Open meetings; employees
   
31.25   Gifts
   
31.26   Fund established
   
31.27   Deposits
   
31.28   Use of Fund
   
31.29   Separation of Fund
   
31.30   Payments from Fund
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 31.01 SCOPE; PURPOSE; INTENT.
   (A)   This subchapter is adopted pursuant to the authority granted the
Village Council under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of
2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., and the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
Public Act 110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq., to establish a Planning
Commission with the administrative and advisory powers, duties and limitations
provided by those Acts and subject to the terms and conditions of this
subchapter and any future amendments to this subchapter.
   (B)   The purpose of this subchapter is to provide that the Village Council
shall hereby confirm the establishment under the Michigan Planning Enabling
Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., of the Village of
Manchester Planning Commission formerly established under the City, Village and
Municipal Planning Act, P.A 285 of 1931 M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq. to establish
the appointments, terms, and membership of the Planning Commission; to identify
the officers and the minimum number of meetings per year of the Planning
Commission; and to prescribe the authority, powers and duties of the Planning
Commission.
(1984 Code, § 5.701) (Am. Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.02 ESTABLISHMENT.
   The Village Council hereby confirms the establishment under the Michigan
Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq., of
the Village of Manchester Planning Commission formerly established under the
City, Village and Municipal Planning Act, P.A. 285 of 1931, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31
et seq. The Village of Manchester Planning Commission shall have 5 members. The
positions eliminated from the original 7-member Commission shall be one of the
terms ending 2019 and one of the terms ending 2021, which are both currently
unfilled. Members of the Village of Manchester Planning Commission as of the
effective date of Ord. No. 301 shall, except for an ex officio member whose
remaining term on the Planning Commission shall be limited to his or her term
on the Village Council, continue to serve for the remainder of their existing
terms so long as they continue to meet all of the eligibility requirements for
Planning Commission membership set forth within the Michigan Planning Enabling
Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 5.702) (Am. Ord. 128, passed 4-7-1986; Am. Ord. 277, passed 7-18-
2011; Am. Ord. 287, passed 12-16-2013; Am. Ord. 301, passed 10-21-2019)
§ 31.03 APPOINTMENTS AND TERMS.
   (A)   The Village President with the consent and approval of the Village
Council by a majority vote of the members elected and serving, shall appoint
all Planning Commission members, including the ex officio member.
   (B)   The first 2 appointments or reappointments following July 18, 2011
shall be 1 or 2 years. All subsequent appointments shall be for 3 years. The
Planning Commission will ultimately be established with 2 or 3 appointments or
reappointments occurring each year, thus staggering terms as required by the
Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et.
seq. Members shall hold office until his or her successor is appointed.
Vacancies shall be filled for the unexpired term in the same manner as the
original appointment.
   (C)   Planning Commission members shall be qualified electors of the
village, except that 1 Planning Commission member may be an individual who is
not a qualified elector of the village. The membership of the Planning
Commission shall be representative of important segments of the community, such
as the economic, governmental, educational, and social development of the
village, in accordance with the major interests as they exist in the village,
such as agriculture, natural resources, recreation, education, public health,
government, transportation, industry, and commerce. The membership shall also
be representative of the entire geography of the village to the extent
practicable. One member of the Village Council may be appointed to the Planning
Commission as an ex officio member. An ex officio member has full voting
rights. An ex officio member’s term on the Planning Commission shall expire
with his or her term on the Village Council.
   (D)   No other elected officer or employee of the village is eligible to be
a member of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.04 REMOVAL.
   The Village Council may remove a member of the Planning Commission for
misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office upon written charges and
after a public hearing.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.05 CONFLICT OF INTEREST.
   Before casting a vote on a matter on which a Planning Commission member may
reasonably be considered to have a conflict of interest, the member shall
disclose the potential conflict of interest to the Planning Commission. Failure
of a member to disclose a potential conflict of interest as required by this
subchapter constitutes malfeasance in office. For the purposes of this section,
CONFLICT OF INTEREST is defined as, and a Planning Commission member shall
declare a conflict of interest and abstain from participating in Planning
Commission deliberations and voting on a request, when:
   (A)   (1)   An immediate family member is involved in any request for which
the Planning Commission is asked to make a decision.
      (2)   IMMEDIATE FAMILY MEMBER is defined as an individual’s father,
mother, son, daughter, brother, sister, and spouse and a relative of any degree
residing in the same household as that individual.
   (B)   The Planning Commission member has a business or financial interest in
the property involved in the request or has a business or financial interest in
the applicant’s company, agency or association.
   (C)   The Planning Commission member owns or has a financial interest in
neighboring property; for the purposes of this section, a NEIGHBORING PROPERTY
shall include any property immediately adjoining the property involved in the
request.
   (D)   There is a reasonable appearance of a conflict of interest, as
determined by a majority vote of the remaining members of the Planning
Commission.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.06 COMPENSATION.
   The Planning Commission members may be compensated for their services as
provided by Village Council resolution. The Planning Commission may adopt
bylaws relative to compensation and expenses of its members for travel when
engaged in the performance of activities authorized by the township board,
including, but not limited to, attendance at conferences, workshops,
educational and training programs and meetings.
(Ord. 215, passed 10-18-1993; Am. Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.07 OFFICERS AND COMMITTEES.
   The Planning Commission shall elect a chairperson and a secretary from its
members, and may create and fill other offices as it considers advisable. An ex
officio member of the Planning Commission is not eligible to serve as
chairperson. The term of each office shall be 1 year, with opportunity for
reelection if specified in the Planning Commission bylaws. The Planning
Commission may also appoint advisory committees whose members are not members
of the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.08 BYLAWS; MEETINGS; RECORDS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall adopt bylaws for the transaction of
business and shall hold at least 4 regular meetings each year, and shall by
resolution determine the time and place of the meetings. Unless otherwise
provided in the Planning Commission’s bylaws, a special meeting of the Planning
Commission may be called by the chairperson or by 2 other members, upon written
request to the secretary. Unless the bylaws otherwise provide, the secretary
shall send written notice of a special meeting to Planning Commission members
at least 48 hours before the meeting.
   (B)   The business that the Planning Commission may perform shall be
conducted at a public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act,
Public Act 267 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 et seq.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall keep a public record of its resolutions,
transactions, findings, and determinations. A writing prepared, owned, used, in
the possession of, or retained by a Planning Commission in the performance of
an official function shall be made available to the public in compliance with
the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 et.
seq.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.09 ANNUAL REPORT.
   The Planning Commission shall make an annual written report to the Village
Council concerning its operations and the status of the planning activities,
including recommendations regarding actions by the Village Council related to
planning and development.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.10 AUTHORITY TO MAKE MASTER PLAN.
   (A)   Under the authority of the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public Act
33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et. seq., and other applicable planning
statutes, the Planning Commission shall make a master plan as a guide for
development within the village’s planning jurisdiction. The procedure for
adoption or amendment of a master plan shall be as prescribed in Article III of
the Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3831 through §125.3851.
   (B)   Final authority to approve a master plan or any amendments thereto
shall rest on the Planning Commission in accordance with the Act, unless,
Village Council by resolution has asserted the right to approve or reject the
master plan.
   (C)   Unless rescinded by the village, any plan adopted or amended under the
City, Village and Municipal Planning Act, P.A 285 of 1931 M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31
et. seq. need not be readopted under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act, Public
Act 33 of 2008, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3801 et. seq.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.11 ZONING POWERS.
   (A)   The Village Council hereby confirms the transfer of all powers,
duties, and responsibilities provided for zoning boards or zoning commissions
by the former Village Zoning Act, P.A. 207 of 1921, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 et.
seq.; the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et. seq.; or other applicable zoning statutes to the Village of
Manchester Planning Commission formerly established under the City, Village and
Municipal Planning Act, P.A 285 of 1931, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq. The zoning
powers, duties, and responsibilities of the Planning Commission shall be
advisory only to the Village Council. The Village Council retains the authority
to make all final zoning decisions after review and recommendation by the
Planning Commission as provided for in the Village Zoning Ordinance.
   (B)   Any existing zoning ordinance shall remain in full force and effect
except as otherwise amended or repealed by the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 5.703) (Am. Ord. 129, passed 4-21-1986; Am. Ord. 277, passed 7-
18-2011)
§ 31.12 CAPITAL IMPROVEMENTS PROGRAM.
   To further the desirable future development of the village under the master
plan, the Village Council, after the master plan is adopted, shall prepare or
cause to be prepared by the Village President or by a designated nonelected
administrative official, a capital improvements program of public structures
and improvements, showing those structures and improvements in general order of
their priority, for the following 6-year period. The prepared capital
improvements program, if prepared by someone other than the Village Council,
shall be subject to final approval by the Village Council. The Planning
Commission is hereby exempted from preparing a capital improvements plan.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.13 SUBDIVISION AND LAND DIVISION RECOMMENDATIONS.
   (A)   The Planning Commission may recommend to the Village Council
provisions of an ordinance or rules governing the subdivision of land. Before
recommending such an ordinance or rule, the Planning Commission shall hold a
public hearing on the proposed ordinance or rule. The Planning Commission shall
give notice of the time and place of the public hearing not less than 15 days
before the hearing by publication in a newspaper of general circulation within
the village.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review and make recommendation on a
proposed plat before action thereon by the Village Council under the Land
Division Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et. seq. The Planning
Commission shall recommend approval, approval with conditions, or disapproval
of a plat within 63 days after the plat is submitted to the Planning Commission
unless the plat proprietor waives this requirement and consents to an extension
of the 63-day period. Before making its recommendation, the Planning Commission
shall hold a public hearing on the proposed plat. A plat submitted to the
Planning Commission shall contain the name and address of the proprietor or
other person to whom notice of a hearing shall be sent. Not less than 15 days
before the date of the hearing, notice of the date, time and place of the
hearing shall be sent to that person at that address by mail and shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the village. Similar notice
shall be mailed to the owners of land immediately adjoining the proposed
platted land.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
§ 31.14 APPROVAL; RATIFICATION; RECONFIRMATION.
   All official actions taken by any Village Council preceding the Commission
created by this subchapter are hereby approved, ratified and reconfirmed. Any
project, review, or process taking place at the effective date of Ordinance No.
277 shall continue with the Commission created by this subchapter, subject to
the requirements of this subchapter, and shall be deemed a continuation of any
previous Village of Manchester Planning Commission.
(Ord. 277, passed 7-18-2011)
PARKS COMMISSION
§ 31.15 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Village Parks Commission shall consist of 7 residents of the
Manchester Community, 1 of whom shall be a member of the Village Council,
appointed annually by the Village President, with the consent and approval of
the Village Trustees.
   (B)   Of the remaining 6 members of the Village Parks Commission, 4 shall be
residents of the Village of Manchester. Village Parks Commissioners shall be
appointed by the Village President, with the consent and approval of the
Village Council, each for a term of 3 years. The terms shall be staggered.
(1984 Code, § 3.31) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007; Am. Ord. 313, passed 12-5-
2022)
§ 31.16 COMPENSATION.
   Members of the Village Park Commission shall serve without compensation and
shall not be employees.
(1984 Code, § 3.32) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.17 VACANCIES.
   In all cases where a vacancy occurs, the Village President, with the consent
and approval of the Village Council, shall fill the vacancy within 30 days, for
the balance of the term in which the vacancy occurs.
(1984 Code, § 3.33) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.18 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   The Village Council shall have power and authority to remove any member of
the Commission for malfeasance, misconduct, or neglect of duties, after having
given the member notice and an opportunity to be heard.
(1984 Code, § 3.34) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.19 ORGANIZATION; OFFICERS.
   The Parks Commission shall, within 10 days after its appointment in the
first instance, and thereafter in April of each year, organize and elect 1 of
its members Chairperson, 1 of its members Vice Chairperson, 1 of its members
Secretary, and 1 of its members Treasurer. The Parks Commission may select
other officers as it may deem advisable and expedient. A majority of the
Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business.
(1984 Code, § 3.35) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.20 DUTIES.
   The Parks Commission shall have general charge to provide recommendations
for all improvements in all parks that may now be owned, or hereafter acquired
by, the Village of Manchester.
(1984 Code, § 3.36) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.21 MEETINGS.
   The Parks Commission shall hold a minimum of quarterly meetings.
(1984 Code, § 3.37) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.22 BUDGET.
   On or before the second Monday in April of each year, the Parks Commission
shall submit to the Village Council its proposed budget, showing in detail the
amount of money that, according to the judgment of the Parks Commission, will
be needed for all park purposes under its control. The proposed budget
submitted by the Parks Commission may be increased, modified, or adopted by the
Village Council as, in its judgment, it deems advisable and expedient.
(1984 Code, § 3.38) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.23 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   It shall be the duty of the Parks Commission to provide the regulations not
in conflict with this code, as it may deem advisable and expedient with respect
to the use and operation of the village parks. All the rules and regulations
pertaining to the use and operation of the village parks shall be published.
(1984 Code, § 3.40) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.24 OPEN MEETINGS; EMPLOYEES.
   All Parks Commission meetings shall be open to the public, and it shall keep
a record of its official proceedings, which shall be open to the public.
(1984 Code, § 3.41) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.25 GIFTS.
   (A)   The Parks Commission is empowered and authorized to solicit, receive,
and acquire gifts, appropriations, bequests, donations, or endowments of money,
funds, or property from any person, firm, or corporation, all of which shall be
used for the improvement, maintenance, and operation of the village parks.
(1984 Code, § 3.42)
   (B)   The Manchester Village Council may accept inter vivos or testamentary
gifts for deposit to the Manchester Park and Recreation Fund, and all the gifts
to the Village of Manchester for park or recreation purposes shall be deposited
to the Fund unless the donor specifically directs otherwise.
(1984 Code, § 3.53) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.26 FUND ESTABLISHED.
   There is hereby established a Park and Recreation Fund for the Village of
Manchester, and there shall be established and maintained a separate depository
account, which shall be designated as the Manchester Park and Recreation Fund.
(1984 Code, § 3.51) (Am. Ord. 137, passed 7-29-1986; Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-
2007)
§ 31.27 DEPOSITS.
   The Manchester Village Council may from time to time provide for the
transfer of funds as may be permitted by law from the general fund of the
village to the Park and Recreation Fund.
(1984 Code, § 3.52) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.28 USE OF FUND.
   (A)   The funds in the Park and Recreation Fund shall be used as the
Manchester Village Council shall from time to time direct by appropriate
resolution for the purchase and/or construction of capital items, including
land for park and recreation purposes to be used by the citizens of Manchester,
Michigan.
   (B)   The Manchester Park and Recreation Fund shall also be used for
maintenance and repair of presently existing or hereafter-acquired park and
recreation facilities belonging to or located in the Village of Manchester.
(1984 Code, § 3.54) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.29 SEPARATION OF FUND.
   The Manchester Park and Recreation Fund shall not be commingled with any
other monies or funds of the Village of Manchester.
(1984 Code, § 3.55) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 31.30 PAYMENTS FROM FUND.
   Money shall be paid out of the Park and Recreation Fund in like manner as
are other funds of the Village of Manchester.
(1984 Code, § 3.56) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
CHAPTER 32: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AUTHORITY
Section
General Provisions
   
32.01   Short title
   
32.02   Determination of necessity; purpose
   
32.03   Definitions
   
32.04   Creation of Authority
   
32.05   Termination
   
32.06   Description of Downtown District
   
32.07   Board of Directors
   
32.08   Powers of Authority
   
32.09   Fiscal year; adoption of budget
   
32.10   Publication, recording, and filing
   
32.11   Effective date
Tax Increment Financing
   
32.25   Findings
   
32.26   Purposes
   
32.27   Approval and adoption of plan
   
32.28   Preparation of base year assessment roll
   
32.29   Preparation of annual tax increment assessment roll
   
32.30   Establishment of project fund; approval of depositary
   
32.31   Payment of tax increments to authority
   
32.32   Use of moneys in the project fund
   
32.33   Annual report
   
Appendix A: Downtown Development Area Description
   
Appendix B: Downtown Development Area Map
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 32.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Downtown Development Authority Ordinance
of the Village of Manchester.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.02 DETERMINATION OF NECESSITY; PURPOSE.
   The Village Council hereby determines that it is necessary for the best
interests of the public to create a public body corporate which shall operate
to halt property value deterioration, eliminate the causes of that
deterioration, increase property tax valuation where possible in the business
district of the Village, and promote economic growth, pursuant to Public Act
197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681, as amended.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as given to them
in Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681 or as
hereinafter in this section provided unless the context clearly indicates to
the contrary.
   AUTHORITY. The Manchester Downtown Development Authority created by this
chapter.
   BOARD or BOARD OF DIRECTORS. The Board of Directors of the Authority, the
governing body of the Authority.
   CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER. The President of the village.
   COUNCIL or VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the village.
   DOWNTOWN DISTRICT. The downtown district designated by this chapter, as now
existing or hereafter amended, and within which the Authority shall exercise
its powers.
   PUBLIC ACT 197. Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 -
125.1681, as amended.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester, Michigan.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.04 CREATION OF AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby created, pursuant to Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.1651 - 125.1681, a Downtown Development Authority for the village. The
Authority shall be a public body corporate and shall be known and exercise its
powers under title of the Manchester Downtown Development Authority. The
Authority may adopt a seal, may sue and be sued in any court of this state and
shall possess all of the powers necessary to carry out the purposes of its
incorporation as provided by this chapter and Public Act 197 of 1975, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681. The enumeration of a power in this chapter or
in Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681, shall not be
construed as a limitation upon the general powers of the Authority.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.05 TERMINATION.
   Upon completion of its purposes, the Authority may be dissolved by the
Council. The property and assets of the Authority, after dissolution and
satisfaction of its obligations, shall revert to the village.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.06 DESCRIPTION OF DOWNTOWN DISTRICT.
   The Downtown District shall consist of the territory in the village
described in Appendix A, attached hereto and made a part hereof, subject to the
changes as may hereinafter be made pursuant to this chapter and Public Act 197
of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.07 BOARD OF DIRECTORS.
   The Authority shall be under the supervision and control of the Board. The
Board shall consist of the Chief Executive Officer and 8 members. Members shall
be appointed by the Chief Executive Officer, subject to approval by the
Council. Not less than a majority of the members shall be persons having an
interest in property located in the Downtown District. Not less than 1 of the
members shall be a resident of the Downtown District, if the Downtown District
has 100 or more persons residing within it. Members shall be appointed to serve
for a term of 4 years, except that of the members first appointed, an equal
number, as near as is practicable, shall be appointed for terms of 1 year, 2
years, 3 years, and 4 years. A member shall hold office until the member's
successor is appointed and qualified. Before assuming the duties of office, a
member shall qualify by taking and subscribing to the constitutional oath of
office. An appointment to fill a vacancy shall be made by the Chief Executive
Officer for the unexpired term only. Members of the Board shall serve without
compensation, but shall be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses. The
Chairperson of the Board shall be elected by the Board. The Board shall adopt
bylaws governing its procedures subject to the approval of the Council. In the
event that the Board determines to employ a Director of the Authority, the
Director shall furnish a bond in the penal sum of $100 payable to the Authority
for use and benefit of the Authority and shall file the same with the Village
Clerk of the village.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.08 POWERS OF AUTHORITY.
   Except as specifically otherwise provided in this chapter, the Authority
shall have all powers provided by law subject to the limitations imposed by law
and herein.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.09 FISCAL YEAR; ADOPTION OF BUDGET.
   (A)   The fiscal year of the Authority shall begin on July 1 of each year
and end on June 30 of the following year, or the other fiscal year as may
hereafter be adopted by the Council.
   (B)   The Board shall prepare annually a budget and shall submit it to the
Council for approval in the manner and at the time, and which budget shall
contain the information, required of municipal departments. The Board shall not
finally adopt a budget for any fiscal year until the budget has been approved
by the Council. The Board may, however, temporarily adopt a budget in
connection with the operation of any improvements which have been financed by
revenue bonds where required to do so by the ordinance authorizing the revenue
bonds.
   (C)   The Authority shall submit financial reports to the Council at the
same time and on the same basis as departments of the village are required to
submit reports. The Authority shall be audited annually by the same independent
auditors auditing the village and copies of the audit report shall be filed
with the Council.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.10 PUBLICATION, RECORDING, AND FILING.
   This chapter shall be published once after its adoption in full in The
Manchester Enterprise, a newspaper of general circulation in the Village of
Manchester and the Village Clerk shall file a certified copy of this chapter
with the Michigan Secretary of State promptly after its adoption.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
§ 32.11 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately upon its publication.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
TAX INCREMENT FINANCING
§ 32.25 FINDINGS.
   (A)   The Village Council has taken into consideration the findings and
recommendations of the Development Area Citizens Council.
   (B)   The Development Plan and Tax Increment Financing Plan (“plan”) meet
the requirements set forth in the Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.1651 - 125.1681.
   (C)   The proposed method of financing the development is feasible and the
Authority has the ability to arrange the financing.
   (D)   The development is reasonable and necessary to carry out the purposes
of Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681.
   (E)   The land included within the development area to be acquired, if any,
is reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes of the plan and the purposes
of the Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681, in an
efficient and economically satisfactory manner.
   (F)   The development plan is in reasonable accord with the master plan of
the village.
   (G)   Public services, such as fire and police protection and utilities, are
or will be adequate to service the project area.
   (H)   Changes in zoning, streets, street levels, intersections and
utilities, to the extent required by the plan, are reasonably necessary for the
project and for the village.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.26 PURPOSES.
   (A)   Public purpose. The Village Council hereby determines that the plan
constitutes a public purpose.
   (B)   Best interest of the public. The Village Council hereby determines
that it is in the best interests of the public to proceed with the plan in
order to halt property value deterioration, to increase property tax valuation,
to eliminate the causes of the deterioration in property values, and to promote
growth in the Downtown District.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.27 APPROVAL AND ADOPTION OF PLAN.
   The plan is hereby approved and adopted. A copy of the plan, and all later
amendments thereto, shall be maintained on file in the Village Clerk's office.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.28 PREPARATION OF BASE YEAR ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   (A)   Within 60 days of the June 1, 2006, the Village Assessor shall prepare
the initial base year assessment roll. The base year assessment roll shall list
each taxing jurisdiction in the Development Area on the effective date of this
subchapter, the initial assessed value of each parcel of property within the
Development Area, and the amount of tax revenue derived by each taxing
jurisdiction from ad valorem taxes on property in the Development Area.
   (B)   The Village Assessor shall transmit copies of the base year assessment
roll to the Village Treasurer, County Treasurer, the Authority and each taxing
jurisdiction, together with a notice that the base year assessment roll has
been prepared in accordance with this subchapter and the tax increment
financing plan contained in the plan approved by this subchapter.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.29 PREPARATION OF ANNUAL TAX INCREMENT ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   Each year within 15 days following the final equalization of property in the
Development Area, the Village Assessor shall prepare the tax increment
assessment roll. The tax increment assessment roll shall show the initial
assessed value of each parcel of property within the Development Area, the
amount by which the current assessed value as finally equalized for all taxable
property in the Development Area exceeds the initial assessed value of the
property as shown on the base year assessment roll (the “captured assessed
value”). Copies of the annual tax increment assessment roll shall be
transmitted by the Assessor to the Village Treasurer, the County Treasurer, the
Authority and the treasurer of each taxing jurisdiction within the Development
Area, together with a notice that it has been prepared in accordance with this
subchapter and the plan.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.30 ESTABLISHMENT OF PROJECT FUND; APPROVAL OF DEPOSITARY.
   The Treasurer of the Authority shall establish a separate fund, which shall
be kept in a depositary bank account or accounts in a bank or banks approved by
the Village Treasurer, to be designated Downtown Development Authority Project
Fund. All moneys received by the Authority pursuant to the plan shall be
deposited in the project fund. All moneys in the project fund and earnings
thereon shall be used only in accordance with the plan.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.31 PAYMENT OF TAX INCREMENTS TO AUTHORITY.
   The Village Treasurer and the County Treasurer shall, as ad valorem and
specific taxes are collected on the property in the Development Area, pay that
proportion of the taxes, except for penalties and collection fees, that the
captured assessed value bears to the initial assessed value to the Treasurer of
the Authority for deposit in the project fund. The payments shall be made on
the date or dates on which the Village Treasurer and the County Treasurer are
required to remit taxes to each of the taxing jurisdictions.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.32 USE OF MONEYS IN THE PROJECT FUND.
   The moneys credited to the project fund and on hand therein, from time to
time, shall be used annually in the following manner and following order of
priority:
   (A)   To pay into the debt retirement fund, or funds, for all outstanding
series of bonds issued pursuant to the plan, an amount equal to the interest
and principal coming due (in the case of principal, whether by maturity or
mandatory redemption) prior to the next collection of taxes, less any credit
for sums on hand in the debt retirement fund.
   (B)   To establish a reserve account for payment of principal of and
interest on bonds issued pursuant to the plan, to the extent required by any
resolution authorizing bonds.
   (C)   To pay the administrative, auditing and operating costs of the
Authority and the village pertaining to the Downtown District, including
planning and promotion, to the extent provided in the annual budget of the
Authority.
   (D)   To repay amounts advanced by the village for project costs, including
costs of preliminary plans and fees for other professional services.
   (E)   To pay the cost of completing the remaining public improvements, if
any, as set forth in the plan, to the extent those costs are not financed from
other sources.
   (F)   To pay the cost of any additional improvements to the plan that are
determined necessary by the Authority and approved by the Village Council in
accordance with Public Act 197 of 1975, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1651 - 125.1681.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
§ 32.33 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Within 90 days after the end of each fiscal year, the Authority shall submit
to the Village Council, with copies to each taxing jurisdiction, a report on
the status of the project fund. The report shall include the amount and source
of revenue in the account, the amount and purpose of expenditures from the
account, the amount of principal and interest on any outstanding indebtedness,
the amount in any bond reserve account, the initial assessed value of the
Development Area, the captured assessed value of the Development Area and the
amount of captured assessed value retained by the Authority, the tax increments
received and the amount of any surplus from the prior year, and any additional
information requested by the Village Council or deemed appropriate by the
Authority. The Secretary of the Authority shall cause a copy of the report to
be published once in full in a newspaper of general circulation in the village.
(Ord. 259, passed 5-18-2006)
APPENDIX A: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AREA DESCRIPTION
   That part of the Village of Manchester described as:
THAT PT OF MICH. CEN. R.R. & N.Y.C.R.R.-YPSILANTI BRANCH LYING WITHIN VILLAGE
LIMITS, EXC THAT PT LYING EAST OF GRANGER AND MORGAN'S ADD, ALSO
COM AT CENT OF SEC 2, TH N 88 DEG 55' E 33 FT, TH S 00 DEG 15' E 59.16 FT IN
THE E LINE OF ANN ARBOR ST, TH S 38 DEG E 722.52 FT IN E LINE OF ANN ARBOR ST
FOR A POB, TH N 52 DEG E 18 RDS, TH S 38 DEG E 148.30 FT TO THE N LINE OF
RAILROAD LAND, TH SW'LY ALONG THE N LINE OF RAILROAD LAND TO A POINT IN THE E
LINE OF ANN ARBOR ST, TH N 38 DEG W 2 RDS IN E LINE OF ANN ARBOR ST TO THE POB,
ALSO
COM AT CENT OF SEC 2, TH N 88 DEG 55' E 418.20 FT IN THE E & W 1/4 LINE FOR A
POB, TH N 88 DEG 55' E 621.50 FT IN THE E & W 1/4 LINE, TH S 18 DEG 20' E
498.40 FT, TH S 74 DEG 30' W 432.40 FT TH N 38 DEG W 148.30 FT, TH S 52 DEG W
18 RDS, TH N 38 DEG W 122 FT IN THE E LINE OF ANN ARBOR ST, TH N 52 DEG 00' E
198 FT TH N 38 DEG W 410.65 FT, TH N 52 DEG 00' W 146.60 FT TO POB, ALSO
BEG AT THE NW COR OF LOT 1, BLK 32 ORIGINAL PLAT OF VILLAGE OF MANCHESTER, TH N
29 DEG W 7.24 FT IN THE E LINE OF ANN ARBOR ST, TH N 53 DEG 45' W 101.04 FT IN
THE E LINE OF ANN ARBOR ST, TH NE'LY IN THE S LINE OF THE LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN
SOUTHERN RAILROAD TO A POINT WHICH IS N 29 DEG W 17.55 FT FROM THE NE COR OF
LOT 4, BLK 32 OF AFORESAID PLAT, TH S 29 DEG E 17.55 FT TO THE NE COR OF LOT 4,
BLK 32 OF AFORESAID PLAT, TH S 61 DEG W 264 FT ALONG THE N LINE OF SAID BLK 32
TO THE POB, ALSO
ALL THAT PART OF PENN CEN R/W - JACKSON BRANCH, LYING BTWN C/L MAIN ST & W/L OF
SEC 2 T4S R3E-EXC THAT PART W OF FOLLOWING LN: COM AT SW COR OF SEC, TH N 1 W
803.22 FT, TH S 75 E 522.82 FT TO POB, TH N 1 W TO N/L RR R/W & POE, ALSO
COM AT SE COR OF W 1/2 OF SW 1/4 OF SEC, TH N 1 DEG W 6.44 CHNS IN THE E LINE
OF W 1/2 OF SW 1/4 TO THE S LINE OF THE LAKE SHORE & MICHIGAN SOUTHERN RAILROAD
FOR A POB, TH S 1 DEG E 1.34 CHNS IN E LINE OF W 1/2 OF SW 1/4, TH S 61 DEG W
148 FT IN CENT OF JACKSON RD, TH N 29 DEG W 259.8 FT TO S LINE OF THE RAILROAD
TH S 75 DEG E 263.32 FT IN S LINE OF THE RAILROAD TO POB, ALSO
COM AT S 1/4 COR SEC 2, TH S 87-05 W 51.34 FT TO A POB, TH N 76-33 W 1254.40
FT, TH N 58-54 E 391.88 FT, TH S 76-33 E 716.39 FT, TH S 29-48 E 370.69 FT TO
THE POB, ALSO
ALL OF BLOCKS 1, 2, 3, 7, 21, 22, 23, 24, 25, 28, 31, & 40, ALSO
LOTS 1 THRU 4. BLK 5, ALSO LOTS 1 THRU 5 BLK 4, ALSO LOTS 1, 2, 3 BLK 6, ALSO
LOTS 4 & 5 EXC S'LY 41 FT THEREOF BLK 6, ALSO LOTS 1 THRU 6 BLK 17, ALSO BEG AT
THE NE COR OF BLOCK 17, TH SE'LY ALONG THE W LINE OF WATER ST TO THE NE'LY BANK
OF RIVER RAISIN, TH NW'LY ALONG THE NE'LY BANK OF RIVER RAISIN TO THE S LINE OF
DUNCAN ST, TH NE'LY ALONG THE S LINE OF DUNCAN ST TO THE POB, ALSO LOTS 1 & 2
BLK 32, ALL IN ORIGINAL PLAT OF VILLAGE OF MANCHESTER, ALSO
LOTS 1 THRU 6 J.W. COWAN'S ADDITION, ALSO
LOTS 3, 4, & 5 CASE'S ALTERATION.
(Ord. 251, passed 3-21-2005)
APPENDIX B: DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT AREA MAP
You must have Adobe PDF Reader to view file.
[Click_here_to_view_PDF_of_image]
CHAPTER 33: VILLAGE PLANNING
Section
   
33.01   Establishment of the Manchester Community Joint Planning Commission
§ 33.01 ESTABLISHMENT OF THE MANCHESTER COMMUNITY JOINT PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   Formation of Community Joint Planning Commission. The village approves
the establishment of a joint planning commission pursuant to Public Act 226 of
2003, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.131, et seq.), and shall enter into and
adhere to the agreement establishing the Manchester Community Joint Planning
Commission dated May 1, 2015, between Manchester Township and the Village of
Manchester regarding the formation, composition, and operation of the
Manchester Community Joint Planning Commission.
   (B)   Saving clause. 
      (1)   The adoption of Ordinance 292 by the Village of Manchester will not
be deemed to vacate the appointment and responsibilities of the Village of
Manchester Planning Commission for land use (except as necessary to create the
new Joint Master Plan and excluding M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3861, 125.3863, 125.3865,
125.3867, and 125.3871 which sections will be controlled by the paragraph
below) under the Michigan Planning Enabling Act until such a time as a joint
master plan is approved and adopted by all the legislative bodies of the
participating municipalities that are party to the Manchester Community Joint
Planning Agreement and such plan takes effect.
      (2)   The adoption of Ordinance 292 by the Village of Manchester will not
be deemed to vacate the appointment and responsibilities of the Village of
Manchester Planning Commission for zoning board and zoning commission powers,
and all other duties and responsibilities it derives from the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act and M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3861, 125.3863, 125.3865, 125.3867, and
125.3871 of the Michigan Planning Enabling Act until such a time as a joint
zoning ordinance is approved and adopted by all the legislative bodies of the
participating municipalities that are party to the Manchester Community Joint
Planning Agreement and such ordinance takes effect.
(Ord. 292, passed 6-15-2015)
Cross-reference:
   Planning Commission, see §§
31.01 through
31.14
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
   Chapter
      
50.   WATER SERVICE
      
51.   SANITARY SEWER SERVICE
      
52.   WATER AND SEWER RATES
      
53.   STORM SEWER SERVICE
      
54.   REFUSE AND RUBBISH
CHAPTER 50: WATER SERVICE
Section
   
50.01   Definitions
   
50.02   Administration
   
50.03   Fees and charges
   
50.04   Turning on water service
   
50.05   Access to meters
   
50.06   Reimbursement for damage
   
50.07   Meter failure
   
50.08   Repair and calibration of meters other than lawn sprinkler systems
   
50.09   Hydrant use
   
50.10   Lawn sprinkling
   
50.11   Additional regulations
   
50.12   Injury to facilities
   
50.13   Cross connections
   
50.14   Special water systems
   
50.15   Lawn sprinkler systems
   
50.16   Abandoned wells
   
50.17   Record keeping
   
50.18   Effective date
   
50.19   Water wells prohibited
 
   
50.99   Penalty
§ 50.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BACKFLOW. Water of questionable quality, wastes, or other contaminants
entering a public water supply system due to reversal of flow.
   CROSS CONNECTION. A connection or arrangement of piping or appurtenances
through which a backflow could occur.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of Public Works of the village.
   MULTI-ZONE LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEM. A sprinkler system that can be potentially
interconnected with other lawn sprinkler systems particularly through
mechanical means.
   POTABLE WATER. Water free from impurities present in amounts sufficient to
cause disease or harmful physiological effects and conforming in its
bacteriological and chemical quality to public health department standards.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT or REU. The measure of potential water usage
equal to the quantity normally generated by occupants of a residence by a
single-family of average size. REU factors for other types of occupancy and use
shall be determined in
§ 50.03.
   SINGLE-ZONE LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEM. A sprinkler system that is not
interconnected and cannot be transformed into a multi-zone system without a
mechanical alteration.
   SUB-SOIL DRAIN. A drain in the yard that is not a septic system which is
approved by the Washtenaw County Health Department.
   TAP-IN. The portion of the water connection which joins the water main and
extends to the shut-off valve.
   WATER CONNECTION. The part of the water distribution system connecting the
water main with the premises served.
   WATER MAIN. The part of the water distribution system located within
easement lines or streets designed to supply more than 1 water connection.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.02 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. The Village Council shall make all determinations regarding
the interpretation of this chapter, develop policies to ensure enforcement,
authorize individuals to execute the provisions, and establish fees, charges,
and penalties.
   (B)   Permits. Any person, firm, corporation, or agent desiring to connect
to the Village Water System must obtain a permit. Permit applications shall be
available from the village office and must be submitted to the Village Clerk
for approval before construction can begin. The Village Clerk shall pass the
permit to the Department of Public Works within 3 days for review and approval
of plan.
   (C)   Permit approval. All plans for the installation of water lines shall
be reviewed and approved by an authorized employee of the village before
construction begins and must be in compliance with the village design
standards, Village Wellhead Protection Plan, and state and/or federal
requirements.
   (D)   Time limit. The permit shall be valid for 180 days.
   (E)   Call for inspection. The person(s) responsible for installation of
water lines other than village employees shall call for the first inspection
before any trench is covered and shall call for a final inspection after
construction is completed. The village requires notice 24 hours in advance of
the inspection.
   (F)   Inspection. Inspection of water line construction shall be the
responsibility of the Department of Public Works. Inspection of water line
construction from the curb stop to the building to be serviced shall be the
responsibility of the Building Inspector. The inspections shall be carried out
by an authorized employee of the village assigned by the supervisor of the
department with the approval of the Village Council.
   (G)   Enforcement authority. The authorized employee of the village shall
have the authority to enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall be
permitted to enter upon all properties for the purpose of inspection,
observation, measurement, sampling, and testing, in accordance with the
provisions of this chapter. The authorized employee of the village shall have
the right to request the accompaniment of a Village Law Enforcement Officer.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.03 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the recovery
of costs from users of the water system. The applicable charges or fees shall
be as established by the Village Council from time to time by resolution in
accordance with categories set forth in division (C) below.
   (B)   Payment terms. All fees, charges, and bonding shall be paid in full at
the time the permit is submitted to the Village Clerk. Charges incurred by the
village that were not paid when the permit was issued shall be paid by the
applicant within 30 days of the date recorded on the invoice. The village shall
bill the applicant for the expenses within 10 days after final approval by the
Department of Public Works.
   (C)   Categories of charges and fees.
      (1)   Tap-in fee. The fee for connecting to the water system shall be
determined by Village Council from time to time.
         (a)   The fee shall include the following:
            1.   Connection to the water main based on the customer's REUs as
determined by the Village's Table of Equivalent Units Factors, tap-ins, and
other costs as relating to use as established from time to time by the village;
            2.   Permit fees as established from time to time by the village;
and
            3.   Any others as the village may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
         (b)   No fee is required for emergency or nonemergency replacement or
repair of any existing tap-in of a same size.
      (2)   Cost of services. Fees related to the cost of providing water
service.
   (D)   Applicant responsibilities. The applicant shall be responsible for the
cost of all material and construction not listed under tap-in fee, including
the water line from the shut-off valve to the premises, excavation, site
restoration, seeding, mulching, resurfacing of the roadway, sidewalk
replacement, the water meter with installation hardware, and other outlays
related to the water connection. Charges will vary according to size. All
contracted labor must be performed in accordance with applicable safety
regulations. Arrangements can be made with the Department of Public Works in
cooperation with Village Clerk for assistance in fulfilling these
responsibilities.
   (E)   Sidewalk replacement and roadway resurfacing. If sidewalk replacement
and/or roadway resurfacing is required, the permit holder must pay, in addition
to the tap-in fee, the current per square foot charge incurred by the village,
multiplied by the total square feet of sidewalk installed or resurfacing
required. A reasonable estimate of these costs shall be made by the Department
of Public Works and included in the charges assessed at the time of issuing the
permit.
   (F)   Nonpayment of expenses. If the payment amount for additional expenses
incurred by the village remains not paid for a period longer than 90 days, the
amount shall become a lien against the property benefited by water service. The
Village Clerk shall certify to the Village Tax Assessor the fact of such a
lien. The expense shall be entered by the Assessor to the next tax roll as a
charge against the premises and shall be collected. The lien thereof shall be
enforced in the same manner as general village taxes.
   (G)   Bonding. Water service installation which requires street or sidewalk
cuts made by anyone other than village employees or authorized contractors
shall require a bond paid to the Village of Manchester in an amount established
by Village Council.
   (H)   Extension of the water main. The total cost of bringing water service
to property which required extension of the water main shall be borne by the
applicant. Determination of the need to extend the water main shall be made by
the Department of Public Works and/or the Village Engineer.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.04 TURNING ON WATER SERVICE.
   (A)   No person, other than an authorized employee of the village, shall
turn on or off any water service, except that a licensed plumber may turn on
water service for testing his or her work (then it must be immediately turned
off) or upon receiving a written order from the Department.
   (B)   Upon written permit from the Department and payment of the charges
applicable thereto, water may be turned on for construction purposes only prior
to the granting of a certification of occupancy for the premises.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.05 ACCESS TO METERS.
   The Department shall have the right to shut off the supply of water to any
premises where the Department is not able to obtain access to the water meter.
Any qualified employee of the Department shall, at all reasonable hours, have
the right to enter the premises where the meters are installed for the purpose
of reading, testing, removing, or inspecting same and no person shall hinder,
obstruct, or interfere with the employee in the lawful discharge of his or her
duties in relation to the care and maintenance of the water meter.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.06 REIMBURSEMENT FOR DAMAGE.
   Any damage which a meter may sustain resulting from carelessness of the
owner, agent, or tenant or from neglect of any of them to properly secure and
protect the meter as well as any damage which may be wrought by frost, hot
water, or steam backing from a boiler, shall be paid by the owner of the
property to the village on presentation of a bill therefore; and in cases where
the bill is not paid, the water shall be shut off and shall not be turned on
until all charges have been paid to the village.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.07 METER FAILURE.
   If any meter shall fail to register properly, the village shall estimate the
consumption on the basis of the average consumption for the same calendar
quarter of the previous 3 years and bill accordingly.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.08 REPAIR AND CALIBRATION OF METERS OTHER THAN LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   The property owner/customer shall bear the costs for the replacement,
repair, or recalibration of all meters larger than a 1-inch service. Meters for
services of 1 inch and smaller shall be repaired, recalibrated, or replaced at
no charge. Meters shall be checked for accuracy upon request by the property
owner or at the discretion of the Department. If a meter check is requested by
a property owner and the meter is found to be operating properly, the total
cost for labor, materials, and subcontracted services shall be borne by the
property owner/customer.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.09 HYDRANT USE.
   No person, except a firefighter or authorized employee of the village in the
performance of his or her duties, shall open or use any fire hydrant, except in
case of emergency, without first securing a written permit from the Department.
Permits for a period not in excess of 15 days may be granted by the Department
upon written application in the form as it shall prescribe and upon payment of
the required fees. Permits may be granted only on the terms and fees as the
Council, by resolution, shall prescribe. In no case shall any hydrant be opened
or closed except with a hydrant wrench provided by the village.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.10 LAWN SPRINKLING.
   (A)   The Village Manager, subject to approval by the President, may
regulate, limit, or prohibit the use of water for any purpose.
   (B)   The regulations shall restrict less essential water uses to the extent
deemed necessary to assure an adequate supply for essential domestic and
commercial needs and for firefighting.
   (C)   No regulation, limitation, or prohibition shall be effective until 24
hours after publication of the regulation, limitation, or prohibition, either
in a newspaper of general circulation in the village or posting in 3 places
within the village.
   (D)   Any person violating any such rule or regulation shall, upon
conviction thereof, be punished as prescribed in
§ 50.99.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.11 ADDITIONAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Village Manager may make and issue additional rules and
regulations concerning the water distribution system, connections thereto,
meter installations and maintenance, hydrants and water mains, and the
appurtenances thereto, not inconsistent herewith.
   (B)   The rules and regulations shall be effective upon approval by the
Council.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.12 INJURY TO FACILITIES.
   No person, except an employee of the village in the performance of his or
her duties, shall willfully or carelessly damage, destroy, deface, or tamper
with any structure, appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the village
water distribution system.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.13 CROSS CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   The Village of Manchester adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross
Connection Rules of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality being R
325.11401 to R 325.11407 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Village of Manchester to cause inspections
to be made of all properties served by the public water supply where cross
connections with the public water supply is deemed possible. The frequency of
inspections and reinspection based on potential health hazards involved shall
be as established by the Village of Manchester and as approved by the Michigan
Department of Environmental Quality.
   (C)   A representative of the Village of Manchester shall have the right to
enter at any reasonable time any property served by a connection to the public
water supply system of the Village of Manchester for the purpose of inspecting
the piping system or systems thereof for cross connections. On request, the
owner, lessees, or occupants of any property so served shall furnish to the
inspection agency any pertinent information regarding the piping system or
systems on the property. The refusal of the information or refusal of access,
when requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
   (D)   The Village of Manchester is hereby authorized and directed to
discontinue water service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any
connection in violation of this chapter exists and to take the other
precautionary measures deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of
contamination of the public water supply system. Water service to the property
shall not be restored until the cross connection(s) has been eliminated in
compliance with the provisions of this chapter.
   (E)   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by
the public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as
specified by this chapter and by the State and Village of Manchester Plumbing
Codes. Any water outlet which could be used for potable or domestic purposes
and which is not supplied by the potable system must be labeled in a
conspicuous manner as: WATER UNSAFE FOR DRINKING.
   (F)   This chapter does not supersede the State Plumbing Code and Village of
Manchester Plumbing Code, but is supplementary to them.
   (G)   (1)   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the
provisions of this section or any written order of the Village of Manchester,
in pursuance thereof, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be
penalized in accordance with
§ 50.99 for each violation.
      (2)   Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of this act shall
occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation for the purpose of
this chapter.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.14 SPECIAL WATER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   A separate fee established by Council shall be paid for all fire
protection sprinkler system tap-in connections. The total charges incurred
shall be subject to the same provisions of this chapter as are standard tap-
ins.
   (B)   A property owner desiring to use water for purposes of irrigation may
purchase a second water meter and install appropriate plumbing. All water
flowing through this meter must not flow into the Wastewater Treatment Plant.
No permit is required, but an inspection of the installed system must be made
by the Department.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.15 LAWN SPRINKLER SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Generally. The Manchester Village Council finds that lawn sprinkler
systems installed in the village and connected to the public water supply
systems must be installed with meters and protected from backflow or siphonage
by the use of backflow prevention devices and meters.
   (B)   Service connections. Service connections may be installed by the
property owner at the property owner's cost according to the Michigan State
Plumbing Code or it may be installed by the Department upon payment of actual
costs.
   (C)   Meters. Second meters for lawn sprinkler systems only shall be sold by
the Village of Manchester at cost to residents on a first come, first served
basis. The meters may be installed by the village and the property owner will
be charged the actual cost. Once a year, the Department will seal the meters
and assess fees for lawn sprinkling service. The property owner will be charged
for the visit.
   (D)   Access to meters. The Department shall have the right to shut off the
supply of water to any premises where the Department is not able to obtain
access to the water meter. Any qualified employee of the Department shall, at
all reasonable hours, have the right to enter the premises where the meters are
installed for the purpose of reading, testing, removing, or inspecting same,
and no person shall hinder, obstruct, or interfere with the employee in the
lawful discharge of his or her duties in relation to the care and maintenance
of the water meter.
   (E)   Meter failure. If any meter shall fail to register properly, the
Department shall estimate the consumption on the basis of former consumption
and bill accordingly.
   (F)   Inaccurate meters. Meters will be checked for accuracy upon request
and, if necessary, repaired or replaced as required at a charge to be set by
the Manchester Village Council based on actual cost. A service fee, after the
first 30 minutes, at current village labor rates, plus any subcontractor costs
will be charged when the meter is found not to be defective.
   (G)   Backflow prevention device.
      (1)   Single-zone systems. For systems with 1 zone, an atmospheric vacuum
breaker shall be installed on the downstream side of the control valve.
      (2)   Multi-zone systems. For systems with multiple zones, an atmospheric
vacuum breaker shall be installed on each zone, on the downstream side of the
control valve, or a pressure type vacuum breaker shall be installed on the
upstream side of control valves, providing that:
         (a)   Atmospheric vacuum breakers shall be full size of piping, be
located a minimum of 6 inches above the highest head, and a minimum of 12
inches above the ground level; and
         (b)   Pressure type vacuum breakers shall be full size of piping, a
minimum of 12 inches above the highest head, and a minimum of 14 inches above
the ground.
   (H)   Prohibitions.
      (1)   Diversion of water. Diverting water from the outside meter water to
inside sewered use is prohibited. The diversion will result in the retroactive
charge for sewered water from the date of the wrongful interconnection.
      (2)   Sub-soil drains. There shall be no open yard, sub-soil drains in
the water supply that interconnect with the Manchester Village sewer system.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.16 ABANDONED WELLS.
   (A)   Abandoned wells must be plugged as regulated under the authority of
the State of Michigan Public Act 368 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.12701 to
333.12771, and the rules contained within the Michigan Water Well Construction
and Pump Installation Code.
   (B)   Within 60 days after plugging an abandoned well, the person who
performed the plugging operation shall provide the village with a copy of a
report that sets forth all of the following information:
      (1)   The well owner's name;
      (2)   The location of the well;
      (3)   The well depth;
      (4)   The well diameter;
      (5)   The plugging procedure;
      (6)   The plugging material; and
      (7)   The amount of plugging material used.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 50.99
§ 50.17 RECORD KEEPING.
   (A)   The Supervisor of the Department shall maintain an accurate map of the
water system. All additions or modifications shall be recorded on the map upon
completion of a project including size, type, location, and other site specific
information useful for future reference.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall maintain permanent records of permit
applications, notices of violation and individual case files as required.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.18 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Village Clerk shall cause this chapter, or a synopsis of this ordinance,
to be published in the manner required by law within 15 days after it has been
duly adopted by the Village Council. The effective date shall be 20 days after
the date of passage or the date of publication, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 50.19 WATER WELLS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester, Michigan.
      VILLAGE WATER SYSTEM. That system of the village within and outside the
village limits by which water is supplied to water users.
      WELL. An opening in the surface of the earth for the purpose of removing
water underneath the earth's surface by both mechanical and nonmechanical
means.
   (B)   Prohibition. No person, firm, association, corporation, or any other
entity shall install, construct, maintain, or use a water well within the
village for any purpose whatsoever except for the following:
      (1)   Wells installed and maintained for the purpose of groundwater
monitoring and/or remediation as part of a response activity approved or
required by the Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy;
      (2)   Wells installed for construction dewatering, provided the water
generated by that activity is handled and disposed of in accordance with all
applicable laws and regulations, and as may be approved on a case-by-case basis
by the village, Washtenaw County and/or Michigan Department of Environment,
Great Lakes and Energy. Exacerbation, as defined in M.C.L.A. § 324.20101,
caused by the use of wells under this exception shall be the responsibility of
the person operating the dewatering well, as provided in Part 201 of 1994 PA 45
1, the Natural Resources and Environment Protection Act (NREPA);
      (3)   The Type II municipal wells operated by the village, provided that
these wells are subject to groundwater monitoring under the oversight of the
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy (EGLE) Water
Division, in accordance with Act 399 of 1976, the Michigan Safe Drinking Water
Act being M.C.L.A. §§ 325.1001-325.1023 et seq., and the applicable Part 7
Administrative Rules promulgated thereunder;
      (4)   Wells installed and maintained to supply industrial cooling water
or for large-scale irrigation purposes, as may be approved on a case-by-case
basis by the village and EGLE;
      (5)   Nonconforming private well that service any property or structure:
         (a)   Within the village on the effective date of this section, or
         (b)   Annexed into the village after the date of this section. Private
owners and operators may continue to use such nonconforming well subject to all
applicable state and local laws; provided, however, that any nonconforming well
that fails to produce adequate water for the intended use or is not actively
used shall be properly abandoned in accordance with Washtenaw County and
Michigan Department of Environment, Great Lakes and Energy.
      (6)   In exceptional cases outside of the restricted zone, the village
may approve a new private well within the village if municipal water is not
reasonably accessible. Such requests must be approved by the village.
(Ord. 307, passed 4-5-2022)
§ 50.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violated any provision of this chapter, a permit, or any
order issued under this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be subject to criminal prosecution and a fine of not more than
$500 and/or 90 days in jail, or both, exclusive of any civil fine assessment,
costs, and damages. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. The imposition of any sentence hereunder shall not exempt the
offender from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The village may serve written notice of violation stating the nature
of the violation and demanding remedial action which must be taken within a
time certain stated in the notice as recommended by the Department. Any person
aggrieved by the requirements herein may contest the recommendations of the
Department by appeal to the Village Council within 30 days from the notice of
violation.
   (C)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as abrogating the
village's right to proceed with an appropriate equitable action to enjoin and/
or abate any condition or violation of this chapter.
   (D)   The penalties described in this section are nonexclusive and the
village reserves the right to take any, all, or any combination of remedial
actions whether administrative or legal against a noncompliant user of the POTW
in accordance with this chapter, state, and/or federal law. In all cases in
which enforcement of this chapter and/or other relevant laws and regulations is
required, a noncompliant user or other person who violates this chapter shall
be required to make restitution to the village for all costs and expenses
incurred by the village because of enforcement, and for all loss or damage to
the POTW or other property which results from the violation.
(Ord. 246, passed 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 51: SANITARY SEWER SERVICE
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Purpose and policy
   
51.02   Definitions
   
51.03   Abbreviations
   
51.04   Conflicts
   
51.05   Effective date
Regulations and Procedures
   
51.20   Unsanitary deposits; discharge to natural outlets prohibited
   
51.21   Process wastewater
   
51.22   Private sewage disposal
   
51.23   Building sewer and connections
   
51.24   Use of the public sewers
   
51.25   Fees and charges
   
51.26   Permit required for construction of connecting sewer and connecting
thereof
   
51.27   Requests for inspections; inspections
   
51.28   Connection fees and regulations
   
51.29   Sewers required in separate trenches
   
51.30   Size of sewer pipes and type
   
51.31   Grade or fall of connecting sewer
   
51.32   Pipe joints in connecting sewers
   
51.33   Drainfields
   
51.34   Protection from damage
   
51.35   Municipal liability
   
51.36   Power and authority of inspectors
   
51.37   Enforcement
   
51.38   Records retention
   
51.39   Records
   
51.40   Annual notification
 
   
51.99   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   It is declared to be the policy of the Village of Manchester:
   (A)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Village Wastewater
System which will interfere with the normal operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting municipal sludge;
   (B)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the Village Wastewater
System which do not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and which will pass
through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be
incompatible with the system; and
   (C)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPLICABLE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Washtenaw County Health Department.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER. An authorized representative
of an industrial user may be:
      (1)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice-
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
      (2)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
      (3)   (a)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates, or for environmental
matters of the company.
         (b)   Authorization for the individual must submit this representative
in writing to the village designated in divisions (1) and (2) above.
   AVAILABLE PUBLIC SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM. A public sanitary sewer system
located in a right-of-way, easement, highway, street, or public way which
crosses, adjoins, or abuts upon the property and passing not more than 200 feet
at the nearest point from a structure in which sanitary sewage originates.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (TOTAL BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in
the biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory
procedure, 5 days at 20°C expressed in terms of weight and concentration
(milligrams per liter).
   BUILDING DRAIN. The part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives discharge from drainage pipes inside the walls of the
building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 5 feet outside the
inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user's pretreatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
Pretreatment Standard.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as
the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It
does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter, and thus
does not necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. Also known as OC
and DOC, oxygen consumed and dichromate oxygen consumed, respectively.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine applied and
the amount of free chlorine available at the end of the contact time, expressed
in milligrams per liter.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A substance amenable to treatment in the wastewater
treatment plant such as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH, and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat the
pollutants, and in fact does remove the pollutant to a substantial degree.
Examples of the additional pollutants may include: COD, total organic carbon,
phosphorus and phosphorus compounds, nitrogen compounds, fats, oils, and
greases of animal or vegetable origin.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of samples taken over a specific time period
whose volume is proportional to the flow in the waste stream, which are
combined into 1 sample.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling, or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. Charges levied to customers of the wastewater system
and which are used to pay principal, interest, and administrative costs of
retiring the debt incurred for construction of the wastewater system. The DEBT
SERVICE CHARGE shall be in addition to the user charge.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   DIRECTOR. The Village Manager or other individual appointed by village
trustees.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency Administrator or other duly authorized official.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking, and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage, and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a 1-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks, and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of nondomestic
pollutants into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharge into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user which discharges industrial waste as defined in
this chapter.
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, manufacturing,
trade, or business processes, or wastewater discharge from any structure with
these characteristics, as distinct from their employees' domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INTERFERENCES. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the
village's NPDES permit or reduces the efficiency of the P01W. The terms also
include prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW.
   LABORATORY DETERMINATION. The measurements, tests, and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes in accordance with the methods contained
in the latest edition at the time of any such measurement, test, or analysis of
Standard Methods for Examination of Water and Waste Water, a joint publication
of the American Public Health Association, the American Waterworks Association,
and the Water Pollution Control Federation or in accordance with any other
method prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this
chapter.
   LATERAL LINE. The portion of the sewer system located under the street or
within the street right-of-way from the property line to the trunk line and
which collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to the trunk
line.
   MAJORITY CONTRIBUTING INDUSTRY. Any industrial user of the publicly owned
treatment works that:
      (1)   Has a flow of 50,000 gallons or more per average workday;
      (2)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow carried by the municipal
receiving the wastes;
      (3)   Has in its waste a toxic pollutant in toxic amounts as defined in
the standards under § 307(a) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act of 1972
(33 U.S.C. § 1317a); or
      (4)   Is found by the permit issuance authority in connection with the
issuance of NPDES permit to the publicly owned treatment works receiving the
waste, to significantly impact, either singly or in combination with other
contributing industries, on that treatment works or upon the quality of
effluent from that treatment works. All major contributing industries shall be
monitored.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREATMENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
federal regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA
in accordance with §§ 307(b) and (c) of Federal Water Pollution Act Amendments
of 1972 which apply to a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM or NPDES PERMIT. A permit
issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act (33 U.S.C.
§ 1317b) and 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake, or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE. Any building, structure, facility, or installation from which
there is or may be a discharge and for which construction commenced after the
publication of proposed pretreatment standards under § 307(c) of the Clean
Water Act will be applicable to the source if the standards are thereafter
promulgated in accordance with § 307(c), and if any of the following provisions
apply:
      (1)   The building, structure, facility, or installation is constructed
at a site at which no other source is located;
      (2)   The building, structure, facility, or installation totally replaces
the process or production equipment that causes the discharge of pollutants at
an existing source; and/or
      (3)   The production of wastewater generating processes of the building,
structure, facility, or installation is substantially independent of an
existing source at the same site. The extent to which a new facility is engaged
in the same general type of activity as the existing source and the extent of
integration of the new facility with the existing plant should be considered in
determining whether the process is substantially independent.
      (4)   Construction is considered to have commenced when installation or
assembly of facilities/equipment has begun, significant site preparation has
begun for installation or assembly, or the owner/operator has entered into a
binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment
which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time.
(Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a
modification, rather than a NEW SOURCE, if the construction does not create a
new building, structure, facility, or installation meeting the criteria of
items (1) and (2) above but otherwise alters, replaces, or adds to existing
process or production equipment.)
   NORMAL DOMESTIC WASTE. Wastewater which, when analyzed, shows a daily
average concentration of not more than 330 mg/l of BOD, not more than 360 mg/
l of suspended solids, not more than 21 mg/l of phosphorus.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any object of whatever nature that substantially impedes the
flow of sewage from the point of origination to the trunk line. This shall
include, but not be limited to, objects, sewage, tree roots, rocks, and debris
of any type.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All work, materials, equipment, utilities, and
other effort required to operate and maintain the wastewater transportation and
treatment system consistent with ensuring adequate treatment of wastewater to
produce effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other applicable state
and federal regulations, and includes the cost of replacement.
   OWNER. Owners of record of the freehold of the premises or lesser estate
therein, a mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver,
executor, trustee, lessee, or other person, firm, or corporation in control of
a building.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, co-partnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity, or any other legal entity, or its legal representatives, agents, or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, and the singular
shall include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any of various chemicals, substances, and refuse materials such
as solid waste, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat, and industrial, municipal, and
agricultural wastes which impair the purity of the water and soil.
   POLLUTION. The manmade or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   PRETREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the elimination of
pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutants, or the alteration of
the nature of pollutant properties in wastewater to a less harmful state prior
to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing the pollutants into a
POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by physical, chemical, or
biological processes, process changes, or by other means, except as prohibited
by 40 C.F.R. pt. 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or procedural requirement for
treating of a waste prior to inclusion in the POTW, other than a National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard.
   PRIVATE SEWER. All service lines and equipment for the disposal of sewage
installed or located on any property, from the property line to and including
any structure or facility that exists on the property.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking, and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the low conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights and is controlled by public agency.
   PUBLICLY OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (P0TW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the village.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW. For the
purposes of this chapter, POTW shall also include any sewers that convey
wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the village who are, by contract
or agreement with the village, users of the village POTW.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment in the
wastewater transportation or treatment systems to ensure continuous treatment
of wastewater in accordance with the NPDES permit and other applicable state
and federal regulations.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT or REU. The measure of potential sewage
discharge equal to the quantity normally generated by occupants of a residence
by a single-family of average size. REU factors for other types of occupancy
and use shall be determined in
§ 51.25.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface,
and groundwater are not intentionally admitted.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user's pretreatment facilities that causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources that can reasonably be
expected to occur in absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean
economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions, and industrial establishments, together with the
groundwater as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of
devices and structures used for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating, and
disposing of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum applicable of the user charge, surcharges, and
debt service charges.
   SHALL. Is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the village's wastewater
disposal system who:
      (1)   Is subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards;
      (2)   Has a nondomestic discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per
average work day;
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the village's wastewater
treatment system;
      (4)   Has in his or her wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §
307 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1317), state statues, and rules; or
      (5)   Is found by the village, MDEQ, or the U.S. EPA to have significant
impact, either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on
the wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system's effluent
quality, or air emissions generated by the system.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. One or more of the following:
      (1)   Any violation of a daily maximum that the Director determines has
caused, alone or in combination with other discharges, interference or pass-
through, including endangering the health of POTW personnel or the general
public;
      (2)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, public welfare, or the environment, or has resulted in the
POTW exercising its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (3)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a village-issued discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction, or
attaining final compliance;
      (4)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and/or
reports on compliance with compliance schedules; and/or
      (5)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance.
   SEWER SERVICE LEAD. A pipe tapped into a local collection sewer and
extending thence into the structure on the premises.
   SLUG LOAD. Any substance released in a discharge at a rate and/or
concentration which causes interference to a POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget, 1972.
   STATE. The State of Michigan.
   STORM SEWER or STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the village to supervise the
operation of the POTW, who is charged with certain duties and responsibilities
by this chapter, or his or her duly authorized representative.
   SURCHARGE. As part of the service charge, any customer discharging
wastewater having strength in excess of limits set forth by the village shall
be required to pay an additional charge to cover the cost of treatment of the
excess strength wastewater. Refer to
§ 51.24(I).
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater, or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TAP-IN. The portion of the connecting sanitary sewer which joins the main
sanitary sewer.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which is or can
potentially be harmful to public health or environment including those listed
as toxic in regulations promulgated by the Administrator of the EPA under the
provisions of CWA 307(a) (33 U.S.C. § 1317 a), or other Acts.
   TRUNK LINE. The main sanitary sewer line located under any street or within
any street right-of-way which collects and transmits the sewage of the various
properties served by the sewer system.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes, or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance of sewage works pursuant to § 204(b) of the Act (33
U.S.C. § 1284b), and includes the cost of replacement.
   USER CLASS. The kind of user connected to sanitary sewers, including, but
not limited to, residential, industrial, commercial, institutional, and
governmental.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment listed in the Office of
Management and Budget's Standard Industrial Classification Manual, (1972
Edition) as amended, involved in a commercial enterprise, business, or service
which, based on a determination by the village, discharges primarily segregated
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences and which is not a
residential user or an industrial user.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local government user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges an industrial waste as
defined in this chapter.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the SICM involved
in a social, charitable, religious, or educational function which, based on a
determination by the village, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
buildings are used primarily as a domicile for 1 or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached, semi-detached and row houses, mobile homes,
apartments, or permanent multi-family dwellings (transit lodging is not
included; it is considered commercial).
   VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester, Michigan.
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities, and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems, and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or
underground, natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained
within, flow through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.03 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   (A)   BOD - Biochemical Oxygen Demand;
   (B)   C.F.R. - Code of Federal Regulations;
   (C)   COD - Chemical Oxygen Demand;
   (D)   EPA - Environmental Protection Agency;
   (E)   l - liter;
   (F)   MDEQ - Michigan Department of Environmental Quality;
   (G)   mg - milligrams;
   (H)   mg/l - milligrams per liter;
   (I)   NPDES - National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System;
   (J)   POTW - Publicly Owned Treatment Works;
   (K)   SIC - Standard Industrial Classification;
   (L)   SICM - Standard Industrial Classification Manual of the United States
Office of Management and Budget (1972 Edition) as amended;
   (M)   SWDA - Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.;
   (N)   TSS - Total Suspended Solids;
   (O)   O&M - Operation and Maintenance; and
   (P)   CWA - Clean Water Act.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.04 CONFLICTS.
   All ordinances, codes, and regulations which are inconsistent with or in
conflict with or repugnant to any provisions of this chapter, shall be deemed
not to apply; provided that nothing herein contained shall be construed to
prevent the adoption and enforcement of an ordinance, code, or regulation which
is more restrictive or establishes a higher standard than those provided in
this chapter.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall cause this chapter, or a synopsis of this
chapter, to be published in the manner required by law within 15 days after it
has been duly adopted by the Village Council.
   (B)   The effective date shall be 20 days after the date of passage or the
date of publication, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
REGULATIONS AND PROCEDURES
§ 51.20 UNSANITARY DEPOSITS; DISCHARGE TO NATURAL OUTLETS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit, or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
village, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the village, any human or
animal excrement, garbage, or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, when sewage and/or treatment facilities are
available, to discharge to any natural outlet within the village, or in any
area under the jurisdiction of the village, any sanitary sewage, industrial
wastes, or other polluted waters, unless specifically permitted by the
applicable County Health Department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool, or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage, unless specifically permitted by the applicable County Health
Department or as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   The owners of all houses, buildings, or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation, or other purposes, situated within the
village and abutting on any street, alley, or right-of-way in which there is
now located or may in the future be located a public sanitary sewer of the
village, is hereby required at their expense to install suitable sewage
facilities therein, and to connect the facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provision of this chapter, within 90 days
after the date of official notice to do so.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.21 PROCESS WASTEWATER.
   (A)   Wastewater contribution information.
      (1)   The Director may require any industry or structure discharging
process flow to the sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or receiving stream to file
material listed below with the Director. Any industry which does not normally
discharge to the sanitary sewer, storm sewer, or receiving stream, but has the
potential to do so from accidental spills or similar circumstances, shall also
file the information listed below.
      (2)   The Director may require each person who applies for or receives
sewer service, or through the nature of the enterprise creates a potential
environmental problem, to file the material listed below on a disclosure form
prescribed by the village:
         (a)   Name, address, and location (if different from the facility
address). Contact person at process wastewater discharge location and contact
person's telephone number;
         (b)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
         (c)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics, including, but not
limited to, those mentioned in
§ 51.02 as determined by a reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and
analysis shall be performed in accordance with the procedures and methods
detailed in:
            1.   Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
American Public Health Association, current edition;
            2.   Manual of Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes,
U.S. EPA, current edition; and
            3.   Annual Book of Standards, Part 131, Water, Atmospheric
Analysis, American Society of Testing Materials, current edition.
         (d)   Time and duration of contribution;
         (e)   Average daily wastewater flow rates, including daily, monthly,
and seasonal variations, if any;
         (f)   Industries identified as significant industrial users or those
required by the village must submit site plans, floor plans, mechanical and
plumbing plans, and details to show all sewers, sewer connections, and
appurtenances by the size, location, and elevation;
         (g)   Description of activities, facilities, and plant processes on
the premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
         (h)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in
the discharge which are limited by any village, state, or federal pretreatment
requirements, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment
requirements are being met on a consistent basis and if not, whether additional
O&M and/or additional pretreatment is required by the industrial user to meet
applicable pretreatment standards;
         (i)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
the pretreatment requirements, the shortest schedule by which the user will
provide the additional pretreatment. The completion date in this schedule shall
not be later than the compliance date established for the applicable
pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this schedule.
            1.   The schedule shall contain increments of progress in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment required for the user to
meet the applicable pretreatment standards.
            2.   No increment referred to in division (A)(2)(i)1. above shall
exceed 9 months.
            3.   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Director including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress to be met on the date and, if not, the date on which it expects to
comply with this increment of progress, the reason for delay, and the steps
being taken by the user to return the construction to the schedule. In no event
shall more than 9 months elapse between the progress reports to the Director.
         (j)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes, and
rate of production;
         (k)   Type and amount of raw materials processed, average and maximum
per day;
         (l)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant, and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system;
         (m)   Any other information as may be deemed by the village to be
necessary to evaluate the impact of the discharge on the POTW;
         (n)   The disclosure form shall be signed by an authorized
representative of the industrial user; and
         (o)   The village will evaluate the complete disclosure form and data
furnished and may require additional information. Within 90 days after full
evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the village shall notify the
user of the acceptance thereof.
   (B)   Discharge modifications. Within 3 months after the effective date of
the promulgation or revision of a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard,
all affected users must submit to the village the information required by
divisions (A)(2)(h) and (A)(2)(i) above.
   (C)   Discharge conditions. Wastewater discharges shall be expressly subject
to all provisions of this chapter and all other applicable regulations, user
charges, and fees established by the village. The village may:
      (1)   Set unit charges or a schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the POTW;
      (2)   Limit the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limit the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or make
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Require the installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling
facilities;
      (5)   Establish specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types, and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (6)   Establish compliance schedules;
      (7)   Require submission of technical reports or discharge reports;
      (8)   Require the maintaining, retaining, and furnishing of plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the village, and affording the
village access thereto, and copying thereof;
      (9)   Require prompt notification to the village in advance of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
      (10)   Require immediate notification of all discharges that could cause
problems to the sewer system, including slug discharges;
      (11)   Require other conditions as deemed appropriate by the village to
ensure compliance with this chapter;
      (12)   Require waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste
streams, or other potential waste problems to be placed under the specific
supervision and control of persons who have been certified by an appropriate
State agency as properly qualified to supervise the facilities;
      (13)   Require records and file reports to be maintained on the final
disposal of specific liquids, solids, sludge, oils, radioactive materials,
solvents, or other wastes;
      (14)   Convert concentration-based National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards to equivalent mass-based or production-based pretreatment
requirements;
      (15)   Control through permit, order, or similar means, the contribution
to the sewer system by each user to ensure compliance with applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standards or Pretreatment Requirements. The control
mechanism may limit duration to a maximum of 5 years, require
nontransferability without appropriate prior notification, set effluent limits,
establish monitoring and reporting requirements, and contain a statement of
applicable penalties for violations; and/or
      (16)   Adjust National Categorical Pretreatment Standards to reflect the
presence of pollutants in a user's intake water.
   (D)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall submit to the
Director a report indicating the nature and concentration of all pollutants in
the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by the pretreatment
standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow for these
process units in the user facility which are limited by the pretreatment
standards or requirements. The report shall state whether the applicable
pretreatment standards or requirements are being met on a consistent basis and,
if not, what additional O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user
into compliance with the applicable pretreatment standards or requirements.
This statement shall be signed by an authorized representative of the
industrial user, and certified to by a qualified representative.
   (E)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   Any user or new source discharging into the POTW shall submit to
the Director during the months of June and December, unless required more
frequently in pretreatment standard or by the Director, a report indicating the
nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are limited by the
pretreatment standards or this chapter. In addition, this report shall include
a record of all daily flows which during the reporting period exceeded the
average daily flow reported in division (C)(3) above. At the discretion of the
Director and in consideration of the factors as local high or low flow rates,
holidays, budget cycles, and the like, the Director may agree to alter the
months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   The Director may also impose mass limitations on users who are
using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment standards or requirements, or in
other cases in which the imposition of mass limitations is appropriate. In
those cases, the report required by division (E)(1) above shall also indicate
the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment standards in the effluent of
the user.
   (F)   Monitoring facilities. The village may require to be provided and
operated at the user's own expense, monitoring facilities to allow inspection,
sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or internal drainage
systems. The monitoring facility should normally be situated on the user's
premises, but the village may, when the location would be impractical or cause
undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be constructed in the public
street or sidewalk areas and located so that it will not be obstructed by
landscaping or parked vehicles. There shall be ample room in or near the
sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and preparation of
samples for analysis. The facility, sampling, and measuring equipment shall be
maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating condition at the expense
of the user. Whether constructed on public or private property, the sampling
and monitoring facilities shall be provided in accordance with plans and
specifications submitted to and approved by the village and all applicable
local construction standards and specifications. Construction shall be
completed within 90 days following written notification by the village.
   (G)   Inspection and sampling. The village shall inspect the facilities of
any user to ascertain whether the purpose of this chapter is being met and all
requirements are being complied with. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the village or its
representative ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the
premises for the purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, records
copying, or in the performance of any of their duties. The village, MDEQ, and
EPA shall have the right to set up on the user's property the devices as are
necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance monitoring, and/or
metering operations. Where a user has security measures in force which would
require proper identification and clearance before entry into their premises,
the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security guards so that
upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the village, MDEQ,
and EPA will be permitted to enter, without delay, for the purposes of
performing their specific responsibilities.
   (H)   Pretreatment.
      (1)   Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater treatment as
required to comply with this chapter and shall achieve compliance with all
National Categorical Pretreatment Standards within the time limitations as
specified by the Federal Pretreatment Regulations and as required by the
village. Any facilities required to pretreat wastewater to a level acceptable
to the village shall be provided, operated, and maintained at the user's
expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment facilities and operating
procedures shall be submitted to the village for review, and shall be approved
by the village before construction of the facility. The review of the plans and
operating procedures will in no way relieve the user from the responsibility of
modifying the facility as necessary to produce an effluent acceptable to the
village under the provisions of this chapter. Any subsequent changes in the
pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall be reported to and be
acceptable to the village prior to the user's initiation of the changes.
      (2)   The village shall annually publish in the major local newspaper a
list of the users which were in significant noncompliance with applicable
pretreatment standards and requirements during the previous 12 months. The
notification shall also summarize any enforcement actions taken against the
user(s) during the same 12 months.
   (I)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits, and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the village that the release of the
information would divulge information, processes, or methods of production
entitled to protection as trade secrets of the user.
      (2)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portion of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this chapter, the NPDES
permit, or the pretreatment programs; provided, however, that the portions of a
report shall be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial
review or enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report.
Wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as
confidential information.
      (3)   Information accepted by the village as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the village
until and unless a 10-day notification is given to the user.
   (J)   Signatory requirements.
      (1)   All reports required by this section shall be signed by the
authorized representative of industrial user and include the following
certification statement: “I certify under penalty of law that this document and
all attachments were prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance
with a system designed to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and
evaluate the information submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or
persons who manage the system, or those persons directly responsible for
gathering the in formation, the in formation submitted is, to the best of my
knowledge and belief, true, accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are
significant penalties for submitting false inform at/on, including the
possibility of fine and imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (2)   If the authorized representative of industrial user changes because
a different individual has responsibility for the overall operation of the
facility or for environmental matters of the company, a new authorization
satisfying the requirements of
§ 51.02, must be submitted to the village prior to or together with any reports
to be signed by that representative.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.22 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provision of
§ 51.20(D), the building sewer shall be connected to an approved private sewage
disposal system.
   (B)   Before commencement of a private sewage disposal system, the owner
shall first apply to the County Health Department for a soil evaluation test.
The fee shall be determined by the County Health Department, and shall be paid
to the County Health Department. At completion of the above soil evaluation
test showing positive results, the property owner shall apply for a permit for
installation for the proposed sewage system. He or she shall include plans,
specifications, and other information as deemed necessary by the County Health
Department. At the time the application is filed, the fee determined by the
County Health Department for the permit and inspection shall be paid.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the County
Health Department. The County Health Department shall be allowed to inspect the
work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant for the
permit shall notify the County Health Department when the work is ready for
final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered. The
inspection shall be made within 7 days of the receipt of notice by the County
Health Department. All persons receiving a permit for a private sewer disposal
system shall provide the village with copies of all final approved inspection
reports issued by the County Health Department.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location, and layout of a private sewage
disposal system shall comply with all recommendations of the County Health
Department. No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any
public sanitary sewer or natural outlet.
   (E)   At the time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in
§ 51.20(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this chapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools, and similar private sewage
disposal facilities shall be abandoned in a manner acceptable to the County
Health Department.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the village.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by any other agency having
legal jurisdiction.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004) Penalty, see
§ 51.99
§ 51.23 BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter, or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof without first
obtaining a written permit from the Director. No building sewer shall be
covered until after it has been inspected and approved by the Director.
   (B)   The property owner or his or her agent shall make application for
sewer permit on a form furnished by the village. The permit application shall
be supplemented by any plans, specifications, or other information required by
this chapter or considered pertinent in the judgment of the village. All
connection fees and/or costs associated with sewer taps, in amounts established
by resolution of the Village Board, shall be paid to the Village Treasurer at
the time the application is filed. A plumbing permit is also required. If a
street opening is required to make the lead connection, an additional
attachment to the permit must be completed.
   (C)   All costs and expenses incidental to the installation, connection, and
maintenance of the building sewer to the public sewer connection shall be borne
by the owner.
   (D)   All liabilities incidental to the installation and connection of the
building sewer shall be borne by property owner. The property owner shall
indemnify and save harmless the village from any loss or damage that may
directly or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
      (1)   It shall be the duty of each property owner to maintain, clean, and
repair the private sewer lines on his or her property at his or her own expense
as necessary to keep the lines free and clear of obstructions and in good
working order and to maintain and keep clear of obstructions the lateral lines
servicing his or her property.
      (2)   It shall be the duty of the village to maintain, clean, and repair
as necessary and at its expense the sewer transmission (trunk) lines and local
collection sewers. The village shall not be responsible for cleaning or
maintenance of sewer lateral lines.
      (3)   (a)   In the case of a bona fide dispute as to whether needed
maintenance, cleaning, or repair of a portion of sewer line is the
responsibility of the property owner or the village under the provisions of
this chapter, it shall be the duty of the property owner to establish that the
obstruction disrepair or defect has occurred in that portion of the line for
which the village is responsible.
         (b)   If the property owner fails to establish village responsibility,
it shall be the property owner's responsibility to perform the necessary
maintenance as provided in this chapter. If village responsibility is
established, the village shall perform the necessary maintenance and shall
reimburse the property owner for reasonable expenses incurred in locating the
defect in the line or in otherwise establishing village responsibility.
         (c)   The property owner shall be responsible under this chapter for
the total maintenance and repair of the private sewer lines on his or her
property and for the maintenance and cleaning, although not including major
repair, of the entire sewer line out to the trunk line or the local collection
sewer.
         (d)   The village, on the other hand, is responsible for major repair
of the trunk line and local collection sewers only and has no responsibility of
any sort for the private lines. The village also has no responsibility to clean
the sewer leads.
      (4)   (a)   Any property owner who shall violate the provisions of this
chapter shall be liable to the village for civil damage incurred in correcting
the defect and, in addition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be
penalized in accordance with
§ 51.99 for each violation. Each day in which any such violation shall
continue, shall be deemed a separate offense.
         (b)   If any property owner fails to maintain a private sewer line as
required by this chapter, in addition to the other penalties prescribed, the
County Health Officer may declare the sewer line a public nuisance and the
defect may be corrected by the village. Any costs so incurred shall be assessed
against the property and become a lien on the property if not timely paid.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where 1 building stands at the rear of another or an interior
(lot) and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the rear
building through an adjoining alley, yard, or driveway, the building sewer from
the front building may be extended to the rear building.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only,
when they are found, on examination and test by an authorized or designated
employee of the village, to meet all requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   The building sewer shall be constructed of Schedule 80 polyvinyl
chloride (PVC), as approved by the Director. The village reserves the right to
specify and require the encasement of any sewer pipe with concrete, or the
installation of the sewer pipe in concrete cradle if foundations and
construction are such as to warrant the protection in the opinion of the
Director.
   (H)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to approval
by the Director, but in no event shall the diameter be less than 4 inches. The
slope of the 4-inch pipe shall be not less than 1/4 inch per foot, unless
otherwise permitted. The slope of pipe, the diameter of which is 6 inches or
more, shall be not less than 1/8 inch per foot unless otherwise permitted.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within 3 feet of any bearing wall. The depth shall be sufficient
to afford protection from frost. The building sewer shall be laid at uniform
grade. The line shall be straight or laid with properly curved pipe and
fittings. Changes in direction greater that 45 degrees shall be provided with
cleanouts accessible for cleaning.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by the drain shall be
lifted by artificial means approved by the Director, and discharged to the
building sewer.
   (K)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight. All
joints shall be approved by the Director.
   (L)   No sewer connection will be permitted unless there is capacity
available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains, and the
Wastewater Treatment Plant, including capacity for treatment to meet NPDES
permit requirements. The village shall make the determination of the available
capacity.
   (M)   All newly constructed building sewers shall have a properly sized
cleanout at the head of the sewer that is accessible at all times. To provide
access at all times, the cleanout shall be located at the property line or
another location approved by the village. This cleanout shall allow access of
sewer cleaning equipment of a size equivalent to the size of the building
sewer.
   (N)   All sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the latest edition
of the Ten States Standards, the village Design Standards, and the Village
Wellhead Protection Plan.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.24 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   No user shall contribute or cause to be contributed, directly or
indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will interfere with the operation
or performance of the POTW. These general prohibitions apply to all the users
of a POTW whether or not the user is subject to the National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards or any other federal, state, or local pretreatment
standards or requirements. The village may refuse to accept any wastes which
will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES discharge limits. A user may not
contribute the following substances to any POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids, or gases including, but not limited to, waste
streams with a closed cup flash point of less than 140°F, which by reason of
their nature and quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by
interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in
any other way to the POTW or to the operation of the POTW. Prohibited materials
include, but are not limited to, gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene, toluene,
xylene, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes peroxides, chlorates,
perchlorates, bromates, carbides, hydrides, and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to, grease, garbage with particles greater
than 1/2 inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshing, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders, sand,
spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas,
tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining, or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud, or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 9.5, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment, or personnel of the POTW;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or exceed
the limitation set forth in a Categorical Pretreatment Standard. This
prohibition of toxic pollutants will conform to § 397(a) of the Act;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases, or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sanitary
sewers for maintenance and repair, including pollutants which result in the
presence of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the sewer system in a quantity
that may cause acute worker health and safety problems;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW's effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludge, or scum, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit
or the receiving water quality standards;
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solution;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater with
a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD, and
the like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will
cause interference to the POTW;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of
the half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director
in compliance with applicable federal or state regulations;
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance;
      (13)   Any unpolluted water, including, but not limited to, stormwater,
groundwater, roof water, or noncontact cooling water;
      (14)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids or any
constituent of the character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is
required to handle the materials at the sewage treatment plant;
      (15)   Any waste from individual sewage disposal systems except at the
Wastewater Treatment Plant as provided in division (B) below, except that waste
from any individual sewage disposal system may be disposed of directly into a
sanitary sewer upon entering into an agreement with the village, which
agreement shall specify the site of disposal, sewage disposal charge, and the
other conditions as may be required to satisfy the sanitation and health
requirements of the village. For the purpose of this division (A)(15),
INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM is defined to include every means of
disposing of industrial, commercial, household, domestic, or other water-
carried sanitary waste or sewage other than a public sanitary sewer;
      (16)   Any sludge, precipitate, or congealed substances resulting from an
industrial or commercial process, or resulting from the pretreatment of
wastewater or air pollutants; and/or
      (17)   Any trucked or hauled wastewater, except as specifically allowed
by the Director.
   (B)   Waste from individual sewage systems may be accepted with permission
of the Director at the Wastewater Treatment Plant. No waters or wastes
described in this section shall be disposed of at the Wastewater Treatment
Plant. The Director shall determine rates for disposal at the Wastewater
Treatment Plant at the time of acceptance.
   (C)   (1)   Except as authorized by the Director, no person shall discharge
wastewater containing in excess of:
         (a)   330   mg/l BOD5;
         (b)   360   mg/l total suspended solids;
         (c)   42 mg/l total ammonia nitrogen; and/or
         (d)   21 mg/l total phosphorus.
      (2)   Should the above concentrations, either individually or in
combination with one another, interfere with the sewage treatment process or
cause difficulties or damage to the receiving waters, the maximum
concentrations of these substances will be reduced by order of the Director.
Should any other substances, either individually or in combination with other
substances, interfere with the sewage treatment process or cause damage to the
receiving waters or affect the sanitary or storm sewer system, the allowable
concentration of these substances will be reduced by order of the Director.
Should the Director determine that the above limits can be raised without
damage to the sewer system or the sewage plant exceeding the federal or state
limits, then the Director may raise the limits and shall determine the
individual concentrations depending on quantity of flow, equipment,
capabilities, reliability of testing, and the like.
      (3)   (a)   If any waters are discharged or are proposed to be discharged
to the public sanitary sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess
the characteristics enumerated above, and which in the judgment of the village
may have a deleterious effect on the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the village may:
            1.   Reject the wastes;
            2.   Require pretreatment to the level defined as normal domestic
sewage;
            3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
            4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered using taxes or sanitary sewer charges; and/or
            5.   Require new industrial customers or industries with
significant changes in strength or flow to submit prior information to the
village concerning the proposed flows.
         (b)   If the village permits the pretreatment or equalization or waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the village and shall be subject to the
requirements of all applicable codes, ordinances, and laws.
   (D)   (1)   Upon the promulgation of the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards for a particular subcategory, the pretreatment standard shall apply
in any case where they have more stringent requirements or limitations than
those of this chapter. The Director shall notify all affected users of the
applicable reporting requirements.
      (2)   Existing users subject to new National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards shall achieve compliance within 3 years of the date the standard is
promulgated, unless a shorter compliance schedule is specified in the standard
new sources subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall
install, have in operating condition, and have started up all pretreatment
equipment required to achieve compliance before beginning to discharge; and
shall meet all applicable pretreatment standards within the shortest feasible
time, but not to exceed 90 days after beginning to discharge.
   (E)   State requirements and limitations on discharges shall apply in any
case where they are more stringent than federal requirements and limitation, or
those in this chapter.
   (F)   The village reserves the right to establish by ordinance more
stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal
system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in
§ 51.01.
   (G)   (1)   No user shall discharge or cause to be discharged any
stormwater, surface water, groundwater, water from footing drains, or roof
water to any sanitary sewer or sanitary sewer connection. Any premises
connected to a storm sewer shall comply with county, state, and federal
requirements as well as those of the village.
      (2)   Downspouts and roof leaders shall be disconnected from sanitary
sewers within 6 months of the date of this chapter. If this is not done, the
village shall perform this work and bill the user.
   (H)   Stormwater, groundwater, and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to the sewers as are specifically designed as combined sewers or
storm sewers. Discharge of cooling water or unpolluted process water to a
natural outlet shall be approved only by the MDEQ.
   (I)   Grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be provided when, in the
opinion of the Director, they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand,
and other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be
required for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall
be located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious material capable
of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight, and equipped with easily removable covers
which, when bolted in place, shall be gastight and watertight.
   (J)   Where installed, all grease, oil, and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his or her expense, in continuously efficient
operation at all times.
   (K)   (1)   The admission into the public sewers or any waters, wastes
containing the following shall be subject to review and approval by the
Director:
         (a)   Five-day BOD greater than 330 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids;
         (b)   Containing more than 360 parts per million by weight of
suspended solids; or
         (c)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the village, or having a rate of flow (gallons per day)
greater than 10% of the daily village flow for a period of 1 hour or more.
      (2)   When necessary in the opinion of the village, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense, the preliminary treatment as may be necessary to
reduce the 5-day BOD to 330 parts per million by weight; or to reduce
objectionable characteristics of constituents to within the maximum limits
provided for in division (A) above, or control the quantities and rates of
discharge of the waters or wastes.
   (L)   (1)   Where the strength of sewage from an industrial, commercial, or
institutional establishment exceeds 330 parts per million of biochemical oxygen
demand, or 360 parts per million by weight of suspended solids, and where the
wastes are permitted to be discharged to the sewer system by the Director, an
added charge, as noted below, will be made against the establishment according
to the strength of the wastes when so required by the village. The strength of
the wastes shall be determined by composite samples taken over a sufficient
period of time to ensure a representative sample. The costs of taking and
making the first of these samples shall be borne by the village. The cost of
any subsequent sampling and testing shall be borne by the industry or
establishment, whether owner or lessee. Tests shall be made by an independent
laboratory or at the Village Wastewater Treatment Plant.
      (2)   Added charges shall be determined by the village. These charges
shall be based on the cost of operation, maintenance, administration,
depreciation, amortization, plus sufficient bond coverage for the sewage works.
   (M)   (1)   The village may prohibit the admission into the public sanitary
sewers or waters or wastes as follows:
         (a)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described in divisions (A)(1) or (A)(2) above; or
         (b)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the village, or having a rate of flow (gallons per day)
greater than 10% of the average daily village flow for a period of 1 hour or
more, shall be subject to review and approval of the Superintendent.
      (2)   Where necessary in the opinion of the village, the owner shall
provide at his or her expense the preliminary treatment as may be necessary to
reduce the 5-day BOD, suspended solids, to concentrations given in division (C)
above; or to reduce objectionable characteristics of constituents to within the
maximum limits provided for in division (C) above, or control the quantities
and rates of discharge of the waters or wastes.
   (N)   (1)   All measurements, tests, and analyses of the characteristics of
water to which reference is made in divisions (A) and (H) above shall be
determined in accordance with the latest edition at the time of Standard
Methods for Examination of Water and Sewage, and shall be determined at the
control manhole provided for in
§ 51.21(F), or upon suitable samples taken at the control manhole. In the event
that no special manhole has been required, the control manhole shall be
considered to be the nearest downstream manhole in the public sewer to the
point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (2)   (a)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods
to reflect the effect of constituents on the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb, and property.
         (b)   The particular analyses involved will determine whether a 24-
hour composite of all outfalls of a premises is appropriate or whether grab
samples should be taken.
      (3)   Industrial cooling water containing the pollutants as insoluble
oils or grease or other suspended solids shall be pretreated for removal of the
pollutants and then discharged to a MDEQ-approved drainage outlet.
      (4)   Agents of the village, County Health Department, MDEQ, or U.S. EPA,
shall have the right to enter all properties for the purpose of inspecting,
measuring, sampling, and testing the wastewater discharge and copying
applicable pretreatment records.
   (O)   To determine the sewage flow from any establishment, the Director may
use 1 of the following methods:
      (1)   The amount of water supplied to the premises by the village or a
private well or water company as shown on the water meter if the premises are
metered, and in all cases using water meters obtained from the village and paid
for by the customer. The village must approve water meters provided by a
private water company or by a customer for a private well and paid for by the
customer. All the water meters must be accessible to the village for meter
reading and replacement purposes. Meters shall be installed in a readily
accessible location and in a manner satisfactory to the village. A meter shall
not be installed in a place where the meter reader cannot readily reach it. All
meters shall be installed horizontally in dry, clean, sanitary locations, and
in the places that small leaks and the spilling of water will do no damage. All
meters shall be in a suitable location to prevent the pipes and meters from
freezing in cold weather. If a suitable and readily accessible location is
provided in a dry basement sufficiently well heated to prevent freezing of the
meter during the winter, the meter may be placed in the basement. Where the
premises contains no basements or cellar, the meter shall be installed in a
location that shall be approved by the village. Where it is necessary to
install the meter in a pit outside a building, the pit shall be built as
directed by the village. With village approval and when a sump pump or drain is
provided, meters may be installed below grade line in a brick or first floor
meter pit. All meter pits shall be of pre-cast concrete, built in accordance
with specifications furnished by the village, with cover openings directly over
meters. Unless otherwise authorized by the village, all meters shall be of the
disc type. All meters shall be under the control of the village and shall be
equipped with an instrument capable of being remotely connected and read away
from the meter itself. The instrument shall be installed on the exterior of the
building as directed by the village. All new inside meters will require remote
registers, or remote telephonic reporting as the village may specify. When
requesting connection to the village's water system, the user shall furnish
information about the amount of contemplated water supply demand and the
village shall determine the size and type of meter to be installed. If any
meter or metering system fails to register properly or if a meter is
inaccessible for reading, the village shall estimate consumption based on
former consumption. Should a meter become defective or fail to register
correctly, the quantity of water used shall be determined by the amount used
during the corresponding period of the preceding year, or at the option of the
village, by averaging the amount for the period immediately preceding and
subsequent to the period wherein the meter registered quantities of water
usage. The accuracy of the meter on any premises will be tested by the village
upon written request of the customer and/or user who shall pay in advance a fee
to cover the cost of the test. If on the test, the meter shall be found to
register over 3% more water than passes through it, another meter will be
substituted therefore, and the fee will be refunded, and the water bill will be
adjusted from the immediately preceding and current billing periods, if
appropriate in the judgment of the village. The expense of maintaining meters
will be borne by the village. The village shall seal meters and no person
except an authorized employee of the village shall break, the seals. No
unauthorized person shall change the location of, alter, or interfere in any
way with any meter;
      (2)   If the premises are supplied with river water or water from private
wells, the amount of water supplied from the sources as estimated by the
Director from the water, gas, or electric supply;
      (3)   If the premises are used for an industrial or commercial purpose of
such a nature that the water supplied to the premises cannot be entirely
discharged into the sewer system, the estimate of the amount of sewage
discharged into the sewer system made by the Director from the water, gas, or
electric supply;
      (4)   The number of gallons of sewage discharged into the sewer system as
determined by measurements and samples taken at a manhole installed by the
owner of the property served by the sewer system at his or her own expense in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the permit used by the Director
pursuant to
§ 51.23; or
      (5)   A figure determined by the Director by any combination of the
foregoing or by any other equitable method.
   (P)   Except when expressly authorized to do so by an applicable National
Categorical Pretreatment Standard, no user shall ever attempt to dilute a
discharge as a partial or complete substitute for adequate treatment to achieve
compliance with the pollutant-specific limitation developed by the village or
state.
   (Q)   Where required, a user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
chapter. The village will evaluate, at least once every 2 years, whether a user
without the protection will be subjected to these requirements. Facilities to
prevent accidental discharge of prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner's or user's own cost and expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the village for review, and shall be approved by the village
before construction of the facility. All required users shall complete such a
plan within 90 days. If required by the village, a user who commences
contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this chapter shall not be
permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until accidental discharge
procedures have been approved by the village. Review and approval of the plans
and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial user from the
responsibility to modify the user's facility as necessary to meet the
requirements of this chapter. In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the
responsibility of the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the
incident. The notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste,
concentration and volume, and corrective actions.
      (1)   Written notice. Within 5 days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Director a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any
expenses, loss, damage, or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties, or other
liability which may be imposed by this chapter or other applicable law.
      (2)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user's bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees of whom to
call in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall ensure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   (R)   Discharge of detectable mercury shall be prohibited except as follows.
      (1)   Each discharger of detectable mercury shall have a village-
accessible monitoring point for the net process effluent. All costs for
installation of this monitoring point shall be the discharger's responsibility.
      (2)   Each discharger of detectable mercury shall routinely self-monitor
its effluent for mercury using a composite sample collected over the period of
normal discharge, a detection level of 0.2 ug/L (EPA Method 245.1), and a
frequency to be established by the village. While the discharger may contract
with the village or an outside consultant/laboratory to conduct this sampling
and analytical testing, all associated costs shall be the discharger's
responsibility.
      (3)   At its discretion, the village may collect additional samples from
each discharger of detectable mercury. If the discharger uses an outside
consultant/laboratory to perform the self-monitoring, the village will perform
a surveillance sampling at least annually. If the village is contracted to
perform the self-monitoring, this annual surveillance requirement will be
waived.
      (4)   Each discharger of detectable mercury shall develop and implement a
Mercury Minimization Plan. The purpose of this plan shall be to establish
actions and an implementation schedule to minimize mercury entering the
collection system. The plan, which will be subject to review and approval by
the village, shall address the following:
         (a)   Treatment systems for removal of mercury from the discharged
wastewater;
         (b)   Written procedures for disposal of mercury contaminated wastes;
         (c)   New employee training, as well as refresher training for current
employees;
         (d)   Review of purchased materials to ensure they are mercury free;
and
         (e)   Other activities deemed appropriate by the discharger.
      (5)   Failure to comply with these conditions may result in termination
of sewer service. If the village determines that all reasonable and cost-
effective actions based on economic, technical, and treatability considerations
have been implemented, a discharge containing detectable mercury may be
accepted on the condition that the Mercury Minimization Plan continue to be
actively administered.
   (S)   (1)   Bypass producing a discharge which violates applicable
pretreatment requirements is prohibited, and the village may take enforcement
action against a user for the bypass, unless the bypass was unavoidable to
prevent loss of life, personal injury, or severe property damage; there were no
feasible alternatives to the bypass such as the use of auxiliary treatment
facilities, retention of untreated wastes, or maintenance during normal periods
of equipment downtime (except where adequate backup equipment should, have been
installed in the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to operate during
normal periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance); and the user
submitted required notices.
      (2)   If the user knows in advance of the need for bypass, a prior notice
shall be submitted to the village at least 10 days before the date of the
bypass. The village may approve or disapprove this anticipated bypass, after
considering its adverse effects.
      (3)   A user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that
exceeds applicable pretreatment requirements to the village within 24 hours
from the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. Unless waived by the
village, a written submission shall then be provided within 5 days of the time
the user becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a
description of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including
exact dates and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the
anticipated time it is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to
reduce, eliminate, and prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
   (T)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed as
preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the village and any
person, firm, or corporation whereby waste of unusual strength or character may
be accepted by the village, subject to payment therefor by the person, firm, or
corporation, provided the waste will not damage the sanitary sewer, storm
sewer, sewage treatment plant, or receiving waters.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.25 FEES AND CHARGES.
   (A)   Purpose. It is the purpose of this section to provide for the recovery
of costs from users of the POTW. The applicable charges or fees shall be as
established by the Village Council from time to time by resolution in
accordance with categories set forth in division (B) below.
   (B)   Categories of charges and fees.
      (1)   (a)   For reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
Pretreatment Program;
         (b)   For monitoring, laboratory costs, inspections, and surveillance
procedures;
         (c)   For reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
         (d)   For filing appeals;
         (e)   For consistent removal by the village of pollutants otherwise
subject to Federal Pretreatment Standards;
         (f)   Any others as the village may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein;
         (g)   For connections to the sanitary sewer system, tap-ins and other
costs relating to use as established by resolution by the Village Council; and
         (h)   For permit fees as established by resolution by the Village
Council.
      (2)   The charges and fees for the services provided by the system shall
be levied upon any user which may have any sewer connections with the POTW.
      (3)   The rate to be billed for the use of the system shall be
established from time to time by the Village Council by resolution.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.26 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CONSTRUCTION OF CONNECTING SEWER AND CONNECTING
THEREOF.
   (A)   No connecting sewer herein required to be built, repaired, or replaced
shall hereafter be connected to the village sewage systems without first
obtaining a permit therefor from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The application for the permit shall contain the name of the sewer
builder, the location of the premises, the name and address of the owner of the
premises, the name of the occupant of the premises if different than the owner,
a diagram of the route of the proposed connecting sewer, together with
specifications on the depth, size of pipe, and the other details as the Village
Council may from time to time specify.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.27 REQUESTS FOR INSPECTIONS; INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner named on the permit required by
§ 51.26 to notify the Village Inspector prior to the covering of any portion of
a connecting sewer line that the sewer line is ready for its first inspection.
   (B)   (1)   The Inspector shall thereupon and within 24 hours after receipt
of the owner’s notice conduct his or her inspection.
      (2)   If the Inspector finds that any portion of the connecting sewer has
been covered he or she shall require the owner to uncover the sewer.
   (C)   Upon determining that the connecting sewer has been constructed
according to the provisions of this chapter and of the permit issued for the
sewer, the Inspector shall indicate on the permit his or her approval for
covering the sewer and connection with the main sewer.
   (D)   Within 72 hours after approval for covering is given, the covering
shall be completed and the Village Inspector shall make his or her final
inspection of the connecting sewer and shall note his or her findings on the
permit.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.28 CONNECTION FEES AND REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Tap-ins and connections. The fee for connecting to the Sanitary Sewer
System shall be determined by Village Council by resolution from time to time.
      (1)   The fees shall include the following:
         (a)   Connection to the sanitary sewer system based on the customer's
REUs as determined by the village's Table of Equivalent Unit Factors;
         (b)   Review and approval of the permit application;
         (c)   Materials to make the tap-in;
         (d)   Labor to make the tap-in;
         (e)   Inspection of the sanitary sewer connection and site
restoration; and
         (f)   Sufficient sewer pipe to extend from the sewer main to the
property line.
      (2)   No fee is required for emergency or nonemergency replacement or
repair of any existing tap-in of a same size.
   (B)   Sidewalk replacement and roadway restoration. If sidewalk replacement
and/or roadway resurfacing is required, the permit holder must pay, in addition
to the tap-in fee, the current per square foot charge incurred by the village,
multiplied by the total square feet of sidewalk installed or resurfacing
required. A reasonable estimate of these costs shall be made by the Department
of Public Works and included in the charge assessed at the time of issuing the
permit.
   (C)   Applicant responsibilities. The applicant shall be responsible for the
cost of all material and construction not listed under tap-in fee.
      (1)   This responsibility includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   The installation of any sanitary sewer line from edge of the
village right-of-way to the premises; and
         (b)   Any excavation, site restoration, seeding, mulching, resurfacing
of the roadway, sidewalk replacement, and other outlays related to the sewer
connection within the village right-of-way.
      (2)   Charges will vary according to connection size and restoration
requirements. All contracted labor must be performed in accordance with
applicable safety regulations. Arrangements can be made with the Department of
Public Works in cooperation with the Village Clerk for assistance in fulfilling
these responsibilities.
   (D)   Supervision. All connections of any connecting sewer to any main sewer
shall be made under the supervision of the authorized representatives of the
Village Council and by no other persons.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.29 SEWERS REQUIRED IN SEPARATE TRENCHES.
   No connecting or main sanitary, storm, or combined sewer shall be laid in
the same trench with pipes and in no case closer together than 3 feet without
special permission from the Village Council or its authorized representative.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.30 SIZE OF SEWER PIPES AND TYPE.
   (A)   All connecting sewers constructed in the village shall be constructed
of pipe at least 4 inches in diameter, which pipe shall be polyvinyl chloride
(PVC) gravity pipe, or the other pipe as the Village Council may approve.
   (B)   All pipe shall conform to the specifications of the village design
standards.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.31 GRADE OR FALL OF CONNECTING SEWER.
   (A)   All connecting sewers hereafter constructed in the village shall have
a grade or fall of not less than 1 foot per 50 feet of pipe, with the grade
being uniform from the building to the main sewer, except that the first length
of pipe attached to the Y-branch or tap-in shall be laid so as to give a good
fall into the main sewer.
   (B)   A curved pipe shall be used for every deflection from a straight line
of more than 3 inches in 2 feet.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.32 PIPE JOINTS IN CONNECTING SEWERS.
   Unless otherwise provided in the permit for the connecting sewer, the manner
of making joints in connecting sewers shall comply with the specifications set
forth in the village design standards.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.33 DRAINFIELDS.
   All drainfields located within the jurisdiction of the village must comply
with § 280.433 of the Michigan Drain Code as enforced by the Washtenaw County
Drain Commissioner.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.34 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or maliciously, willfully, or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface, or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance, or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.35 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   (A)   (1)   The village shall not be responsible for interruptions of
services due to natural calamities, equipment failures, or actions of the
system users.
      (2)   It shall be the responsibility of the user that all connected
equipment remain in good working order so as not to cause disruption of service
of any sanitary sewer or treatment plant equipment.
   (B)   Any claim for damages as the result of an overflow or back up of the
sewage disposal system shall follow the procedures and requirements as set for
in Public Act 222 of 2001, being M.C.L.A. §§ 691.1416 through 691.1419.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.36 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the village acting as
his or her duly authorized agent, bearing proper credentials and
identification, shall be permitted to enter upon the properties as may be
necessary for the purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing in accordance with provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.37 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Administrative remedies; generally. The village may suspend wastewater
treatment services to any user when the suspension is necessary, in the opinion
of the village, in order to stop an actual or threatened discharge which
presents or may present an imminent or substantial endangerment to the health
or welfare of persons or the environment, causes or may cause interference to
the POTW, or causes or may cause the village to violate any condition of its
NPDES permit.
   (B)   Administrative notices and orders.
      (1)   (a)   Whenever the village finds that a user has violated any
provision of this chapter or order issued hereunder, or other pretreatment
standard or requirement, the Director will issue a notice of violation to
formally document the noncompliance. This document will specify the nature of
the violation, establish a date by which the violation shall be corrected, and
notify the affected user that failure to correct the violation would constitute
a further violation which may result in additional enforcement action. A notice
of violation will be sent via first-class mail or personally served on an
authorized representative of the user.
         (b)   Receipt, or nonreceipt, of a notice of violation shall in no way
relieve the affected user of any and all liability associated with the
violation. Issuance of a notice of violation shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions by the village against the
affected user.
      (2)   (a)   When the village finds that a user has violated any provision
of this chapter or order issued hereunder, or other pretreatment standard or
requirement, the Director may issue an administrative order to show cause
requiring the affected user to appear at a hearing to demonstrate why escalated
enforcement action should not be pursued. This document will specify the nature
of the violation, establish the time and place for the hearing, and notify the
affected user that failure to comply would constitute a violation of this
chapter which may result in additional enforcement action. An order to show
cause will be issued at least 10 days prior to the hearing, and will be sent
via certified mail/return receipt requested or personally served on an
authorized representative of the user.
         (b)   Receipt, or nonreceipt, of an order to show cause shall in no
way relieve the affected user of any and all liability associated with the
violation. Issuance of an order to show cause or conducting of the show cause
hearing shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other
enforcement actions by the village against the affected user.
      (3)   (a)   When the village and an affected user agree to a violation
and to the remedial solution, the Director may issue an order of consent or
similar document to formally establish the agreement. This document will
specify the nature of the violation and required actions such as compliance
schedules, stipulated fines, additional self-monitoring, and improvements to
treatment facilities or management practices designed to control the user's
discharge to the sewer. An order of consent will be sent via certified mail/
return receipt requested, or personally served on an authorized representative
of the user, and will require signatures of representatives from both the
village and the affected user.
         (b)   An order of consent or similar document shall have the same
force and effect as other administrative orders issued by the village pursuant
to this chapter, shall be judicially enforceable, and shall not modify the
requirements or extend the deadline for compliance established by a
pretreatment standard or requirement. Receipt, or nonreceipt, of an order of
consent or similar document shall in no way relieve the affected user of any
and all liability associated with the violation. Issuance of a consent order or
similar document shall not be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other
enforcement actions by the village against the affected user.
      (4)   (a)   When the village and affected user do not agree to the
violation or to the remedial solution, the Director may issue an order to
achieve compliance. This document will specify the nature of the violation and
include required actions such as compliance schedules, stipulated fines,
additional self-monitoring, and improvements to treatment facilities or
management practices designed to control the user's discharge to the sewer. An
order to achieve compliance will be issued unilaterally in that terms need not
be agreed to by the affected user, and will be sent via certified mail/return
receipt requested, or personally served on an authorized representative of the
user.
         (b)   An order to achieve compliance shall have the same force and
effect as other administrative orders issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter, shall be judicially enforceable, and shall not modify the requirements
or extend the deadline for compliance established by a pretreatment standard or
requirement. Receipt, or nonreceipt, of an order to achieve compliance shall in
no way relieve the affected user of any and all liability associated with the
violation. Issuance of an order to achieve compliance shall not be a bar
against, or a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions by the village
against the affected user.
      (5)   (a)   When the village finds that a user has violated and continues
to violate any provision of this chapter or order issued hereunder, or other
pretreatment standard or requirement, the Director and Village Attorney may
jointly issue a cease and desist order requiring the affected user to eliminate
the violation within 24 hours or face suspension of sewer service. This
document will specify the nature of the violation, and require that the
violation cease. If the violation has not been corrected within 24 hours
following issuance of the order, the village may suspend sewer service without
further notice until the time as the affected user is able to demonstrate to
the village that it can comply with the discharge requirements. A cease and
desist order will be personally served on an authorized representative of the
user.
         (b)   Receipt, or nonreceipt, of a cease and desist order shall in no
way relieve the affected user of any and all liability associated with the
violation. Issuance of a cease and desist order shall not be a bar against, or
a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions by the village against the
user.
      (6)   (a)   Whenever the village finds that a user's discharge is in
violation of any provision of this chapter and that the violation creates or
threatens to create an emergency situation such as damage to the sanitary sewer
system, pass-through or interference to the wastewater treatment plant, hazard
to River Raisin (receiving water), endangerment to the public health and
safety, or violation of any condition of the NPDES permit issued to the
village, the Director and Village Attorney will jointly issue an emergency
cease and desist order notifying the affected user to eliminate the violating
discharge immediately or face service severance via a temporary plug in its
sewer connection at any time and without further warning. This document will
specify the nature of the violation, and require that the violating discharge
cease until the time as the affected user is able to demonstrate to the village
that it can comply with the discharge requirements. This document will also
establish the time and place for a hearing where the affected user shall
present a written statement regarding the causes of the violation and measures
taken to prevent future occurrences, and further will notify the affected user
of its liability for any costs incurred by the village to conduct this
enforcement action. An emergency cease and desist order will be personally
served to an authorized representative of the user, or may be delivered
verbally via telephone to an authorized representative of the user and then
served personally.
         (b)   Receipt, or nonreceipt, of an emergency cease and desist order
shall in no way relieve the affected user of any and all liability associated
with the violation. Issuance of an emergency cease and desist order shall not
be a bar against, or a prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions by the
village against the affected user.
      (7)   (a)   Except for emergency situations covered under division (B)(6)
above, whenever the village finds that a user's continuing violation warrants
revocation of its permit or privilege to discharge into the wastewater system,
the Director and Village Attorney will jointly issue a notice of termination to
warn of the impending suspension of the sewer service up to and including
severance via temporary plug in the affected user's sewer connection. This
document will specify the date and the time of scheduled service suspension in
order to allow the affected user to either voluntarily cease the violating
discharge or arrange appropriate actions such as production shut-down or
alternative means of wastewater disposal. This document will also establish the
time and place for a hearing where the affected user shall present a written
statement regarding the causes of the violation and measures taken to prevent
future occurrences, and further will notify the affected user of its liability
for any costs incurred by the village to conduct this enforcement action. A
notice of termination will be personally served on an authorized representative
of the user at least 10 days before the scheduled service suspension.
         (b)   Receipt, or nonreceipt, of a notice of termination shall in no
way relieve the affected user of any and all liability associated with the
violation. Issuance of a notice of termination shall not be a bar against, or a
prerequisite for, any other enforcement actions by the village against the
affected user.
      (8)   In addition to the sanctions, orders, liabilities, and other
remedies prescribed under divisions (B)(1) through (B)(7) above, a user shall
be liable to the village for any and all fines, penalties, and associated legal
and other costs incurred or expended by the village as the result of any
violation of the village 's NPDES permit that is attributable, in whole or in
part, to the user's violation of this chapter or a permit issued to the user
hereunder.
   (C)   Rights of appeal.
      (1)   Except for emergency situations covered under division (B)(6)
above, any user desiring to dispute a notice of violation or order of the
village, pursuant to this chapter, including, but not limited to, fines, may
present a written request for reconsideration. The request shall be submitted
to the Director within 10 days of first being notified of the corresponding
order for all but a notice of termination, where such a request shall be
submitted within 5 days of notification. If, in the opinion of the Director,
the request has merit, he or she will convene a hearing on the matter as soon
as possible to collect testimony of appropriate persons, take evidence, and
render a final determination. In the event the affected user's appeal is
unsuccessful, any original fine will become immediately due and the village may
also add any additional costs incurred to administer this appeal. Further
appeal of the Director's final determination shall be governed by applicable
state law.
      (2)   Submittal of an appeal shall in no way relieve the affected user of
any and all liability associated with the violation. An appeal shall not stay
the corresponding order, or limit any other enforcement proceedings by the
village against the affected user.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
Penalty, see § 51.99
§ 51.38 RECORDS RETENTION.
   All users subject to this chapter shall retain and preserve for no less than
3 years, any records, books, documents, memoranda, reports, correspondence, and
any and all summaries thereto, relating to monitoring, sampling, and chemical
analyses made by or in behalf of a user in connection with its discharge. All
records which pertain to matters which are the subject of administrative
adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation activities brought by the
village pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved by the user until all
enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of limitation with
respect to any and all appeals have expired.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.39 RECORDS.
   (A)   The village will maintain and keep proper books of records and
accounts, separate from all other records and accounts, in which shall be made
full and correct entries of all transactions relating to the system. The
village will cause an annual audit of the books of record and account for the
preceding operating year to be made by a recognized independent certified
public accountant, and will supply the audit report to authorized public
officials on request.
   (B)   In conjunction with the audit, there shall be an annual review of the
sewer charge system for adequacies meeting expected expenditures for the
following year and to ensure proportionality among user classes as required by
federal regulations.
   (C)   Classification of old and new industrial users shall also be reviewed
annually.
   (D)   The village will maintain and carry insurance on all physical
properties of the system, of the kinds and in the amounts normally carried by
public utility companies and municipalities engaged in the operation of sewage
disposal systems. All monies received for losses under any such insurance
policies shall be applied solely to the replacement and restoration of the
property damaged or destroyed.
   (E)   The Village Clerk shall maintain a permanent record of inspections
required. The Clerk will also maintain a permanent record of all main sanitary
and combined sewers, which record shall show all Y-branches and tap-ins of
existing connecting sewers. The records shall be available for public
inspections during business hours.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.40 ANNUAL NOTIFICATION.
   All customers of the village's wastewater system will receive an annual
notification, either printed on the bill or enclosed in a separate letter,
which will show the breakdown of the sewer bills into its components for
operation, maintenance, and replacement and for debt retirement.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person who violated any provision of this chapter, a permit, or any
order issued under this chapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction shall be subject to criminal prosecution and a fine of not more than
$500 and/or 90 days in jail, or both, exclusive of any civil fine assessment,
costs, and damages. Each day in which a violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense. The imposition of any sentence hereunder shall not exempt the
offender from compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (B)   The village may serve written notice of violation stating the nature
of the violation and demanding remedial action which must be taken within a
time certain stated in the notice as recommended by the Department. Any person
aggrieved by the requirements herein may contest the recommendations of the
Department by appeal to the Village Council within 30 days from the notice of
violation.
      (C)   Nothing in this section shall be interpreted as abrogating the
village's right to proceed with an appropriate equitable action to enjoin and/
or abate any condition or violation of this chapter.
      (D)   The penalties described in this section are nonexclusive and the
village reserves the right to take any, all, or any combination of remedial
actions whether administrative or legal against a non-compliant user of the
POTW in accordance with this chapter, state, and/or federal law. In all cases
in which enforcement of this chapter and/or other relevant laws and regulations
is required, a noncompliant user or other person who violates this chapter
shall be required to make restitution to the village for all costs and expenses
incurred by the village because of enforcement, and for all loss or damage to
the POTW or other property which results from the violation.
(Ord. 247, passed 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 52: WATER AND SEWER RATES
Section
   
52.01   Definitions
   
52.02   Prohibition of free service
   
52.03   User charge system
   
52.04   Premises outside village limits
   
52.05   Service turn-on and turn-off
   
52.06   Damage to village meters
   
52.07   Billing
   
52.08   Delinquency
   
52.09   Annual review
   
52.10   Consumer reporting
   
52.11   Equal rates
   
52.12   Connection fees
   
52.13   Effective date
§ 52.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. Charges levied to customers of the wastewater system
which are used to pay principal, interest, and administrative costs of retiring
the debt incurred for construction of the wastewater system.
   DEPARTMENT. The Village Department of Water.
   NORMAL/DOMESTIC STRENGTH (NDS). Wastewater which when analyzed shows a daily
average concentration of not more than 330 mg/l of BOD, or more than 360 mg/
l of suspended solids, nor more than 21 mg/l of phosphorous.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All work materials, equipment, utilities, and
other efforts required to operate and maintain the wastewater transportation
and treatment system in compliance with the NDPES permit and other applicable
state and federal regulations and includes the cost of replacement. OM&R shall
mean the total costs of operation, maintenance, and replacement as herein
defined.
   PERSON. Any individual, firm, association, public or private corporation, or
public agency or instrumentality.
   PREMISES. Each lot or parcel of land, building, or premises having any
connection to the water distribution system of the village, or the sewage
disposal system of the village.
   READY TO SERVE CHARGE. The minimum, monthly charge.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment,
appurtenances, and accessories in the wastewater transportation or treatment
systems to ensure continuous treatment of wastewater in accordance with the
NPDES permit and other applicable state and federal regulations.
   RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT or REU. The measure of potential water usage or
sewage discharge normally generated by occupants of a residence by a single
family of average size. REU factors for other types of occupancy and use shall
be determined in
§ 52.12.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum of applicable OM&R charges, surcharges, and
the debt service charges.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The Superintendent of the Department of Water.
   USER CHARGES. The charge levied on the users of a treatment works for the
cost of operation and maintenance of sewage works pursuant to § 204(d)being 33
U.S.C. § 1284(d) and includes the cost of replacement.
   USER CLASS. The kind of user connected to sanitary sewers, including
residential, industrial, commercial, institutional, and governmental.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment listed in the Office of the
Management and Budget's Standard Industrial Classification Manual (SICM),
involved in a commercial enterprise, business, or service which, based on a
determination by the village, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes
or wastes from sanitary conveniences and which is not a residential user or an
industrial user.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state, or local government user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. A user of the treatment works which discharges
wastewater from industrial, manufacturing, trade, or business processes or from
any structure with these characteristics, or distinct from their employees'
domestic wastes or wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the SICM involved
in a social, charitable, religious, or educational function which based on the
determination by the village discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
buildings are used primarily as a domicile for 1 or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached, semi-detached, and row houses; mobile homes;
apartments; or permanent multi-family dwellings (transient lodging is not
included and is considered commercial).
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.02 PROHIBITION OF FREE SERVICE.
   No free water service or sewage disposal service shall be furnished to any
person.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.03 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Established; basis for computations. Rates and charges for the use of
the water and sewer system of the village shall be based on the methodology in
the user charge system approved by the MDEQ. Revisions to the rates are to be
established by resolution of the Village Council, which may be enacted apart
from the published ordinances as necessary to ensure sufficiency of revenues in
meeting operation, maintenance, and replacement costs, as well as debt service.
User charges for operation, maintenance, and replacement shall be subject to
the annual review of the user charge system. The charges and rates shall be
made against each lot, parcel of land, or premises that may obtain all or part
of their water supply from the village water system and/or may have any
sanitary sewer connections with the village sewage system.
   (B)   Amounts; billings; sanitary sewer service charges. The rates and
charges for service furnished by the system shall be levied on each lot or
parcel of land, building, or premises having any sanitary sewer connection with
the system, on the basis of the quantity of water used thereon or therein as
the same is measured therein used, or in the absence thereof, by the equitable
method as shall be determined by the village, and shall be collected monthly,
except in cases where the character of the sewage from a manufacturing or
industrial plant, building, or premises is such that unreasonable additional
burden is place upon the system, greater than that imposed by the normal
domestic-strength sewage delivered to the wastewater treatment plant, the
additional cost of treatment created thereby shall be an additional charge over
the regular rates hereinafter set forth; or the village may, if it deems
advisable, compel the manufacturing or industrial plant, building, or premise,
to treat the sewage in such a manner as shall be specified by the village
before discharging the sewage into the sewage disposal system. Rates for all
users obtaining all or part of their water supply from sources other than the
village water system may be determined by gauging or metering the actual sewage
entering the system or by metering the water used by them, in a manner
acceptable to the village.
   (C)   Water charges.
      (1)   Consumption charge - as per Council resolution; and
      (2)   Ready to serve charge - as per Council resolution.
   (D)   Sewer charges.
      (1)   (a)   Sewer service charges shall be based on actual water
consumption, as measured by water meter readings. Sewer service rates, subject
to annual review and adjustments, if necessary, shall be established as
follows:
            1.   Ready to serve charge - as per Council resolution; and
            2.   Commodity charge - as per Council resolution.
         (b)   The foregoing rates shall be charged each user of the system,
regardless of class.
      (2)   Whenever a user of the system shall discharge into the system any
water or waste other than normal domestic strength wastewater as determined by
the village, the following surcharges, determined per Council resolution, shall
be paid on the excess loading in addition to the operating rate:
         (a)   BOD;
         (b)   Suspended solids; and
         (c)   Phosphorous.
   (E)   Partial use during billing period. When service is furnished for only
a portion of the billing period, the foregoing water and sewage disposal charge
will be prorated. Service for 16 days within a month will be charged as a full
month, service for less than 16 days will accumulate with the consumption in
the following period.
   (F)   Water sprinkler systems. A fee as per Council resolution shall be
charged for each fire protection sprinkler tap-in.
   (G)   Special rates. For the consumers which the Council may determine to be
special cases and for large consumers of water who do not use the sanitary
sewer system for all of their wastewater, the Village Council may establish by
resolution the methodology to measure wastewater contribution to the system to
which shall be applied the rate set forth in division (C) above.
   (H)   Multiple use connections.
      (1)   At least 1 water meter shall be installed in all connected premises
where mobile home, multiple family, multiple commercial, or combinations of
family and commercial use exist.
      (2)   The ready to serve charge will be assessed for each separate living
or commercial unit.
      (3)   Separate water meters with lock-off valves may be installed for
each family or commercial unit at the property owner's request.
      (4)   The foregoing charges are then applied to each meter installed on
the premises for both water and sewage disposal.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.04 PREMISES OUTSIDE VILLAGE LIMITS.
   Water and/or sewer service may only be provided to premises outside the
village limits at rates set per Council resolution.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.05 SERVICE TURN-ON AND TURN-OFF.
   A fee as per Council resolution is charged for turning on water service once
it has been turned off, except when turn-off is required for repair and
maintenance of the water lines. There is no charge for making a final meter
reading, final billings, and transfer of property owner's name when service is
not actually turned off.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.06 DAMAGE TO VILLAGE METERS.
   Meters which become damaged due to freezing, misuse, or negligence will be
repaired at the property owner's expense.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.07 BILLING.
   The foregoing operating rate and surcharges shall be billed and collected
monthly. Billing for the rates and charges shall commence on the sixteenth day
of the month in which connection is made on or after the first day but before
the sixteenth day of the month, and as of the first day of the month following
connection where connection is made on or after the sixteenth day of the month.
All the rates and charges shall become due on the twenty-fifth day of the month
following the end of each billing period, and if the rates are not paid on or
before that date, then a penalty of 5% per month shall be added thereto.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004; Am. Ord. 320, passed 6-19-2023)
§ 52.08 DELINQUENCY.
   The charge for water or sewer services which are under the provisions of
Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, made a lien
on all premises served thereby, unless notice is given that a tenant is
responsible, are hereby recognized to constitute the lien, and whenever any
such charge against any piece of property shall be delinquent for 6 months, the
village official or officials in charge of the collection thereof shall certify
annually, on April 1 of each year, to the tax assessing officer of the village,
the fact of the delinquency, whereupon the charge shall be by him or her
entered upon the next tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall be
collected and the lien thereof enforced in the same manner as general village
taxes against the premises are collected, and the lien thereof enforced. Where
written notice on a form furnished by the village is given that a tenant is
responsible for the charges as provided by Public Act 94 of 1933, § 21, being
M.C.L.A. § 141.121, as amended, no further service shall be rendered the
premises until a cash deposit, to be set per Council resolution, shall have
been made as security for payment of the charges.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.09 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The rates hereby fixed are established to be sufficient to provide for the
expenses of operation, maintenance, and replacement of the water and sewer
systems as are necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order.
The rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time as per Council
resolution as may be necessary to produce these amounts. An annual audit shall
be prepared. Based on the audit, rates for water and sewer services shall be
reviewed annually and revised as necessary to meet each system's expenses and
to ensure that all user classes pay their proportionate share of operation,
maintenance, and equipment replacement costs.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.10 CONSUMER REPORTING.
   All customers of the village's water and sewer systems will receive an
annual notification either printed on the bill or enclosed in a separate letter
which will show the breakdown of the water and sewer bill into its components
for operation, maintenance, and replacement and for debt retirement.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.11 EQUAL RATES.
   Rates for sewer service based on normal domestic strength shall be charged
for sewer OM&R and be equal for all sewer users. Rates for water service shall
be charged for water OM&R and be equal for all water users.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.12 CONNECTION FEES.
   The fees for connection to and use of the village's water and sewer systems
shall be set per resolution of the Village Council. The fee per REU for water
and the fee per REU for sewer shall be set per resolution of the Village
Council. Connection fees for users, other than single-family permanent
residences, shall be based on a multiple of the water and sewer fee per REU as
given in the village's Table of Equivalent Unit Factors. Both the water and
sewer connection fees per REU and the Table of Equivalent Unit Factors shall be
set and periodically reviewed and, if necessary, revised per Village Council
resolution.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
§ 52.13 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Village Clerk shall cause this chapter, or a synopsis of this chapter,
to be published in the manner required by law within 15 days after it has been
duly adopted by the Village Council. The effective date shall be 20 days after
the date of passage or the date of publication, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 248, passed 2-2-2004)
CHAPTER 53: STORM SEWER SERVICE
Section
   
53.01   Purpose
   
53.02   Definitions
   
53.03   Prohibitions
   
53.04   Exemptions
   
53.05   Connections
   
53.06   Specifications
   
53.07   Administration
   
53.08   Effective date
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter shall regulate the construction, repair, and use of storm
sewers within the Village of Manchester.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 53.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer carrying surface runoff, ground water, sanitary
sewage, and/or effluent of any kind.
   CONNECTING STORM SEWER. A sewer which receives flow from a storm sewer line
(s) such as a residence, catch basin, spring, or other source of runoff and/or
groundwater and discharges into a main storm sewer.
   GROUNDWATER. Water which flows into the storm sewer system originating from
underground, such as springs, aquifers, or other sources related to geological
structures.
   MAIN STORM SEWER. A sewer which receives flow from a connecting sewer(s).
   RUNOFF. Water which flows into the storm sewer system due to rain, melted
snow, or other intermittent sources.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer receiving sanitary sewage and/or effluent of any
kind.
   STORM SEWER. Any sewer carrying surface runoff and/or groundwater.
   STORM SEWER LINE. A single passageway designed to receive runoff or
groundwater and conduct it to a connecting storm sewer.
   STORM SEWER SYSTEM. An arrangement of connecting and main sewers designed to
conduct runoff and/or groundwater to the river.
   TAP-IN. The portion of the connecting storm sewer which joins the main storm
sewer.
(Ord. 193, passed 11-4-1991)
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 53.03 PROHIBITIONS.
   All discharge from sanitary sewers, combined sewers, or from sources other
than runoff or groundwater is prohibited from connection to the storm sewer
system. Any sewer connection or inflow other than runoff or groundwater found
to be discharging into the storm sewer system must be discontinued immediately
and permanently disconnected within 30 days of discovery.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
 Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.04 EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Land use development having the following characteristics
shall be completely or partially exempt from connection to the Storm Sewer
System. The Department of Public Works shall evaluate plans for the control of
runoff and/or groundwater and shall approve the exemption on the permit. All
storm sewer installation not connected to the Village Storm Sewer System shall
be in compliance with state and/or federal permit and construction
requirements.
   (B)   Direct river access. Development of property having direct access to
the river or property which can obtain private or public easement to the river
may construct storm sewer lines for discharge of runoff and/or groundwater into
the river.
   (C)   Preservation of natural features. Development which seeks to preserve
natural topographical features such as intermittent or continuously flowing
watercourses may maintain the natural flow of runoff and/or groundwater.
Manmade structures and surface cover which alter the natural flow on site must
incorporate measures to prevent damage from erosion and siltation.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
 Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.05 CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   Optional connections. The owners of houses, buildings, or properties
used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, commerce, industry, or
similar purposes, situated within the Village of Manchester, desiring to
control runoff and/or groundwater, and abutting a main storm sewer shall have
the option to tap a connecting storm sewer into the main storm sewer.
   (B)   Mandatory connections. The owners of all houses, buildings, or
properties used for human occupancy, employment, recreation, commerce,
industry, or similar purposes, situated within the Village of Manchester, and
abutting a main storm sewer must install storm sewer line(s) if runoff is
accumulated on site, directed onto adjacent property or the natural drainage in
the area is altered. Connecting storm sewers must tap into the main storm
sewer.
   (C)   Property owner responsibility. All connecting storm sewers and storm
sewer lines located beyond the storm sewer easement or right-of-way on either
public or private property shall be installed and maintained at the expense of
the property owner according to the specifications recommended by the
Department of Public Works.
   (D)   Capacity evaluation requirements. All connections to the main storm
sewer line shall be evaluated for capacity. The village shall retain the right
to refuse connection to a main storm sewer if the contribution is determined to
be more than any part of the storm sewer system is capable of receiving. The
determination shall be made by the DPW.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
 Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.06 SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   Size and type. The minimum size storm sewer pipe shall be a nominal 4
inches in diameter. The determination of pipe size shall be made by the DPW
based upon anticipated flow capacity and location on site. Only the following
materials shall be installed as storm sewer lines: plastic pipe of smooth or
ribbed wall manufacture, and cement pipe with bell and spigot. All materials
must meet or exceed ASTM standards (American Society of Testing Materials) for
use in the specific application. Preferred manufacturers, and the size and type
of repair pipe, shall be specified by the DPW.
   (B)   Grade or fall. All storm sewer lines shall have a grade or fall of not
less than 1 foot per 50 feet of pipe run.
   (C)   Joints. All joints shall be installed in accordance with manufacturers
recommendations or accepted construction practice, be substantially watertight,
and free from infiltration.
   (D)   Trenches.
      (1)   (a)   No storm sewer line shall be laid in a trench with a water
line.
         (b)   Storm sewer lines shall be a minimum of 3 feet from other buried
pipe unless specific exception is given by the DPW.
         (c)   All backfill in trenches shall be compacted to ensure adequate
support of the sewer and shall be in compliance with recommendations made by
the DPW.
      (2)   All trenches excavated for storm sewers lines designed to collect
and conduct groundwater shall have a capacity to exclude infiltration of
particulate and be installed in a trench filled with pea stone. Pea stone and
backfill cover shall be compacted to ensure adequate support of the sewer and
be in compliance with recommendations made by the DPW.
   (E)   Culverts. Installation of culverts designed to conduct runoff under
driveways, roads, and other surfaces, shall be the responsibility of the
property owner. The size and material shall be approved by the DPW. The village
shall be responsible for grading roadside drains up to and away from the
culvert to ensure unimpeded flow of runoff.
   (F)   Repair. The village shall be responsible for the repair of storm sewer
lines under the right-of-way only. Property owners shall be responsible for the
repair of storm sewer lines located anywhere other than under the right-of-way.
If damage or harm to the Storm Sewer System can be demonstrated by the DPW to
originate from storm sewer lines located on private property, the village shall
issue a notice of violation describing the problem and schedule a hearing to
determine remedial action at the next regular meeting of the Village Council.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
 Penalty, see § 53.99
§ 53.07 ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Generally. The Village Council shall make all determinations regarding
the interpretation of this chapter, shall develop policies to ensure
enforcement, and establish fees, charges, and penalties.
   (B)   Permits, review, and inspections.
      (1)   Permits. Permit applications shall be available from the Village
Office and must be submitted to the Village Clerk for approval before
construction can begin. The Village Clerk shall pass the permit to the DPW
within 3 days for review and approval of plan.
      (2)   Permit approval. All plans for the installation of storm sewer
lines shall be reviewed and approved by the Inspector before construction
begins and must be in compliance with state and/or federal permit requirements.
      (3)   Time limit. The permit shall be valid for 180 days.
      (4)   Call for inspection.
         (a)   The person(s) responsible for installation of storm sewer lines
other than village employees shall call for the first inspection before any
trench is covered and shall call for a final inspection after construction is
completed.
         (b)   The village requires notice 24 hours in advance of the
inspection.
   (C)   Enforcement.
      (1)   Inspection. Inspection of all storm sewer construction shall be the
responsibility of the DPW. The Inspector shall be assigned by the Supervisor of
the Department with the approval of Village Council.
      (2)   Enforcement authority. The Inspector shall have the authority to
enforce the provisions of this chapter and shall be permitted to enter upon all
properties for the purpose of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling,
and testing, in accordance with the provisions of this chapter. Inspectors
shall have the right to request the accompaniment of a Village Law Enforcement
Officer.
   (D)   Fees and charges.
      (1)   Terms. All fees shall be paid in full at the time the permit is
submitted to the Village Clerk.
      (2)   Tap-in fee. The fee for connecting to the Storm Sewer System shall
be determined by Village Council train time to time.
         (a)   Fees shall vary according to size and include the following:
            1.   Connection to the storm sewer main;
            2.   Review and approval of the permit application;
            3.   Materials to make the tap-in;
            4.   Labor to make the tap-in;
            5.   Inspection of the storm sewer connection and site restoration;
and
            6.   Sufficient sewer pipe to extend from the sewer main to the
property line.
         (b)   No fee is required for emergency or nonemergency replacement or
repair of any existing tap-in of a same size.
(Am. Ord. 193, passed 11-4-1991)
      (3)   Sidewalk rep1acement and roadway resurfacing. If sidewalk
replacement and/or roadway resurfacing is required, the permit holder must pay
in addition to the tap-in fee, the current per square foot charge incurred by
the village, multiplied by the total square feet of sidewalk installed or
resurfacing required. A reasonable estimate of these costs shall be made by the
Department of Public Works and included in the charges assessed at the time of
issuing the permit.
(Am. Ord. 193, passed 11-4-1991)
      (4)   Applicant responsibilities.
         (a)   The applicant shall be responsible for the cost of all material
and construction not listed under tap-in fee.
         (b)   This responsibility includes but is not limited to the
installation of any storm sewer line from edge of the village right-of-way to
the premises; and any excavation, site restoration, seeding, mulching,
resurfacing of the roadway, sidewalk replacement, and other outlays related to
the sewer connection within the village right-of-way.
         (c)   Charges will vary according to connection size and restoration
requirements.
         (d)   All contracted labor must be performed in accordance with
applicable safety regulations.
         (e)   Arrangements can be made with the Department of Public Works in
cooperation with Village Clerk for assistance in fulfilling these
responsibilities.
(Am. Ord. 193, passed 11-4-1991)
      (5)   Nonpayment of expenses. If the payment amount for additional
expenses incurred by the village remains not paid for a period longer than 90
days, the amount shall become a lien against the property benefitted by storm
sewer service. The Village Clerk shall certify to the Village Tax Assessor the
fact of such a lien. The expense shall be entered by the Assessor to the next
tax roll as a charge against the premises and shall be collected. The lien
thereof shall be enforced in the same manner.
   (E)   Bonding. Storm sewer installation which requires street or sidewalk
cuts made by anyone other than village employees or authorized contractors
shall require a bond be paid to the Village of Manchester in an amount
established by the Village Council.
   (F)   Record keeping.
      (1)   (a)   The Supervisor of the DPW shall maintain an accurate map of
the storm sewer system.
         (b)   All additions or modifications shall be recorded on the map upon
completion of a project including size, type, location, and other site specific
information useful for future reference.
      (2)   The Village Clerk shall maintain permanent records of permit
applications, notices of violation, and individual case files as required.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 53.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall be in effect 10 days after publication in a newspaper of
local circulation.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
§ 53.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Any person found to be violating any provision of
this chapter shall be served by the village with a written notice of violation
stating the nature of the violation, specifying the description and time limit
for remedial action as recommended by the DPW. The time limit shall not be less
than 30 days.
   (B)   Appeal. Any person who wishes to contest the recommendations of the
DPW shall have the right of appeal to the Village Council within 30 days of the
issue of the notice of violation. Any person shall have the right to litigate
in a court of proper jurisdiction.
   (C)   Civil infraction. Any person who shall continue a violation beyond the
time limit stated in the written notice shall be guilty of a civil infraction.
Each day in which the violation continues shall be deemed a separate offense.
   (D)   Fine. The fine for violation of any provision of this chapter shall be
set by Council resolution.
(Ord. 190, passed 8-5-1991)
CHAPTER 54: REFUSE AND RUBBISH
Section
   
54.01   Definitions
   
54.02   Refuse containers
   
54.03   Location of containers
   
54.04   Collection
   
54.05   Equipment used in collection
   
54.06   Expense of refuse collection
   
54.07   Collector’s permit required
   
54.08   Disposal
§ 54.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED COLLECTOR. Person or entity authorized by contract under §
54.07.
   BAGS. Plastic sacks designed to store refuse with sufficient wall strength
to maintain physical integrity when lifted by top. Total weight of a bag and
its contents shall not exceed 35 pounds.
   BULKY WASTE. Furniture, box springs, mattresses and other waste materials
with weights or volumes greater than those allowed for containers.
   CONSTRUCTION DEBRIS. Waste building materials resulting from construction,
remodeling, repair or demolition operations.
   CONTAINER.  A receptacle with a capacity of greater than 20 gallons but less
than 35 gallons, constructed of plastic, metal or fiberglass, having handles of
adequate strength for lifting, and having a tight-fitting lid capable of
preventing entrance into the container by animals. The weight of a container
and its contents shall not exceed 50 pounds.
   GARBAGE. All putrescible or easily decomposable animal or vegetable waste
matter, normal household GARBAGE and trash, except as otherwise excluded.
   NONRESIDENTIAL UNIT. Any premises devoted to any mercantile business such
as, but not limited to, a store, shop, restaurant, theater, bowling alley,
drive-in, office building, medical facility, or gas station selling goods or
services, either retail or wholesale.
   PREMISES. The area of land surrounding or next to, or used in conjunction
with, residential and nonresidential establishments, including all public and
private walkways, parking lots, and storage areas.
   REFUSE. Miscellaneous waste material, including garbage and rubbish.
   RESIDENTIAL UNIT. A dwelling within the corporate limits of the village
occupied by a person or group of persons comprising not more than 4 families. A
RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall be deemed occupied when either water or domestic light
and power services are being supplied thereto. A condominium dwelling, whether
of single- or multi-level construction, consisting of 4 or less contiguous or
separate single-family dwelling units, shall be treated as a RESIDENTIAL UNIT,
except that each single-family dwelling within any such RESIDENTIAL UNIT shall
be billed separately as a RESIDENTIAL UNIT.
   RUBBISH. All waste wood, wood products, chips, shavings, sawdust, printed
matter, paper, pasteboard, rags, straw, used and discarded mattresses, used and
discarded clothing, used and discarded shoes and boots, combustible waste pulp
and other products such as are used for packaging or wrapping, crockery and
glass, ashes, cinders, floor sweepings, mineral or metallic substances, but not
including gravel, sand or earth.
   WHITE GOODS. The collection of WHITE GOODS is to include kitchen stoves,
clothes dryers, clothes washers, furnaces, humidifiers, hot water heaters,
trash compactors, dishwashers, metal sinks, metal counter tops and other
related items. Refrigerators, central air conditioners, window air conditioners
and dehumidifiers shall be accepted if properly tagged that Freon has been
removed.
(1984 Code, § 2.1) (Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 54.02 REFUSE CONTAINERS.
   All refuse not otherwise disposed of to the satisfaction of the Village
Council shall be placed in approved receptacles sufficient to receive all
refuse, which may accumulate between the times of collection.
(1984 Code, § 2.2) (Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 54.03 LOCATION OF CONTAINERS.
   Each residence within the village shall retain all refuse, white goods and
bulky waste to be collected in suitable containers between scheduled pick-ups,
in an inconspicuous place on the premises.
(1984 Code, § 2.3) (Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 54.04 COLLECTION.
   (A)   The collection of refuse, white goods and bulky waste shall be under
the supervision of the Village Manager, who shall be governed by the rules and
regulations promulgated by the Village Council.
   (B)   The Village Manager shall make the necessary rules and regulations
regarding the time and method of collection of refuse, white goods and bulky
waste.
(1984 Code, § 2.4)
   (C)   No refuse, white goods or bulky waste shall be placed for collection
earlier than 1:00 p.m. on the day prior to the collection day. After the
collection of the container contents has been made, containers and any other
items not collected shall be removed by the resident from the curbside no later
than 11:59 p.m. on the day of collection.
Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 54.05 EQUIPMENT USED IN COLLECTION.
   (A)   The authorized collector shall provide a covered truck or trucks so
constructed that the contents will not leak or spill therefrom, in which all
the refuse, white goods and bulky waste collected by him or her shall be
conveyed to the place of disposition, which shall be located beyond the village
limits.
   (B)   The vehicle shall be kept clean and as free from offensive odors as
possible, and shall not be allowed to stand in any street, alley, or public
place longer than is reasonably necessary to collect refuse, white goods and
bulky waste.
(1984 Code, § 2.5) (Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 54.06 EXPENSE OF REFUSE COLLECTION.
   The cost of the collection and disposal of refuse, white goods and bulky
waste of the village shall be subject to the policies as adopted by the Village
Council.
(1984 Code, § 2.6) (Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 54.07 COLLECTOR'S PERMIT REQUIRED.
      It shall be unlawful for any person to collect, gather, haul, or
transport refuse within the village limits, without first having obtained an
authorization and permit from the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 2.7) (Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 54.08 DISPOSAL.
   All refuse collected in the village shall be disposed of at a sanitary
landfill licensed by the State of Michigan.
(1984 Code, § 2.8) (Am. Ord. 270, passed 12-15-2008)
Penalty, see § 10.99
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
   Chapter
      
70.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
      
71.   HAUL ROUTES
      
72.   PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
      
73.   GOLF CARTS
CHAPTER 70: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Codes Adopted by Reference
   
70.01   Michigan Vehicle Code; Uniform Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and
Villages
Sidewalk Traffic
   
70.15   Definitions
   
70.16   Prohibitions
   
70.17   Exceptions
   
70.18   Civil infractions
   
70.19   Conflicts
   
70.20   Effective date
 
   
70.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Complete Streets Plan, see
Ch. 160
CODES ADOPTED BY REFERENCE
§ 70.01 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE; UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE FOR CITIES, TOWNSHIPS, AND
VILLAGES.
   (A)   Code and amendments and revisions adopted. The Michigan Vehicle Code,
Public Act 300 of 1949, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923, and all future
amendments and revisions to the Michigan Vehicle Code when they are effective
in this state are incorporated and adopted by reference. The Uniform Traffic
Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages as promulgated by the Director of the
Michigan Department of State Police pursuant to the Administrative Procedures
Act of 1969, Public Act 306 of 1969, being M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 - 24.328, and
made effective 10-30-2002, and all future amendments and revisions to the
Uniform Traffic Code when they are promulgated and effective in this state are
incorporated and adopted by reference.
   (B)   Motor Safety Carrier Safety Ordinance.
      (1)   Purpose. Division (B) of this section shall be cited as the
Manchester Village Motor Carrier Safety Ordinance. The purpose of these
divisions are to protect the public health, safety and welfare by regulating
and providing for local enforcement of motor carriers and motor carrier traffic
consistent with the Motor Carrier Safety Act of 1963, PA 181, being M.C.L.A. §§
480.11 et seq.
      (2)   Motor carrier safety regulation. The village hereby adopts by
reference Public Act 181 of the Public Acts of 1963, the Michigan Motor Carrier
Safety Act of 1963, being M.C.L.A. §§ 480.11 et seq. as amended, and
incorporates the provisions stated therein as if fully stated herein for the
purpose of local enforcement or motor carriers in the village.
      (3)   Copies of statutes for inspection and purchase. A complete copy of
the Motor Carrier Safety Act as adopted herein by reference shall be kept in
the office of the Village Clerk located at 912 City Road, P.O. Box 485,
Manchester, Michigan 48158, and shall be made available for use, inspection,
copying and distribution to the public for a reasonable fee as determined by
the Clerk, which fee shall not exceed the cost for reproduction or furnishing
copies of this division, the Motor Carrier Safety Act, of for any parts
thereof.
      (4)   Penalties. The penalties provided under the Motor Carrier Safety
Act are adopted by reference, provided, however, that the village may not
enforce any provision of the Motor Carrier Safety Act for which the maximum
period of imprisonment is greater than 93 days.
(Ord. 252, passed 12-5-2005)
   (C)   References in codes. References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to LOCAL
AUTHORITIES shall mean the Village of Manchester. References in the Uniform
Traffic Code for Cities, Townships and Villages to “governmental unit” shall
mean the Village of Manchester.
   (D)   Savings clause. The repeal provided herein shall not abrogate or
affect any offense or act committed or done, or any penalty or forfeiture
incurred, or any pending fee, assessments, litigation, or prosecution of any
right established, occurring prior to the effective date hereof.
   (E)   Location where the Michigan Vehicle Code and the Uniform Traffic Code
for Cities, Townships, and Villages are available for inspection. A copy of the
Michigan Vehicle Code, as amended, and the Uniform Traffic Code for Cities,
Townships, and Villages, as amended, may be inspected or obtained at the
offices of the Clerk of the Village of Manchester.
   (F)   Effective date. The Village Clerk shall cause this section, or a
summary of this section, to be published in the maimer required by law within
15 days after it has been duly adopted by the Village Council. The effective
date shall be 20 days after the date of passage or the date of publication,
whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-5-2003)
Penalty, see § 70.99
SIDEWALK TRAFFIC
§ 70.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§ 70.15 et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CONTROLLED VEHICLES. Include any machine designed to traverse along a
surface. CONTROLLED VEHICLES include those powered by either muscles or
engines. CONTROLLED VEHICLES include, but are not limited to, unicycles,
bicycles, tricycles, quadracycles, toy vehicles, scooters, wagons, roller
skates, skateboards, remote-controlled vehicles, sleds, toboggans, ice skates,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, motor scooters, mopeds, and automobiles.
   OPERATION OF A CONTROLLED VEHICLE. Any use of inherent design capabilities
other than that which causes it to be carried, pushed, or pulled at speeds less
than or equal to an average walk.
   REGULATED AREAS.
      (1)   Include those in which the operation of controlled vehicles is
restricted.
      (2)   Shall be posted with signs at all points of entry. Signs shall be
placed so as to be visible by operators of all types of vehicles. Wording of
the signs shall be established by the Village Manager.
(Am. Ord. 225, passed 6-3-1996)
   ROADWAY. Any street intended for the operation of automobiles.
   SIDEWALKS. Paved walkways located between the facade of a building, front
yard, parking lot, or easement and the curb, easement, or edge of a roadway.
SIDEWALKS are primarily intended for pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 70.16 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Controlled vehicles shall not be operated on sidewalks within the
boundaries of regulated areas. Controlled vehicles shall be carried, pushed, or
pulled on sidewalks in regulated areas. The carrying, pushing, or pulling of a
regulated vehicle shall be maintained at a speed no greater than an average
walk.
   (B)   Muscle-powered controlled vehicles shall not be operated on the
roadways of a regulated area. Engine-powered controlled vehicles are permitted
to be operated on the roadways of a regulated area when they are not prohibited
by county, state, or federal law. Bicycles are an exception to this provision.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-1-1988)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.17 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Delivery and utility equipment. Vehicles designed to move material or
provide utility are permitted when they are operated in accordance with
services typically required by commercial, office, or residential functions.
   (B)   Special events. Controlled vehicles can be operated in regulated areas
during special events. Permission must first be obtained from the Village
Council.
   (C)   Handicapped. Controlled vehicles can be operated in regulated areas if
they are designed to enhance the mobility of a handicapped person and are
limited to a speed no greater than a walk.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-1-1988)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.18 CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. Violations of
§§ 70.15 et seq. are punishable as a civil infraction. Jurisdiction over the
violations is held by the local municipal court. If a municipal court does not
exist, the District Court will hold jurisdiction.
   (B)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   The Enforcement Officer shall be the village police or other public
enforcement agency contracted by the village. The Enforcement Officer is
authorized to issue citations, impound controlled Vehicles, and eject violators
from the regulated areas.
      (2)   The Village of Manchester adopts the procedures for civil
infraction actions set forth in Public Act 510 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1
- 257.923. Divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), and (B)(5) below are the abridged basic
procedures of the aforementioned sections of Public Act 510 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923.
      (3)   A person to whom a citation is issued under the provisions of §§
70.15 et seq. shall appear before the District Court Magistrate within the time
specified or may respond to the allegations in the citation as provided
elsewhere in Public Act 510 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923.
      (4)   If a person chooses to admit responsibility for the civil
infraction, he or she may do so by paying the fine in person or by mail to the
District Court.
      (5)   If a person chooses to deny responsibility, he or she may contact
the District Court Magistrate and schedule an informal hearing.
   (C)   Appeal. A person has the right to appeal the determination of the
District Court Magistrate and recieve a formal hearing before a district court
judge.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-1-1988)
Penalty, see § 70.99
§ 70.19 CONFLICTS.
   Adoption by the Village of Manchester of Public Act 62 of 1956, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.951 - 257.954, the Uniform Traffic Code of the State of
Michigan shall remain unaffected. Provisions of §§ 70.15 et seq. which are more
restrictive than the Uniform Traffic Code shall govern enforcement and
interpretation.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 70.20 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 70.15 et seq. relates to the general safety and welfare of citizens
in Manchester. Therefore, the Sidewalk Traffic Ordinance shall be in full force
immediately after publication of its adoption.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-1-1988)
§ 70.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code and the Uniform
Traffic Code for Cities, Townships, and Villages are adopted by reference,
provided, however, that the village may not enforce any provision of the
Michigan Vehicle Code for which the maximum period of imprisonment is greater
than 93 days.
(Ord. 245, passed 5-5-2003)
   (B)   (1)   (a)   A person in violation of
§§ 70.15 et seq. shall pay a fine as set by Council resolution.
         (b)   Fines shall be paid to the District Court within 10 calender
days from date of issue. Payment can be made at the village’s offices during
regular business hours. The cost of postage will be
added.
         (c)   The adult who is legally responsible for a minor shall be held
responsible for payment of a fine.
         (d)   The impounded controlled vehicle can be recovered at the village
offices during regular business hours after the fine is paid.
      (2)   In addition to the above civil contempt remedies provided in
§§ 70.15 et seq. and Public Act 510 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923,
the failure to pay a civil fine or costs, or any installment thereof, shall
constitute a misdemeanor and is punishable by up to a $500 fine plus costs, 90
days imprisonment, or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 169, passed 8-1-1988)
CHAPTER 71: HAUL ROUTES
Section
   
71.01   Generally
   
71.02   Financial requirements
   
71.03   Certificate of insurance
   
71.04   General information
   
71.05   Short-term haul routes
   
71.06   Long-term haul routes
   
71.07   Renewal of special haul route permits
   
71.08   Conditions of permit
   
71.09   Effective date
§ 71.01 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The Manchester Village Council will designate special haul routes by
granting permits to allow overweight or excessive volume truck traffic. A
special haul route will apply only to the permittee under the permit, and only
for the duration of the permit.
      (1)   The Village Council may, in its discretion, authorize the use of
Class B roads to carry Class A loads, and may also authorize the use of any
roads for a heavier than normal volume of truck traffic.
      (2)   A special haul route permit application shall be submitted to the
Village Council at least 30 days before the requested effective date of the
permit on forms to be furnished by the Village of Manchester.
      (3)   The application is to be reviewed by the Village Manager and the
DPW Superintendent for compliance with the Special Haul Route Ordinance. If the
application is not in compliance, applicant is so notified.
      (4)   All required fees, bonds, and cash deposits must be deposited
before a special haul route permit will be issued.
      (5)   All special haul route permits shall expire on the next May 15
following the date of issuance, unless the terms of the permit shall expressly
otherwise provide. In no event shall a permit be valid for more than 1 year
from the date of its issuance.
      (6)   A special haul route permit may be revoked by the Village Council
whenever the permittee fails to abide by the terms of the permit.
      (7)   Unless otherwise specified on the permit, all above-normal
maintenance and repair work which the Village Council attributes to the special
use of the road by the permittee will be performed by the Village Council with
full reimbursement for all materials and equipment used together with time and
a half for all labor, and indirect costs and overhead. Billings will be monthly
and are to be paid within 15 days, unpaid balance deducted from deposits.
      (8)   If the permittee's use of the special haul route is expected to
continue for several years and, in the opinion of the Village Council, the road
is not suitable to handle the anticipated loads and/or volumes, the Village
Council may condition the issuance of a permit upon the upgrading of the haul
route at permittee's expense.
      (9)   The permittee shall post a bond (using forms provided), make a cash
deposit, pay the permit fee, and submit a certificate of insurance in the
amount shown on the approved application, prior to issuance of the permit, a
nonrefundable application fee will be charged for new requests to cover review
process.
      (10)   Balance of the permit, administration, and inspection fee must be
deposited in accordance with current fee schedule. This payment requirement
shall apply only to applications for new haul routes, and not to renewal of
existing permits, providing the Village Council determines that sufficient
money exists to repair anticipated future damage to the road.
   (B)   Special haul route permits may be issued for periods up to, but not to
exceed, 1 year. All permits shall expire on May 15 of each year, unless
otherwise therein specified.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 71.02 FINANCIAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bonds. Bond amounts shall be set by Council resolution.
   (B)   Deposits. A deposit shall be check, payable to the Village of
Manchester. The deposit, minus any unpaid charges, will be refunded at the
expiration of the permit. The amount of the deposit will normally be 10% of the
bond amount. This may be increased because of a poor experience factor.
Experience factors shall be defined in terms of citizenry complaints and/or
police involvement. It may also be reduced as part of an agreement covering the
upgrading of the haul route. A portion of the deposit may be utilized for
repairs by the Village of Manchester.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 71.03 CERTIFICATE OF INSURANCE.
   (A)   The permittee must carry insurance on all vehicles operating under the
permit whether or not owned by him or her. Insurance limits shall be set by
Council resolution.
   (B)   A certificate from the insurance carrier stating the coverage, policy
numbers, and expiration date, and the like, shall be filed with the Village of
Manchester and shall contain a clause requiring at least 10-days’ notice to the
Village of Manchester prior to cancellation of the policy by the insurance
company.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.04 GENERAL INFORMATION.
   (A)   Special haul route permits will not be issued if, in the opinion of
the Council, the requested usage will create hazardous conditions for the
traveling public.
   (B)   Among items to be considered as affecting safety are:
      (1)   Location of driveways for sight distance;
      (2)   Interference with other drives and road intersections;
      (3)   Width of haul route road way for 2-way traffic;
      (4)   Dust control on unpaved roads and access drives;
      (5)   The ability of road and its drainage structures to withstand the
proposed use;
      (6)   To prevent high levels of noise pollution and diesel fumes
pollution;
      (7)   To prevent vibration that may damage homes; and
      (8)   To prevent possible accidents to the citizenry, especially young
children.
   (C)   Among items to be considered to preserve the residential qualities of
the area are:
      (1)   To preserve the existing zoning and existing traffic;
      (2)   To preserve the quality of family life in a rural area; and
      (3)   To preserve the integrity of Class B roads.
   (D)   A special haul route shall not be required when all of the following
conditions are met:
      (1)   When usage falls within the small volume classification for both
tonnage and volume of trucks;
      (2)   Will not exceed Class A Road weight limits;
      (3)   The hauling is being done to or from a village business or
residence by the most direct route possible from the designated truck routes;
      (4)   When county frost laws are not in effect; and
      (5)   This shall not exempt truckers from obeying any resolutions or
ordinances passed by Village Council to limit trucking in specific areas and
posted as required by law, such as NO TRUCKS posted on certain designated
streets.
   (E)   Special haul route permits will not be issued if, in the opinion of
the Council, the adverse environmental impact will be too severe.
   (F)   It is anticipated that in most cases, at the permittee’s expense, some
road improvements will be required in connection with the issuance of special
haul route permits. The extent of the improvements will depend in part on the
requested usage. For this purpose, haul routes will be divided into short-term
and long-term haul routes.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 71.05 SHORT-TERM HAUL ROUTES.
   Short-term haul routes are those set up for a specific project which will be
used for anywhere from a few days or weeks up to 1 or 2 years. These are used
to get construction materials (sand, gravel, concrete, asphalt or fill, and the
like) to a project or to haul excess material to be a disposal site. It is
assumed these routes are being used as Class B routes. In addition to the cost
of improvement, and the cost of above normal maintenance items, the permittee,
upon completion of the use, must also pay the cost of returning the road of a
condition at least as good as it was before the permit was issued.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.06 LONG-TERM HAUL ROUTES.
   (A)   Long-term haul routes will be established when the need for the routes
is expected to exist indefinitely. For example, long-term haul routes shall
serve sand and gravel pits, landfill sites, and warehousing installations. The
roadway is to be upgraded at the permittee's expense in accordance with a
predetermined approved schedule, to such an extent that regular and continuing
above normal maintenance, other than grading and chloriding, will not be
required. The amount of upgrading required to be determined by the Village
Manager and DPW Superintendent based on the existing road conditions and the
expected use by the permittee.
   (B)   The amount of upgrading that the perinittee may expect is as follows.
      (1)   On gravel roads; annual basis.
         (a)   1.   Small volumes - 0 to 50,000 tons or less than 5 truck road
trips per day.
            2.   Improvements - provide adequate sight distance at driveway by
removing brush, earth, and other obstructions.
         (b)   1.   Medium volumes - 50,000 to 200,000 tons or 5 to 20 road
trips per day.
            2.   Improvements - in addition to the above:
               a.   Improve roadway by providing drainage;
               b.   Adding gravel where needed;
               c.   Widening narrow areas so that 2 vehicles can easily pass;
and
               d.   Placing bituminous approach at point where approach
connects to paved road and other similar improvements, as directed.
         (c)   1.   Medium to high volumes - 200,000 to 300,000 tons or 20 to
30 road trips per day.
            2.   Improvements - in addition to the above, reconstruct the road
to current standards suitable for a bituminous surface.
         (d)   1.   High volumes - 300,000 or over or over 30 truck road trips
per day.
            2.   Improvements - reconstruct to a Class A or Class B road
standard, depending on the type of load the permittee intends to haul.
      (2)   On Class B paved roads; annual basis.
         (a)   1.   Small volumes - 0 to 50,000 tons or less than 5 truck road
trips per day.
            2.   Improvements - same as for gravel roads.
         (b)   1.   Medium volumes - 50,000 to 200,000 tons or 5 to 20 truck
road trips per day.
            2.   Improvements - same as for gravel roads except for addition of
gravel. Pave the permittee's drive approaches to 40 to 60 feet from road
pavement edge with a minimum of 3 to 4 inches of bituminous aggregate
surfacing.
         (c)   1.   Medium to high volumes - 200,000 to 300,000 tons or 20 to
32 road trips per day.
            2.   Improvements - resurface haul route with an overlay of
bituminous surface. Improve sight distance and drainage where required. Pave
the permittee's drive approach as above.
         (d)   1.   High volume - 300,000 tons and above or over 30 truck road
trips per day.
            2.   Improvements - reconstruct as necessary to develop a Class A
road. Material to Class A standard. Pave the permittee's drive approaches as
above.
   (C)   The work of upgrading shall be completed as determined by Council. The
work may be negotiated between parties and it is within the discretion of
Council to allow the work of upgrading to be done by the permittee or his or
her agents as long as they meet all requirements as determined by Village
Council. If no agreement can be made with the permittee, the Village Council or
its agents shall complete the requirements at the permittee’s expense.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.07 RENEWAL OF SPECIAL HAUL ROUTE PERMITS.
   (A)   It is anticipated that short-term haul route permits will not be
renewed or reissued more than once. It is anticipated that long-term haul route
permits will be renewed or reissued each year, providing that the permittee
abided by the rules and regulations, paid all charges, performed all required
upgrading and other work, and provided further that the condition of the road
permits the continued use.
   (B)   Upon completion of the road upgrading, the permittee may expect to be
able to continue to use the haul route for a number of years by renewing the
permit annually. However, the Council does not relinquish its right to reduce
load limits to protect the road. It may become necessary to reduce load limits
on a haul route after the permittee has performed upgrading in accordance with
permit requirements to preserve the route during abnormal times of the year.
   (C)   The applicant is fully responsible for all operations, for all
trucking to and from its source, and must use the haul route when loaded or
empty. Trucks off the haul route will not be accepted.
   (D)   The Manchester Village Council in its discretion may permit the use of
another route for limited deliveries without the issuance of a short-term haul
permit.
   (E)   All trucks shall carry a load ticket, designating pit origin.
   (F)   All maintenance by permittee or its agents shall be under the
direction and supervision of the Manchester Village Council.
   (G)   The permit may be revoked at any time for violation of any applicable
rule or regulation, or upon a determination by the Council that revocation of
the permit is in the public interest.
   (H)   Permittee, its employees, agents, successors, and assigns do not
acquire any vested interests in or to any road as part thereof because of the
issuance of the permit or the performance of any of the conditions of the
permit. The Council may terminate the permit at such times and upon the
conditions as the Council may deem proper, and all rights of the permittee, its
employees, agents, successors, and assigns, and any other party or entity
claiming through the permittee are terminated and held for naught.
   (I)   The termination of the permit by the Council does not relieve the
permittee of any liability or obligations which it may incur as a consequence
of the issuance of the permit and the operation of vehicles upon the village
roads thereunder.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 71.08 CONDITIONS OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Supplemental specifications. The supplemental specifications appearing
on the back of the application for this permit, copy attached, and other
attached supplemental specifications are herein incorporated as part of this
permit.
   (B)   Accident liability and indemnification. Permittee shall well and truly
pay for all damages, fines, and penalties for which he or she shall become
liable and shall save harmless and indemnify the Village of Manchester and the
Village Council, Manchester, Michigan, against all suits, claims, damages, and
proceedings of every kind arising out of the operations for work herein.
   (C)   Bonds. The permittee shall before or at anytime during operations,
upon demand of this Council, furnish a cash deposit and/or surety bond in such
an amount as deemed necessary by this Council to cover damage to this highway.
It is understood that the permittee is personally responsible for the
conditions of the roads during the operations permitted hereunder, and for the
performance of the conditions of the bond, and that all work on the roads will
be at the discretion of the Council. If the cost of work exceeds the amount of
the bond, the permittee shall be personally liable to the Council for any
deficiency. The permittee shall be personally responsible for all damage to the
road during the operations permitted hereunder, regardless of the cause of the
damage. This Council may retain any portion of the cash deposited herewith
which in the opinion of the Council shall be necessary to cover any expense for
damage through the granting of the permit and the cash deposit or the balance
thereof shall be returned to the permittee upon completion of the work to the
satisfaction of this Council. Surety bonds shall be kept in effect by the
permittee until released by this Council.
   (D)   Precautions. During the progress of any construction undertaken within
the limits of the highway in pursuance hereof, the permittee shall provide all
barricades, signs, lights, watchmen, and flagmen as may be required for the
safety and convenience of the public in accordance with the Michigan Manual of
Uniform Traffic Control Devices, permit attachments and/or as shall seem
advisable to this Council. Traffic shall be maintained at all times unless
otherwise indicated hereon by special endorsement of the Council’s duly
authorized representative. A copy of this permit and the application therefor
shall be kept on the site during the course of any construction pursuant hereof
by the permittee or his or her duly authorized agent.
   (E)   Environmental conditions. If stipulated in the permit, the permittee
agrees to days and hours of pit operations and noise pollution of trucks.
   (F)   Speed/mph of trucks. If stipulated in this permit, the permittee
agrees to a maximum speed limit regardless of posted road speed.
   (G)   Violations. The violation of any conditions of this permit by the
permittee or his or her material haulers shall constitute a forfeiture of all
privileges granted hereunder.
   (H)   Permit revocable. It is distinctly understood that the privileges
granted herein are revocable at the will of the Council, and that the permittee
acquires no rights in any of the roads, and expressly waives any right to claim
damages or compensation of any kind in case this permit is revoked.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
§ 71.09 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect immediately after publication.
(Ord. 201, passed 7-6-1992)
CHAPTER 72: PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU
Section
   
72.01   Creation
   
72.02   Issuance of notice of parking violations
   
72.03   Time for appearing before Parking Violations Bureau
   
72.04   Accounting
   
72.05   Record of violations
   
72.06   Fines for parking violations
   
72.07   Amended and/or deleted sections of Uniform Traffic Code
§ 72.01 CREATION.
   A Parking Violations Bureau is by the provisions of this chapter established
for the Village of Manchester. This Bureau shall be operated by the person or
persons as the Village Council shall designate by appropriate resolution.
(1984 Code, § 9.21) (Am. Ord. 195, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 72.02 ISSUANCE OF NOTICE OF PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   The violator of any provisions of Chapter VIII of the Uniform Traffic Code,
as adopted and amended by this code, shall be served by the complaining officer
with a parking violation notice on a form as prescribed by Village Council by
appropriate resolution. The notice shall give the date and time of the
violation, the location of the violation, the nature of the violation, the
signature and identification number of the issuing officer, the vehicle make
and license number, and other pertinent information as specified on the notice.
The notice shall also include a schedule of fines for parking violations as set
forth in
§ 72.06, the procedure for contesting the ticket, and the following notice:
“The owner of the vehicle described on this parking violation notice is
notified that the vehicle was parked in violation of the Village of Manchester
Code. If you wish to admit responsibility for the violation, you may either
mail a check or money order, payable to the Village of Manchester for the
amount indicated, in this envelope, or pay in person at the Manchester Village
Hall, 912 City, Manchester, MI 48158.
Fine amounts increase after 14 days. YOU MUST RESPOND ON OR BEFORE 14 DAYS FROM
THE DATE THIS CITATION WAS ISSUED. Failure to respond will result in a default
judgment against you and additional costs.
Six or more unpaid notices may result in:
1.   Impoundment of your vehicle. Vehicles are subject to impoundment until
payment is received by the Manchester Violations Bureau.
2.   Loss of your right to renew your drivers license.
3.   Issuance of a warrant for your arrest.”
(1984 Code, § 9.22) (Am. Ord. 195, passed 12-2-1991)
   The notice shall also include the procedure for contesting the ticket.
§ 72.03 TIME FOR APPEARING BEFORE PARKING VIOLATIONS BUREAU.
   (A)   If any person who has received a parking violation notice, within the
time limited in the notice, pays at the Manchester Village Hall or mails the
fine and notice to the Parking Violations Bureau as set forth in
§ 72.02, the fine and cost shall be in complete satisfaction for the violation
charge. If the person who has received a notice does not mail in or bring in
person the fine and notice within the time required, the violation notice shall
be forwarded to the appropriate District Court under the provisions of this
code.
   (B)   The Parking Violations Bureau shall notify the Police Department when
parking violation notices are forwarded to the District Court. The Police
Department shall record the information in their parking violations log.
(1984 Code, § 9.23) (Am. Ord. 195, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 72.04 ACCOUNTING.
   (A)   (1)   Accounting shall be made by the Parking Violations Bureau within
10 days after the end of each month of all fines and costs received by it
during the previous month.
      (2)   A copy thereof shall be delivered to the Village Council and
another copy shall be delivered to the Police Department.
      (3)   A reconciliation of the issued parking violation notices will be
completed between the Police Department and the Parking Violations Bureau
quarterly, so as to determine the status of each notice.
   (B)   The Police Department shall make a report of the quarterly
reconciliations to the Village Council once the reconciliations are completed.
(1984 Code, § 9.24) (Am. Ord. 195, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 72.05 RECORD OF VIOLATIONS.
   After the complaining officer issues a parking violation notice, he or she
shall record the violation notice in the Parking Violation Notices Log. The
notice shall then be forwarded to the Parking Violations Bureau of the Village
of Manchester for collection. The Parking Violations Bureau shall keep a record
of all the violation notices, whether the same are issued by an officer or on
the complaint of any other person.
(1984 Code, § 9.25) (Am. Ord. 195, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 72.06 FINES FOR PARKING VIOLATIONS.
   The parking violations herein set forth, when the violator desires to plead
responsible, may be paid to the Parking Violations Bureau and the penalty for
the violations shall be as adopted by Council resolution.
Violation Violation
Violation                            Violation
No Parking Here to Corner            Blocking Driveway
No Parking Anytime                   Blocking Crosswalks
No Parking Between Signs             Blocking Alley
No Parking 2:00 a.m. to 5:00 a.m.    Blocking Traffic
No Stopping or Standing              Handicapped Parking
Parked on Lawn Extension             Over 12 inches from Curb
Double Parking                       Improper Parking on 1-Way Street
Within 15 feet of Fire Hydrant       No Parking Fire Lane
Parked on Sidewalk                   No Parking This Side of Street
Left to Curb                         Snow Removal
   Ahead of Setback Line          Improper Storage
Abandoned Vehicles                      Truck/Bus in Residential Area
Occupying 2 Spaces                      Private Property
Angle Parking Only                   Exceed 1 Commercial Vehicle in Residential
                                     Area
Other:   In Intersection
      Within 20 Feet of Crosswalk
 
(1984 Code, § 9.26) (Am. Ord. 195, passed 12-2-1991)
§ 72.07 AMENDED AND/OR DELETED SECTIONS OF UNIFORM TRAFFIC CODE.
   The following sections and sub-sections of the Uniform Traffic Code for
cities, townships and villages are hereby amended or deleted as set forth in
additional sections and sub-sections are added as indicated. Subsequent section
numbers used in this section shall refer to the like numbered sections of the
Uniform Traffic Code.
   (A)   Sec. 8.25. Section added to read:
      8.25 Parking on Lawn Extension. No person shall drive upon, park, or
stand any vehicle between the curb and the lot line nearest the street, said
area being commonly known as the lawn extension. This only applies to those
areas where curbs are in place.
   (B)   Sec. 8.26. Section added to read:
      8.26 Restricted Hours.
         (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to park or stand any motor
vehicle upon the curbed public street of the Village of Manchester between the
hours of 2:00 a.m. and 5:00 a.m. nightly.
         (2)   Exemptions. An exemption may be obtained for special
circumstances, issued by the Chief of Police. Permit shall be in writing and
shall be prominently displayed on the front windshield of the vehicle. Permit
shall be issued for a specified period of time not to exceed 90 days.
   (C)   Sec. 8.27. Section added to read:
      8.27 Parking in Setback Area. No person shall park a motor vehicle in the
area between the lot line and the front yard setback line, except on the
driveway, in structure or within an approved parking space or lot. When the lot
is a corner lot, no person shall park a motor vehicle between the lot lines and
the setback lines of either street. This law is not intended to preclude
persons from legally parking vehicles on the lawn extensions of street where
there are no curbs.
   (D)   Sec. 8.28. Section added to read:
      8.28 Residential Zones, Parking of Commercial Vehicles Within. Parking of
motor vehicles, in residential zones, shall be limited to passenger vehicles,
and not more than 1 commercial vehicle of the light delivery type, not to
exceed ¾-ton shall be permitted per dwelling unit. The parking of any other
type of vehicle, bus, except for those parked on school or church property, is
prohibited in a residential zone.
   (E)   Sec. 8.29. Section added to read:
      8.29 Truck or Bus on Residential Street, Restricted Hours. It is unlawful
to park or stand any truck or bus, except those actively providing a service,
on any residential street between the hours of 8:00 p.m. and 8:00 a.m. For the
purposes of this division, RESIDENTIAL STREET shall mean the portions of any
street which is adjacent to land which is zoned as residential. For the
purposes of this division, TRUCK or BUS shall mean any vehicle which is
licensed for an empty weight of more than 5,500 pounds or exceeds 22 feet in
length.
(Ord. 196, passed 8-1-1988)
CHAPTER 73: GOLF CARTS
Section
   
73.01   Definitions
   
73.02   Operation of golf carts on village streets
   
73.03   Sunset provision
§ 73.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER LICENSE. An operator's or chauffeur's license or permit to an
individual by the Secretary of State under Chapter III of the Michigan vehicle
code, 1949 PA 300, M.C.L.A. § 257.301 to M.C.L.A. § 257.329, for that
individual to operate a vehicle, whether or not conditions are attached to the
license or permit.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed for transportation while playing the game of
golf. A golf cart is not required to meet the vehicle safety requirements of a
low-speed vehicle for approval under this section.
   MAINTAINED PORTION. That portion of a road improved, designated or
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, or be in actual physical control of the operation
of the golf cart.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual physical control of the
operation of a golf cart.
   ROAD. A road or street which is in the Village of Manchester street system.
ROAD does not include a private road. Street and road are intended to be
interchangeable phrases.
   SUNSET and SUNRISE. That time determined by the National Weather Service.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 73.02 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON VILLAGE STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on village streets, subject to the
following restrictions:
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on any street unless he or she
is at least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements
of M.C.L.A. § 257.648 that apply to the operation of a vehicle.
   (C)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey by all sections pertaining to
traffic in the Michigan Motor Vehicle.
   (D)   A person operating a golf cart upon a roadway shall ride as near to
the right side of the roadway as practicable, exercising due care when passing
a standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (E)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on a state trunk line highway
(M-52). This subsection does not prohibit a person from crossing a state trunk
line highway when operating a golf cart on a street of the village, using the
most direct line of crossing.
   (F)   Where a usable and designated path for golf carts is provided adjacent
to a highway or street, a person operating a golf cart shall be required to use
that path.
   (G)   A person operating a golf cart shall not pass between lines of traffic
but may pass on the left of traffic moving in his or her direction in the case
of a 2-way street or on the left or right of traffic in the case of a 1-way
street, in an unoccupied lane.
   (H)   A golf cart shall not be operated on a sidewalk constructed for the
use of pedestrians.
   (I)   A golf cart shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 15 miles per
hour and shall not be operated on a highway or street with a speed limit of
more than 30 miles per hour except to cross that highway or street. The village
may, by resolution, designate roads or classifications of roads for use by golf
carts under this subsection.
   (J)   A golf cart shall not be operated on the streets of the village during
the time period from 1/2 hour before sunset to 1/2 hour after sunrise.
   (K)   A person operating a golf cart or who is a passenger in a golf cart is
not required to wear a crash helmet.
   (L)   A golf cart operated on a street of the village under this section is
not required to be registered under this act for purposes of section 3101 of
the insurance code of 1956, 1956 PA 218, M.C.L.A. § 500.3101.
   (M)   This section does not apply to a police officer, village employees,
and village volunteers in the performance of his or her official duties.
   (N)   A golf cart shall not be operated during inclement weather or with
snow and/or ice on the ground.
   (O)   Off-road vehicles, such as Gators, all-terrain vehicles (ATVs), a
multitrack or multi-wheel drive vehicle, dune buggies, or like-vehicles are not
considered golf carts.
   (P)   Violations of any provisions of this section shall be penalized as a
civil infraction.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-15-2022)
§ 73.03 SUNSET PROVISION.
   Unless reenacted by ordinance of Village Council, this chapter shall be
null, void and of no force and effect 1 year after the date of enactment.
(Ord. 308, passed 8-15-2022)
TITLE IX: PUBLIC SAFETY
   Chapter
      
90.   ANIMALS
      
91.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
      
92.   NUISANCES
      
93.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
      
94.   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
      
95.   CURFEW
      
96.   HEALTH AND SAFETY
      
97.   DISORDERLY CONDUCT
      
98.   VACANT RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES
      
99.   MARIJUANA FACILITIES
CHAPTER 90: ANIMALS
Section
Treatment of Animals
   
90.01   Cruelty to animals
   
90.02   Poisoning animals
   
90.03   Birds and birds’ nests
Keeping Animals
   
90.15   Definitions
   
90.16   Seizure and impounding of animals
   
90.17   Impounding and release
   
90.18   Notice to owner
   
90.19   Disposition of animals
   
90.20   Prohibitions
   
90.21   Special permits
Dogs
   
90.35   Definitions
   
90.36   Exceptions
   
90.37   Kennel license
   
90.38   Maintenance required for a kennel
   
90.39   Running at large
   
90.40   Offenses by dogs
   
90.41   Judicial proceedings regarding dangerous dogs
   
90.42   Rabies prevention
   
90.43   Pound
   
90.44   Release from pound
   
90.45   Pound records
   
90.46   Disposition of unclaimed dogs
   
90.47   Hiring pound facilities
   
90.48   Penalty
   
90.49   Violation tickets
   
90.50   Forms
   
90.51   Yard cleanliness
   
90.52   Injury to property; waste products
Enforcement
   
90.65   Police Department
   
90.66   County officials
Cross-reference:
Nuisances, see
Ch. 92
TREATMENT OF ANIMALS
§ 90.01 CRUELTY TO ANIMALS.
   No person shall cruelly treat or abuse any animal or bird.
(1984 Code, § 8.131)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.02 POISONING ANIMALS.
   No person shall throw or deposit any poisonous substance on any exposed
public or private place where it endangers, or is likely to endanger, any
animal or bird.
(1984 Code, § 8.132)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.03 BIRDS AND BIRDS' NESTS.
   No person, except a public officer acting in his or her official capacity,
shall molest, injure, kill, or capture any wild bird, or molest or disturb any
wild bird's nest or the contents thereof.
(1984 Code, § 8.133)
Penalty, see § 10.99
KEEPING ANIMALS
§ 90.15 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
90.15 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. All animate beings, except humans, with the power of voluntary
motion.
   ANIMAL RUNNING AT LARGE. An animal not under the control of its owner and
not on the owner's premises.
   EXOTIC OR WILD ANIMAL. An animal not occurring naturally, either presently
or historically, in this state, and/or an animal that has not traditionally
lived in a state of dependence upon humans as a tame pet. These animals would
be typically found in the wild, zoos, circuses, wildlife sanctuaries, or nature
preserves. Such animals include, but are not limited to: alligators, antelope,
badgers, bats, beaver, bears, birds of prey, bisons, bobcats, camels, cheetahs,
chipmunks, constriction snakes, cougars, coyotes, crocodiles, crows, deer,
ducks, elephants, elk, fox, gamecocks (or other fighting birds), geese, goats,
gophers, ground hogs, hippopotami, hyenas, jaguars, lions, leopards, llamas,
lynx, mink, moles, moose, muskrats, opossums, otters, ostriches, owls,
panthers, peacocks, pheasants, piranha fish, porcupines, primates, baboons,
wild pigs, pumas (a.k.a. cougars, mountain lions, panthers), quail, raccoons,
reptiles, rhinoceroses, seals, sharks, skunks, poisonous snakes, snow leopards,
poisonous spiders, squirrels, tigers, whales, wild rabbits, wild turkeys, wolf-
dog crosses, wolverines, and wolves, zebras, and any crossbreed of a wild
animal with domestic animal, or any descendant of any crossbreed.
   KENNEL. Any establishment wherein or whereon dogs are kept for the purpose
of breeding, sale, or sporting purposes.
   LIVESTOCK. Horses, stallions, colts, geldings, mares, sheep, rams, bulls,
bullocks, steers, heifers, cows, calves, mules, jacks, jennets, burrows, goats,
kids, and swine, and fur-bearing animals being raised in captivity.
   OWNER. When applied to the proprietorship of an animal, means every person
having a right of property in the animal, and every person who keeps or harbors
the animal or has it in his or her care, and every person who permits the
animal to remain on or about any premises occupied by him or her. The words
OWNER, PERSON, and WHOEVER shall be held to include corporations as well as
individuals, and the knowledge and acts of agents of and persons employed by
corporations in regard to animals transported, owned, or employed by, or in the
custody of, the corporations shall be held to be the acts and knowledge of the
corporations.
   POULTRY. All domestic fowl, ornamental birds, and game birds.
(Ord. 158, passed 2-2-1987; Am. Ord. 272, passed 4-20-2009; Am. Ord. 303,
passed 7-20-2020)
§ 90.16 SEIZURE AND IMPOUNDING OF ANIMALS.
   Any animal which is suspected of having rabies, or of having bitten any
person or animal, may be seized and impounded by any police officer or the
Washtenaw County Sheriff’s Department Animal Control Officer.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 90.17 IMPOUNDING AND RELEASE.
   (A)   Any animal impounded for observation for rabies shall be held until
released by the Police Department and/or the Washtenaw County Humane Society or
otherwise disposed of.
   (B)   Any animal impounded for having bitten any person shall be held for
not less than 10 days and, in case any complaint shall have been made before
any court having jurisdiction of the cases shall be filed, whereby an order
that the animal be killed or confined is sought, then the animal will be
impounded until the case is finally disposed of.
   (C)   All other animals which may be impounded under the provision of this
chapter shall be held and released to their respective owners by the Washtenaw
County Humane Society.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 90.18 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to notify the owner of every
animal which shall be impounded if the owner of the animal can be ascertained,
as soon as possible after the animal has been impounded.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 90.19 DISPOSITION OF ANIMALS.
   This section applies to any animal that has not bitten any person or not
contracted rabies or is not suspected of having rabies or has not been bitten
by an animal that has contracted rabies or has not been bitten by an animal
that is suspected of having rabies. After an animal has been kept by the
Washtenaw County Humane Society for a period of time and has not been redeemed
by his or her owner, that animal will eventually be disposed of by the Humane
Society.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 90.20 PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise prohibited within this chapter, no person shall
keep any livestock or poultry within the village. This prohibition does not
apply to livestock or poultry kept within the village on 3-2-1987. However, the
livestock and poultry allowed to remain within the village shall not be
replaced.
   (B)   The owner of an animal shall not permit or enable his or her animal to
run at large. This action is declared to be a nuisance and dangerous to the
public health and safety.
   (C)   The owner of an animal shall not permit or enable his or her animal to
discharge its feces on property other than that of its owner unless the owner
immediately removes and disposes the feces. At no time shall animal feces be
disposed of in a public trash receptacle. This action is declared to be a
nuisance and dangerous to the public health and safety.
(Am. Ord. 233, passed 9-20-1999)
   (D)   The owner of an animal which has been attacked or bitten by another
animal shall immediately notify the Police Department of this occurrence.
Failure to notify the Police Department is declared dangerous to the public
health and safety.
   (E)   Any person who shall have in his or her possession an animal which has
contracted rabies, or which has been subjected to the same, or which is
suspected of having rabies or of having bitten any person, shall, upon demand
of any police officer or the Washtenaw County Sheriff’s Department Animal
Control Officer, produce and surrender up the animal to be held for observation
as provided in this chapter. Failure to produce and surrender up the animal is
declared dangerous to the public health and safety.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-18-1995)
   (F)   No person, corporation or organization shall own, keep, house, harbor
or maintain, in any dwelling or building, or upon any lot located within the
village any exotic or wild animal.
   (G)   A person who owns or keeps an exotic or wild animal on the effective
date of this amendment shall within 30 days remove the animal from the village.
(Am. Ord. 272, passed 4-20-2009)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.21 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   The keeping of livestock, poultry and exotic or wild animals otherwise
prohibited by this chapter may be permitted by applying for a special permit
from the Village Council. Permits may be issued for fairs, circus performances,
or other public exhibitions or entertainment events.
(Ord. 158, passed 2-2-1987; Am. Ord. 272, passed 4-20-2009)
DOGS
§ 90.35 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this chapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning:
   DANGEROUS DOG. Means and includes:
      (1)   Any dog that bites or attacks a person or domestic animal without
provocation;
      (2)   Any dog that bites or attacks and causes serious injury or death to
another domestic animal while the domestic animal is on the property or under
the control of its owner;
       (3)   Any dog with known propensity, tendency, or disposition to attack
or to otherwise endanger the safety of people or other domestic animals;
      (4)   Any dog that chases or snaps at a pedestrian, bicyclist or vehicle;
      (5)   Any dog that charges a person in a manner that restricts the
person’s freedom of movement by placing the person in reasonable fear of an
imminent attack (the person must be lawfully on the property where the charge
occurs and this does not apply to an animal tormented by the person);
      (6)   Any dog that molests passers-by or persons on adjoining property by
viciously, continuously and aggressively barking or growling; or
      (7)   Any dog deemed a dangerous dog by a court of law.
   DOG. Canine.
   DOMESTIC ANIMALS. Animals that are tame, kept and controlled by an owner.
   KENNEL. A place where more than 3 dogs are kept.
   OWNER. Any natural person or any other legal entity having a possessory
right in a dog, or who harbors, cares for, exercises control over, or knowingly
permits any dog to remain on its premises occupied by such person or entity.
   PROVOKE. To perform a willful act or omission that an ordinary and
reasonable person would conclude is likely to precipitate the bite or attack by
an ordinary dog or animal.
   RUNNING AT LARGE. Permitting any dog to leave the premises of its owner
without being on a leash and under the control of a person physically able to
control the dog; or any dog on private property not enclosed, restrained or
kept in such a manner so as to prevent it from entering upon a street, public
place, or premises of another.
   SERIOUS INJURY. Any physical injury that results in broken bones or
lacerations that require sutures, cosmetic surgery, or other medical care and
treatment.
   TORMENT. An act or omission that causes unjustifiable pain, suffering, and
distress to an animal, or causes mental and emotional anguish in the animal as
evidenced by its altered behavior, for a purpose such as sadistic pleasure,
coercion, or punishment that an ordinary and reasonable person would conclude
is likely to precipitate the bite or attack.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008; Am. Ord. 276, passed 7-7-2011)
§ 90.36 EXCEPTIONS.
   A dangerous dog does not include any of the following:
   (A)   A dog that bites or attacks a person who is trespassing on the
property of the dog's owner;
   (B)   A dog that bites or attacks a person who provokes or torments the dog;
   (C)   A dog that is responding in a manner that an ordinary and reasonable
person would conclude was designed to protect a person if that person is
engaged in a lawful activity or is the subject of an assault;
   (D)   A dog being used by a law enforcement officer to carry out the law
enforcement officer's official duties.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.37 KENNEL LICENSE.
   Any owner or keeper of a kennel shall secure from the Village Clerk, or a
designee of the Village Clerk, a license. The Chief of Police, Building
Official, or any other authorized representative shall inspect and approve the
proposed premises before any kennel license shall be issued. No kennel license
shall be issued in any situation where the issuance of such a license would
violate and/or be contrary to any law or ordinance regarding health, zoning, or
property restrictions. A kennel license shall not be required in the case of a
female dog having a litter of pups, provided that the owners of the female dog
shall dispose of the pups before such offspring reach the age of four months.
The licenses required to operate a kennel in the village must be renewed
annually before January 1 of each year. The application fee for a kennel
license shall be set by resolution of the Village Council. All dogs kept in
kennels shall be licensed individually as required. No kennel shall be operated
in any district within the village specified as a residential district under
the terms of
Chapter 151, and no kennel shall be operated in any district within the village
except under the terms of
Chapter 151.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
90.48
§ 90.38 MAINTENANCE REQUIRED FOR A KENNEL.
   Any kennel operated or maintained in the village shall be kept in a sanitary
condition at all times and is subject to inspection by the Chief of Police,
Building Official, or any other authorized representative at any time. It shall
be unlawful for any kennel operated within the village to operate in such a way
as to cause harm or endanger any person of the public. Failure to comply with
any section of this subchapter shall result in the revocation of the license
for the operation of such kennel.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
90.48
§ 90.39 RUNNING AT LARGE
   All dogs must be securely confined in a manner which ensures that the dog
cannot escape the premises. No person owning, possessing or harboring any dog
shall allow such dog to run at large at any time. The Chief of Police or any
authorized representative of the Police Department may destroy any stray dog,
any apparently dangerous dog, or any dog not held by leash found in any street,
alley, common, public space within the village, open space within the village,
or in any person’s yard other than that of the owner of the dog. The Chief of
Police or any authorized representative of the Police Department should first
make a reasonable effort to catch and impound any dog in violation of this
section before destroying the dog, unless doing so would place the police
officer and/or the public in any apparent danger.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008; Am. Ord. 276, passed 7-7-2011)  Penalty, see §
90.48
§ 90.40 OFFENSES BY DOGS.
   It shall be unlawful within the village to:
   (A)   Harbor or keep any dog that, by loud and/or frequent or habitual
barking, yelping or howling, shall cause serious annoyance to the neighborhood,
or to people passing by on the streets of the city.
   (B)   Harbor or keep any dog that has been deemed to be a dangerous dog as
set forth and described within this subchapter, unless the dog is kept in a
manner consistent with the requirements of this subchapter.
   (C)   Permit a dog to run at large, as defined within this subchapter.
   (D)   Harbor or keep any dog that is not licensed pursuant to the
requirements of this subchapter.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
90.48
§ 90.41 JUDICIAL PROCEEDINGS REGARDING DANGEROUS DOGS.
   (A)   Upon a sworn complaint that a dog is a dangerous animal, and the dog
has caused serous injury or death to a person or has caused serious injury or
death to a domestic animal, a district court magistrate, district court or
other municipal court shall issue a summons to the owner, ordering him or her
to appear to show cause why the animal should not be destroyed.
   (B)   Upon the filing of a sworn complaint as provided in division (A), the
court or magistrate shall order the owner to immediately turn the dog over to a
proper animal control authority, an incorporated human society, a licensed
veterinarian, or a boarding kennel, at the owner's option, to be retained by
them until a hearing is held under this section of the complaint and order. The
expense of the boarding and retention of the dog is to be borne by the owner.
The dog shall not be returned to the owner until it has a current rabies
vaccination and a license as required by law.
   (C)   After a hearing, the magistrate or court shall order the destruction
of the dog, at the expense of the owner, if the dog is found to be a dangerous
dog that caused serious injury or death to a person or a domestic animal. After
a hearing, the court may order the destruction of the dog, at the expense of
the owner, if the court finds that the dog is a dangerous dog that did not
cause serous injury or death to a person, but is likely in the future to cause
serious injury or death to a person, or in the past has been adjudicated a
dangerous dog.
   (D)   If the court or magistrate finds that a dog is a dangerous animal, but
has not caused serious injury or death to a person, the court or magistrate
shall notify the animal control authority for the county in which the complaint
was filed of the finding of the court, the name of the owner of the dangerous
dog and the address at which the dog is kept at the time of the finding of the
court. In addition, the court or magistrate shall order the owner of that dog
to do one or more of the following:
      (1)   If the dog that has been found to be a dangerous dog is of the
Canis familiaris species, have an identification number tattooed upon the dog
at the owner's expense, by or under the supervision of a licensed veterinarian.
The identification number shall be assigned to the dog by the Michigan
Department of Agriculture, and shall be noted in its records pursuant to Act
No. 309 of the Public Acts of 1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 287.301 to 287.308. The
identification number shall be tattooed on the upper inner left rear thigh of
the dog, by the means of indelible or permanent ink.
      (2)   Take specific steps, such as escape-proof fencing or enclosure,
including a top or roof, to ensure that the dog cannot escape or unauthorized
individuals cannot enter the premises.
      (3)   Have the dog sterilized.
      (4)   Obtain and maintain liability insurance coverage sufficient to
protect the public from any damages or harm caused by the dog.
      (5)   Take any other action appropriate to protect the public.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
90.48
§ 90.42 RABIES PREVENTION.
   Any person who shall have in his or her possession a dog that has contracted
rabies, has been exposed to the same, is suspected of having rabies, or has
bitten any person, shall, upon the demand of the Police Department, surrender
such dog to the Police Department or Health Department, to be held for
observation and treatment as hereinafter required. It shall be the duty of
every person owning or harboring a dog that has been attacked or bitten by
another dog or other animal showing the symptoms of rabies, to immediately
notify the Police Department or Health Department that such person has such dog
or other such animal in his or her possession. Whenever a dog is brought to the
pound after having bitten a person, the Police Department may, if deemed
necessary and advisable, after holding such a dog for a sufficient length of
time to meet the requirements of the Health Department for investigation, cause
such dog to be destroyed.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
90.48
§ 90.43 POUND.
   The Chief of Police or any other authorized representative shall provide and
operate a pound in which shall be impounded all dogs that may be found running
at large contrary to the provisions of this chapter. The Chief of Police or any
other authorized representative shall give a receipt for each dog to the party
delivering the same, describing the dog and stating the date of delivery. It
shall be the duty of every member of the Police Department and of every other
person who may be appointed by village authority for that purpose, to promptly
seize and place in the pound all dogs that my be found running at large
contrary to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.44 RELEASE FROM POUND.
   No dog shall be released from the pound, unless the owner, or person
entitled to demand the same, shall pay to the keeper of the pound a sum as
shall be fixed by the keeper of the pound, and shall exhibit a license for such
dog issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.45 POUND RECORDS.
   The Chief of Police or any other authorized representative shall keep a
record of all dogs received by him or her, with descriptions thereof, the date
and hour received, and the disposition of the same. He or she shall also file
with the Village Clerk, on the first day of each month, a report showing the
number of dogs impounded during the previous month, the date received, and the
disposition of the same.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.46 DISPOSITION OF UNCLAIMED DOGS.
   All dogs not claimed and released within 5 working days after being
impounded shall be euthanized; or if, in the judgment of the Chief of Police or
any other authorized representative, that a dog is valuable, the same will be
sold at the pound by public auction to the highest bidder at noon on any day
following the expiration of the 5-day period. Whenever a dog wearing a proper
license shall have been impounded, the Chief of Police or any other authorized
representative shall forthwith notify licensee,
by mail or otherwise, at the address appearing upon application for such
license, of the fact that such dog has been impounded.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.47 HIRING POUND FACILITIES.
   The Village Manager is authorized to contract with a veterinarian or other
person for the furnishing of impounding facilities, and the disposal of dogs
euthanized pursuant to the provisions hereof, to the end that the Chief of
Police may be relieved from operating a pound and this chapter may be
economically enforced.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.48 PENALTY.
   Violation of any provision of this chapter shall be punishable by a fine of
not more than $500 or imprisonment for not to exceed 30 days, or by both such
fine and imprisonment, plus costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.49 VIOLATION TICKETS.
   For convenience of the public and economy in enforcement, police officers
are hereby authorized to issue violation tickets to offenders hereunder. The
form of such tickets shall be approved by the district judge and the Chief of
Police. On the basis of the issued violation ticket, a complaint shall be filed
and the alleged violator shall be duly tried therein in the district court.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.50 FORMS.
   The Village Clerk shall provide application and license forms containing
such information as he or she deems necessary to carry out the provisions
hereof. All fees and charges hereunder shall be deposited with the Village
Treasurer.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008)
§ 90.51 YARD CLEANLINESS.
   Yards and exercise dog runs shall be kept free of dog droppings, uneaten
food, and maintained in a sanitary manner so as not to be a nuisance because of
odor or attraction of flies and vermin.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty, see §
90.48
§ 90.52 INJURY TO PROPERTY; WASTE PRODUCTS.
   (A)   No person owning or possessing a dog shall permit the dog to bark,
tear up, crush or injure any lawn, flower bed, plant, shrub, tree, garden, or
any other property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such person,
in any manner whatsoever, without the permission of the owner of the property.
   (B)   No person owning or possessing a dog shall cause or permit the dog to
soil or defecate on property, public or private, not owned or possessed by such
person, unless such person shall immediately remove all droppings deposited by
the dog by any sanitary method of his or her choice, and transport those
droppings within an appropriate container to a receptacle located on property
owned or possessed by such person. The person shall possess the proper
equipment to perform the required removal, and shall display the equipment if
requested by any official empowered to enforce this chapter. This division
shall not apply to a person who is visually or physically handicapped.
(Ord. 271, passed 12-15-2008) Penalty §
90.48
ENFORCEMENT
§ 90.65 POLICE DEPARTMENT.
   This chapter shall be enforced by the Police Department.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-18-1995)
§ 90.66 COUNTY OFFICIALS.
   The Village Council may, by resolution, authorize county officials to
enforce or assist in the enforcement of this chapter.
(Ord. 224, passed 9-18-1995)
CHAPTER 91: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
Open Burning
   
91.01   Prohibited fires
   
91.02   Exceptions
   
91.03   Permits and permission
   
91.04   Civil infractions
   
91.05   Effective date
 
   
91.99   Penalty
OPEN BURNING
§ 91.01 PROHIBITED FIRES.
   (A)   Applicability. Fires include all fires started or maintained on or in
any public street, right-of-way, easement, alley, or other public ground; and
fires started or maintained on any private land.
   (B)   Rubbish fires. No person shall start or maintain any fire intended to
burn rubbish, garbage, or other refuse.
   (C)   Leaf and natural refuse fires. No person shall start or maintain any
fire intended to dispose of leaves or other natural refuse by burning.
   (D)   Large fires. No person shall start or maintain a bonfire or any other
large fire.
   (E)   Other fires.
      (1)   No person shall start or maintain any fire which creates enough
smoke or other combustion-related nuisance to cause respiratory or skin
irritation.
      (2)   All fires both inside and outside of structures which are not
confined are prohibited.
   (F)   Fire limits. No person shall start or maintain any fire within 1,400
feet of an incorporated village limit.
(Ord. 230, passed 9-21-1998) (Ord. 168, passed 11-3-1986)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.02 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   Fires for outdoor cooking. Fires which cook food are permitted,
providing that an irritating amount of smoke is not created, the fire is
confined to the cooking site, and no other nuisance exists.
   (B)   Fires for outdoor heating. Fires used to provide heating on
construction sites are permitted, providing that an irritating amount of smoke
is not created, the fire is confined to the work site, and no other nuisance
exists.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-3-1986)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.03 PERMITS AND PERMISSION.
   (A)   Incinerators. A building permit is required for the planning,
construction, and installation of any incinerator of liquid or solid material.
Written approval must be obtained from the Manchester Fire Department and
included with the application for the permit.
   (B)   Specific purpose fires.
      (1)   Written permission to start and maintain a fire for a specific
purpose must be obtained from the village office during regular business hours
and reviewed by the Department of Public Works in advance of starting the fire.
Written approval must first be obtained from the Manchester Fire Department.
      (2)   Consideration will be given to the day and time of burning, the
location of surrounding buildings and improvements, the material to be burned,
the size of the fire, the burning container, the wind and humidity at the time
of burning, and supervision by an attendant.
   (C)   Revoking of permission or permit. A permit or permission may be
revoked at any time.
   (D)   Appeal of a denial or revocation.
      (1)   Any person, firm, or corporation who believes they have been
unjustly denied a permit or permission to burn may appeal to the Village
Council.
      (2)   The Village Council shall promptly give further consideration to
their request.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-3-1986)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.04 CIVIL INFRACTIONS.
   (A)   Jurisdiction. Violations of
§§ 91.01 et seq. are punishable as civil infractions. Jurisdiction over the
violations is held by the local municipal court. If a municipal court does not
exist, the district court will hold jurisdiction.
   (B)   Enforcement procedures.
      (1)   The Enforcement Officer shall be the village police or other public
enforcement agency contracted by the village. The Enforcement Officer is
authorized to hear complaints and issue citations.
      (2)   The Village of Manchester adopts the procedures for civil
infraction actions set forth in Public Act 510 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1
- 257.923. Divisions (B)(3), (B)(4), and (B)(5) below are the abridged basic
procedures of the aforementioned sections of Public Act 510 of 1978, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923.
      (3)   A person to whom a citation is issued under the provisions of
§§ 91.01 et seq. shall appear before the District Court Magistrate within the
time specified or may respond to the allegations in the citation as provided
elsewhere in Public Act 510 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923.
      (4)   If a person chooses to admit responsibility for the civil
infraction he or she may do so by paying the fine in person or by mail to the
district court.
      (5)   If a person chooses to deny responsibility, he or she may contact
the District Court Magistrate and schedule an informal hearing.
   (C)   Appea1. A person has the right to appeal the determination of the
District Court Magistrate and recieve a formal hearing before a district court
judge.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-3-1986)
Penalty, see § 91.99
§ 91.05 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 91.01 et seq. shall be in full force and effect 30 days from the
date of adoption.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-3-1986)
§ 91.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person in violation of
§§ 91.01 et seq. shall pay a fine as set by Council resolution.
   (B)   Fines shall be paid to the district court within 10 calender days from
date of issue. Payment can be made at the village offices during regular
business hours. The cost of postage will be added.
   (C)   The adult who is legally responsible for a minor shall be held
responsible for payment of a fine.
   (D)   In addition to the civil contempt remedies provided in
§ 91.04 and Public Act 510 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 - 257.923, the
failure to pay a civil fine or costs, or any installment thereof, shall
constitute a misdemeanor and is punishable by up to a $500 fine plus costs, 90
days imprisonment, or any combination thereof.
(Ord. 168, passed 11-3-1986)
CHAPTER 92: NUISANCES
Section
General Provisions
   
92.001   Nuisance definition and prohibition
Dangerous Buildings
   
92.015   Dangerous building defined
   
92.016   Notice
   
92.017   Hearing; testimony; decision
   
92.018   Board of Appeals
   
92.019   Judicial review
   
92.020   Effective date
   
92.021   Forms for use by village officials
Nuisances Per Se
   
92.035   Generally
Noise Control
   
92.050   Declaration of policy
   
92.051   Definitions
   
92.052   General prohibition
   
92.053   Specific prohibitions
   
92.054   Maximum permissible sound levels
   
92.055   Limited exemptions
   
92.056   General exemptions
   
92.057   Temporary exemptions
   
92.058   Variances
   
92.059   Service of appearance tickets by Ordinance Enforcement Officer
   
92.060   Effective date
Abandoned Refrigerators
   
92.075   Generally
Bill Posting
   
92.090   Bill posting in streets
   
92.091   Bill posting; private trees
Electronically Amplified Sound
   
92.105   Prohibition
   
92.106   Exceptions
Blight Prevention
   
92.120   Purpose
   
92.121   Causes of blight or blighting factors
Weeds
   
92.135   Definitions
   
92.136   Regulations
   
92.137   Service of appearance tickets by Ordinance Enforcement Officer
   
92.138   Violations
   
92.139   Effective date
 
   
92.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.001 NUISANCE DEFINITION AND PROHIBITION.
   (A)   Whatever injures or endangers the safety, health, comfort, or repose
of the public; offends public decency; interferes with, obstructs, or renders
dangerous any street, highway, navigable lake, or stream; or in any way renders
the public insecure in life or property is hereby declared to be a public
nuisance.
   (B)   Public nuisances shall include, but not be limited to, whatever is
forbidden by any provision of this chapter.
   (C)   No person shall commit, create, or maintain any nuisance.
(1984 Code, § 8.1)
Penalty, see § 92.999
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 92.015 DANGEROUS BUILDING DEFINED.
   For the purpose of §§ 92.015 et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. A building or structure that has 1 or more defects or is
in 1 or more of the following conditions:
      (1)   A door, aisle, passageway, stairway, or other means of exit does
not conform to the approved fire code of the Village of Manchester in which the
building or structure is located;
      (2)   A portion of the building or structure is damaged by fire, wind,
flood, or other cause so that the structural strength or stability of the
building or structure is appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe
and does not meet the minimum requirements of Public Act 144, as amended, or
the building code of the Village of Manchester in which the building or
structure is located for a new building or structure purpose or location;
      (3)   A part of the building or structure is likely to fall, become
detached or dislodged, or collapse and injure persons or damage property;
      (4)   A portion of the building or structure has settled to such an
extent that walls or other structural portions of the building or structure
have materially less resistance to wind than is required in the case of new
construction by Public Act 144, as amended, or the building code of the Village
of Manchester in which the building or structure is located;
      (5)   The building or structure, or a part of the building or structure,
because of dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction, or the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the support, or
for other reason, is likely to partially or completely collapse, or some
portion of the foundation or underpinning of the building or structure is
likely to fall or give way;
      (6)   The building, structure, or a part of the building or structure is
manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
      (7)   The building or structure is damaged by fire, wind, or flood, or is
dilapidated or deteriorated and becomes an attractive nuisance to children who
might play in the building or structure to their danger, or becomes a harbor
for vagrants, criminals, or immoral persons, or enables persons to resort to
the building or structure for committing a nuisance or an unlawful or immoral
act;
      (8)   A building or structure, used or intended to be used for dwelling
purposes, including the adjoining grounds, because of dilapidation, decay,
damage, faulty construction or arrangement or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit
for human habitation, is in a condition that the health officer determines is
likely to cause sickness or disease, or is likely to injure the health, safety,
or general welfare of people living in the dwelling;
      (9)   A building or structure is vacant, dilapidated, and open at door or
window, leaving the interior of the building or structure exposed to the
elements or accessible to entrance by trespassers; and/or
      (10)   A building or structure remains unoccupied for a period of 180
consecutive days or longer, and is not listed as being available for sale,
lease, or rent with a real estate broker licensed under Article 25 of the
Occupational Code, Public Act 299 of 1980, being M.C.L.A. §§ 339.2501 -
339.2515. For purposes of this division (10), BUILDING or STRUCTURE includes,
but is not limited to, a commercial building or structure. This division (10)
does not apply to either of the following:
         (a)   A building or structure as to which the owner or agent does both
of the following:
            1.   Notifies a local law enforcement agency in whose jurisdiction
the building or structure is located that the building or structure will remain
unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive days. The notice shall be given to
the local law enforcement agency by the owner or agent not more than 30 days
after the building or structure becomes unoccupied; and
            2.   Maintains the exterior of the building or structure and
adjoining grounds in accordance with §§ 92.015 et seq. or a building code of
the Village of Manchester in which the building or structure is located.
         (b)   A secondary dwelling of the owner that is regularly unoccupied
for a period of 180 days or longer each year, if the owner notifies a local law
enforcement agency in whose jurisdiction the dwelling is located that the
dwelling will remain unoccupied for a period of 180 consecutive days or more
each year. An owner who has given the notice prescribed by this division (10)
(b) shall notify the law enforcement agency not more that 30 days after the
dwelling no longer qualifies for this exception. As used in this division (10)
(b), SECONDARY DWELLING means a dwelling such as a vacation home, hunting
cabin, or summer home, that is occupied by the owner or a member of the owner's
family during part of a year.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 92.016 NOTICE.
   (A)   Generally. Notwithstanding any other provision of
§§ 92.015 et seq., if a building or structure is found to be a dangerous
building, the enforcing agency shall issue a notice that the building or
structure is a dangerous building.
   (B)   Persons who may be served notice. The notice shall be served on the
owner, agent, or lessee that is registered with the enforcing agency under
M.C.L.A. § 125.525. If an owner, agent, or lessee is not registered under
M.C.L.A. § 125.525, the notice shall be served on each owner of or party in
interest in the building or structure in whose name the property appears on the
last local tax assessment records.
   (C)   Contents; notice of hearing. The notice shall specify the time and
place of a hearing on whether the building or structure is a dangerous
building. The person to whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity
to show cause at the hearing why the hearing officer should not order the
building or structure to be demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly
maintained.
   (D)   Hearing officer; filing of notice with officer. The hearing officer
shall be appointed by the Village President, to serve at his or her pleasure.
The hearing officer shall be a person who has expertise in housing matters,
including, but not limited to, an engineer, architect, building contractor,
building inspector, or member of community housing organization. An employee of
the enforcing agency shall not be appointed as hearing officer. The enforcing
agency shall have a copy of the notice that the building or structure is a
dangerous building with the hearing officer.
   (E)   Notice in writing; service. The notice shall be in writing and shall
be served upon the person to whom the notice is directed either personally, or
by certified mail, return receipt requested, addressed to the owner or party in
interest at the address shown on the tax records. If a notice is served on a
person by certified mail, a copy of the notice shall also be posted upon a
conspicuous part of the building or structure. The notice shall be served upon
the owner or party in interest at least 10 days before the date of the hearing
included in the notice.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 92.017 HEARING; TESTIMONY; DECISION.
   (A)   Generally. At a hearing prescribed by
§ 92.016, the hearing officer shall take testimony of the enforcing agency, the
owner of the property, and any interested party. Not more than 5 days after
completion of the hearing, the hearing officer shall render a decision either
closing the proceedings or ordering the building or structure demolished,
otherwise made safe, or properly maintained.
   (B)   Order; compliance. If the hearing officer determines that the building
or structure should be demolished, otherwise made safe, or properly maintained,
the hearing officer shall so order, fixing a time in the order for the owner,
agent, or lessee to comply with the order. If the building is a dangerous
building under division (10) of the definition for dangerous building in
§ 92.015, the order may require the owner or agent to maintain the exterior of
the building and adjoining grounds owned by the owner of the building
including, but not limited to, the maintenance of lawns, trees, and shrubs.
   (C)   Failure to appear, noncompliance; filing report of findings; request
to enforce order. If the owner, agent, or lessee fails to appear or neglects or
refuses to comply with the order issued under division (B) above, the hearing
officer shall file a report of the findings and a copy of the order with the
legislative body of the Village of Manchester not more than 5 days after
noncompliance by the owner, and request that necessary action be taken to
enforce the order. If the legislative body of the Village of Manchester has
established a Board of Appeals pursuant to
§ 92.018, the hearing officer shall file the report of the findings and a copy
of the order with the Board of Appeals and request that necessary action be
taken to enforce the order. A copy of the findings and order of the hearing
officer shall be served on the owner, agent, or lessee in the manner prescribed
in
§ 92.016(E).
   (D)   Hearing; notice, show cause why order should not be enforced, decision
on order, compliance. The legislative body or the Board of Appeals of the
Village of Manchester, as applicable, shall fix a date not less than 30 days
after the hearing prescribed in this section for a hearing on the findings and
order of the hearing officer and shall give notice to the owner, agent, or
lessee in the manner prescribed in
§ 92.016(E) of the time and place of the hearing. At the hearing, the owner,
agent, or lessee shall be given the opportunity to show cause why the order
should not be enforced. The legislative body or the Board of Appeals of the
village shall either approve, disapprove, or modify the order. If the
legislative body or Board of Appeals approves or modifies the order, the
legislative body shall take all necessary action to enforce the order. If the
order is approved or modified, the owner, agent, or lessee shall comply with
the order within 60 days after the date of the hearing under this division (D).
In the case of an order of demolition, if the legislative body or the Board of
Appeals of the Village of Manchester determines that the building or structure
has been substantially destroyed by fire, wind, flood, or other natural
disaster, and the cost of repair of the building or structure will be greater
than the state equalized value of the building or structure, the owner, agent,
or lessee shall comply with the order of demolition within 21 days after the
date of the hearing under this division (D).
   (E)   Compliance   costs; reimbursement. The cost of the demolition, of
making the building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or
structure, or grounds adjoining the building or structure incurred by the
Village of Manchester to bring the property into conformance with
§§ 92.015 et seq. shall be reimbursed to the Village of Manchester by the owner
or party in interest in whose name the property appear.
   (F)   Notification; failure to reimburse; lien for compliance costs. The
owner or party in interest in whose name the property appears upon the last
local tax assessment records shall be notified by the assessor of the amount of
the cost of the demolition, of making the building safe, or of maintaining the
exterior of the building or structure or grounds adjoining the building or
structure by first-class mail at the address shown on the records. If the owner
or party in interest fails to pay the cost within 30 days after mailing by the
assessor of the notice of the amount of the cost, the Village of Manchester
shall have a lien for the cost incurred by the Village of Manchester to bring
the property into conformance with
§§ 92.015 et seq. The lien shall not take effect until notice of the lien has
been filed or recorded as provided by law. A lien provided for in this division
(F) does not have priority over previously filed or recorded liens and
encumbrances. The lien for the cost shall be collected and treated in the same
manner as provided for property tax liens under the General Property Tax Act,
Public Act 206 of 1893, being M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 - 211.157.
   (G)   Action against owner; lien on property. In addition to other remedies
under
§§ 92.015 et seq., the Village of Manchester may bring an action against the
owner of the building or structure for the full cost of the demolition, of
making the building safe, or of maintaining the exterior of the building or
structure or grounds adjoining the building or structure. The Village of
Manchester shall have a lien on the property for the amount of a judgment
obtained pursuant to this division (G). The lien provided for in this division
(G) shall not take effect until notice of the lien is filed or recorded as
provided by law. The lien does not have priority over prior filed or recorded
liens and encumbrances.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 92.018 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   Generally. The legislative body of the Village of Manchester may
establish a Board of Appeals to hear all of the cases and carry out all of the
duties of the legislative body described in
§ 92.017.
   (B)   Appointment of members; composition. The Board of Appeals shall be
appointed by the legislative body of the Village of Manchester and shall
consist of the following members:
      (1)   A building contractor;
      (2)   A registered architect or engineer;
      (3)   Two members of the general public; and
      (4)   An individual registered as a building official, plan reviewer, or
inspector under the Building Officials and Inspectors Registration Act, Public
Act 54 of 1986, being M.C.L.A. §§ 338.2301 - 338.2313. The individual may be an
employee of the enforcing agency.
   (C)   Membership terms. Board of Appeals members shall be appointed for 3
years, except that of the members first appointed, 2 members shall serve for 1
year, 2 members shall serve for 2 years, and 1 member shall serve for 3 years.
A vacancy created other than by expiration of a term shall be filled for the
balance of the unexpired term in the same manner as the original appointment. A
member may be reappointed for additional terms.
   (D)   Officers. The Board of Appeals annually shall elect a Chairperson,
Vice-Chairperson, and other officers that the Board considers necessary.
   (E)   Quorum; final actions of Board. A majority of the Board of Appeals
members appointed and serving constitutes a quorum. Final action of the Board
of Appeals shall be only by affirmative vote of a majority of the Board members
appointed and serving.
   (F)   Compensation; expenses. The legislative body of the Village of
Manchester shall fix the amount of any per diem compensation provided to the
members of the Board of Appeals. Expenses of the Board of Appeals incurred in
the performance of official duties may be reimbursed as provided by law for
employees of the legislative body of the Village of Manchester.
   (G)   Open Meeting Act; compliance.
      (1)   A meeting of the Board of Appeals shall be held pursuant to the
Open Meeting Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 - 15.275.
      (2)   Public notice of the time, date, and place of the meeting shall be
given in the manner required by Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.261 - 15.275.
   (H)   Freedom of Information Act; compliance. A writing prepared, owned,
used, in the possession of, or retained by the Board of Appeals in the
performance of an official function shall be made available to the public
pursuant to the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 - 15.246.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 92.019 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the legislative body or
the Board of Appeals under this section may appeal the decision or order to the
circuit court by filing a petition for an order of superintending control
within 20 days from the date of the decision.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 92.020 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 92.015 et seq. shall take effect 30 days after adoption and
publication.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
§ 92.021 FORMS FOR USE BY VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village Council shall have the authority by resolution to approve,
adopt, and revise forms for use by the village officers from time to time.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
NUISANCES PER SE
§ 92.035 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The following acts, services, apparatuses, and structures are hereby
declared to be public nuisances.
   (B)   (1)   The maintenance of any pond, pool of water, or vessel holding
stagnant water;
      (2)   The throwing, placing, depositing, or leaving in any street,
highway, lane, alley, public place, square or sidewalk, or in any private place
or premises where the throwing, placing, depositing, or leaving is dangerous or
detrimental to public health, or likely to cause sickness or attract flies,
insects, rodents, and/or vermin, by any person, of any animal or vegetable
substance, dead animal, fish, shell, tin cans, bottles, glass, or other
rubbish, dirt, excrement, filth, rot, unclean or nauseous water, liquid or
gaseous fluids, hay, straw, soot, garbage, swill, animal bones, hides or horns,
rotten soap, grease or tallow, offal or any other offensive article or
substance whatever;
      (3)   The pollution of any stream, lake, or body of water by or the
depositing into or upon any highway, street, lane, alley, public street or
square, or into any adjacent lot or grounds of, or depositing or permitting to
be deposited any refuse, foul, or nauseous liquid or water, creamery or
industrial waste, or forcing or discharging into any public or private sewer or
drain any steam, vapor, or gas;
      (4)   The emission of noxious fumes or gas in the quantities as to render
occupancy of property uncomfortable to a person of ordinary sensibilities;
      (5)   Any vehicle used for any immoral or illegal purpose;
      (6)   All indecent or obscene pictures, books, pamphlets, magazines, and
newspapers;
      (7)   Betting, bookmaking, and all apparatus used in the occupations;
      (8)   All gambling devices, slot machines, and punch boards;
      (9)   All houses kept for the purpose of prostitution or promiscuous
sexual intercourse, gambling houses, houses of ill fame, and bawdy houses;
      (10)   The distribution of samples of medicines or drugs unless the
samples are placed in the hands of an adult person;
      (11)   All explosives, inflammable liquids, and other dangerous
substances stored in any manner or in any amount contrary to the provisions of
this code, or statute of the State of Michigan;
      (12)   Any use of the public streets and/or sidewalks which causes large
crowds to gather, obstructing the free use of the streets and/or sidewalks;
      (13)   All buildings, walls, and other structures which have been damaged
by fire, decay, or otherwise and all excavations remaining unfilled or
uncovered for a period of 90 days or longer, and which are so situated as to
endanger the safety of the public;
      (14)   All dangerous, unguarded excavations or machinery in any public
place, or so situated, left, or operated in private property as to attract the
public; and
      (15)   The owning, driving, or moving upon the public streets and alleys
of trucks or other motor vehicles which are constructed or loaded so as to
permit any part of its load or contents to blow, fall, or be deposited upon any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public or private place, or which deposits
from its wheels, tires, or other parts onto the street, alley, sidewalk, or
other public or private place dirt, grease, sticky substances or foreign matter
of any kind. Provided, however, that under circumstances determined by the
Village Superintendent of Public Works to be in the public interest, he or she
may grant persons temporary exemption from the provisions of this division (B)
(15) conditioned upon cleaning and correcting the violating condition at least
once daily and execution of an agreement by the person to reimburse the village
for any extraordinary maintenance expense incurred by the village in connection
with the violation.
(1984 Code, § 8.7)
Penalty, see § 92.999
NOISE CONTROL
§ 92.050 DECLARATION OF POLICY.
   It is hereby declared to be the policy of Village of Manchester that the
peace, health, safety, and welfare of its citizens require protection from
excessive, unnecessary, and unreasonable noises from any and all sources in the
community. It is the intention of the Village of Manchester Council to control
the adverse effect of the noise sources on the citizens under any condition of
use, especially those conditions which have the most severe impact upon a
person.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
§ 92.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 92.050 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL. A use of the property for purposes other than residential,
agricultural, recreation-conservation, or public lands, as those uses are
defined in the Village of Manchester Zoning Ordinance, now enacted or as
subsequently amended.
   dBA. The intensity of a sound expressed in decibels read from a calibrated
sound lever meter utilizing the A-level weighting scale and the fast meter
response, as specified in American National Standards Institute Standard S1.4-
1971.
   EMERGENCIES. Essential activities necessary to restore, preserve, protect,
or save lives or property from imminent danger of loss or harm.
   NOISE LEVEL. The maximum continuous sound level or repetitive peak level
produced by a source or group of sources as measured with a precision sound
level meter using “A” weighting scale, and the meter response function set at
“Slow.”
   PRECISION SOUND LEVEL METER. A device for measuring sound level in decibel
units within the performance specifications in the American National Standards
Institute Standard Sl.4, Specification for Sound Level Meters.
   PROPERTY LINE. The line which represents the legal limits of the property
owned, leased, or other occupied by a person, business, corporation, or
institution. In cases involving sound from an activity on a public or private
street or other public or private area or right-of-way, the PROPERTY LINE shall
be the nearest boundary of the right-of-way or area.
   RESIDENTIAL. A use of property for temporary or permanent dwelling purposes,
or agricultural, recreation-conservation, or public lands uses as the same is
defined by the Village of Manchester Zoning Ordinance now adopted, or hereafter
amended.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
§ 92.052 GENERAL PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to create, assist in creating, permit,
continue, or permit the continuance of any unreasonably loud, disturbing,
unusual, or unnecessary noise which annoys, disturbs, injures, or endangers the
comfort, repose, health, peace, or safety of others within the limits of
Village of Manchester.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.053 SPECIFIC PROHIBITIONS.
   (A)   The following activities are prohibited if they produce clearly
audible sound beyond the property line of the property on which they are
conducted:
      (1)   The operation, between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., of power tools,
equipment, or machinery, on properties adjacent to residential properties;
      (2)   The sounding, between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., of any bell, chime,
siren, whistle, or similar device, except to alert persons to the existence of
an emergency, danger, or attempted crime;
      (3)   The operation or playing between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a. m. of any
radio, television, phonograph, drum or musical instrument, or the firing of any
firearms;
      (4)   The operation or use between 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of any
loudspeaker, sound amplifier, public address system, or similar device used to
amplify sounds; and
      (5)   The use of any drums, loud speakers, musical devices, or other
instruments or devices for the purpose of attracting attention by the creation
of noise to any performance, show, or sale, or display of merchandise.
   (B)   The prohibitions of this section shall apply even if the sound level
produced by a prohibited activity does not exceed the applicable level
specified in
§ 92.054.
   (C)   No person shall discharge into the open air the exhaust of any steam
engine, stationary internal combustion engine, motorboat, or motor vehicle
except through a muffler or other device that will effectively prevent loud or
explosive noise therefrom. Further, it shall be unlawful to operate any motor
vehicle within the village using exhaust brakes, engine brakes, compression
release engine brakes (also known as Jake brakes) or similar device so as to
produce sound that is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the vehicle.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986; Am. Ord. 286, passed 3-18-2013) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.054 MAXIMUM PERMISSIBLE SOUND LEVELS.
   No person shall conduct or permit any activity which produces a dBA beyond
his or her property line exceeding the levels specified in Table I. Where
property is used for both residential and commercial purposes, the residential
sound levels shall be used only for measurements made on the portion of the
property used solely for residential purposes.
 
Table I
Use of Property Receiving the 7:00 a.m. to 10:00 p.m. 10:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m.
Sound
Residential                   61                      55
Commercial                    71                      61
 
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.055 LIMITED EXEMPTIONS.
   The following limited activities are exempted from the sound level
limitations of the foregoing section: construction, repair, remodeling,
demolition, drilling, wood cutting, or excavation work conducted between 7:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m. which does not produce a noise level exceeding 86 dBA
beyond the property line of the property on which the work is being conducted.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
§ 92.056 GENERAL EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The following activities are exempted from the sound level limitations
of
§§ 92.050 et seq.
   (B)   (1)   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident, or natural disaster, to restore public utilities,
or to protect persons or property from an imminent danger;
      (2)   Sound made to alert persons to the existence of an emergency,
danger, or attempted crime;
      (3)   Parades, concerts, festivals, fairs, or similar activities,
provided that the same are conducted subject to any sound limitations
established by the Village of Manchester Council or Board of Zoning Appeals, in
the granting of any permit for the approval of the activities; and
      (4)   Activities or operations of governmental units or agencies.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
§ 92.057 TEMPORARY EXEMPTIONS.
   (A)   The Village of Manchester Council is authorized to grant a temporary
exemption from the maximum permissible sound levels established by
§§ 92.050 et seq., if the temporary exemption would be in the public interest
and there is no feasible or prudent alternative to the activity, or the method
of conducting the activity, for which the temporary exemption is sought.
   (B)   The following factors shall be considered by the Village of Manchester
Council in determining whether to grant a temporary exemption:
      (1)   The balance of the hardship to the applicant, the community and
other persons in not granting the variance against the adverse impact on the
health, safety, and welfare of persons adversely affected or any other adverse
effects of the granting of the variance;
      (2)   The nearness of any residence or residences, or any other use which
would be adversely affected by sound in excess of the limits prescribed by
§§ 92.050 et seq.;
      (3)   The level of the sound to be generated by the event or activity;
      (4)   Whether the type of sound to be produced by the event or activity
is usual or unusual for the location or area for which the variance is
requested;
      (5)   The density of population of the area in which the event or
activity is to take place;
      (6)   The time of day or night which the activity or event will take
place; and
      (7)   The nature of the sound to be produced, including, but not limited
to, whether the sound will be steady, intermittent, impulsive, or repetitive.
   (C)   A temporary exemption must be in writing and signed by the President
of the Village of Manchester Council and must set forth the name of the party
granted the exemption, the location of the property for which it is authorized,
the date(s) and time(s) in which it is effective and the dBA level(s)
authorized.
   (D)   A temporary exemption may be granted only for the period of time for
which it is reasonably necessary to conduct the activity, which in no case
shall exceed 30 days.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
§ 92.058 VARIANCES.
   Persons wishing to continue activities which commenced prior to the adoption
of
§§ 92.050 et seq. and which create noises in excess of the permitted levels may
seek a variance from the Village of Manchester Board of Appeals. The variance
may be granted if the Council finds that strict application of
§§ 92.050 et seq. would cause a hardship and that there is no reasonable and
prudent alternative method of engaging in the activity.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
§ 92.059 SERVICE OF APPEARANCE TICKETS BY ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to the penalties in
§ 92.999(C), the Ordinance Enforcement Officer may institute any appropriate
action or proceedings to prevent any noise or use on and about any premises
which is in violation of the provisions of
§§ 92.050 et seq.; to restrain, correct, abate the violation, by any
appropriate civil or criminal proceeding. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer may
appear before the District Judge, Magistrate, or Clerk, and file a complaint
charging the person violating
§§ 92.050 et seq. with the offense specified, praying for the arrest of the
person, or in lieu thereof, issue and serve an appearance ticket with respect
to the class of offenses heretofore described as misdemeanors in
§ 92.999(C), by serving upon a person the appearance ticket when the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person has
committed the offense of violating a provision of
§§ 92.050 et seq. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue
appearance tickets pursuant to Public Act 366 of 1984, being M.C.L.A. §§ 764.9c
and 764.9f.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
§ 92.060 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 92.050 et seq. shall be effective 30 days after their first
publication subsequent to adoption.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
ABANDONED REFRIGERATORS
§ 92.075 GENERALLY.
   No person shall have in his or her possession, either inside or outside of
any building, structure, or dwelling, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned, unattended, or discarded icebox, refrigerator, or any other similar
air-tight container of any kind which has a snap latch or other locking device
thereon, without first removing the snap latch or other locking device, or the
doors, from the icebox, refrigerator, or other container.
(1984 Code, § 8.25)
Penalty, see § 92.999
BILL POSTING
§ 92.090 BILL POSTING IN STREETS.
   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp, or paste any sign,
advertisement, or any other matter upon any lamp post, electric light, railway,
telegraph, or telephone pole, shade tree, fire hydrant; or on any thing within
any park. Public officers posting any notice required or permitted by law shall
be excepted from the provisions of this section.
(1984 Code, § 8.28)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.091 BILL POSTING; PRIVATE TREES.
   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp, or paste any sign,
advertisement, or other matter upon any house, wall, fence, gate, post, or tree
without first having obtained the written permission of the owner or occupants
of the premises and having complied with all provisions of this code pertaining
thereto.
(1984 Code, § 8.29)
Penalty, see § 92.999
ELECTRONICALLY AMPLIFIED SOUND
§ 92.105 PROHIBITION.
   No persons operating or in control of a parked or moving motor vehicle
(including motorcycles or mopeds) shall operate or permit to be operated an
electronically amplified sound system in or on the vehicle so as to produce
sound that is clearly audible more than 50 feet from the vehicle except as
hereafter provided.
(Ord. 228, passed 6-16-1997)
Penalty, see § 92.999
§ 92.106 EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   The provisions of
§ 92.105 shall not apply to the following activities.
   (B)   (1)   Emergency work necessary to restore property to a safe condition
following a fire, accident, or natural disaster, to restore public utilities or
to protect persons or property from imminent danger;
      (2)   Sound made to alert persons to the existence of an emergency,
danger, or attempted crisis;
      (3)   Activities or operation of governmental units or agencies;
      (4)   Parades, concerts, festivals, fairs, or similar activities subject
to any sound limits in the approval by the village;
      (5)   Athletic, musical, or cultural activities or events (including
practices and rehearsals) conducted by or under the auspices of public or
private schools; and
      (6)   Operation or use on or from a motor vehicle for any noncommercial
purpose of any loud speaker, sound amplifier, public-address systems, or
similar device to amplify spoken words between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. with the prior approval of the Village Council. The Village Council shall
grant the approval when it finds that:
         (a)   The applicant has a noncommercial message that cannot be
effectively communicated to the public by any other means of communication
available;
         (b)   The applicant will limit the use of the equipment to time,
locations, and sound levels which will not unreasonably disturb the peace; and/
or
         (c)   The applicant will not use the equipment in residential areas
between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 228, passed 6-16-1997)
BLIGHT PREVENTION
§ 92.120 PURPOSE.
   Consistent with the letter and spirit of Public Act 344 of 1945, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 125.71 et seq., as amended, it is the purpose of §§
92.120 and
92.121 to prevent, reduce, or eliminate blight or potential blight in the
Village of Manchester by the prevention or elimination of certain environmental
causes of blight or blighting factors which exist or which may in the future
exist in the village.
(1984 Code, § 8.41)
§ 92.121 CAUSES OF BLIGHT OR BLIGHTING FACTORS.
   (A)   It is hereby determined that the following uses, structures, and
activities are causes of blight or blighting factors which, if allowed to
exist, will tend to result in blighted and undesirable neighborhoods.
   (B)   No person shall maintain or permit to be maintained any of these
causes of blight or blighting factors upon any public or private property in
the village which is owned, leased, rented, occupied, or used by the person:
      (1)   In any area, the storage of dismantled or junk vehicles upon any
property except in a completely enclosed building is prohibited. For the
purpose of this section the term JUNK VEHICLES shall include any motor vehicle
which is not licensed for use upon the highways of the State of Michigan for a
period in excess of 30 days and shall also include, whether so licensed or not,
any motor vehicle which is inoperative for any reason for a period in excess of
30 days;
      (2)   The outdoor storage upon any property of building materials unless
there is in force a valid building permit issued by the village for
construction upon the property and the building materials are intended for use
in connection with the construction. Building materials shall include, but
shall not be limited to, lumber, bricks, concrete or cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, shingles, mortar, concrete or
cement, nails, screws, or any other materials used in constructing any
structure;
      (3)   The storage or accumulation of junk, trash, rubbish, or refuse of
any kind, except domestic refuse stored in a trash receptacle and in a manner
so as not to create a nuisance. The term JUNK shall include parts of machinery
or motor vehicles, unused stoves or other appliances stored in the open,
remnants of wood, metal, or other material or other castoff material of any
kind whether or not the same could be put to any reasonable use;
      (4)   The existence of any structure or damaged partial structure which
because of fire, wind, or other natural disaster or physical deterioration is
no longer habitable as a dwelling, nor useful for any other purpose for which
it may have been intended;
      (5)   The existence of any vacant building, garage, or other outbuilding
unless the building is kept securely locked, windows kept glazed or neatly
boarded up and is otherwise maintained to prevent entrance thereto by vandals
or unauthorized members of the public; provided, however, that the existence of
any vacant, boarded-up building for a period in excess of 6 months shall be
deemed to be a cause of blight or a blighting factor;
      (6)   The existence of any incomplete structure unless the structure is
in the course of construction in accordance with a valid and subsisting
building permit issued by the village and unless the construction is completed
within a reasonable time;
      (7)   On any lot less than 14,000 square feet, the storage of more than a
maximum of 3 face cords of firewood. Such firewood must be neatly stacked not
more than 5 feet high in the side or rear yards and not in the setbacks;
      (8)   The parking of any automobile, truck, trailer or other vehicle or
parts thereof, in a public street or roadway for purpose of repairing same;
      (9)   The repair of any motor vehicle or part thereof unless such motor
vehicle or part is owned by the person residing on the property where the
repair is being conducted, or by members of his family. Any such repairs must
be conducted in a manner so as not to create a nuisance to the neighborhood,
and all such repairs to be completed within a period not to exceed 14 calendar
days from the start of such repair. Continuous repair of a vehicle or vehicles
at any residence is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and thereby subject
to the penalties of this code;
      (10)   A structure which is open or a condition of a structure which
permits entry, the unfinished development or excavation of land and the storage
of commercial vehicles or equipment on land which is left unattended for more
than 30 days is declared to be an attractive nuisance and prohibited blight;
and
      (11)   The outdoor storage or use upon any property of household
furniture or appliances typically recognized as being used inside the premises.
(1984 Code, § 8.42) (Am. Ord. 164, passed 2-15-1988; Am. Ord. 280, passed 11-
21-2011)   
Penalty, see § 92.999
WEEDS
§ 92.135 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§
92.135  through
92.139, the following definitions shall apply unless the context clearly
indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FLOWER BED. An area that is visibly set aside for the growth of plants other
than lawn grasses.
   GRASSES AND UNCULTIVATED VEGETATION. All grasses, annual plants, and
vegetation, except:
      (1)   Trees, shrubs, and bushes;
      (2)   Cultivated flowers;
      (3)   Ground cover plants; and
      (4)   Cultivated ornamental grasses.
   NOXIOUS WEEDS. Canada Thistle (Cirsium arvense), doddars (any species of
Cuscuta), mustards (charlock, black mustard, and Indian mustard, species of
Brassica or Sinapsis), wild carrot (Daucus carota), bindweed (Corivolvulus
arvensis), perennial sowthistle (Sonchus arvensis), hoary alyssum (Berteroa
incana), ragweed (ambrosia elatior 1.), poison ivy (rhus toxicodendron), poison
sumac (toxicodendron vernix), and any other plant, shrub, or tree that is
regarded as a common nuisance or is detrimental to health.
   PROPERTY.
      (1)   Lands within a platted subdivision in which buildings have been
erected upon 60% or more of the lots.
      (2)   Parcels of land along streets, county roads and/or private roads or
rights-of-way, which have common usage within the village, to a depth of 165
feet from the center of the street or road, or to the depth of the ownership of
the parcel, whichever is the lesser.
(Ord. 152, passed 11-19-1986; Am. Ord. 214, passed 10-18-1993)
§ 92.136 REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the owner or occupant of the property:
      (1)   To destroy all noxious weeds on the property before they reach a
seed-bearing stage, and to prevent their regrowth;
      (2)   To cut grasses and uncultivated vegetation on the property with
such frequency as shall be necessary to prevent their height from exceeding 8
inches;
      (3)   To remove any accumulation of dead vegetation from the property;
      (4)   To regularly cultivate and otherwise properly maintain all flower
beds on the property.
(Am. Ord. 214, passed 10-18-1993)
   (B)    Nothing in this subchapter shall apply to weeds in fields devoted to
the growing and raising of grain crops such as corn, wheat, oats, barley, or
rye, and no farm or farm operation shall be found to be a violation of this
subchapter if the farm or farm operation alleged to be a violation conforms to
the generally accepted agricultural and management practices according to
policy as determined by the Director of the Michigan State Department of
Agriculture.
(Ord. 152, passed 11-19-1986)
   (C)   A notice shall be hand delivered or placed on the front door of the
primary building of the property where a violation exists if a violation
exists. If the property lacks any type of structure, then the notice shall be
affixed to a stake that will be placed at the edge of the property to the road.
(Ord. 176, passed 10-16-1989)
   (D)   In the event the owner has failed, refused, or neglected to comply
with the provisions of this subchapter within 48 hours of notification, the
village and its authorized representatives are hereby empowered to cut, remove
or destroy and to cover the costs associated with enforcement a cutting fee of
$200, or the actual cost of cutting, whichever is greater, shall be billed to
the owner of the property. If payment in full is not received within 30 days
from the due date, a late fee in the amount of $50 shall be charged. If payment
in full is not received, the amount owed to the village shall be collected as a
special assessment against the premises.
(Ord. 176, passed 10-16-1989)
   (E)   The village shall only notify property owners once in a time period
from May to October in a given year. All repeat offenses during that calendar
year will be subject to violation abatement methods in division (D) above
without additional notice.
   (F)   The Village Treasurer shall forward to the owner of lands a statement
of the total charges assessed, as provided in this subchapter. The assessment
shall be payable to the Village Treasurer within 30 days from the date the
statement was forwarded. If not paid in full within the prescribed 30-day
period, the statement shall be filed with the Village Assessor and shall
thereupon be assessed against the land in question and become a lien on the
property in accordance with this code. The amount so charged may be discharged
at any time by the payment of the amount specified in the statement together
with interest at the rate of 18% per annum compiled from the time of filing the
statement with the Village Assessor.
(Ord. 176, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 280, passed 11-21-2011; Am. Ord. 321,
passed 7-5-2023) Penalty, see §
92.999
§ 92.137 SERVICE OF APPEARANCE TICKETS BY ORDINANCE ENFORCEMENT OFFICER.
   In addition to the remedies in §
92.138, the Ordinance Enforcement Officer may institute any appropriate action
or proceedings to control weeds and growth which is in violation of the
provisions of this subchapter; and to correct and abate the violation of this
act, by any appropriate civil or criminal proceeding. The Ordinance Enforcement
Officer may appear before the District Judge, Magistrate, or Clerk, and file a
complaint charging the person violating this subchapter with the offense
specified, praying for the arrest of the person, or in lieu thereof, issue and
serve an appearance ticket with respect to the class of offenses heretofore
described as misdemeanors in this subchapter by serving upon a person the
appearance ticket when the Ordinance Enforcement Officer has reasonable cause
to believe that the person has committed the offense of violating a provision
of this subchapter. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue
appearance tickets pursuant to Public Act 366 of 1984.
(Ord. 152, passed 11-19-1986)
§ 92.138 VIOLATIONS.
   Any person, firm, or corporation who violates any of the provisions of this
subchapter shall be guilty of a civil infraction.
(Ord. 152, passed 11-19-1986; Am. Ord. 176, passed 10-16-1989) Penalty, see
§ 92.999
§ 92.139 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This subchapter shall take effect and be in full force 30 days after
adoption.
(Ord. 152, passed 11-19-1986)
§ 92.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no
specific penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
   (B)   A person who fails or refuses to comply with an order approved or
modified by the Village of Manchester or Board of Appeals under
§ 92.017(B) within the time prescribed by that section is guilty of a
misdemeanor, punishable by imprisonment for not more than 120 days, or a fine
of not more than $1,000, or both.
(Ord. 207, passed 2-1-1993)
   (C)   Any person who violates a provision of §§
92.050 through
92.060 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor. If the person responsible for an
activity which violates §§
92.050 through
92.060 cannot be determined, the owner, lessee, or occupant of the property on
which the activity is located, shall be deemed responsible for the violation. A
person found responsible for a violation of §§
92.050 through
92.060 or who violates §§
92.050 through
92.060 shall be guilty of a misdemeanor, and shall be punished by a term of
imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, a fine not to exceed $500, or both, or any
part thereof, plus costs of prosecution.
(Ord. 154, passed 11-17-1986)
   (D)    Any person who violates §§
92.105 or
92.106 or any provision thereof shall be guilty of a misdemeanor and, upon
conviction, shall be punished by a fine not more than $500; or by imprisonment
for not more than 90 days, or by both the fine and imprisonment.
(Ord. 228, passed 6-16-1997)
   (E)   (1)   Sections
92.120 and
92.121 shall be enforced by the Police Department and Building Department.
      (2)   The owner, if possible, and the occupant of any property upon which
any of the causes of blight or blighting factors set forth in §
92.121 are found to exist shall be notified in writing to remove or eliminate
the causes of blight or blighting factors from the property within 10 days
after service of this notice upon him. The notice shall be served as prescribed
in this code.
      (3)   Failure to comply with the notice within the time allowed the owner
and/or occupant shall constitute a violation of §§
92.120 and
92.121.
      (4)   Violation of §§
92.120 and
92.121 shall be punishable as prescribed in §
10.99, and, in addition, action to abate the condition may be taken as herein
authorized.
(1984 Code, § 8.43)
      (5)   (a)   In addition to the above remedies, the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer may institute any appropriate action or proceedings to prevent any
erection, construction, alteration, repair, maintenance, or use which is in
violation of the provisions of §§
92.120 and
92.121; to restrain, correct, abate the violation; to prevent the occupancy of
any building, structure, or land; to prevent any act, conduct, business, or use
in and about any premises in violation of §§
92.120 and
92.121, by any appropriate civil or criminal proceeding. The Ordinance
Enforcement Officer may appear before the District Judge, Magistrate, or Clerk,
and file a complaint charging the person violating §§
92.120 and
92.121 with the offense specified, praying for the arrest of the person, or in
lieu thereof, issue and serve an appearance ticket with respect to the class of
offenses heretofore described, as misdemeanors in division (E)(4) above, by
serving upon a person the appearance ticket when the Ordinance Enforcement
Officer has reasonable cause to believe that the person has committed the
offense of violating a provision of §§
92.120 and
92.121. The Ordinance Enforcement Officer is authorized to issue appearance
tickets pursuant to Public Act 366 of 1984.
         (b)   This division (E)(5) shall be effective 30 days after adoption
and publication as provided by law.
(Ord. 153, passed 11-17-1986)
CHAPTER 93: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
Openings
   
93.001   Short title
   
93.002   Definitions
   
93.003   Excavation and other work regulated
   
93.004   Permit required
   
93.005   Application for permit
   
93.006   Bond or deposit
   
93.007   Granting of permit
   
93.008   Record of permits
   
93.009   Openings in paved streets
   
93.010   Openings in streets or other public places prior to scheduled
development
   
93.011   Guarding excavations and obstructions
   
93.012   Requirements for work under permit
   
93.013   Failure to comply with regulations
Obstructions and Encroachments
   
93.025   Utility poles
   
93.026   Maintenance of installations in streets
   
93.027   Curb cuts
   
93.028   Housemoving
   
93.029   Removal of encroachment
   
93.030   Temporary street closings
Street Trees
   
93.040   Planting permit
   
93.041   Prohibited species
Sidewalks
   
93.055   Definitions
   
93.056   Construction and maintenance
   
93.057   Order to construct
   
93.058   Notice to owner
   
93.059   Construction by village
   
93.060   Assessment to owner
   
93.061   Construction by owner
   
93.062   Removal of snow and ice
OPENINGS
§ 93.001 SHORT TITLE.
   Sections 93.001 et seq. shall be known and may be designated as the Street
Excavation Ordinance of the Village of Manchester, Michigan.
(1984 Code, § 4.1)
§ 93.002 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 93.001 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   STREET or ALLEY. The entire area between the boundary lines of every public
right-of-way, whether open to vehicular traffic or not.
   SUPERINTENDENT or SUPERINTENDENT OF PUBLIC WORKS and POLICE CHIEF. The
Superintendent of Public Works and Police Chief respectively of the Village of
Manchester, Michigan, or their respective duly authorized representatives.
   UTILITY. Any person who operates and maintains any main, pipe, line, or
other equipment in or under any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place
in the Village of Manchester, Michigan.
(1984 Code, § 4.2)
§ 93.003 EXCAVATION AND OTHER WORK REGULATED.
   No person, other than a duly authorized village official or village
employee, shall make, cause, or permit to be made any excavation or opening in
or under the pavement or other surface of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public place within the Village of Manchester, or construct, alter, or repair
any street surface, drainage ditch, culvert, driveway extension, curb, gutter,
or other structure within the street, alley, or other public place, except as
hereinafter provided. Nothing herein shall be intended or construed to
authorize any work of any kind, in any state highway right-of-way by any
procedure other than that established by the Michigan State Highway Department.
(1984 Code, § 4.3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.004 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   Unless acting under a contract with the village, it shall be unlawful for
any person, other than a duly authorized village official or employee in the
course of his or her employment, to make or cause or permit to be made any
excavation or opening in or under the surface or pavement of any street, alley,
sidewalk, or other public place within the limits of the Village of Manchester,
without first having obtained and having in force a permit as hereinafter
provided. In case of an emergency arising outside of office hours, at night, on
Sundays, or legal holidays, when an immediate excavation may be necessary for
the protection of public health, safety, or public or private property, the
same shall be reported to the Police Department, which shall grant permission
in writing to make the necessary excavation upon the express condition that an
application be made in the manner herein provided on or before noon of the
following business day.
(1984 Code, § 4.4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.005 APPLICATION FOR PERMIT.
   (A)   Any person, except as hereinafter provided, desiring to procure a
specific permit as herein provided shall file with the Superintendent of Public
Works, at least 48 hours before the time proposed to begin the work, a written
application upon a blank form prepared and provided by the village. The
application shall state the name and address of the applicant, the name of the
street, alley, sidewalk, or public place in or under which it is desired to
make the excavation or opening, the kind of pavement or sidewalk thereon, the
purpose, size, and location, as near as can be determined, of the proposed
excavation or opening, the name, address, lot, and subdivision of the person
for whose benefit the work is to be done, and the time during which it is
desired the opening is to be permitted. When required by the Superintendent of
Public Works, the application shall be accompanied by a plat or pencil tracing
or sketch showing the location, character, and dimensions of the proposed
excavation or opening for the installation of new work, or the location and
character of the alterations involving the location of pipes, poles, conduits,
wires, or other conductors. Any public utility operating in the State of
Michigan under the jurisdiction and control of the Michigan Public Service
Commission may upon written application on a form provided by the village,
obtain an annual permit which is good for a period of 1 year from the date of
issuance.
   (B)   Every public utility performing any construction work thereunder, at
the end of each week, or more often when required by the Superintendent of
Public Works, shall on a form provided by the village, file a written report
showing all construction work performed by it within the village during the
week under the provisions of the permit. The annual permit shall not authorize
any opening in any concrete, asphalt, brick, or other pavement without the
written permission of the Superintendent of Public Works in each case.
(1984 Code, § 4.5)
§ 93.006 BOND OR DEPOSIT.
   The Village of Manchester may require a bond or deposit sufficient to cover
the estimated cost of repairing the surface of a proposed excavation or opening
of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public places prior to issuing a
permit therefor, when the dependability of the applicant is not sufficiently
established to reasonably assure compliance with all of the provisions of
§§ 93.001 et seq. In any case, the Village of Manchester shall require the bond
or deposit prior to issuing the permit when the cost of repairing the surface
is estimated to exceed as per Council resolution, or when the applicant has
failed to comply with any provisions of
§§ 93.001 et seq. in connection with any permit issued hereunder within the
previous 2 years. Any public utility which fails to comply with any provision
of
§§ 93.001 et seq. shall thereafter be required, for a period of at least 90
days, to obtain a permit as herein provided prior to starting any excavation or
opening of any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, and shall be
subject to a bond or deposit as herein provided. The furnishing of a bond or
deposit shall not be construed to exempt any public utility or person from
prosecution or civil action for any violation of this code which may have
caused the bond or deposit to be required.
(1984 Code, § 4.6) (Am. Ord. 138, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 93.007 GRANTING OF PERMIT.
   Upon the filing of the application and the payment of a permit fee of as per
Council resolution, bond or deposit herein described, the Superintendent of
Public Works shall grant the permit if in accordance with terms of
§§ 93.001 et seq. The permit shall state the name and address of the applicant,
the location, nature, purpose, and extent of the excavation or opening, the
kind or kinds of pavement to be disturbed, the amount of deposit or bond paid
by the applicant, the date of issuance and expiration date of the permit. All
permits shall be consecutively numbered and shall be made in triplicate, 1 copy
shall be given to the applicant, 1 copy shall be delivered to the
Superintendent of Public Works and 1 copy shall remain on file in his or her
office. The permit shall at all times be in the possession of a competent
person actually at the work site and shall be shown upon demand to a police
officer or properly authorized officer or employee of the village. This section
shall not apply where inconsistent with the permit fee provisions of this code
regulating sewers and drains, plumbing, and sidewalks, nor to a public utility
to which an annual permit shall have been issued under the provisions hereof.
The annual fee for an annual permit issued hereunder shall be as per Council
resolution per annum payable in advance.
(1984 Code, § 4.7) (Am. Ord. 138, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 93.008 RECORD OF PERMITS.
   The Superintendent of Public Works shall prepare and keep a record of
permits issued, numbered in the order in which they were issued, name and
address of person to whom issued, location, nature, purpose, and extent of
excavation or opening, time in which street is to be restored, permit fee and
amount of deposit or bond paid and the other and further items as will enable
anyone to obtain a complete history of each permit from its issuance to its
termination. The copies of the permit kept by the Superintendent of Public
Works, properly bound, may be used as a basis for the record.
(1984 Code, § 4.8)
§ 93.009 OPENINGS IN PAVED STREETS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make or permit or cause to be made
any excavation or opening in or under thepavement or other surface of any
street after this code becomes effective, for any purpose whatsoever, within a
period of 2 years from and after the time of construction of any such paving or
resurfacing; provided, that the Superintendent of Public Works may, on account
of an emergency affecting public health or public safety and public welfare,
and which could not have been foreseen, suspend the operation of this 2-year
rule, and in those cases, upon the granting of the permit, the work may be
performed within the 2-year period. The failure or neglect of the applicant or
other persons to do or have the work done before the 2-year period, or, the
inconvenience, by reason of the failure or neglect, to property along the
particular street or in the particular public place described in the
application shall not be considered to be an emergency. The 2-year period shall
be deemed to begin at the time of the completion and final acceptance by the
village of any such construction, paving, resurfacing, or repaving.
(1984 Code, § 4.9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.010 OPENINGS IN STREETS OR OTHER PUBLIC PLACE PRIOR TO SCHEDULED
DEVELOPMENT.
   Before any street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place shall be paved,
resurfaced, repaved, widened, or otherwise improved, notice thereof shall be
furnished to all public utilities and similar persons concerned. Prior to any
excavation or treatment of existing surfaces by the village, state, or their
contractors the public utilities or other persons shall install therein all
wires, pipes, poles, cables, conduits, and the like which may be deemed
necessary or contemplated by the public utility during the life of the
improvement. On the recommendation of the Superintendent of Public Works, the
Village Council may, by resolution, set a reasonable time limit prior to which
all work on the wires, pipes, poles, cables, conduits, and the like in the
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public places to be improved, must be
completed. Any person who, without the written consent of the Superintendent of
Public Works, continues to do the work after the expiration of the time set
shall be subject to the penalties provided in this code. Failure of the village
to give or receive notice to or from specific persons shall not affect the
other provisions of
§§ 93.001 et seq. or the penalties for violation of this code, and shall not be
deemed to create an emergency within the meaning of
§ 93.009.
(1984 Code, § 4.10)
§ 93.011 GUARDING EXCAVATIONS AND OBSTRUCTIONS.
   Any person making or causing to be made an excavation or opening in any
street, alley, sidewalk, or other public place, or within 5 feet of the
boundary of any street, or public place, shall, between sunset and sunrise on
every night that the same remains open or danger exists therefrom, keep the
excavation or opening fenced or barricaded and properly lighted so as to warn
all persons of the excavation or opening and all obstructions. No unauthorized
person shall remove or interfere in any way with any such lantern or other
danger signal or any such barriers.
(1984 Code, § 4.11)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.012 REQUIREMENTS FOR WORK UNDER PERMIT.
   (A)   Generally. All work under a permit shall be under supervision of the
Superintendent of Public Works and in conformity with the following
requirements.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   All work shall be started within 48 hours after the receipt of the
permit and shall be pursued diligently and continuously until the same is
completed. When in consequence of the weather or any process of the law, or any
other unexpected obstacle, the work shall be stopped for so long a time that
public travel shall be unreasonably obstructed, the excavating or opening shall
be refilled and repaved as if the work contemplated in a permit were actually
completed.
      (2)   In no case shall a person open or remove a greater area of surface
and at no other location than that specified in the original or supplementary
application; provided, however, that at the time of actually doing the work, if
it shall be necessary to open or remove a greater area of surface than
originally applied for, the applicant shall first notify and procure the
written consent of the Superintendent of Public Works to do so upon the express
condition that he or she shall and will before noon of the following business
day file a supplementary application for the additional excavation.
      (3)   All work shall be performed in such a way as to cause a minimum of
inconvenience and restriction to both pedestrian and vehicular traffic. No dirt
or other materials shall be placed on sidewalks. Not more than 1/2 of the width
of the street shall be opened at 1 time; the other 1/2 shall remain untouched
for the accommodation of traffic until the first 1/2 is restored for safe use.
All work shall be prosecuted so as not to interfere with any access to fire
houses, fire hydrants, and United States mailboxes. The permittees must remove
within 24 hours all snow and ice that may fall or form upon the street within 5
feet upon either side of the opening and keep the area free from snow and ice
until the opening is properly refilled.
      (4)   The person to whom a permit is granted shall give notice in writing
thereof to any public utility or municipality whose pipes, poles, mains, or
conduits are laid in the street about to be disturbed by the excavation, at
least 24 hours before commencing the same, and at his or her expense sustain,
secure, and protect the pipes, poles, mains, or conduits from injury and
replace and pack the earth wherever the same shall have been removed, loosened,
or disturbed, under or around them, so that they shall be well and
substantially supported. If any person shall fail to sustain, secure, or
protect the pipes, poles, mains, or conduits from injury or to replace and pack
the earth under or around them, as the provisions of this section require, then
the same may be done by the corporation to whom the same may belong and the
cost thereof and all damages sustained by the corporation thereby, shall be
paid by the person, and in default thereof, the corporation may maintain an
action against him or her therefor.
      (5)   Paving materials and earth or gravel removed must be kept separate
and the materials capable of being reused shall be preserved. The width of the
excavation or opening shall be no greater than is necessary for doing the work.
Sheeting and bracing shall be used when the excavation or opening is 5 feet or
more in depth. At the discretion of the Superintendent of Public Works,
sheeting and bracing may be cut off 1 foot below the surface pavement and left
in place when the opening is refilled. The street, alley, sidewalk, or other
public place must be opened in a manner which will cause the least
inconvenience to the public and admit of the uninterrupted passage of water
along the gutter. Excavations shall be made by open cut method. No tunneling
shall be done except as authorized by the Superintendent of Public Works and
then only under the conditions as he or she may impose. No excavation shall be
undercut or have a greater width at the bottom than at the top. In case of
slips or slides of the sides of the excavation the same shall be trimmed to
solid earth and the top surface cut back to the limit of the same before any
backfilling is commenced.
      (6)   All openings shall be refilled and temporarily resurfaced by the
person to whom the permit is issued on or before the time fixed in the permit,
and written notice shall be given to the Superintendent of Public Works when
the work is completed. The temporary resurfacing shall be maintained by the
person to whom the permit is issued until the village or person designated
shall permanently resurface the opening. Refilling shall be done in thin layers
not exceeding 6 inches in height, firmly rammed until the excavation is filled
to a proper line for placing the paving thereon. All refilling shall be done
with sand, gravel, or, if approved by the Superintendent of Public Works, other
materials of equivalent compaction qualities. Puddling or water tamping shall
be done only by permission of the Superintendent of Public Works. Whenever rock
is excavated not more than 1/3 of the total excavation shall be refilled with
the broken stone, which must be in pieces not exceeding 6 inches in their
largest dimensions, and mingled with clean earth and sand, and restored in the
manner as to insure the thorough and compact filling of all spaces. All void
space in a tunnel excavation shall be backfilled with thoroughly rammed
concrete as specified by the Superintendent of Public Works.
      (7)   In all unimproved streets the surface of the refilled excavation or
opening shall be finished in a workmanlike manner and shall in every respect be
equal in quality, character, and materials to the street surface existing
previous to making the excavation. In all improved streets, the crown of the
surface must conform to the adjacent street surface until sufficient time has
elapsed to warrant the restoration permanently of the paved surface. All the
restoration of paved surfaces shall be made in accordance with village
specifications and may be done by the village under contract or by its own
forces and the cost thereof charged to the person to whom the permit is issued.
      (8)   In the replacement or restoration of the permanent pavement, the
village shall have the right and authority to require removal of the old
concrete for an area extending at least 1 foot in all directions beyond the
edge of the original cut, and replace it with new reinforced concrete, not less
than 6 inches thick, but, equal in thickness to that of the adjacent pavement,
made in accordance with the current village specifications for a permanent
foundation. The new wearing surface shall extend at least 6 inches beyond the
joint in the foundation of the pavement and be laid with the same care and in
the same manner as the original pavement.
      (9)   If any part of a slab of sidewalk is cracked or damaged in any way,
the entire slab shall be replaced.
(1984 Code, § 4.12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.013 FAILURE TO COMPLY WITH REGULATIONS.
   In case any person to whom a permit has been granted shall fail to comply
with the terms thereof, the permit shall become null and void, and any and all
expense which may be incurred by the village in refilling the excavation or
restoring the street or sidewalk to its proper condition shall be borne by the
person to whom the permit is issued. In case the person to whom a permit is
granted shall fail to leave the street or sidewalk in as good condition as it
was previous to any work being done under the permit, any and all expense which
may be incurred by the village in restoring the street to its proper condition
shall be borne by the permittees.
(1984 Code, § 4.13)
OBSTRUCTIONS AND ENCROACHMENTS
§ 93.025 UTILITY POLES.
   (A)   Utility poles may be placed in the streets as the Superintendent shall
prescribe and shall be located thereon in accordance with the directions of the
Superintendent.
   (B)   The poles shall be removed or relocated as the Superintendent shall
from time to time direct.
(1984 Code, § 4.31)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.026 MAINTENANCE OF INSTALLATIONS IN STREETS.
   Every owner of, and every person in control of, any estate hereafter
maintaining a sidewalk vault, coal hole, manhole, or any other excavation, or
any post, pole, sign, awning, wire, pipe, conduit, or other structure in,
under, over, or upon, any street which is adjacent to or a part of his or her
estate, shall do so only on condition that the maintenance shall be considered
as an agreement on his or her part with the village to keep the same and the
covers thereof, and any gas and electric boxes and tubes thereon, in good
repair and condition at all times during his or her ownership or control
thereof, and to indemnify and save harmless the village against all damages or
actions at law that may arise or be brought by reason of the excavation or
structure being under, over, in, or upon the street, or being unfastened, out
of repair or defective during the ownership or control.
(1984 Code, § 4.32)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.027 CURB CUTS.
   (A)   No opening in or through any curb of any street shall be made without
first obtaining a written permit from the Superintendent.
   (B)   Curb cuts and sidewalk driveway crossings to provide access to private
property shall comply with the following.
      (1)   No single curb cut shall exceed 25 feet nor be less than 10 feet.
      (2)   The minimum distance between any curb cut and a public crosswalk
shall be 5 feet.
      (3)   The minimum distance between curb cuts, except those serving
residential property, shall be 25 feet.
(1984 Code, § 4.33)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.028 HOUSEMOVING.
   No person shall move, transport, or convey any building or other similar
bulky or heavy object, including machinery, trucks, and trailers, larger in
width than 14 feet, into, across, or along any street, alley, or other public
place in the village without first obtaining a permit as provided in
§§ 93.001 et seq., from the Superintendent. The permit shall specify the route
to be used in the movement and no person shall engage in the movement along a
route other than that specified in the permit. No housemoving permit shall be
granted until the applicant shall post a cash deposit or bond as provided in
§§ 93.001 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 4.34)
§ 93.029 REMOVAL OF ENCROACHMENT.
   Encroachments and obstructions in the street may be removed and excavations
refilled and the expense of the removal or refilling charged to the abutting
land owner when made or permitted by him or her or suffered to remain by him or
her, otherwise than in accordance with the terms and conditions of this
chapter. The procedure for collection of the expenses shall be as prescribed in
Chapter 157, Special Assessments.
(1984 Code, § 4.35)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.030 TEMPORARY STREET CLOSINGS.
   The Superintendent shall have authority to temporarily close any street, or
portion thereof, when he or she shall deem the street to be unsafe or
temporarily unsuitable for use for any reason. He or she shall cause suitable
barriers and signs to be erected on the street, indicating that the same is
closed to public travel. When any street or portion thereof shall have been
closed to public travel, no person shall drive any vehicle upon or over the
street except as the same may be necessary incidentally to any street repair or
construction work being done in the area closed to public travel. No person
shall move or interfere with any sign or harrier erected pursuant to this
section without authority from the Superintendent.
(1984 Code, § 4.36)
Penalty, see § 10.99
STREET TREES
§ 93.040 PLANTING PERMIT.
   (A)   The Council shall have the sole authority over planting, maintenance,
and removal of trees located either completely or partially in street easements
and other village property.
   (B)   No person shall plant, remove, break, spray, or take any action which
would injure or destroy any tree or shrub, the base of which is located either
completely or partially in a street easement or other village property, without
first obtaining a permit from the Village Clerk, who shall issue the permit by
and with the authority of the Village Council.
   (C)   The fee for the permit shall be determined by resolution of Village
Council.
(1984 Code, § 4.71) (Am. Ord. 187, passed 4-15-1991; Am. Ord. 202, passed 7-6-
1992)
   (D)   A property owner desiring to remove a tree located on village easement
at a time before it is scheduled for removal may, at their own expense, with
Council permission, remove the tree in accordance with the provisions of this
chapter. Removal is to include stump grinding and cleanup. The village will
provide top soil and grass seed at no charge.
   (E)   A property owner may trim a tree located on village easement, at their
own expense, with Council permission, provided that it is not done in a way
which would injure or destroy the tree.
(Ord. 192, passed 10-21-1991; Am. Ord. 202, passed 7-6-1992; Am. Ord. 209,
passed 3-1-1993)
§ 93.041 PROHIBITED SPECIES.
   Plant species and planting specifications shall conform to the Tree Policy
established by the Parks Commission.
(1984 Code, § 4.72) (Am. Ord. 187, passed 4-15-1991; Am. Ord. 202, passed 7-6-
1992)
Penalty, see § 10.99
SIDEWALKS
§ 93.055 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of §§ 93.055 et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS DISTRICT. Parcels zoned C-1, C-2, I-1, I-2, and CBD.
   BUSINESS HOURS. Hours between 8:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m. on any day not a
Sunday or holiday; hours between 12:00 p.m. and 6:00 p.m. on a Sunday or
holiday.
   CONSTRUCTED/PAVED SIDEWALK. A concrete or asphalt sidewalk, possibly
including gravel sections.
   PUBLIC STREET. The entire width between the boundary lines of every public
right-of-way open to vehicular traffic.
   RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT. Parcel is zoned R-1A, R-1B, R-2, MHP, PUD, R-3, and
AG.
   SIDEWALK. The portion of a public street between the curb lines and the
adjacent property lines intended for the use of pedestrians.
(Ord. 200, passed 5-18-1992)
§ 93.056 CONSTRUCTION AND MAINTENANCE.
   It shall be the duty of all owners and occupants of any lot or parcel of
land fronting or being upon or along any public street in the Village of
Manchester under the supervision of the Superintendent of Public Works of the
village to build, keep in repair, and rebuild sidewalks in the public streets
adjacent to and abutting upon each lot or parcel of land at the time, in the
manner, and of the material as the Village Council may direct.
(1984 Code, § 4.91)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.057 ORDER TO CONSTRUCT.
   Whenever the Village Council shall deem it expedient or necessary that a
sidewalk should be constructed in and along the line and side of any public
street in the village or, the same having been constructed, shall deem that the
same be repaired or rebuilt, the Village Council shall so declare by resolution
which resolution shall state the place where each sidewalk is required to be
built, repaired, or rebuilt, and the kind of material with which the same is to
be done, the width of the same, and the time in which the same is to be
completed and that the Village of Manchester will pay from the appropriate
village fund for the cost of materials necessary for the same not to exceed 50%
of the total cost including labor and all other expense incidental thereto to
build, repair, or rebuild the sidewalk as shall be determined by the
Superintendent, and thereupon it shall be the duty of all owners or occupants
of all land affected thereby to proceed within the time mentioned therein to do
the work and make the improvements required thereby and in the manner and of
the kind of material therein mentioned.
(1984 Code, § 4.92)
§ 93.058 NOTICE TO OWNER.
   After the passage by the Village Council of any resolution mentioned in
§ 93.057, it shall be the duty of the Village Clerk to prepare copies thereof
and to attach thereto a notice directed to each of the owners or occupants of
all the land upon which the improvements would be a charge informing them that
unless the improvement specified in the resolution shall be made and completed
by them within the time, in the manner and of the material therein mentioned,
then and in that case the village will make and complete the improvements of
which 1/2 of the cost and expense thereof shall be assessed to the owner or
occupant of the land affected thereby and will become a lien on the land as
hereinafter provided. Copies of the resolutions and notices shall be served by
the Chief of Police by delivering the same to each owner personally if found
within the village or by certified mail by the Village Clerk. If the owner is
not found in the village or the mail is not delivered, then the same shall be
served by posting the same in some conspicuous place on the premises and the
Chief of Police or Clerk shall make due return of the service and the time and
manner thereof which returns shall be filed in the office of the Village Clerk.
(1984 Code, § 4.93)
§ 93.059 CONSTRUCTION BY VILLAGE.
   If the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land adjoining or along any
public street where any such improvement shall or may be ordered shall neglect
or refuse to make or complete the same in accordance with, or within the time
required, by any such resolution (the resolution and notice having been
properly served) then it shall be the duty of the Superintendent of Public
Works to proceed forthwith to make and to complete the improvements and the
Superintendent shall immediately after the same shall be completed by him or
her, render to the village a complete, full, and certified statement of all of
the costs of the improvements and also the length of time expended by him or
her in superintending the same together with a particular description of all of
the lots or parcels of land fronting upon or adjoining to which the
improvements shall have been made by him or her and also the name or names of
all of the owners or occupants of all the lots or parcels of lands as far as
can be ascertained by him or her which certificate and statement shall be filed
in the office of the Village Clerk.
(1984 Code, § 4.94)
§ 93.060 ASSESSMENT TO OWNER.
   When the certificates or statement shall be filed in the office of the
Village Clerk, the owner's share of the cost shall be assessed as provided in
§§ 157.01 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 4.95)
§ 93.061 CONSTRUCTION BY OWNER.
   If the owner or occupant of any lot or parcel of land or owners or occupants
of any lots or parcels of land adjoining or along any public street within the
village shall desire to construct, repair, or rebuild a sidewalk and have the
benefits of
§§ 93.055 et seq., as herein provided, the owner or occupant shall first
signify his or her intention so to do to the Village Council of this village in
writing, at 1 of its regular sessions thereof, stating therein the lot or
parcel of land and the street along which he or she proposes to build the walk,
the length and width of the walk and the kind of material with which the same
is to be done and if the Village Council shall deem it expedient or necessary
to construct, repair, or rebuild the sidewalk, then the Village Council shall
so declare by appropriate resolution in like manner as set forth in
§ 93.057.
(1984 Code, § 4.96)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 93.062 REMOVAL OF SNOW AND ICE.
   (A)   The occupant of any premises, or the owner of any unoccupied premises
or real property, is required to keep the constructed sidewalks in front of, or
adjacent to, the premises cleared from snow and ice which will impede passage
on the sidewalks.
   (B)   (1)   Except as provided in division (B)(3) below, snow and ice shall
be so removed from sidewalks in all business districts by 4 business hours
after the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain, or by the
beginning of business hours of the next day following the fall, whichever
period is shorter.
      (2)   Except as provided in divisions (B)(3) or (B)(4) below, snow and
ice shall be so removed from all residential sidewalks within 24 hours after
the cessation of any fall of snow, sleet, or freezing rain.
      (3)   In the event snow and ice on a sidewalk has become so hard that it
cannot be removed without the likelihood of damage to the sidewalk, the person
responsible for its removal shall, within the time requirements of divisions
(B)(1) and (B)(2) above, have enough sand or other abrasive put on the sidewalk
to make travel thereon reasonably safe. Snow and ice shall then be removed as
soon as it can be accomplished without the likelihood or damage to the
sidewalk.
      (4)   (a)   In residential districts only, persons who, for reasons of
infirmity, believe compliance with divisions (B)(2) and (B)(3) above would
cause undue hardship, may file a request for exemption with the Village Clerk.
The Clerk may approve or disapprove the request according to guidelines adopted
by Council. If approved, the village may then remove snow and ice from these
sidewalks at a cost to be established by Council resolution, based on length,
in feet, of sidewalk.
         (b)   To be an exemption, the applicant must meet all of the following
criteria:
            1.   A statement from their physician that their physical condition
prohibits them from being able to remove snow and ice from their sidewalk
without endangering their health;
            2.   No family members living in Manchester who are able to provide
this service for them; and
            3.   Limited financial resources, so that having to pay someone to
clear snow regularly would cause undue financial hardship. Whenever possible,
the village will arrange for snow removal by volunteers, with no cost to the
exempted individual.
      (5)   If the person responsible for the removal of snow and ice fails to
comply with the requirements of this section, the village may remove the snow
and ice, and the cost thereof may be colleted as a single lot assessment under
§§ 157.01 et seq. Further, the responsible party shall be liable to the village
for all losses to the village or recoveries from the village for damages to
person or property of others caused by the failure of the responsible party to
so remove all snow and ice accumulations in accordance with this section.
(1984 Code, § 4.97) (Am. Ord. 200, passed 5-18-1992)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 94: DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
94.01   Drug paraphernalia
 
   
94.99   Penalty
§ 94.01 DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess drug
paraphernalia in the Village of Manchester.
      (2)   It shall be unlawful for any reason to deliver, sell, possess with
intent to deliver or sell, or manufacture with intent to deliver or sell drug
paraphernalia.
   (B)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      DRUG PARAPHERNALIA. All equipment, products, and materials of any kind
which are used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting, propagating,
cultivating, producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging,
repacking, storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling, or
otherwise introducing into the human body a controlled substance in violation
of state or local law. It includes, but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing, or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance of from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing, or preparing
controlled substance;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any species of plant, which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use, or designed for use in
identifying or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness, or purity of a
controlled substance;
         (e)   Scales or balances used, intended for use, or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Diluents and adulterants, such a quinine hydrochloride mannitol,
mannite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed for use in
cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sifters used, intended for use, or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from or in otherwise cleaning or refining
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons, and mixing devices used,
intended for use, or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes, and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed
for use in packaging small quantities of controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles, and other objects used, intended
for use, or designed for use in parenterally injecting controlled substances
into the human body; and
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling, or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish, or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden acrylic, glass, stone, plastic, or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls; or
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Smoking carburetion masks;
            4.   Roach clips, meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
            5.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            6.   Chamber pipes;
            7.   Carburetor pipes;
            8.   Devises commonly known as cocaine kits;
            9.   Devises commonly known as bullets; and
            10.   Devises commonly known as snorters.
   (C)   (1)   The Village Clerk shall cause this section, or a synopsis of
this section, to be published in the manner required by law within 15 days
after it has been duly adopted by the Village Council.
      (2)   The effective date shall be 20 days after the date of passage or
the date of publication, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 244, passed 2-17-2003)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   Any person who shall be convicted of violating any of the provisions of
§ 94.01 shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500, or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both at the
discretion of the court. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a
separate offense and may be punished accordingly.
(Ord. 244, passed 2-17-2003)
CHAPTER 95: CURFEW
Section
   
95.01   Curfew established
   
95.02   Abetting violation; parental responsibility
   
95.03   Report violations
   
95.04   Juvenile procedure
 
   
95.99   Penalty
§ 95.01 CURFEW ESTABLISHED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person under the age of 17 years to be or
remain in or upon any street or public place or to loiter in any public place
in the Village of Manchester after 10:15 p.m. and prior to 7:00 a.m., on
Sunday, Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thursday, and it shall be unlawful for
any person under the age of 17 years to be or remain in or upon any street or
public place, or to loiter in any public place in the Village of Manchester
after 12:00 a.m. and prior to 7:00 a.m., on Friday and Saturday unless the
person is accompanied by his or her parent or guardian or other person having
legal custody or some adult above 21 years of age delegated by the parent or
guardian to accompany the minor child, or unless the person is in the pursuit
of a lawful business, or other legitimate purpose under the direction of his or
her parent or guardian.
(1984 Code, § 8.201)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.02 ABETTING VIOLATION; PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   Any person assisting, aiding, abetting, or encouraging any minor under the
age of 17 years to violate the provisions of
§ 95.01 shall be guilty of violation of this code and when any minor is found
violating the provisions of section
§ 95.01, a presumption shall arise that the parent or legal guardian having the
care and custody of the minor assisted, aided, abetted, and encouraged the
minor in so violating the section.
(1984 Code, § 8.202)
Penalty, see § 95.99
§ 95.03 REPORT VIOLATIONS.
   Any police officer of the village shall take into custody any minor found
violating any of the provisions of
§§ 95.01 et seq., and report it to the parent, guardian, or legal custodian,
and investigate whether or not the minor was lawfully on the streets or in any
public place in accordance with the provisions of
§§ 95.01 et seq. If, after investigation, it is found that the parent,
guardian, or person having custody of the minor is negligent or at fault, or
contributing to the delinquency of a minor, the officer shall file a complaint
for the arrest of the parent, guardian, or person having custody of the minor,
for the violation of
§§ 95.01 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 8.203)
§ 95.04 JUVENILE PROCEDURE.
   If after investigation by the officer taking the minor child in charge, or
any other officer, it is found the child is delinquent, incorrigible, or
willfully absents himself or herself from the home, and the parent, guardian,
or custodian is unable to control the child, a complaint shall be made to the
Judge of Probate under the juvenile law of the State of Michigan.
(1984 Code, § 8.204)
§ 95.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person, or persons, parent, guardian, or legal custodian of any
minor violating any of the provisions of
§§ 95.01 et seq. shall be punishable as provided in
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Arrest and prosecution of minors under the age of 17 years for
violation of
§§ 95.01 et seq. shall be in accordance with Public Act 288 of 1939, § 14 and
the other provisions of Chapter XIIA , as amended.
(1984 Code, § 8.205)
CHAPTER 96: HEALTH AND SAFETY
Section
   
96.01   Purpose and preamble
   
96.02   Definitions
   
96.03   Fixed facilities in the village
   
96.04   Transportation accidents
   
96.05   State of Michigan Environmental Response Act and other applicable state
and/or federal law
 
   
96.99   Penalty
§ 96.01 PURPOSE AND PREAMBLE.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Regulation is to ensure that those
persons responsible for an emergency situation resulting from the leaking,
spilling or otherwise allowing certain hazardous substances which may pollute
or impair the environment or health to escape containment, are responsible for
clean-up and restoration of the affected area. In the event the responsible
person(s) cannot complete such clean-up and restoration, thereby requiring
clean-up and disposal by the Public Health Officer, the responsible parties
shall be financially responsible for any and all costs of such clean-up,
disposal, containment or abatement.
   (B)   Preamble. Recognizing that the sanitary and safe disposal of hazardous
substances is fundamental to individual, public and community health, further
recognizing that hazardous substances can pollute and impair the environment,
further still recognizing that accidental releases of hazardous substances
should be cleaned up by the party responsible for the release, and insofar as
possible to prevent the creation of nuisances and conditions menacing the
public health, this regulation for the clean-up of the release of hazardous
substances is hereby established pursuant to the Michigan Public Health Code,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., §§ 2433, 2435, 2441, 2442, 2444, 2446,
2451, 2455, 2461, 2462 and 2465.
(Ord. 218, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 96.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning:
   EMERGENCY SITUATION. Refers to an incident of release of hazardous
substances into the environment which is deemed, by the sole determination of
the Public Health Officer or his or her designee, to require an immediate
response by village representatives.
   ENVIRONMENT. Refers to any land, surface waters, ground water, subsurface,
strata, air, fish, wildlife, plant life or biota, within the Village of
Manchester.
   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE is defined as follows:
      (1)   A chemical or other material which is or may become injurious to
the public health, safety or welfare or to the environment.
      (2)   HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCE as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental
Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980, Public Law 96-510, 94 Stat.
2767.
      (3)   HAZARDOUS WASTE as defined in the Hazardous Waste Management Act,
Act No. 64 of the Public Acts of 1979, being M.C.L.A. §§ 299.501-299.551.
      (4)   PETROLEUM as defined in the Leaking Underground Storage Tank Act,
Act No. 478 of the Public Acts of 1988, being M.C.L.A. §§ 299.831-299.850.
   PERSON. Means an individual, sole proprietorship, association, corporation,
or other legal entity.
   PUBLIC HEALTH OFFICER. Refers to the Manchester Village Manager or his or
her duly authorized agent in writing.
   RELEASE. Means any spilling, leaking, pumping, pouring, emitting, emptying,
discharging, injecting, escaping, leaching, dumping, or disposing of any
hazardous or polluting substances into the environment.
(Ord. 218, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 96.03 FIXED FACILITIES IN THE VILLAGE.
   It shall be the responsibility of any person which causes or controls a
release of hazardous substances in the village not resulting from
transportation accidents to immediately remove such hazardous substances and to
clean up and restore the area of the spillage to its pre-accident condition.
Upon learning of an incident, the Public Health Officer shall have the right to
immediately inspect the area to determine the extent of the damage, whether the
responsible party or parties possess the necessary equipment and personnel to
clean up the affected area and whether the incident poses threat of immediate
harm to nearby residents, plant or animal life or the environment. If, in the
sole discretion of the Public Health Officer, the responsible party or parties
are unable to safely and effectively clean up and/or abate the affected area,
the Public Health Officer may undertake the clean-up and/or abatement through a
private company, and the actual cost of such action shall be the sole
responsibility of such party or parties. Moreover, if the village determines
that the materials pose an emergency, appropriate local, state, county or
federal emergency personnel may be called upon to assist in the removal of the
hazardous substances to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
All costs, fees and expenses incurred by the village in connection with such
action shall be assessed as damages against the responsible party or parties.
(Ord. 218, passed 1-5-1995)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.04 TRANSPORTATION ACCIDENTS.
   Transporters of hazardous substances which may pollute or impair the
environment or health through the village shall be liable for the full amount
and cost of any harm or damages which may result from the release of such
hazardous substances. The person(s) responsible for such release of hazardous
substances shall be required to remove the hazardous substance and return the
affected area to its pre-accident condition if al all possible. Upon learning
of an accident involving the release of hazardous substances, the Public Health
Officer, or his duly authorized agent, in his or her sole discretion may
determine the owner(s) or operator(s) of the vehicle involved in the accident
are unable to safely and effectively clean up and/or abate the affected area,
or that the spill constitutes a health hazard to nearby residents, plant life
or animal life. In that event, the Public Health Officer or his or her agents,
may undertake the clean-up and/or abatement of such spill or contract such a
clean-up and/or abatement through a private company, and the actual cost of
such action shall be the sole responsibility of the responsible party or
parties. In the case of an emergency, appropriate local, state, county or
federal emergency personnel may be called upon to assist in the removal of the
hazardous materials to protect the health, safety and welfare of the public.
All costs, fees and expenses incurred by the Village of Manchester in
connection with such action shall be assessed as damages against the
responsible party or parties.
(Ord. 218, passed 1-5-1995)
Penalty, see § 96.99
§ 96.05 STATE OF MICHIGAN ENVIRONMENTAL RESPONSE ACT AND OTHER APPLICABLE STATE
AND/OR FEDERAL LAW.
   Whenever possible, this regulation shall be read in harmony with the
Michigan Environmental Response Act, being M.C.L.A. § 299.601 and any other
state and/or federal law which may apply. If in the event any part of this
regulation conflicts with the Michigan Environmental Response Act, or any other
applicable state and/or federal law, the provisions of the applicable state
and/or federal law shall be followed.
(Ord. 218, passed 1-5-1995)
§ 96.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   The Public Health Officer shall have the authority to issue citations
for any violation of this regulation. Any person who fails to comply with any
provision of this regulation shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon
conviction thereof shall be punishable by a fine not exceeding the sum of $200
or by imprisonment in the Washtenaw County jail for not more than 90 days, or
both.
   (B)   In addition, any person who shall fail to comply with any provision of
this Regulation shall be liable for monetary civil penalties of not more than
$1,000 for each violation or day that the violation continues.
   (C)   Notwithstanding the existence or pursuit of any other remedy, the
Public Health Officer may maintain an action in the name of the village in a
court of competent jurisdiction for any injunction or other appropriate process
against any party to restrain or prevent violations of this regulation.
   (D)   Notwithstanding the existence of any other remedy listed in this
section, the party responsible for an incident requiring clean-up under this
regulation shall remain fully liable for the actual costs undertaken by the
Public Health Officer in cleaning up the incident. Costs incurred by the Public
Health Officer shall include, but are not limited to, actual labor costs of
personnel, including workers compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administrative overhead, cost of equipment operation, cost of material obtained
directly by the Public Health Officer and cost of any contract labor and
materials. If the responsible party or parties fails to reimburse the Public
Health Officer as above provided, the Public Health Officer shall have the
right to enforce the payment of such clean-up costs, as well as any other
remedies listed in this Regulation, in any court of competent jurisdiction. The
Public Health Officer shall also have the right and power to petition the Local
Governmental Units' Assessor's Office to add any and all costs of clean-up and
restoration to the tax roll of such property, and to levy and collect such
costs in the same manner as provided for the levy and collection of real
property taxes against said property if it is determined by the Public Health
Officer that the property owner was responsible for the incident requiring
cleanup on the property.
(Ord. 218, passed 1-5-1995)
CHAPTER 97: DISORDERLY CONDUCT
Section
   
97.01   Definition
   
97.02   Acts prohibited
 
   
97.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct in parks and playgrounds, see §
159.11
§ 97.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, public building, any place of
business or assembly open to or frequented by the public, and any other place
which is open to the public view, or to which the public has access.
(1984 Code, § 8.91)
§ 97.02 ACTS PROHIBITED.
   (A)   No person shall do the following.
   (B)   (1)   Discharge any firearm, air rifle, air pistol, or bow and arrow
in the village, except when in connection with a regularly scheduled
educational or training program under adequate supervision;
      (2)   Engage in fortune telling or pretend to tell fortunes for hire,
gain, or reward;
      (3)   Print, engrave, sell, offer for sale, give away, exhibit, or
publish, or have in his or her possession for any such purpose, any obscene,
lewd, lascivious, indecent, or immodest book, pamphlet, paper, picture, cast
statuary, image, or representation or other article of an indecent or immoral
nature, or any book, paper, print, circular, or writing made up principally of
pictures or stories of immodest deeds, lust, or crime, or exhibit any such
article within the view of any passerby;
      (4)   Engage in any disturbance, fight, or quarrel in a public place;
      (5)   Collect or stand in crowds, or arrange, encourage, or abet the
collection of persons in crowds for illegal or mischievous purposes in any
public place;
      (6)   Knowingly transport any person to a place where prostitution or
gambling is practiced, encouraged, or allowed for the purpose of enabling the
person to engage in gambling or in any illegal or immoral act;
      (7)   Keep or maintain a gaming room, gaming tables, or any policy or
pool tickets, used for gaming; or knowingly suffer a gaming room, gaming
tables, or any policy or pool tickets to be kept, maintained, played, or sold
on any premises occupied or controlled by him or her;
      (8)   Disturb the public peace and quiet by loud, boisterous, or vulgar
conduct;
      (9)   Permit or suffer any place occupied or controlled by him or her to
be a resort of noisy, boisterous, or disorderly persons;
      (10)   Wander about the streets, either by day or night, or loiter in any
public building, without any lawful means of support or without being able to
give a satisfactory account of himself or herself;
      (11)   Prowl about any alley or the private premises of any person in the
nighttime, without authority or the permission of the owner of the premises;
      (12)   Spit on any sidewalk or on the floor or place of public
assemblage;
      (13)   Willfully destroy, remove, damage, alter, or in any manner deface
any property not his or her own, or any public school building, or any public
building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box, street light, street sign, traffic-
control device, railroad sign or signal, parking meter, or shade tree belonging
to the village or located in the public places of the village, or mark or post
handbills on, or in any manner mar the walls of, any public building, or fence,
tree, or pole within the village, or destroy, take, or meddle with any property
belonging to the village, or remove the same from the building or place where
it may be kept, placed, or stored, without property authority;
      (14)   Summon, as a joke or prank or otherwise without any good reason
therefor, by telephone or otherwise, the police or the Fire Department or any
public or private ambulance to go to any address where the service called for
is not needed;
      (15)   Go upon the lands of another or upon the right-of-way of any
railroad company, or climb, stand in or upon any tree for the purpose of
witnessing or looking at any football game, baseball game or other athletic
sports or games whatsoever, or any fair, show or other entertainment
whatsoever, without the consent and permission of the owner or occupant of the
lands, right-of-way or the owner of any such tree; and/or
      (16)   Make an improper noise, disturbance, or riot, or engage in any
illegal or improper diversion, or aid or abet the commission of the acts, or
encourage or promote the commission of the acts.
(1984 Code, § 8.92) Penalty, see §
97.99
§ 97.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to §
10.99.
CHAPTER 98: VACANT RESIDENTIAL, COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES
Section
   
98.01   Purpose
   
98.02   Definitions
   
98.03   Scope
   
98.04   Evidence of vacant property
   
98.05   Registry of vacant properties
   
98.06   Vacant properties to be registered and inspected every 6 months
   
98.07   Owner's registration form; content
   
98.08   Registration and safety and blight inspection fee
   
98.09   Requirement to keep information current
   
98.10   Requirement to maintain property insurance
   
98.11   Inspections required
   
98.12   Building inspection; maintenance and security requirements
   
98.13   Open property; securing fee
   
98.14   Reoccupation of vacant property; notification to village
   
98.15   Fire damaged property
   
98.16   Unpaid fees; assessment
   
98.17   Penalties; municipal civil infraction
   
98.18   Inspection standards
§ 98.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to prevent the deterioration of village
neighborhoods and business districts by regulating vacant abandoned and
foreclosed residential, commercial and industrial properties to ensure that
such properties are in compliance with all applicable state law and Village
Code requirements including §
98.18 as adopted by the village.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CODE COMPLIANCE CERTIFICATE. A certificate issued by the village that the
structure is in compliance with all applicable state law and Village Code
requirements, including §
98.18 .
   OWNER. Any person or entity with legal or equitable ownership or possessory
interest in any residential, commercial or industrial structure. The owner
shall include, but not be limited to, a bank, credit union, trustee, financial
institution or trust which is in possession (in whole or in part) of the real
property while foreclosing a lien or mortgage interest in the affected
property, but may or may not have legal or equitable title.
   VACANT PROPERTY. A residential, commercial, or industrial structure that
remains unoccupied for a period in excess of 30 days, subject to the following:
      (1)   VACANT PROPERTY does not mean property that is temporarily
unoccupied while the residents are away on vacation, or while away tending to
personal or business matters.
      (2)   Property which is unoccupied in excess of 30 days and offered for
sale or lease constitutes vacant property and is not exempt from the
requirements of this chapter.
      (3)   For properties that are more than 1 story, an unoccupied street
level story constitutes a vacant building.
      (4)   A building that has unoccupied street level storefront suite in the
building, regardless of whether another storefront suite in the same building
is occupied, constitutes a vacant building.
      (5)   A building in which a lawful business that was once open for
regular business hours (with the exception of holidays and seasonal businesses)
ceases operation for more than 30 days constitutes a vacant building. A lawful
business means the current use of the structure for which the structure was
built or intended to be used.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022; Am. Ord. 319, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 98.03 SCOPE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall apply to all existing residential,
commercial or industrial structures. This chapter does not relieve any person
or owner from compliance with all other village ordinances, the State
Construction Code, and all other laws, rules and regulations.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.04 EVIDENCE OF VACANT PROPERTY.
   Evidence of vacancy shall include any condition that on its own, or combined
with other conditions present, would lead a reasonable person to believe that
the property is vacant. Such conditions include, but are not limited to:
overgrown and/or dead vegetation; accumulation of newspapers, circulars, flyers
and/or mail; past due utility notices and/or disconnected utilities;
accumulation of trash, junk and/or debris; boarded up windows; abandoned
vehicles, auto parts or materials; the absence of or continually drawn window
coverings such as curtains, blinds and/or shutters; the absence of furnishings
and/or personal items consistent with habitation or occupancy; statements by
neighbors, delivery agents or utility agents, including village employees, that
the property is vacant.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.05 REGISTRY OF VACANT PROPERTIES.
   There is hereby created in the village office a registry for vacant
residential, commercial and industrial structures.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
 § 98.06 VACANT PROPERTIES TO BE REGISTERED AND INSPECTED EVERY 6 MONTHS.
   (A)   Owners of real property are required to register all vacant
residential, commercial and industrial properties within 30 days of the vacancy
and to re-register the properties every 6 months thereafter. Residential,
commercial and industrial owners of single family and duplex structures that
are vacant at the time of the enactment of this chapter must register within 30
days.
   (B)   Owners of real property shall also have all vacant residential,
commercial and industrial properties within 30 days of the vacancy and to re-
register the properties every 6 months thereafter
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.07 OWNER'S REGISTRATION FORM; CONTENT.
   Owners who are required to register their properties pursuant to this
chapter shall submit a completed vacant property registration form, as provided
by the village office containing the following information:
   (A)   The name of the owner of the property.
   (B)   A mailing address where mail may be sent that will be acknowledged as
received by the owner. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent by
the village office to the address and the mail is returned marked "refused" or
"unclaimed," then such occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the owner has
failed to comply with this requirement. If ordinary mail sent by the village
office to the address is returned for whatever reason, then such occurrence
shall be prima facie proof that the owner has failed to comply with this
requirement.
   (C)   The name of an individual responsible for the care and control of the
vacant property. Such individual may be the owner, if the owner is an
individual, or may be someone other than the owner with whom he or she has
contracted.
   (D)   A current address, phone number, fax, and email address (if fax and
email addresses are available) where communications may be sent that will be
acknowledged as received by the owner or individual responsible for the care
and control of the property. If certified mail/return receipt requested is sent
to the address and the mail is returned marked "refused" or "unclaimed", or if
ordinary mail sent to the address is returned for whatever reason, then such
occurrence shall be prima facie proof that the owner has failed to comply with
this requirement.
   (E)   Authorization to the village staff or contracted personnel to access
the exterior of the property for inspection purposes.
   (F)   Verification that the utilities and the furnace are functioning.
   (G)   Proof of property insurance coverage for vacant structure(s).
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.08 REGISTRATION AND SAFETY AND BLIGHT INSPECTION FEE.
   Registration and safety and blight inspection fees shall be set periodically
by the Village Council to offset the cost of processing the form, conducting
the safety and blight inspection and maintaining the records. In addition, if
an owner fails to register, the owner shall be assessed the added cost of the
village's expense in having to determine ownership, which may include, but is
not limited to, title search and legal expenses.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.09 REQUIREMENT TO KEEP INFORMATION CURRENT.
   If at any time the information contained in the registration form is no
longer valid, the property owner shall within 10 days file a new registration
form containing current information. There shall be no fee to update the
current owner's information.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
 § 98.10 REQUIREMENT TO MAINTAIN PROPERTY INSURANCE.
   An owner of vacant residential, commercial, or industrial structure(s) shall
maintain current property insurance on the vacant structure(s) against
structural loss or damage including but not limited to fire damage. Upon
request of the Village Vacant Building Safety Inspector, owners shall present
valid proof of property insurance. Failure to present, upon request, valid
property insurance, shall result in a suspension of the certificate of
registration.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.11 INSPECTIONS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Owners of residential, commercial and industrial structures who are
required to file an owner's registration form under this chapter must
immediately obtain and pay for a village safety and blight inspection of the
vacant property; and if applicable, obtain necessary permits for required
repairs; make required repairs; obtain any follow-up inspections from the
Village Vacant Safety Inspector thereafter to ensure the structure is safe,
secure and maintained to the standards of §
98.18 and water and sewer requirements set forth in
Chapters 50 through
54 of the Village Code. The owner or the owner's agent shall certify by
affidavit that all water, sewer, electrical, gas, HVAC, plumbing systems,
roofing, structural systems, foundations, and drainage systems are sound,
operational, or properly disconnected. The owner or the owner's agent shall
also certify by affidavit that the property is in compliance with §
98.18, and the water and sewer requirements set forth in
Chapters 50 through and
54 of the Village Code.
   (B)   Reinspection shall occur within 60 days, unless otherwise stated, of
the date of the inspection to ensure that any cited violations have been fixed.
Failure to fix cited violations may result in the issuance of civil infraction
citations or other enforcement action. A reinspection fee shall be charged for
reinspection of the property after violations are cited.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.12 BUILDING INSPECTION; MAINTENANCE AND SECURITY REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Properties subject to this chapter shall be maintained and secured to
comply with the requirements of §
98.18.
   (B)   Pools, spas, and other water features shall be kept in working order
or winterized to ensure that the water remains clear and free of pollutants and
debris, or drained and kept dry and free of debris, and must comply with the
requirements of §
98.18.
   (C)   Vacant properties subject to this chapter shall be maintained in a
secure manner so as not to be accessible to unauthorized persons. Secure manner
includes, but is not limited to, the closure and locking of windows, doors
(walk-through, sliding and garage), gates and any other opening of such size
that it may allow a child to access the interior of the property and/or
structure(s). Broken windows must be repaired or replaced within 14 days.
(Plywood, wood, or other materials for broken windows are not allowed. Like
replacement is required).
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.13 OPEN PROPERTY; SECURING FEE.
   Property subject to this chapter is required to be closed and inaccessible
to persons in the community at all times. Property that is left open and/or
accessible shall be subject to entry by the village in order to ensure that the
property has not become an attractive nuisance and to ensure that the property
is locked and/or secured and in compliance with § 98.18. The owner of property
subject to this chapter, which property is found open or unsecured, shall be
responsible for paying a securing fee as set by the Village Council to offset
the cost incurred by the village in contacting the owner or management company
to secure the property. If the owner and/or management company cannot be
contacted or does not secure the property within a reasonable time, the owner
shall be responsible for paying the cost incurred by the village in securing
the property.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.14 REOCCUPATION OF VACANT PROPERTY; NOTIFICATION TO VILLAGE.
   (A)   Prior to reoccupation of property that is subject to this chapter, the
owner shall notify the village that the property is being reoccupied or has
been sold or rented, and to whom.
   (B)   An inspection shall occur prior to the reoccupation of the property to
ensure that it is safe for reoccupation. Property shall be brought up to the
safety standards of this chapter if it is not safe.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022; Am. Ord. 319, passed 4-3-2023)
§ 98.15 FIRE DAMAGED PROPERTY.
   (A)   If an occupied structure is damaged by fire, the owner has 30 days,
unless otherwise extended by the Village Vacant Building Safety Inspector or
his designee, from the date of the fire to apply for a permit to start
construction or demolition.
   (B)   Failure to do so will result in the property being deemed vacant and
subject to the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.16 UNPAID FEES; ASSESSMENT.
   All fees hereunder that remain unpaid after 14 days' written notice to the
owner/management company may be assessed against the property as a lien and
placed on the tax roll.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.17 PENALTIES; MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION.
   Except as otherwise provided, a violation of this chapter shall be a
municipal civil infraction subject to prosecution and penalty under the Village
Municipal Civil Infractions Ordinance. The requirements of this chapter are in
addition to, and not in lieu of, any other rights and remedies provided by law.
Violation of this chapter shall be a municipal civil infraction and for the
first offense subject to a minimum $200 fine and any of the penalties
authorized under M.C.L.A. § 600.8727 and/or M.C.L.A. § 600.8302. Second or
subsequent offenses shall be subject to a minimum fine of $400 and any of the
penalties authorized under M.C.L.A. § 600.8727 and/or M.C.L.A. § 600.8302. Each
day that a violation continues shall be considered a separate offense.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
§ 98.18 INSPECTION STANDARDS.
   Every vacant building shall conform to the standards of this chapter. Each
and every owner of a vacant building shall cause his or her property to be
inspected not less frequently than every 6 months by the Village Vacant Safety
Building Inspector or his or her designee. Each vacant building shall comply
with the following:
   (A)   Sanitary facilities.
      (1)   All plumbing fixtures connected to an approved water system, sewage
system, or natural gas utility system shall be installed in accordance with
applicable codes and ordinances and maintained in sound condition and good
repair.
      (2)   All plumbing fixtures connected to an approved water system, sewage
system, or natural gas system not installed or maintained in accordance with
applicable codes and ordinances shall be removed and the service terminated and
the pipes capped in the manner prescribed by the state construction code
applicable codes and ordinances.
   (B)   Electrical system.
      (1)   Every existing outlet and fixture shall be properly maintained with
wiring and service lines installed and maintained in accordance with the state
electrical code and other applicable codes and ordinances.
      (2)   Outlets and fixtures not installed or maintained in accordance with
the state electrical code and other applicable codes and ordinances shall be
covered or removed and the service terminated in the manner prescribed by the
state electrical code and other applicable codes and ordinances.
   (C)   Safety from fire.
      (1)   No vacant building or premises on which a vacant building is
located shall contain any space used for the storage of flammable liquids or
any other materials that could constitute a safety or fire hazard.
      (2)   Heating facilities or heating equipment in vacant buildings shall
be removed or maintained in accordance with the state mechanical code and other
applicable codes and ordinances and any fuel supply shall be removed or
terminated in accordance with applicable codes and ordinances.
   (D)   All vacant buildings shall be properly weather-protected to prevent
deterioration of the exterior and interior of the building. This weather
protection shall be approved by the inspector and shall include all roof and
wall assemblies.
   (E)   All vacant buildings shall be closed to unauthorized entry according
to the following standards:
      (1)   All windows or similar openings shall be protected by intact
glazing (glass). Boarded up windows with wood, plywood, or other material that
is not window-like is allowed for only 14 days after a window is broken. After
the 14 days, the window shall be replaced with a like window that is similar to
the broken window.
      (2)   Doors and service openings with thresholds located 10 feet or less
above grade, a stairway, landing, ramp, porch, roof or similarly accessible
area, shall provide resistance to entry equivalent to or greater than that of a
closed single panel or hollow core door one and three-eighths inches thick
equipped with a half-inch throw deadbolt. Exterior doors, if openable, may be
closed from the interior of the building by securing them to the doorframe
using minimum one-and-one-quarter-inch-long sheetrock screws at 6 inches on
center.
      (3)   There shall be one operable door into each building and into each
housing unit. If an existing door is operable, it may be used and secured with
a suitable lock such as a hasp and padlock or a one-half-inch deadbolt or dead
latch. All locks shall be kept locked. Boarded up doors with wood, plywood, or
other material that is not door-like is not allowed.
   (F)   All debris, combustible materials, hazardous or noxious vegetation,
litter and garbage shall be removed from vacant buildings and premises on which
a vacant building is located and further accumulation of the same prevented.
Further, each and every owner of any vacant building shall remove or destroy
all grass, weeds, shrubs, bushes, trees or vegetation growing or which has
grown and died upon property owned or occupied by such owner, or which may
constitute a fire hazard or other menace to public health, safety and welfare.
   (G)   All vacant buildings shall have plainly visible house numbers or
address numbers as required by the Fire Code or other applicable law.
   (H)   Structures shall be kept free from insect and rodent infestation by
the owner of the property. Structures in which insects or rodents are found
shall be promptly exterminated by approved processes that will not be injurious
to human health. After pest elimination, proper precautions shall be taken to
prevent reinfestation.
   (I)   Structures shall be kept free of mold or any like fungi.
(Ord. 310, passed 8-1-2022)
 CHAPTER 99: MARIJUANA FACILITIES
Section
   
99.01   Purpose
   
99.02   Definitions
   
99.03   Authorization of facilities and fee
   
99.04   Requirements and procedure for issuing permit
   
99.05   Regulations for marijuana facilities
   
99.06   Permit renewal
   
99.07   Applicability
   
99.08   Prohibition
   
99.09   Violations and penalties
§ 99.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the intent of this chapter to authorize the establishment of
certain types of marijuana facilities in the Village of Manchester and provide
for the adoption of reasonable restrictions to protect the public health,
safety, and general welfare of the community at large; retain the character of
neighborhoods; and mitigate potential impacts on surrounding properties and
persons. It is also the intent of this chapter to help defray administrative
and enforcement costs associated with the operation of a marijuana facility in
the village through imposition of an annual, nonrefundable fee set annually by
resolution of the Village Council on each medical marijuana facility licensee
and recreational marijuana facility. Authority for the enactment of these
provisions is set forth in the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act,
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq. and Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana
Act (Initiated Law 1 of 2018) et seq.
   (B)   Nothing in this chapter is intended to grant immunity from criminal or
civil prosecution, penalty, or sanction for the cultivation, manufacture,
possession, use, sale, or distribution of marijuana, in any form, that is not
in compliance with the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, Initiated Law 1 of 2008,
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq.; the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act,
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq.; the Marihuana Tracking Act, M.C.L.A. §§
333.27901 et seq.; Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (Initiated
Law 1 of 2018) et seq.; and all other applicable rules promulgated by the State
of Michigan.
   (C)   As of the effective date of this chapter, marijuana remains classified
as a Schedule 1 controlled substance under the Federal Controlled Substances
Act, 21 U.S.C. § 801 et seq., which makes it unlawful to manufacture,
distribute, or dispense marijuana, or possess marijuana with intent to
manufacture, distribute, or dispense marijuana. Nothing in this chapter is
intended to grant immunity from any criminal prosecution under federal laws.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GROWER. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in this state that
cultivates, dries, trims, or cures and packages marijuana for sale to a
processor or provisioning center.
   LICENSEE. A person holding a state operating license issued under the
Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq. and
Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (Initiated Law 1 of 2018) et
seq.
   MARIJUANA or MARIHUANA. That term as defined in the Public Health Code,
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq.; the Michigan Medical Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§
333.26421 et seq.; the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act, M.C.L.A. §§
333.27101 et seq.; Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (Initiated
Law 1 of 2018) et seq.; and the Marihuana Tracking Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27901
et seq. 
   MARIJUANA FACILITY. An enterprise at a specific location at which a licensee
is licensed to operate under the Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act,
M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq.; and Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act (Initiated Law 1 of 2018) et seq., including a marijuana grower,
marijuana processor, marijuana provisioning center, marijuana secure
transporter, marijuana retailer, marijuana microbusiness, or marijuana safety
compliance facility. The term does not include or apply to a "primary
caregiver" or "caregiver" as that term is defined in the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq. 
   MARIJUANA MICROBUSINESS. An enterprise licensed to cultivate not more than
150 marijuana plants; process and package marijuana; and sell or otherwise
transfer marijuana to individuals who are 21 years of age or older or to a
marijuana safety compliance facility, but not to other marijuana
establishments.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES PERMIT and RECREATIONAL MARIJUANA FACILITIES
PERMIT or PERMIT. A permit issued by the village pursuant to the provisions of
this chapter.
   PERSON. An individual, corporation, limited liability company, partnership,
limited partnership, limited liability partnership, limited liability limited
partnership, trust, or other legal entity.
   PROCESSOR. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in Michigan that
purchases marijuana from a grower and that extracts resin from the marijuana or
creates a marijuana-infused product for sale and transfer in packaged form to a
provisioning center.
   PROVISIONING CENTER. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in
Michigan that purchases marijuana from a grower or processor and sells,
supplies, or provides marijuana to registered qualifying patients, directly or
through the patients' registered primary caregivers. PROVISIONING CENTER
includes any commercial property where marijuana is sold at retail to
registered qualifying patients or registered primary caregivers. A
noncommercial location used by a primary caregiver to assist a qualifying
patient connected to the caregiver in accordance with the Michigan Medical
Marihuana Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.26421 et seq., is not a provisioning center for
purposes of this chapter.
   RETAILER. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in Michigan that
purchases marijuana from a grower or processor and sells, supplies, or provides
marijuana to the general public in accordance with the Michigan Regulation and
Taxation of Marihuana Act (Initiated Law 1 of 2018) et seq.
   SAFETY COMPLIANCE FACILITY. A licensee that is a commercial entity that
receives marijuana from a marijuana facility or registered primary caregiver,
tests it for contaminants and for tetrahydrocannabinol and other cannabinoids,
returns the test results, and may return the marijuana to the marijuana
facility.
   SECURE TRANSPORTER. A licensee that is a commercial entity located in this
state that stores marijuana and transports marijuana between marijuana
facilities for a fee.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.03 AUTHORIZATION OF FACILITIES AND FEE.
   (A)   (1)   The maximum number of permit type of medical marijuana facility
allowed in the village shall be as follows.
 
Facility                 Number
Grower                   Not allowed
Processor                Not allowed
Secure transporter       Not allowed
Safety compliance center Unlimited
Provisioning center      Unlimited
 
      (2)   Number of permit types for recreational marijuana facilities.
 
Facility                 Number
Grower                   Not allowed
Processor                Not allowed
Microbusiness            Unlimited
Secure transporter       Unlimited
Safety compliance center Not allowed
Retailer                 Unlimited
 
   (B)   At least every 2 years after adoption of this chapter, Village Council
shall review the maximum number of each permit type of marijuana facility
allowed and determine whether this maximum number should be changed. The review
and its findings shall be recorded in the minutes of the relevant meeting of
the Village Council.
   (C)   A nonrefundable fee shall be paid by each marijuana facility permitted
under this chapter in an annual amount set annually by resolution of the
Village Council. Each state license issued to a facility shall coincide with a
permit issued by the municipality for that type of license. Example: 1 grower
license for medical marijuana from the state and 1 grower license for
recreational marijuana from the state shall result in 1 grower permit from the
village for medical marijuana and 1 grower permit for recreational marijuana
from the village.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.04 REQUIREMENTS AND PROCEDURE FOR ISSUING PERMIT.
   (A)   No person shall operate a marijuana facility in the village without a
valid marijuana facility permit issued by the village pursuant to the
provisions of this chapter.
   (B)   Every applicant for a permit to operate a marijuana facility shall
file an application in the Village Clerk's office upon a form provided by the
village. The application shall contain any information required by the Act and
the following information:
      (1)   Name, e-mail, address, and telephone number of property owner of
the land where the marijuana facility will conduct business;
      (2)   Name, e-mail, address, and telephone number of the individual with
the permit;
      (3)   If the property owner and the individual with the permit are not
the same person, a document signed by the property owner authorizing the
individual with a permit to operate on the property owner's land; and
      (4)   Any other information deemed by the village to be required for the
consideration of a permit.
   (C)   Every applicant for a permit to operate a grow operation shall submit
with the application a photocopy of the applicant's valid and current license
issued by the State of Michigan in accordance with the Medical Marihuana
Facilities Licensing Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq. and the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (Initiated Law 1 of 2018) et seq.
   (D)   Upon an applicant's completion of the above-provided form and
furnishing of all required information and documentation, the Village Clerk
shall accept the application and assign it a sequential application number by
facility type based on the date and time of acceptance. The Village Clerk shall
act to approve or deny an application not later than 14 days from the date the
application was accepted. If approved, the Village Clerk shall issue the
applicant a provisional permit.
   (E)   A provisional permit means only that the applicant has submitted a
valid application for a marijuana facility permit, and the applicant shall not
locate or operate a marijuana facility without obtaining all other permits and
approvals required by all other applicable ordinances and regulations of the
village. A provisional permit will lapse and be void if such permits and
approvals are not diligently pursued to completion, but in any event no later
than 90 days after the provisional permit is issued. A provisional permit may
automatically be renewed without a fee within the 90 days timeframe if state
licensure is not received within the timeframe but shall not be valid for more
than one year. Marijuana facilities with a provisional permit may operate under
the definition of a temporary operation pursuant to rules established under the
Medical Marihuana Facilities Licensing Act (M.C.L.A. § 333.27101) and the
Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (Initiated Law 1 of 2018) et
seq.
   (F)   Within 14 days from the applicant submitting proof of obtaining all
other required permits and approvals and payment of the permit fee, the Village
Clerk shall approve or deny the marijuana facility permit. The Clerk shall
issue marijuana facility permits in order of the sequential application number
previously assigned.
   (G)   Maintaining a valid marijuana facility permit issued by the state is a
condition for the issuance and maintenance of a marijuana facility permit under
this chapter and continued operation of any marijuana facility.
   (H)   A marijuana facility permit issued under this chapter is not
transferable.
   (I)   Applicant must own land within the village for where the use is
allowed or control land under a lease in order to apply for a permit for any
type of marijuana facility.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.05 REGULATIONS FOR MARIJUANA FACILITIES.
   All marijuana facilities permitted under this chapter shall be subject to
the following regulations:
   (A)   Lighting. Light cast by light fixtures inside any building used for
marijuana production or marijuana processing shall not be visible outside the
building from 7:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. the following day.
   (B)   Odor. As used in this division, building means the building, or
portion thereof, used for marijuana production or marijuana processing.
      (1)   The building shall be equipped with an activated carbon filtration
system for odor control to ensure that air leaving the building through an
exhaust vent first passes through an activated carbon filter.
      (2)   The filtration system shall consist of 1 or more fans and activated
carbon filters. At a minimum, the fan(s) shall be sized for cubic feet per
minute (CFM) equivalent to the volume of the building (length multiplied by
width multiplied by height) divided by 3. The filter(s) shall be rated for the
applicable CFM.
      (3)   The filtration system shall be maintained in working order and
shall be in use. The filters shall be changed a minimum of once every 365 days.
      (4)   Negative air pressure shall be maintained inside the building.
      (5)   Doors and windows shall remain closed, except for the minimum
length of time needed to allow people to ingress or egress the building.
      (6)   The Village Engineer and Building Inspector shall approve detailed
plans for odor control. The costs for the approval of the Village Engineer and
Building Inspector shall be borne by the applicant.
      (7)   An alternative odor control system is permitted if the
municipality's Village Engineer and Building Inspector accepts a report by a
mechanical engineer licensed in the State of Michigan demonstrating that the
alternative system will control odor as well or better than the activated
carbon filtration system otherwise required. The municipality may hire an
outside expert to review the alternative system design and advise as to its
comparability and whether in the opinion of the expert it should be accepted.
      (8)   No equipment or process shall be used in growing/cultivation of
marijuana (marihuana), which creates noise, dust, vibration, glare, fumes,
odors or electrical interference detectable to the normal senses beyond the
property boundary. A fine amount, which shall be annually set by the Village
Council, shall be assessed to the facility each day this occurs.
   (C)   Security cameras. All marijuana facilities shall be equipped with
security cameras. Security cameras shall be directed to record only the subject
property and may not be directed to public rights-of-way as applicable, except
as required to comply with licensing requirements of the State of Michigan.
   (D)   Hours of operation. A provisioning center and retailer may only sell
to consumers or allow consumers to be present in the building space occupied by
the provisioning center and retailer between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 9:00
p.m.
   (E)   Marijuana and tobacco products. The following regulations shall apply
to marijuana processing facilities, marijuana growing facilities, safety
compliance centers, provisioning centers, and secure transporters:
      (1)   Marijuana and tobacco products shall not be smoked, ingested, or
otherwise consumed in the building space occupied by marijuana processing
facilities, marijuana growing facilities, safety compliance centers,
provisioning centers, and secure transporters.
   (F)   Outside activities for a marijuana growing and processing facility.
Marijuana shall not be taken outside of a building where an odor control system
has been installed to do any sort of processing of it, including grinding
marijuana or cutting marijuana.
   (G)   Marijuana waste for a marijuana growing and processing facility. All
marijuana waste shall be stored in a building where an odor control system has
been installed and shall not be stored outside of the building.
   (H)   Facilities shall not dispose of wastewater that is detrimental to the
wastewater system. The Village Engineer shall annually review reports from the
facilities demonstrating that their wastewater discharge is not going to impact
the village's wastewater system. The preparation, cost of review, and other
fees for such review shall be paid for by the facility.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.06 PERMIT RENEWAL.
   (A)   A marijuana facility permit shall be valid for one year from the date
of issuance, unless revoked as provided by law.
   (B)   A valid marijuana facility permit may be renewed on an annual basis by
submitting a renewal application upon a form provided by the village and
payment of the annual permit fee. Application to renew a marijuana facility
permit shall be filed at least 30 days prior to the date of its expiration.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.07 APPLICABILITY.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be applicable to all persons and
facilities described herein, whether the operations or activities associated
with a medical marijuana facility were established without authorization before
the effective date of this chapter.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.08 PROHIBITION.
   Pursuant to the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act, Section
6.1, and the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of Marihuana Act (Initiated Law 1
of 2018) et seq., the Village of Manchester elects to prohibit marijuana
establishments within its boundaries in any area where such facilities are not
otherwise permitted under the provisions of the Village of Manchester's zoning
regulations.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
§ 99.09 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys, neglects, or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes, allows, or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a civil infraction, for which the fines
shall be as set forth in the Manchester Village Municipal Code. The foregoing
sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the village to proceed at law
or equity with other appropriate and proper remedies. Additionally, the
violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses, direct and indirect,
which the village incurs in connection with the municipal civil infraction. The
civil infraction fee amount shall be:
      (1)   First violation is $5,000;
      (2)   Second violation is $10,000 and the permit(s) for the facility will
be revoked. Washtenaw County Circuit Court action will also be sought to shut
the facility down permanently.
      (3)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
      (4)   In addition, the village may seek injunctive relief against persons
alleged to be in violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be
provided by law.
      (5)   This section shall be administered and enforced by the Washtenaw
County Sheriff's Office, Ordinance Enforcement Officer of the Village, Village
Manager, or by such other person(s) as designated by the Village Council from
time to time.
(Ord. 315, passed 12-19-2022)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
   Chapter
      
110.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
      
111.   CABLE TELEVISION
      
112.   PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND THE LIKE
      
113.   GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
      
114.   TAXICABS
      
115.   AMUSEMENTS
      
116.   BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
      
117.   MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
CHAPTER 110: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
110.01   Purpose
   
110.02   Conflict
   
110.03   Definitions
   
110.04   Effective date
Regulations
   
110.15   Permit required
   
110.16   Issuance of permit
   
110.17   Construction/engineering permit
   
110.18   Conduit or utility poles
   
110.19   Route maps
   
110.20   Repair of damage
   
110.21   Establishment and payment of maintenance fee
   
110.22   Modification of existing fees
   
110.23   Savings clause
   
110.24   Use of funds
   
110.25   Annual report
   
110.26   Cable television operators
   
110.27   Existing rights
   
110.28   Compliance
   
110.29   Reservation of police powers
   
110.30   Authorized village officials
   
110.31   Violations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety, and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq. (Act)
and other applicable law, and to ensure that the village qualifies for
distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to providers and
complying with the Act.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 et seq., as
amended from time to time.
      PERMIT. A nonexclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this chapter
to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in the village
for its telecommunications facilities.
      VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester.
      VILLAGE COUNCIL. The Village Council of the Village of Manchester or its
designee. This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by Village Council.
      VILLAGE MANAGER. The Village Manager or his or her designee.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following.
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
Commission in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area on, below, or above a public roadway,
highway, street, alley, easement, or waterway. PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY does not
include a federal, state, or private right-of-way.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes, and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit,
carry, amplify, or provide telecommunication services or signals.
TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennas, supporting
structures for antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary
equipment and miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed
commercial mobile service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of title III of the
Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in 47 C.F.R. pt. 20.3, and
service provided by any wireless, 2-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER, and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3102(k).
TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not include a person or an affiliate of that
person when providing a federally licensed commercial mobile radio service as
defined in § 332(d) of part I of the Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652,
48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332, and further defined as commercial mobile radio
service in 47 C.F.R. pt. 20.3, or service provided by any wireless, 2-way
communication device. For the purpose of the Act and this chapter only, a
provider also includes all of the following:
         (a)   A cable television operator that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and
         (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.04 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on 10-31-2002.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
REGULATIONS
§ 110.15 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
village for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a
permit pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file 1 copy of the application with the
Village Clerk, 1 copy with the Village Manager, and 1 copy with the Village
Attorney. Applications shall be complete and include all information required
by the Act, including without limitation a route map showing the location of
the provider's existing and proposed facilities in accordance with § 6(5) of
the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary, or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 - 15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider
shall prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a 1-time nonrefundable application fee in
the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The Village Manager may request an applicant
to submit the additional information which the Village Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all the requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for the additional information established
by the Village Manager. If the village and the applicant cannot agree on the
requirement of additional information requested by the village, the village or
the applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the village under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, and authorizations or permits issued by the village to
telecommunications providers prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act but after 1985 shall satisfy the permit
requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications provider
with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the village as of the date,
that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, Public Act 179 of 1991, being M.C.L.A. §
484.2251, shall submit to the village an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division (G)
is not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D)
above. A provider under this division (G) shall be given up to an additional
180 days to submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as
provided in § 5(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.16 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the Village Manager. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, the Village Manager shall approve or deny an application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under
§ 110.15(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the village. Pursuant to
§ 6(6) of the Act, the Village Manager shall notify the MPSC when the Village
Manager has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the
date on which the application was filed and the date on which permit was
granted or denied. The Village Manager shall not unreasonably deny an
application for a permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved, the Village
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2),
and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the Village Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement.
      (1)   Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without limitation on division
(C) above, the Village Manager may require that a bond be posted by the
telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit.
      (2)   If a bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to
ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its original condition
during and after the telecommunications provider's access and use.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.17 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   (A)   A telecommunications provider shall not commence construction upon,
over, across, or under the public rights-of-way in the village without first
obtaining a construction or engineering permit as required by village code, as
amended, for construction within the public rights-of-way.
   (B)   No fee shall be charged for such a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.18 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.19 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the village, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the
village. The route maps should be in paper and electronic format unless and
until the MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 6(8) of the Act.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.20 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
village, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to
the street surface and all installations under, over, below, or within the
public right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.21 ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT OF MAINTENANCE FEE.
   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee paid to the village set
forth in
§ 110.15(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities
in the village’s public rights-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to
the Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 110.22 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   (A)   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the village
hereby modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to
telecommunications providers after 11-1-2002, the effective date of the Act,
relating to access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not
exceeding the amounts of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall
be paid to the Authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the
Act, the village also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers
with telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the village 's
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act.
   (B)   The village shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act.
   (C)   To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers in
excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the village’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider or
discovery by the village, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in
error.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.23 SAVINGS CLAUSE.
   Pursuant to § 13(5) of the Act, if § 8 of the Act is found to be invalid or
unconstitutional, the modification of fees under
§ 110.22 shall be void from the date the modification was made.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.24 USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   Pursuant § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the village from
the Authority shall be used by the village solely for rights-of-way related
purposes.
   (B)   In conformance with that requirement, all funds received by the
village from the Authority shall be deposited into the Major Street Fund and/or
the Local Street Fund maintained by the village under Public Act 51 of 1951,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 247.651 et seq.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.25 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the Village Manager shall file an annual
report with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually
distributed by the Authority.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.26 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the village shall not hold a cable
television operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after 11-1-2002, the effective date of this Act, a
franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from charges the
cable operator receiver for cable modem services provided through broadband
internet transport access services.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.27 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the village may have under a permit issued by
the village or under a contract between the village and a telecommunications
provider related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.28 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The village hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting
this chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the
provisions hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that
purpose.
   (B)   The village shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 - 15.246, as provided in
§ 110.15(C) of this chapter;
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with
§ 110.15(F) of this chapter;
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing the providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with
§ 110.15(G) of this chapter;
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a teleconmnmications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public right-of-way within the village, in
accordance with
§ 110.16(A) of this chapter;
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the village has granted or denied a permit,
in accordance with
§ 110.16(A) of this chapter;
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with
§ 110.16(A) of this chapter;
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in
§ 110.16(B) of this chapter;
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider's access and usage of the public right-of-way, in
accordance with
§ 110.16(C) of this chapter;
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider's access and
use, in accordance with
§ 110.16(D) of this chapter;
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with
§ 110.17 of this chapter;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the
village's right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with
§ 110.22 of this chapter;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with
§ 110.25 of this chapter; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with
§ 110.26 of this chapter.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.29 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the village’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the village’s authority to ensure
and protect the health, safety, and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.30 AUTHORIZED VILLAGE OFFICIALS.
   The Village Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized village official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the municipal
chapter violations bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
village code.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
§ 110.31 VIOLATIONS.
   A violation of this chapter shall be a violation of the village code.
Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the remedies available to
the village in the event of a violation by a person of this chapter or a
permit.
(Ord. 243, passed 10-21-2002)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 111: CABLE TELEVISION
Section
Rate Regulations
   
111.01   Definitions
   
111.02   Purpose; interpretation
   
111.03   Rate regulation promulgated by FCC
   
111.04   Filing; additional information; burden of proof
   
111.05   Proprietary information
   
111.06   Public notice; initial review of rates
   
111.07   Tolling order
   
111.08   Public notice; hearing on basic cable service rates following tolling
of 30-day deadline
   
111.09   Staff or consultant report; written response
   
111.10   Rate decisions and orders
   
111.11   Refunds; notice
   
111.12   Written decisions; public notice
   
111.13   Rules and regulations
   
111.14   Failure to give notice
   
111.15   Additional hearings
   
111.16   Additional powers
   
111.17   Failure to comply; remedies
   
111.18   Conflicting provisions
   
111.19   Effective date
RATE REGULATIONS
§ 111.01 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§ 111.01 et seq., the following definitions shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Communications Act of 1934, as amended (and specifically as
amended by the Cable Television Consumer Protection and Competition Act of
1992, Pub. L. No. 102-385), and as may be amended from time to time.
      ASSOCIATED EQUIPMENT. All equipment and services subject to regulation
pursuant to 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.923.
      BASIC CABLE SERVICE. Shall mean basic service as defined in the FCC
Rules, and any other cable television service which is subject to rate
regulation by the village pursuant to the Act and the FCC Rules.
      FCC. The Federal Communications Commission.
      FCC RULES. All rules of the FCC promulgated from time to time pursuant to
the Act.
      INCREASE IN RATES. An increase in rates or a decrease in programming or
customer services.
   (B)   All other words and phrases used in §§ 111.01 et seq. shall have the
same meaning as defined in the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.02 PURPOSE; INTERPRETATION.
   (A)   The purpose of
§§ 111.01 et seq. is to:
      (1)   Adopt regulations consistent with the Act and the FCC Rules with
respect to basic cable service rate regulation; and
      (2)   Prescribe procedures to provide a reasonable opportunity for
consideration of the views of interested parties in connection with basic cable
service rate regulation by the village.
   (B)   Sections 111.01 et seq. shall be implemented and interpreted
consistent with the Act and FCC Rules.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.03 RATE REGULATIONS PROMULGATED BY FCC.
   In connection with the regulation of rates for basic cable service and
associated equipment, the Village of Manchester shall follow all FCC Rules.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.04 FILING; ADDITIONAL INFORMATION; BURDEN OF PROOF.
   (A)   A cable operator shall submit its schedule of rates for the basic
service tier and associated, equipment or a proposed increase in the rates in
accordance with the Act and the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall include as
part of its submission the information as is necessary to show that its
schedule of rates or its proposed increase in rates complies with the Act and
the FCC Rules. The cable operator shall file 10 copies of the schedule or
proposed increase with the Village Clerk. For purposes of
§§ 111.01 et seq., the filing of the cable operator shall be deemed to have
been made when at least 10 copies have been received by the Village Clerk. The
Village Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and regulations
consistent with the Act or FCC Rules prescribing the information, data, and
calculations which must be included as part of the cable operator's filing of
the schedule of rates or a proposed increase.
   (B)   In addition to information and data required by rules and regulations
of the village pursuant to division (A) above, the Village President may
request and the cable operator shall then provide additional information that
is related to and helpful for the village's review and regulation of existing
rates for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed
increase in these rates. The Village Manager may establish reasonable deadlines
for submission of the requested information and the cable operator shall comply
with the deadlines.
   (C)   A cable operator has the burden of proving that its schedule of rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
the rates complies with the Act and the FCC Rules including, without
limitation, 47 U.S.C. § 543 and 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.922 and 76.923.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 111.05 PROPRIETARY INFORMATION.
   (A)   If
§§ 111.01 et seq., any rules or regulations adopted by the village pursuant to
§ 111.04(A), or any request for information pursuant to
§ 111.04(B) requires the production of proprietary information, the cable
operator shall produce the information unless permitted by applicable law
(which includes the FCC rules) to withhold it. However, at the time the
allegedly proprietary information is submitted, a cable operator may request
that specific, identified portions of its response be treated as confidential
and withheld from public disclosure. The request must state the reason why the
information should be treated as proprietary and the facts that support those
reasons. The request for confidentially will be granted if the village
determines that the preponderance of the evidence shows that nondisclosure is
consistent with the provisions of the Freedom of Information Act, 5 U.S.C. §
552. The village shall place in a public file for inspection any decision that
results in information being withheld. If the cable operator requests
confidentiality and the request is denied, where the cable operator is
proposing a rate increase, it may withdraw the proposal, in which case the
allegedly proprietary information will be returned to it; or the cable operator
may seek review within 5 working days of the denial in any appropriate forum.
Release of the information will be stayed pending review.
   (B)   Any interested party may file a request to inspect material withheld
as proprietary with the village. The village shall weight the policy
considerations favoring nondisclosure against the reasons cited for permitting
inspection in light of the facts of the particular case. It will then promptly
notify the requesting entity and the cable operator that submitted the
information as to the disposition of the request. It may grant, deny, or
condition a request. The requesting party or the cable operator may seek review
of the decision by filing an appeal with any appropriate forum. Disclosure will
be stayed pending resolution of any appeal.
   (C)   The procedures set forth in this section shall be construed to make
them analogous to and consistent with the rules of the FCC regarding requests
for confidentiality, including, without limitation, 47 C.F.R. pt. 0.459.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.06 PUBLIC NOTICE; INITIAL REVIEW OF RATES.
   (A)   Upon the filing of 10 copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase in rates pursuant to
§ 111.04(A), the Village Clerk shall publish a public notice in a newspaper of
general circulation in the village which shall state that:
      (1)   The filing has been received by the Village Clerk and (except those
parts which may be withheld as proprietary) is available for public inspection
and copying; and
      (2)   Interested parties are encouraged to submit written comments on the
filing to the Village Clerk not later than 7 days after the public notice is
published.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall give notice to the cable operator of the date,
time, and place of the meeting at which the Village Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase. This notice shall be
mailed by first-class mail at lease 5 days before the meeting. In addition, if
a written staff or consultant's report on the schedule of rates or the proposed
increase is prepared for consideration of the Village Council, then the Village
Clerk shall mail a copy of the report by first-class mail to the cable operator
at least 5 days before the meeting at which the Village Council shall first
consider the schedule of rates or the proposed increase.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.07 TOLLING ORDER.
   (A)   After a cable operator has filed its existing schedule of rate or a
proposed increase in these rates, the existing schedule of rates will remain in
effect or the proposed increase in rates will become effective after 30 days
from the date of filing under
§ 111.04(A) above unless the Village Council (or other properly authorized body
or official) tolls the 30-day deadline pursuant to 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.933 by
issuing a brief written order, by resolution or otherwise, within 30 days of
the date of filing.
   (B)   The Village Council may toll the 30-day deadline for an additional 90
days in cases not involving cost-of-service showings and for an additional 150
days in cases involving cost-of-service showings.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.08 PUBLIC NOTICE; HEARING ON BASIC CABLE SERVICE RATES FOLLOWING TOLLING
OF 30-DAY DEADLINE.
   (A)   If a written order has been issued pursuant to
§ 111.07 and 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.933 to toll the effective date of existing rates
for the basic service tier and associated equipment or a proposed increase in
these rates, the cable operator shall submit to the village any additional
information required or requested pursuant to
§ 111.04. In addition, the Village Council shall hold a public hearing to
consider the comments of interested parties within the additional 90-day or
150-day period, as the case may be.
   (B)   The Village Clerk shall publish a public notice of the public hearing
in a newspaper of general circulation within the village which shall state:
      (1)   The date, time, and place at which the hearing shall be held;
      (2)   That interested parties may appear in person, by agent, or by
letter at the hearing to submit comments on or objections to the existing rates
or the proposed increase in rates; and
      (3)   That copies of the schedule of rates or the proposed increase in
rates and related information (except those parts which may be withheld as
proprietary) are available for inspection or copying from the office of the
Clerk.
   (C)   The public notice shall be published not less than 15 days before the
hearing. In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail by first-class mail a copy
of the public notice to the cable operator not less than 15 days before the
hearing.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.09 STAFF OR CONSULTANT REPORT; WRITTEN RESPONSE.
   Following the public hearing, the Village Manager shall cause a report to be
prepared for the Village Council which shall (based on the filing of the cable
operator, the comments or objections of interested parties, information
requested form the cable operator and its response, staff or consultant's
review, and other appropriate information) include a recommendation for the
decision of the Village Council pursuant to
§ 111.10. The Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the report to the cable
operator by first-class mail not less than 20 days before the Village Council
acts under
§ 111.10. The cable operator may file a written response to the report with the
Village Clerk. If at least 10 copies of the response are filed by the cable
operator with the Village Clerk within 10 days after the report is mailed to
the cable operator, the Village Clerk shall forward it to the Village Council.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.10 RATE DECISIONS AND ORDERS.
   The Village Council shall issue a written order, by resolution or otherwise,
which in whole or in part, approves the existing rates for basic cable service
and associated equipment or a proposed increase in the rates, denies the
existing rates of proposed increase, orders a rate reduction, prescribes a
reasonable rate, allows the existing rates or proposed increase to become
effective subject to refund, or orders other appropriate relief, in accordance
with the FCC Rules. If the Village Council issues an order allowing the
existing rates or proposed increase to become effective subject to refund, it
shall also direct the cable operator to maintain an accounting pursuant to 47
C.F.R. pt. 76.933. The order specified in this section shall be issued within
90 days of the tolling order under
§ 111.07 in all cases not involving a cost-of-service showing. The order shall
be issued within 150 days after the tolling order under
§ 111.07 in all cases involving a cost-of-service showing.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.11 REFUNDS; NOTICE.
   (A)   The Village Council may order a refund to subscribers as provided in
47 C.F.R. pt. 76.942.
   (B)   Before the Village Council may order a refund to subscribers as
provided in 47 C.F.R. pt. 76.942.
   (C)   Before the Village Council orders any refund to subscribers, the
Village Clerk shall give at least 7-days’ written notice to the cable operator
by first-class mail of the date, time, and place at which the Village Council
shall consider issuing a refund order and shall provide an opportunity for the
cable operator to comment.
   (D)   The cable operator may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at the
time for the purpose of submitting comments to the Village Council.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.12 WRITTEN DECISIONS; PUBLIC NOTICE.
   (A)   Any order of the Village Council pursuant to §§
111.10 or
111.11 shall be in writing, shall be effective upon adoption by the Village
Council, and shall be deemed released to the public upon adoption. The Clerk
shall publish a public notice of any such written order in a newspaper of
general circulation within the village which shall:
      (1)   Summarize the written decision; and
      (2)   State that copies of the text of the written decision are available
for inspection or copying from the office of the Clerk.
   (B)   In addition, the Village Clerk shall mail a copy of the text of the
written decision to the cable operator by first-class mail.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.13 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   In addition to rules promulgated pursuant to
§ 111.04, the Village Council may, by resolution or otherwise, adopt rules and
regulations for basic cable service rate regulation proceedings (including,
without limitation, the conduct of hearings), consistent with the Act and the
FCC Rules.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.14 FAILURE TO GIVE NOTICE.
   The failure of the Village Clerk to give the notices or to mail copies of
reports as required by
§§ 111.01 et seq. shall not invalidate the decisions or proceedings of the
Village Council so long as there is substantial compliance with
§§ 111.01 et seq.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.15 ADDITIONAL HEARINGS.
   In addition to the requirements of
§§ 111.01 et seq., the Village Council may in its sole discretion hold
additional public hearings upon the reasonable notice as the Village Council
shall prescribe.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.16 ADDITIONAL POWERS.
   The village shall possess all powers conferred by the Act, the FCC Rules,
the cable operator's franchise, and all other applicable law. The powers
exercised pursuant to the Act, the FCC Rules, and
§§ 111.01 et seq. shall be in addition to powers conferred by law or otherwise.
The village may take any action not prohibited by the Act and the FCC Rules to
protect the public interest in connection with basic cable service rate
regulation.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.17 FAILURE TO COMPLY; REMEDIES.
   Unless prohibited by applicable law and equitable remedies against the cable
operator (including, without limitation, all remedies provided under a cable
operator's franchise with the village) for failure to comply with the Act, the
FCC Rules, any orders or determinations of the village pursuant to
§§ 111.01 et seq., any requirements of
§§ 111.01 et seq., or any rules or regulations promulgated hereunder. Unless
prohibited or limited by applicable law, failure to comply with the Act, the
FCC Rules, any orders or determination so the village pursuant to
§§ 111.01 et seq., any requirements of
§§ 111.01 et seq., or any rules and regulations promulgated hereunder, shall
also be sufficient grounds for revocation or denial of renewal of a cable
operator's franchise.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.18 CONFLICTING PROVISIONS.
   In the event of any conflict between
§§ 111.01 et seq. and the provisions of any prior ordinance, then subject to
applicable law and to the extent necessary to reasonable comply with the Act
and FCC Rules the provisions of
§§ 111.01 et seq. shall control. In the event of any conflict between
§§ 111.01 et seq. and the provisions of any franchise, permit, or other
agreements with a cable operator, then subject to applicable law and to the
extent necessary to reasonable comply with the Act and FCC Rules the provision
of
§§ 111.01 et seq. shall control.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
§ 111.19 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 111.01 et seq. becomes effective 1 day after publication.
(Ord. 213, passed 9-7-1993)
CHAPTER 112: PEDDLERS, SOLICITORS, AND THE LIKE
Section
Peddlers
   
112.01   Definition
   
112.02   License required
   
112.03   Fixed stands prohibited
   
112.04   Prohibited areas
   
112.05   Practices prohibited
   
112.06   Curb service prohibited
   
112.07   Exempt persons
Solicitors
   
112.20   Definition
   
112.21   License required
   
112.22   License application
   
112.23   License fees
   
112.24   Exempt persons
Transient Merchants
   
112.35   License required
   
112.36   Temporary business defined
   
112.37   Exemption
   
112.38   Responsibility of sponsoring establishment
   
112.39   Other requirements
Route Sales
   
112.50   License required
   
112.51   Definition
   
112.52   Businesses included
   
112.53   Businesses excluded
   
112.54   Credit against fee
PEDDLERS
§ 112.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of §§ 112.01 et seq., the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or other
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
carrying, conveying, or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish,
vegetables, fruits, garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering, and
exposing the same for sale or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer
the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, or other vehicle or
conveyance. Any person who solicits orders and as a separate transaction makes
deliveries to purchasers as part of a scheme or design to evade the provisions
of §§ 112.01 et seq., shall be deemed a PEDDLER. The word PEDDLER shall include
the words hawker and huckster.
(1984 Code, § 6.71)
§ 112.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of peddler in the village without
first obtaining a license therefor. No license shall be granted except upon
certification of the Police Chief.
(1984 Code, § 6.72)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.03 FIXED STANDS PROHIBITED.
   No licensee shall stop or remain in any 1 place upon any street, alley, or
public place, longer than necessary to make a sale to a customer wishing to
buy. Any peddler using a vehicle, when stopped, shall place his or her vehicle
parallel to and within 12 inches of the curb and shall depart from the place as
soon as he or she has completed sales with customers actually present.
(1984 Code, § 6.73)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.04 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   No peddler, in the sale of goods, wares, and merchandise, shall obstruct any
street, alley, sidewalk, or driveway except as may be necessary and reasonable
to consummate a sale nor remain, barter, sell, offer, or expose for sale any
goods, wares, or merchandise in front of or at the side of any property against
the wish or desire of the property owner or the tenant or occupant of the
property. No peddler shall engage in peddling on any street, alley, or public
place after having been requested to desist by any police officer of the
village because of congested or dangerous traffic conditions.
(1984 Code, § 6.74)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.05 PRACTICES PROHIBITED.
   No peddler shall shout or cry out his or her goods or merchandise, nor blow
any horns, ring any bell, or use any other similar device to attract the
attention of the public.
(1984 Code, § 6.75)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.06 CURB SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or maintain any stand, vehicle, store, or place of
business on or near to any highway in such a manner that the customers of or
traders with the person occupy or congregate within the limits of any street,
lane, highway, or public place within the village. No person shall be permitted
to use the streets, alleys, lanes, or public places of the village for the
service of customers or for the transaction of business, or to use any stands,
stores, or other places of business in any manner that shall require the
customer, when transacting the business, to stand within the limits of the
streets, highways, alleys, or public places of the village.
(1984 Code, § 6.76)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.07 EXEMPT PERSONS.
   (A)   Generally. The following shall be exempt from the licensing
requirements of
§§ 112.01 et seq. but shall be subject to the other provisions hereof.
   (B)   Exemptions.
      (1)   Farmers or truck gardeners selling or offering for sale any
products grown, raised, or produced by them, the sale of which is not otherwise
prohibited or regulated; and
      (2)   Any person under 18 years of age, when engaged in peddling on foot
in the neighborhood of his or her residence under the direct supervision of any
school or recognized charitable or religious organization.
(1984 Code, § 6.77)
SOLICITORS
§ 112.20 DEFINITION.
   (A)   For the purpose of §§ 112.20 et seq., the following definition shall
apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      SOLICITOR. Any individual, whether a resident of the village or not,
traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor truck, or any other type of
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
taking or attempting to take orders for sale of goods, wares, and merchandise,
books or magazines, personal property of any nature whatsoever for future
delivery, or for services to be furnished or performed in the future, whether
or not the individual has, carries, or exposes for sale a sample of the subject
of the sale or whether he or she is collecting advance payments on the sales or
not, and the definition shall include any person who, for himself or herself,
or for another person, hires, leases, uses, or occupies any building,
structure, tent, railroad box car, boat, hotel room, lodging house, apartment,
shop, or any other place within the village for the sole purpose of exhibiting
samples and taking orders for future delivery.
   (B)   This section becomes effective 10 days after publication.
(1984 Code, § 6.81) (Am. Ord. 242, passed 8-19-2002)
§ 112.21 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of a solicitor within the village
without first obtaining a license therefor. No license shall be granted except
upon certification of the Police Chief.
(1984 Code, § 6.82)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.22 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   (A)   Generally. The license application filed under the provisions of this
code shall furnish the following information.
   (B)   Information.
      (1)   Name and description of the applicant;
      (2)   Permanent home address and full local address of the applicant;
      (3)   A brief description of the nature of the business and the goods to
be sold;
      (4)   If employed, the name and address of the employer, together with
credentials establishing the exact relationship;
      (5)   The length of time for which the right to do business is desired;
      (6)   The place where the goods or property proposed to be sold, or
orders taken for the sale thereof, are manufactured or produced, where the
goods or products are located at the time the application is filed, and the
proposed method of delivery;
      (7)   A photograph of the applicant, taken within 60 days immediately
prior to the date of the filing of the application, which picture shall be 2
inches by 2 inches showing the head and shoulders of the applicant in a clear
and distinguishing manner;
      (8)   The fingerprints of the applicant and the names of at least 2
reliable property owners of the County of Washtenaw, State of Michigan, who
will certify as to the applicant's good character and business respectability,
or in lieu of the names of references, the other available evidence as to the
good character and business responsibility of the applicant as will enable an
investigator to properly evaluate the character and business responsibility;
and
      (9)   A statement as to whether or not the applicant has been convicted
of any crime, misdemeanor, or violation of any municipal ordinance, the nature
of the offense, and the punishment or penalty assessed therefor.
(1984 Code, § 6.83)
§ 112.23 LICENSE FEES.
   (A)   The fees for a solicitor's license shall be as specified in
§§ 113.35 et seq. No fee for a solicitor's license shall be so applied as to
occasion an undue burden upon interstate commerce. In any case where a license
fee is believed by a licensee or applicant for a license to place an undue
burden upon interstate commerce, he or she may apply to the Village Clerk for
an adjustment of the fees so that it shall not be discriminatory, unreasonable,
or unfair as to the commerce.
   (B)   The application may be made before, at, or within 6 months after
payment of the prescribed license fee. The applicant shall, by affidavit, and
supporting testimony, show his or her method of business and gross volume or
estimated gross volume of business and the other information as the Village
Clerk may deem necessary in order to determine the extent, if any, of the undue
burden on the commerce. The Village Clerk shall then conduct an investigation,
comparing applicant's business with other businesses of like nature and shall
make findings of fact from which he or she shall determine whether the fee
fixed for the solicitor's license is unfair, unreasonable or discriminatory as
to applicant's business and shall fix as the license fee for the applicant, an
amount that is fair, reasonable and nondiscriminatory, or, if the fee has
already been paid, shall order a refund of the amount over and above the fee so
fixed. In fixing the fee to be charged, the Village Clerk shall have the power
to base the fee upon a percentage of gross sales, or any other method which
will assure that the fee assessed shall be uniform with that assessed on
businesses of like nature, so long as the amount assessed does not exceed the
fee as prescribed by
§§ 113.35 et seq. Should the Village Clerk determine the gross sales measure of
the fee to be the fair basis, he or she may require the applicant to submit,
either at the time of termination of applicant's business in the village or at
the end of each 3-month period, a sworn statement of the gross sales and pay
the amount of fee therefor, provided that no additional fee during any 1
license year shall be required after the licensee shall have paid an amount
equal to the annual license fee as prescribed in
§§ 113.35 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 6.84)
§ 112.24 EXEMPT PERSONS.
   Persons under 18 years of age, when engaged in soliciting on foot in the
neighborhood of their residence under the direct supervision of any school or
recognized charitable or religious organization shall be exempt from the
requirements of
§§ 112.20 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 6.85)
TRANSIENT MERCHANTS
§ 112.35 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   (A)   No person shall engage in a temporary business of selling goods, food
either prepared or unprepared, wares, merchandise, or other services at retail
within the village from any lot, premises, building, room, or structure,
including railroad cars, without first obtaining a license therefor. No license
shall be granted except upon certification of the Village Manager and Village
Clerk. The Village Council will set by resolution the requirements and fees to
obtain a license.
   (B)   A license issued pursuant to this subchapter shall not give permission
for the transient merchant to conduct or set up a business on public property
or rights-of-ways without separate, prior permission. Transient merchants may
set up business on private property, with the permission of the property owner.
   (C)   The area in which the transient merchant sets up business shall not
diminish or reduce the number of parking spaces required, if any, in the area,
locale or site pursuant to the Village of Manchester Zoning Code.
(1984 Code, § 6.91) (Am. Ord. 312, passed 9-6-2022) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 112.36 TEMPORARY BUSINESS DEFINED.
   TRANSIENT MERCHANT means any person, firm, or corporation, as principal or
agent, or both, which is not a regular retail or wholesale merchant with a
fixed and permanent retail place of business in the village, but rather one who
displays samples and/or sells goods, wares, merchandise, food or services in
any temporary location, for immediate or future delivery. The term shall not
apply to any of the following:
   (A)   A person handling vegetables, fruits, perishable farm products or
goods produced by the individual.
   (B)   A person operating a mobile or temporary or portable stand, booth or
truck on the property owned by him or her.
   (C)   A person selling at a festival or similar event at the invitation of
the event's sponsor if the sponsor is a governmental entity, a nonprofit
organization (under IRS rules) or has been sanctioned by the village.
(1984 Code, § 6.92) (Am. Ord. 312, passed 9-6-2022)
§ 112.37 EXEMPTION.
   Persons conducting a business licensed under another provision of this code
shall be exempt from the requirements of §§
112.35 et seq. as to the licensed business.
(1984 Code, § 6.95) (Am. Ord. 312, passed 9-6-2022)
§ 112.38 RESPONSIBILITY OF SPONSORING ESTABLISHMENT.
   If a fixed or permanent retail place of business in the village allows a
transient merchant to do temporary business at their location, then the fixed
or permanent retail place of business assumes accountability for the transient
merchant registering with the village and liability for paying all unpaid
applicable fees.
(Ord. 312, passed 9-6-2022)
§ 112.39 OTHER REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Appropriate waste receptacles shall be provided at the site and all
litter, debris and other waste shall be removed on a daily basis.
   (B)   No flashing, blinking, strobe lights or similar effects to draw
attention to the vendor shall be used. All exterior lights over 60 watts shall
contain opaque hood shields to direct the illumination downward.
   (C)   Vendors shall not use loud music, amplification devices or "crying
out" or any other audible methods to gain attention.
   (D)   There shall be no signage used by vendor except for what is allowed on
the vehicle or unit itself.
   (E)   Vendors shall comply with all applicable village ordinances.
   (F)   Vendors shall not represent the granting of a permit under this
subchapter as an endorsement of the village.
(Ord. 312, passed 9-6-2022)
ROUTE SALES
§ 112.50 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the business of making
regular route deliveries of goods, wares, merchandise, foodstuffs, or services
within the village without first having obtained a license therefor.
(1984 Code, § 6.111)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 112.51 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of
§§ 112.50 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   REGULAR ROUTE DELIVERY. Includes the businesses hereinafter enumerated of
making regular route delivery at retail by motor vehicle or on foot to the
residence of the consumer whether by pre-arranged accustomed route or by prior
order from the consumer.
(1984 Code, § 6.112)
§ 112.52 BUSINESSES INCLUDED.
   (A)   Generally. The following businesses are specifically included under
route delivery as defined in
§ 112.51 and for which a license must be obtained.
   (B)   Businesses.
      (1)   Milk and dairy products;
      (2)   Fuel oil;
      (3)   Laundries and dry cleaning;
      (4)   Foodstuffs, including baked goods;
      (5)   Hardware, brushes, brooms, and household utensils;
      (6)   Cosmetics; and
      (7)   Water softening service.
(1984 Code, § 6.113)
§ 112.53 BUSINESSES EXCLUDED.
   (A)   Generally. The following businesses are specifically excluded from the
provisions of
§§ 112.50 et seq. and no license or license fee shall be required.
   (B)   Businesses.
      (1)   Department stores making isolated and individual deliveries
pursuant to specified order of specific merchandise by the consumer;
      (2)   Newspapers and periodicals;
      (3)   Farmers selling farm produce produced by their own labors;
      (4)   Charitable and nonprofit organizations;
      (5)   Medical services; and
      (6)   Public utilities and municipal services.
(1984 Code, § 6.114)
§ 112.54 CREDIT AGAINST FEE.
   As a credit against the license fee established for the license herein
required, there shall be applied either of the following:
   (A)   The fee paid for any other license by the applicant under the
provisions of this code for operation of a business in the Village of
Manchester; or
   (B)   The amount paid by the applicant in personal property tax to the
Village of Manchester according to the last preceding Personal Property Tax
Roll.
(1984 Code, § 6.115)
CHAPTER 113: GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
Section
Licenses
   
113.01   Licenses required
   
113.02   Multiple businesses
   
113.03   State licensed businesses
   
113.04   License application
   
113.05   License year
   
113.06   Conditions for issuance
   
113.07   Where certification required
   
113.08   Police Chief’s certificate
   
113.09   Bonds
   
113.10   Late renewals
   
113.11   Right to issuance
   
113.12   Fees; when paid
   
113.13   Exempt persons
   
113.14   Suspension or revocation
   
113.15   Definition
   
113.16   License renewal
   
113.17   Exhibition of license
   
113.18   Exhibition on vehicle and machine
   
113.19   Displaying invalid license
   
113.20   Transferability; misuse
   
113.21   Misuse; automatic revocation
   
113.22   Compliance with statutes, ordinances, and regulations
   
113.23   Inspection
   
113.24   Noncompliance
Fees and Bonds Required
   
113.35   Schedule established
   
113.36   Fees for licenses
   
113.37   Types of licenses
Cross-reference:
Peddlers, Solicitors, and the Like, see
Ch. 112
LICENSES
§ 113.01 LICENSES REQUIRED.
   No person shall within the village engage, or be engaged in the operation,
conduct, or carrying on of any trade, profession, business, or privilege for
which any license is required by any provision of this code without first
obtaining the license from the village in the manner provided for in §§ 113.01
et seq. Any person duly licensed on the effective date of this code shall be
deemed licensed hereunder for the balance of the current license year.
(1984 Code, § 6.1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.02 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   The granting of a license or permit to any person operating, conducting, or
carrying on any trade, profession, business, or privilege which contains within
itself, or is composed of, trades, professions, businesses, or privileges which
are required by this code to be licensed, shall not relieve the person to whom
the license or permit is granted from the necessity of securing individual
licenses or permits for each trade, profession, business, or privilege.
(1984 Code, § 6.2)
§ 113.03 STATE LICENSED BUSINESSES.
   The fact that a license or permit has been granted to any person by the
State of Michigan to engage in the operation, conduct, or carrying on of any
trade, profession, business, or privilege shall not exempt the person from the
necessity of securing a license or permit from the village if the license or
permit is required by this code.
(1984 Code, § 6.3)
§ 113.04 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, every person required to obtain a
license from the village to engage in the operation, conduct, or carrying on of
any trade, profession, business, or privilege shall make application for the
license to the Village Clerk upon forms provided by the Clerk and shall state
under oath or affirmation the facts, as may be required for, or applicable to,
the granting of the license.
(1984 Code, § 6.4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.05 LICENSE YEAR.
   The license year applicable to annual licenses, except as other specifically
provided in this code, shall begin on July 1 of each year and shall terminate
at midnight on June 30 of the following year. License applications for license
renewals shall be accepted and licenses issued for a period of 15 days prior to
the annual expiration date. In all cases where the provisions of this code
permit the issuance of licenses for periods of less than 1 year, the effective
date of the license shall commence with the date of issuance thereof.
(1984 Code, § 6.5)
§ 113.06 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   No license or permit required by this code shall be issued to any person who
is required to have a license or permit from the State of Michigan, until the
person shall submit evidence of the state license or permit and proof that all
fees appertaining thereto have been paid. No license shall be granted to any
applicant therefor until the applicant has complied with all the provisions of
this code applicable to the trade, profession, business, or privilege for which
application for license is made.
(1984 Code, § 6.6)
§ 113.07 WHERE CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   No license shall be granted where the certification of any officer of the
village is required prior to the issuance thereof, until the certification is
made.
(1984 Code, § 6.7)
§ 113.08 POLICE CHIEF'S CERTIFICATE.
   In all cases where the certification of the Police Chief is required prior
to the issuance of any license, the certification shall be based upon a finding
that the person making application for the license is of good moral character.
(1984 Code, § 6.8)
§ 113.09 BONDS.
   (A)   Where the provisions of this code require that the applicant for any
license or permit furnish a bond, the bond shall be furnished in an amount
deemed adequate by the proper village officer, or, where the amount thereof is
specified in the schedule of fees and bonds set out in
§§ 113.35 et seq. or elsewhere in this code, in the amount so required.
   (B)   In lieu of a bond, an applicant for a license or permit may furnish 1
or more policies of insurance in the same amounts and providing the same
protection as called for in any such bond; and the policies of insurance shall
be approved as to substance by the official issuing the license or permit.
(1984 Code, § 6.9)
§ 113.10 LATE RENEWALS.
   All fees for the renewal of any license which are not paid at the time the
fees shall be due, shall be paid as late fees with an additional 25% of the
license fee required for the licenses under the provisions of
§§ 113.35 et seq., for the first 15 days that the license fee remains unpaid
and thereafter the license fee shall be that stipulated for the licenses under
§§ 113.35 et seq., plus 50% of the fee.
(1984 Code, § 6.10)
§ 113.11 RIGHT TO ISSUANCE.
   If the application for any license is approved by the proper officers of the
village, as provided in this code, the license shall be granted and shall serve
as a receipt for payment of the fee prescribed for the license.
(1984 Code, § 6.11)
§ 113.12 FEES; WHEN PAID.
   The fee required by this code for any license or permit shall be paid at the
office of the issuing authority prescribed in this code upon or before the
granting of the license or permit.
(1984 Code, § 6.12)
§ 113.13 EXEMPT PERSONS.
   No license fee shall be required from any person exempt from the fee by
state or federal law. The persons shall comply with all other provisions of
§§ 113.01 et seq. The Village Clerk shall, in all the cases, issue to the
persons licenses which are clearly marked as to the exemption and the reason
therefor.
(1984 Code, § 6.13)
§ 113.14 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   Any license issued by the village may be suspended by the Village President
for cause, and any permit issued by the village may be suspended or revoked by
the issuing authority for cause. The licensee shall have the right to a hearing
before the Council on any such action of the President, provided a written
request therefor is filed with the Village Clerk within 5 days after receipt of
the notice of the suspension. The Council may confirm the suspension or revoke
or reinstate any such license. The action taken by the Council shall be final.
Upon suspension or revocation of any license or permit, the fee therefor shall
not be refunded. Except as otherwise specifically provided in this code, any
licensee whose license has been revoked shall not be eligible to apply for a
new license for the trade, profession, business, or privilege for a period of 1
year after the revocation.
(1984 Code, § 6.14)
§ 113.15 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of
§§ 113.01 et seq., the following definition shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CAUSE. The doing or omitting of any act, or permitting any condition to
exist in connection with any trade, profession, business, or privilege for
which a license or permit is granted under the provisions of this code, or upon
any premises or facilities used in connection therewith, which act, omission,
or condition is:
      (1)   Contrary to the health, morals, safety, or welfare of the public;
      (2)   Unlawful, irregular, or fraudulent in nature;
      (3)   Unauthorized or beyond the scope of the license or permit granted;
or
      (4)   Forbidden by the provisions of this code or any duly established
rule or regulation of the village applicable to the trade, profession,
business, or privilege for which the license or permit has been granted.
(1984 Code, § 6.15)
§ 113.16 LICENSE RENEWAL.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, an application for renewal of a
license shall be considered in the same manner as an original application.
(1984 Code, § 6.16)
§ 113.17 EXHIBITION OF LICENSE.
   (A)   No licensee shall fail to carry any license issued in accordance with
the provisions of
§§ 113.01 et seq. upon his or her person at all times when engaged in the
operation, conduct, or carrying on of any trade, profession, business, or
privilege for which the license was granted; except that where the trade,
profession, business, or privilege is operated, conducted, or carried on at a
fixed place or establishment, the license shall be exhibited at all times in
some conspicuous place in his or her place of business.
   (B)   Every licensee shall produce his or her license for examination when
applying for a renewal thereof or when requested to do so by any village police
officer or by any person representing the issuing authority.
(1984 Code, § 6.17)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.18 EXHIBITION ON VEHICLE AND MACHINE.
   No licensee shall fail to display conspicuously on each vehicle or
mechanical device or machine required to be licensed by this code the tags or
stickers as are furnished by the Village Clerk.
(1984 Code, § 6.18)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.19 DISPLAYING INVALID LICENSE.
   No person shall display any expired license or any license for which a
duplicate has been issued.
(1984 Code, § 6.19)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.20 TRANSFERABILITY; MISUSE.
   No license or permit issued under the provisions of this code shall be
transferable unless specifically authorized by the provisions of this code. No
licensee or permittee shall, unless specifically authorized by the provisions
of this code, transfer or attempt to transfer his or her license or permit to
another nor shall he or she make any improper use of the same.
(1984 Code, § 6.20)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.21 MISUSE; AUTOMATIC REVOCATION.
   In addition to the general penalty provision for violation thereof, any
attempt by a licensee or permittee to transfer his or her license or permit to
another, unless specifically authorized by the provisions of this code, or to
use the same improperly shall be void and result in the automatic revocation of
the license or permit.
(1984 Code, § 6.21)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.22 COMPLIANCE WITH STATUTES, ORDINANCES, AND REGULATIONS.
   No license shall be issued to any applicant not in compliance with all
applicable statues, ordinances, or lawfully adopted and promulgated
regulations. This section shall take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 113.23 INSPECTION.
   Licensees may be inspected from time to time during normal business hours by
any person duly authorized by the Village Manager to make the inspections. This
section shall take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 113.24 NONCOMPLIANCE.
   Noncompliance with any provision of
§§ 113.01 et seq. shall be grounds for refusal, suspension, or revocation of
the license after a hearing by the Village Council. The licensee shall be
provided with at least 10-days written notice of the hearing. This section
shall take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 149, passed 7-29-1986)
Penalty, see § 10.99
FEES AND BONDS REQUIRED
§ 113.35 SCHEDULE ESTABLISHED.
   The fee required to be paid and the amount of any bond required to be posted
to obtain any license to engage in the operation, conduct, or carrying on of
any trade, profession, business, or privilege for which a license is required
by the provisions of this code shall be as hereinafter provided in §§ 113.35 et
seq. No license shall be issued to any applicant unless he or she first pays to
the Village Clerk the fee and posts a bond in the amount required for the type
of license desired.
(1984 Code, § 6.31)
§ 113.36 FEES FOR LICENSES.
   Fees for licenses shall be as prescribed in the following sections of
§§ 113.35 et seq. under the business, trade, occupation, or privilege to be
licensed. Bonds, where required, shall be in the amounts listed beneath the
license fee prescribed for the business.
(1984 Code, § 6.32)
§ 113.37 TYPES OF LICENSES.
   (A)   Billiard room - see division (G) below;
   (B)   Bowling establishment (
§ 115.26) per lane annual fee - as per Council resolution;
   (C)   Carnival (
§ 115.40) per day - as per Council resolution;
   (D)   Circus (
§ 115.40) per day - as per Council resolution;
   (E)   Mechanical amusement device (
§ 115.04) amusement center annual fee - as per Council resolution;
   (F)   Peddlers (
§ 112.02):
      (1)   Per day - as per Council resolution;
      (2)   Per week - as per Council resolution;
      (3)   Per month - as per Council resolution; and
      (4)   Annual fee - as per Council resolution.
   (G)   Pool room (
§ 115.26) per table annual fee - as per Council resolution;
   (H)   Route sales (
§ 112.50) annual fee - as per Council resolution;
   (I)   Solicitors (
§ 112.21):
      (1)   Per day - as per Council resolution;
      (2)   Per week - as per Council resolution;
      (3)   Per month - as per Council resolution; and
      (4)   Annual fee - as per Council resolution.
   (J)   Taxicabs (
§ 114.02) each vehicle annual fee - as per Council resolution; and
   (K)   Transient merchant (
§ 112.35) initial fee - as per Council resolution.
(1984 Code, § 6.33) (Am. Ord. 141, passed - -)
CHAPTER 114: TAXICABS
Section
   
114.01   Definition
   
114.02   Taxicab license
   
114.03   New licenses
   
114.04   License transfers
   
114.05   Transfer between vehicles
   
114.06   License
   
114.07   Insurance
   
114.08   Cancellation notice
   
114.09   Rates
   
114.10   Passengers
   
114.11   Lost articles
   
114.12   Rules and regulations
§ 114.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definition shall apply unless
the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   TAXICAB. Shall have the meaning defined in Title VII of this code.
(1984 Code, § 6.171)
§ 114.02 TAXICAB LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall engage in the business of operating or causing to be
operated, any taxicab upon the streets, alleys, or public ways of the village
without first having obtained a license for each taxicab.
   (B)   No license shall be granted except upon certification of the Police
Chief and upon approval of the Village Council.
   (C)   Picking up passengers within the village shall be deemed engaging in
the taxicab business, but discharging passengers in the village when the trip
originated from a point outside the village, shall not be so construed.
(1984 Code, § 6.172)
Penalty, see § 114.02
§ 114.03 NEW LICENSES.
   Upon application made for any new taxicab license, as distinguished from any
renewal thereof, the Village Council shall first consider the question of
whether public convenience and necessity require the operation of the taxicab.
The Council shall consider the number of taxicabs operating in the village and
whether the demands of the public require additional taxicab service; traffic
conditions on the streets of the village and whether the additional taxicab
service will result in a greater hazard to the public and the other relevant
facts as the Council may deem advisable. The judgment of the Council on the
question of public necessity and convenience shall be conclusive.
(1984 Code, § 6.173)
§ 114.04 LICENSE TRANSFERS.
   When the ownership of any taxicab shall change, whether by operation of law
or otherwise, the taxicab license pertaining to the taxicab shall be
automatically revoked. Any transfer of, or attempt to transfer, a taxicab
license to any other person shall automatically revoke the license.
(1984 Code, § 6.174)
§ 114.05 TRANSFER BETWEEN VEHICLES.
   The owner of any licensed taxicab who desires to transfer the license to
another vehicle owned by him or her shall make application to the Village Clerk
on forms provided therefor, and shall state under oath or affirmation the facts
as may be required for, or applicable to, the transfer. Upon approval of the
Police Chief the transfer shall be granted.
(1984 Code, § 6.175)
§ 114.06 LICENSE.
   Upon issuance of any taxicab license, the Village Clerk shall furnish the
licensee a license for each vehicle so licensed.
(1984 Code, § 6.176)
§ 114.07 INSURANCE.
   (A)   Before any license is issued, the applicant therefor shall furnish 1
or more policies of insurance, issued by responsible insurance companies
providing indemnity for the insured in the amounts specified herein and
agreeing to pay, within the limits of the amounts on behalf of the insured, all
sums which the insured shall become obligated to pay by reason of the liability
imposed upon the insured by law, for damages because of bodily injury,
including death, at any time resulting therefrom, or of damages to property, or
both, sustained by any person other than the employees of the insured and
caused by accident and arising out of the ownership, maintenance, or use of the
licensed taxicab.
   (B)   The minimum amount of the insurance coverage as to any licensed
taxicab shall be:
      (1)   On account of injury to, or death of, any person in any 1 accident
- as per Council resolution;
      (2)   On account of any 1 accident resulting in injury to, or death of,
more than 1 person - as per Council resolution; and
      (3)   On account of damage to property in any 1 accident- as per Council
resolution.
(1984 Code, § 6.177) (Am. Ord. 142, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 114.08 CANCELLATION NOTICE.
   Every insurance policy shall contain a clause obligating the insurer or
surety to give the Village Clerk, by registered or certified mail, at least 10-
days’ written notice before the cancellation, expiration, lapse, or other
termination of each insurance policy.
(1984 Code, § 6.178)
§ 114.09 RATES.
   All fares and charges for the use of taxicabs shall be determined by
resolution of the Village Council following a hearing held by the Council at a
regular meeting. All taxicab licensees shall be notified of the hearing by
mail. The term waiting time as used in any schedule of rates and charges shall
include time when the taxicab is not in motion beginning with the arrival at
the place to which it has been called, or the time consumed while standing at
the direction of any passenger, but shall not include time lost because of
inefficiency of the taxicab or its operator, or time consumed by premature
response to a call or by traffic delays. Until changed as herein provided rates
effective on the effective date of this code shall remain in effect.
(1984 Code, § 6.179)
§ 114.10 PASSENGERS.
   (A)   Every taxicab driver shall have the right to demand payment of the
legal fare in advance, and may refuse employment until so prepaid, but no
taxicab driver shall otherwise refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person
or persons upon request anywhere in the village unless previously engaged or
unable to do so.
   (B)   No driver of any licensed taxicab shall carry any other person than
the passenger first employing a taxicab without the consent of the passenger.
(1984 Code, § 6.180)
Penalty, see § 114.02
§ 114.11 LOST ARTICLES.
   Every taxicab driver, immediately after the termination of any hiring or
employment, shall carefully search the taxicab for any property lost or left
therein, and any such property unless sooner claimed or delivered to the owner
shall be taken to the headquarters of the Police Department and deposited with
the officer in charge within 24 hours after the finding of the article.
(1984 Code, § 6.181)
Penalty, see § 114.02
§ 114.12 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Police Chief is hereby empowered, subject to approval by the Village
Council, to make the rules and regulations regarding the dress and conduct of
drivers, the maintenance, marking, and operation of taxicabs as may be
necessary in the interest of providing safe and orderly service to passengers,
and no person shall fail to comply with any such rule or regulation. Upon
adoption or change in any such rule or regulation, notice thereof shall be
furnished to each taxicab licensee.
(1984 Code, § 6.182)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Mechanical Amusement Devices
   
115.01   Short title
   
115.02   Purpose
   
115.03   Definitions
   
115.04   License required
   
115.05   License application
   
115.06   Information required
   
115.07   Investigation
   
115.08   Renewal and annual report
   
115.09   License revocation
   
115.10   Prohibitions and restrictions
   
115.11   Exempt organizations
   
115.12   Violations
Pool Rooms and Bowling Establishments
   
115.25   Definitions
   
115.26   License required
   
115.27   Minors
   
115.28   Public institutions excepted
Carnivals and Circuses
   
115.40   License required
   
115.41   Application
   
115.42   License fee
   
115.43   Approval
Cross-reference:
General Licensing Provisions, see
Ch. 113
Peddlers, Solicitors, and the Like, see
Ch. 112
MECHANICAL AMUSEMENT DEVICES
§ 115.01 SHORT TITLE.
   Sections 115.01 et seq. shall be known and may be cited as the Coin-Operated
Amusement Center Ordinance.
(1984 Code, § 6.201)
§ 115.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of
§§ 115.01 et seq. is to:
   (A)   Define and regulate coin-operated amusement centers;
   (B)   To require the licensing and registration thereof; and
   (C)   To provide penalties for the violation thereof.
(1984 Code, § 6.202)
§ 115.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 115.01 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT CENTER. Any business or portion thereof which
maintains for public use on the business premises 6 or more coin-operated
amusement devices, without reference to the presence thereon of pool tables and
excluding those places of business which are licensed by the Michigan Liquor
Control Commission.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. An instrument, machine, or contrivance that
provides a test of skill, amusement, competition between 2 or more players, or
other similar form of amusement or recreation, which may be operated or set in
motion on the insertion of a coin.
   MANAGER. The person in actual charge and control of the operation of a coin-
operated amusement center.
   OWNER. Any person, firm, partnership, or corporation which owns, operates,
or maintains any coin-operated amusement center.
   PROMOTER. A person who regularly or frequently engages in competition on
coin-operated amusement devices for value with patrons of coin-operated
amusement centers and shares the value of prizes received with the owner or
manager of the center.
(1984 Code, § 6.203)
§ 115.04 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall conduct the operation of a coin-operated amusement center
without first having procured a license as set forth herein.
(1984 Code, § 6.204)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.05 LICENSE APPLICATION.
   To obtain the license, a written application shall be made to the Village
Clerk, under oath, upon forms to be provided by the Clerk.
(1984 Code, § 6.205)
§ 115.06 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   Generally. The application shall provide the following information.
   (B)   Information.
      (1)   Names, current addresses, dates of birth, finger prints, motor
vehicle operator's license number, if any, and type of legal interest of all
owners, as well as managers;
      (2)   The business address, legal description, and telephone number of
the establishment;
      (3)   The number, type, and location of coin-operated amusement devices
on the premises;
      (4)   An annual license fee in the amount specified in
§§ 113.35 et seq.; and
      (5)   The criminal record, if any, of any owner or manager giving the
date, place, and nature of all felonies and misdemeanors, including local
ordinances, with the exception of traffic offenses. If during the licensed
year, the manager of the coin-operated amusement center is changed, his or her
criminal record, if any, shall be submitted to the police chief for
investigation and report as hereinafter provided.
(1984 Code, § 6.206)
§ 115.07 INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of the application, the Clerk shall request the
following:
      (1)   Report from the Fire Chief that the location or proposed location
of the devices will not create a fire hazard and that all fire regulations are
satisfied;
      (2)   Report from the Village Building Inspector and Village Electrical
Inspector that all electrical, pneumatic, and hydraulic connections to each
device comply with the building code and that all building and zoning
regulations have been satisfied; and
      (3)   Report from the Police Chief that the applicant-owner or manager
has not been convicted of any crime involving moral turpitude nor has a general
reputation in his or her community of a gambler or promoter of vice and
immorality.
   (B)   In the event that any of the above reports so justify in the interest
of public health, safety, and welfare, the Clerk may refuse to issue a license
to the applicant. The failure to provide the information for a license, or
manager, as required herein, shall constitute sufficient grounds to refuse
issuance of a license.
   (C)   In the event the application and subsequent reports are satisfactory,
the Clerk shall issue the license.
   (D)   In the event that the Clerk refuses, for any reason, to issue a
license to an applicant, the aggrieved applicant may take an appeal by written
request within 10 days of the refusal, for a hearing before the Village
Council. The hearing shall be held within a reasonable time and the Council’s
determination shall be final.
(1984 Code, § 6.207)
§ 115.08 RENEWAL AND ANNUAL REPORT.
   On the anniversary date of the issuing of a license, the Clerk may renew the
license for another year upon:
   (A)   The payment of the annual license fee; and
   (B)   (1)   An annual report filed by the licensee detailing any change in
ownership or management and providing a current list of the number, type, and
location of all coin-operated amusement devices, including pool tables on the
premises.
      (2)   The renewal shall otherwise be subject to the same terms and
requirements as provided for an original license.
(1984 Code, § 6.208)
§ 115.09 LICENSE REVOCATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful and a license shall be revoked by the Village
Council upon a determination by the Village Council that any or all of the
following situations exist:
      (1)   That intoxicating liquors are either sold or drunk on the premises,
or that persons under the influence of intoxicating liquors are permitted to
frequent, be in, or remain on the premises;
      (2)   That drugs or narcotics as defined under the Controlled Substance
Act of 1971 of the State of Michigan are sold, used, or found on the premises
or on the person of anyone on the premises, or that persons under the influence
of drugs or narcotics are permitted to frequent, be in or remain on the
premises;
      (3)   That the licensee has in his or her employ or permits on the
premises, a promoter, as defined herein;
      (4)   That gambling in any form is permitted in or about the premises;
and/or
      (5)   The licensee and/or his or her agent advertises or awards prizes to
customers based upon competition between persons using the coin-operated
amusement devices.
   (B)   Nothing herein shall be interpreted to make unlawful tournament prizes
or prizes or awards based upon 1 person's competition or scoring results with a
coin-operated amusement device.
   (C)   (1)   Any license issued herein may be suspended or revoked by the
Village Council for any violation of
§§ 115.01 et seq. after not less than 10-days’ written notice to licensee,
addressed to him or her at the address of the licensed coin-operated amusement
center advising of the violation and that the Village Council will hold a
public hearing thereon specifying the time and place within the Village of
Manchester.
      (2)   The Police Chief of the village and the licensee shall present any
relevant facts at the hearing pertaining to the violation.
      (3)   The provisions of
§§ 113.01 et seq. for suspension and revocation of licenses shall not apply to
licenses under
§§ 115.01 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 6.209)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.10 PROHIBITIONS AND RESTRICTIONS.
   It shall be unlawful and a violation of this code for the licensee of any
coin-operated amusement center to permit or suffer:
   (A)   Any person under 12 years of age to be present in a coin-operated
amusement center unless the parent or guardian of the child shall have
delivered the child onto the premises with the licensee's consent, or the child
is accompanied by a sibling 18 years or older;
   (B)   Any person to operate a coin-operated amusement device or use or
occupy the premises where coin-operated amusement devices of all kinds,
including pool tables, are located beyond the hours of 12:00 a.m. and before 8:
00 a.m. of any day; and/or
   (C)   Any person under the age of 17 years to occupy the licensed premises
during the hours when school is in session.
(1984 Code, § 6.210)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.11 EXEMPT ORGANIZATIONS.
   (A)   Nothing in
§§ 115.01 et seq. contained as to the making of application for a license and
the payment of a license fee shall be construed to apply to any fraternal
lodge, school, or church organization incorporated under the laws of this state
or chartered by a superior governing body incorporated under the laws of this
state, organized exclusively for fraternal, religious, or charitable purposes,
and conducting its affairs in a room or auditorium occupied by and under the
control of the lodge, school, or church organization.
   (B)   However, that the exemption herein contained shall not extend so as to
exempt the lodge, school, or church organization from prosecution for violation
of any of the other provisions of
§§ 115.01 et seq. whether licensed under
§§ 115.01 et seq. or not.
(1984 Code, § 6.211)
§ 115.12 VIOLATIONS.
   (A)   Any person who violates
§§ 115.01 et seq. shall be punishable as provided in
§ 10.99.
   (B)   Each business day, an establishment is operated contrary to any
provision of
§§ 115.01 et seq. shall be a separate and distinct violation, each violation
triable and punishable separately.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      BUSINESS DAY. The period commencing with the opening for business and
concluding with the next following closing of business regardless of the
difference between the actual dates on which these respective events occur.
(1984 Code, § 6.212)
Penalty, see § 10.99
POOL ROOMS AND BOWLING ESTABLISHMENTS
§ 115.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 115.25 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BOWLING ESTABLISHMENT. Any place open to the public for bowling.
   POOL ROOM. Any place open to the public for playing pool or billiards.
(1984 Code, § 6.231)
§ 115.26 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating a pool room or bowling
establishment within the village without first obtaining a license therefor. No
license shall be granted except upon certification of the Police Chief and
unless a complete set of fingerprints of the applicant therefor are on file in
the noncriminal identification file of the Police Department. Each license
shall designate the number of pool or billiard tables or bowling lanes
permitted thereunder, and no licensee shall keep or maintain more tables or
lanes than permitted by the license.
(1984 Code, § 6.232)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.27 MINORS.
   (A)   No person who is less than 14 years of age may remain or loiter in or
about any premises licensed hereunder as a pool room, nor shall any licensee
permit any such minor to remain in the pool room, unless the minor is
accompanied by a parent or guardian. No person shall falsely represent himself
or herself to be 14 years or older in order to obtain admittance to or remain
in any licensed pool room.
   (B)   It shall be lawful to permit minors under the age of 14 to remain in a
licensed pool room or bowling establishment if the parent or guardian of the
minor shall grant written permission to the minor so to do, a copy of which
written permission must be kept on file by the proprietor or manager of the
pool room or bowling establishment.
(1984 Code, § 6.233)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.28 PUBLIC INSTITUTIONS EXCEPTED.
   Sections 115.25 et seq. shall not be applicable to bowling establishments or
pool rooms operated and owned by public institutions, schools, or churches.
(1984 Code, § 6.234)
CARNIVALS AND CIRCUSES
§ 115.40 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate or maintain within the
village, a carnival or circus, unless the owner, licensee, or person in
possession thereof has obtained a license to operate the same and has displayed
the license in a prominent place on the premises.
(1984 Code, § 6.281)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 115.41 APPLICATION.
   Application shall be made on a form furnished by the Village Clerk which
shall set forth the owner’s name, address, and the type and amount of liability
insurance carried and the name of the insurance carrier. Applicant shall also
state the place within the city where the applicant proposes to carry on his or
her entertainment.
(1984 Code, § 6.282)
§ 115.42 LICENSE FEE.
   Every licensee hereunder shall pay the license fee as established in
§§ 113.35 et seq.
(1984 Code, § 6.283)
§ 115.43 APPROVAL.
   No license hereunder shall be issued except on certification by the Police
Chief. Location of any carnival or circus type of entertainment shall be
subject to the approval of the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 6.284)
CHAPTER 116: BED AND BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
116.01   Purpose
   
116.02   Criteria and conditions
   
116.03   Licensing fees
   
116.04   Application requirements
   
116.05   Consideration of issuance
   
116.06   Public nuisance violations
   
116.07   Authority for denial
   
116.08   Suspension, revocation, and renewal
   
116.09   Violations
   
116.10   Effective date
§ 116.01 PURPOSE.
   This chapter is established to enable single-family dwelling units of
historic significance to conduct bed and breakfast operations as defined in the
Manchester Village Zoning Ordinance. This chapter is enacted on the basis of
the public policy that supports the Village of Manchester as a tourist
destination for persons interested in the architectural and historical
significance of the village's historic structures. This chapter also focuses on
the need to provide an incentive for owners to continue occupancy and
maintenance of historic structures. This chapter emphasizes protection to
neighborhoods with the provisions of standards that prohibit nuisance and
detrimental change in the single-family character of any site proposed for a
bed and breakfast operation.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
§ 116.02 CRITERIA AND CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The structure to be used as a bed and breakfast establishment shall be
of historic significance. It is the applicant's responsibility to show proof of
historic significance to the Planning Commission.
   (B)   No premises shall be utilized for a bed and breakfast operation unless
there are a least 2 exits to the outdoors from the premises. Rooms utilized for
sleeping shall have a minimum size of 100 square feet for 2 occupants with an
additional 30 square feet for each additional occupant; to a maximum of 4
occupants per room. Each sleeping room used for the bed and breakfast operation
shall have a separate smoke detector alarm, as required in the building code.
Lavatories and bathing facilities shall be available to all persons using any
bed and breakfast operation.
   (C)   Two off-street parking spaces, plus 1 additional off-street parking
space per room to be rented, must be provided.
   (D)   Tandem parking is allowed; however, not more than 2 cars per lane
shall be allowed.
   (E)   No building or structure shall be removed in order to allow for a bed
and breakfast use nor shall such a building or structure be removed in order to
provide parking for such a use.
   (F)   All parking spaces shall be paved or graded to village standards with
materials which maintain the historical character of the neighborhood.
   (G)   (1)   If the applicant is unable to meet criteria in divisions (C),
(D), (E), or (F) above, the applicant may request special consideration from
the Planning Commission through a site plan review process.
      (2)   The village's intent is not to encourage yards to be destroyed,
landscaping removed, or the integrity of the neighborhood altered in order to
provide parking.
   (H)   (1)   Identifying signs are permitted. They must be historically
appropriate not to exceed 2 square feet in area. It may be mounted flat against
the wall of the principal building or post mounted within permitted setback.
      (2)   The sign can be illuminated with low level reflective incandescent
only.
   (I)   The dwelling unit in which the bed and breakfast takes place shall be
the principal residence of the real property owner and operator and the real
property owner and operator shall live on the premises when the bed and
breakfast operation is active.
   (J)   The structure shall remain a residential structure, i.e., the kitchen
shall not be remodeled into a commercial kitchen.
   (K)   Meals shall be served only to residents and guests having rented rooms
in the establishment.
   (L)   Each operator shall keep a list of the names of all persons staying at
the bed and breakfast operation. The list shall be available for inspection by
village officials at any time.
   (M)   The maximum stay for any occupants of bed and breakfast operation
shall be 14 consecutive days.
   (N)   The bed and breakfast room(s) shall occupy no more than a total of 50%
of the dwelling unit floor area or 7 bedrooms, whichever is lesser.
   (O)   A sign permit shall be required if applicable.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.03 LICENSING FEES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed and breakfast
operation, as defined and as permitted by the Manchester Village Zoning
Ordinance, without first having obtained a license. The fee for issuance of a
1icense required under this chapter shall be collected by the office of the
Village Building Inspector. The fee for issuance of the license shall be $50
and the issuance fee and annual license fee may be changed hereafter by Village
Council resolution. An annual license fee, as set by Council resolution, shall
be paid at the office of the Village Building Inspector, who shall issue the
license in January of each year.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989; Am. Ord. 258, passed 5-1-2006)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.04 APPLICATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Applicants for a license to operate a bed and breakfast shall submit a floor
plan of the single-family dwelling unit illustrating that the proposed
operation will comply with the Village Zoning Ordinance as amended, other
applicable village codes and ordinances, and within the terms of this chapter.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
§ 116.05 CONSIDERATION OF ISSUANCE.
   After application is duly filed with the Village Building Inspector for a
license under this section, the Planning Commission shall determine whether any
further licenses shall be issued based upon the public need to protect
neighborhoods from detrimental change and to encourage the occupancy and
maintenance of historic building and structures by single-family owners. In the
determination by the Planning Commission of the number of bed and breakfast
operations required to provide for the public need, the Planning Commission
shall consider the effect upon residential neighborhoods and public
convenience, concentration, and location of existing license holders, and the
necessity of the issuance of additional licenses.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
§ 116.06 PUBLIC NUISANCE VIOLATIONS.
   Bed and breakfast operations shall not be permitted whenever the operation
endangers or interferes with the safety or rights of others so as to constitute
a nuisance.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
§ 116.07 AUTHORITY FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   The floor plan for the bed and breakfast operation shall be reviewed
by the Village Building Inspector for compliance with all state and federal
codes and ordinances. If the Village Building Inspector finds that an applicant
cannot meet a particular requirement, then the Building Inspector shall have
authority to deny the applicant a license.
   (B)   The denial may be appealed to the Manchester Village Council who may
then weigh the facts of the case and make a final decision.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
§ 116.08 SUSPENSION, REVOCATION, AND RENEWAL.
   (A)   The Village Building Inspector shall have the authority to refuse to
renew a license or to suspend or revoke a license for continued and repeated
violations of the provisions of this chapter. A decision to deny a license may
be appealed to the Village Council by the applicant. Any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the Village Council for good
cause shown after investigation and opportunity to the holder of the license to
be heard in opposition thereto; in the investigation the compliance or
noncompliance with the state law and local ordinances, the conduct of the
licensee in regard to the public, and other consideration shall be weighed in
determination of the issue.
   (B)   Any license issued is nontransferable.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
§ 116.09 VIOLATIONS.
   It shall be a civil infraction to violate this chapter and penalty shall be
assessed as provided in
§ 10.99.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.10 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   The Village Clerk shall cause this amended chapter, or a summary of this
amended chapter, to be published after it has been duly adopted by the Village
Council. The effective date shall be 20 days after the date of passage or the
date of publication, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 173, passed 8-7-1989; Am. Ord. 258, passed 5-1-2006)
CHAPTER 117: MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
117.01   Title
   
117.02   Definitions
   
117.03   Prohibition of marijuana establishments
 
   
117.99   Penalties
§ 117.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Village of Manchester
Prohibition of Marijuana Establishments Ordinance.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 117.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words and phrases used herein shall have the meaning and construction as
provided for in Initiative Law 1 of 2018 as incorporated in the Michigan
Regulation and Taxation of Marijuana Act as adopted and amended from time to
time.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-3-2018)
§ 117.03 PROHIBITION OF MARIJUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The Village of Manchester hereby prohibits all marijuana establishments
within the boundaries of the village.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-3-2018) Penalties, see §
117.99
§ 117.99 PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who commences or continues a marijuana establishment in the
village, or who neglects, refuses or fails to comply with any provision of this
chapter, or who causes, allows or consents to any of the same shall be deemed
responsible for a violation of this chapter. A violation of this chapter is
deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, and a
person who violates this chapter shall be subject to a fine of not less than
$100 or more than $500 in the court’s discretion for each violation cited. In
addition, the violator shall pay costs incurred by the village for enforcement
of this chapter, which costs may include expenses, direct or indirect, that
arise in connection with the municipal civil infraction. The fine and costs
imposed for a violation under this section shall be in addition to rights of
the village to proceed at law or in equity for other appropriate and proper
remedies.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate violation of this chapter for which a separate penalty may be imposed.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties stated in this section, the village may
seek injunctive relief against persons alleged to be in violation of this
chapter, and such other relief as may be provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by any ordinance
enforcement officer of the village, or by such other person(s) as may be
designated from time to time by the Village Council.
(Ord. 299, passed 12-3-2018)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
   Chapter
      130.   RESERVED
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
   Chapter
      
150.   HISTORIC DISTRICTS
      
151.   ZONING CODE
      
152.   SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
      
153.   BUILDING REGULATIONS
      
154.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
      
155.   SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
      
156.   SWIMMING POOLS
      
157.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
      
158.   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
      
159.   PARKS AND RECREATION
      
160.   COMPLETE STREETS
      
161.   LAND DIVISION
CHAPTER 150: HISTORIC DISTRICTS
Section
   
150.01   Short title
   
150.02   Definitions
   
150.03   Historic District Commission
   
150.04   Establishment, modification, and elimination of historic districts
   
150.05   Historic District Commission review
   
150.06   Historic District Commission determination
   
150.07   Acquisition of property
   
150.08   Ordinary maintenance
   
150.09   Neglect of maintenance
   
150.10   Appeal
   
150.11   Acceptance of funds
   
150.12   Budget
   
150.13   Revenue bonds
   
150.14   Effective date
 
   
150.99   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Individual parcels within Manchester Historic District legal
description: Exchange Place
   
Appendix B: Exterior boundary legal description of Manchester Historic
District: Exchange Place
   
Appendix C: Manchester Historic District: Exchange Place Historic District map
§ 150.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the “Manchester Village
Historic District Ordinance.”
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Local Historic District Act, Public Act 169 of 1970, as amended
(M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 et seq.).
   ALTERATION. Work that changes the detail of a resource, but does not change
its basic size or shape.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS. The written approval of a permit application
for work that is appropriate and that does not adversely affect a resource.
   COMMISSION or VILLAGE OF MANCHESTER HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION. A historic
district commission created by the Village Council pursuant to § 150.03(C).
   COMMITTEE, VILLAGE OF MANCHESTER HISTORIC DISTRICT STUDY COMMITTEE or STUDY
COMMITTEE. A committee appointed by the Village Council to study areas for
possible establishment as historic districts.
   DEMOLITION. The razing or destruction, in whole or in part, of a resource,
including but not limited to, “demolition by neglect”.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT. Neglect in maintaining, repairing or securing a
resource that results in the deterioration of 1 of its exterior features or in
the loss of its structural integrity.
   DENIAL. The written rejection of a permit application for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource.
   DEPARTMENT. The Department of History, Arts and Libraries.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM. A system designed to detect and annunciate the presence
of fire or by-products of fire. FIRE ALARM SYSTEM includes smoke alarms.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area or group of areas, not necessarily having
contiguous boundaries, that contains 1 resource or a group of resources that
are related by history, architecture, archaeology, engineering, or culture.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION. The identification, evaluation, establishment, and
protection of resources that are significant in history, architecture,
archaeology, engineering, or culture.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE. A publicly or privately owned building, structure, site,
object, feature, or open space that is significant in the history,
architecture, archaeology, engineering, or culture of this state or a community
within this state, or of the United States.
   INSPECTOR OF BUILDINGS. The person, municipality or agency authorized by the
Village Council to enforce building codes in the village.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED. The written permission to issue a permit for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource, pursuant to a finding
under § 150.05(G).
   OPEN SPACE. Undeveloped land, a naturally landscaped area, or a formal or
man-made landscaped area that provides a connective link or a buffer between
other resources.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE. Keeping a resource unimpaired and in good condition
through ongoing minor intervention, undertaken from time to time, in its
exterior condition. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not change the external
appearance of the resource except though the elimination of the usual and
expected effects of weathering. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE does not constitute “work”
for purposes of this chapter.
   PROPOSED HISTORIC DISTRICT. An area or group of areas, not necessarily
having contiguous boundaries, that has delineated boundaries and that is under
review by a committee or a standing committee for the purpose of making a
recommendation as to whether it should be established as a historic district or
added to an established historic district.
   REPAIR. To restore a decayed or damaged resource to a good or sound
condition by any process. A REPAIR that changes the external appearance of a
resource constitutes “work” for purposes of this chapter.
   RESOURCE. One or more publicly or privately owned historic or non-historic
buildings, structures, sites, objects, features, or open spaces located within
a historic district or a proposed historic district.
   SMOKE ALARM.  A single-station or multiple-station alarm responsive to smoke
and not connected to a system. As used herein, SINGLE-STATION ALARM means an
assembly incorporating a detector, the control equipment, and the alarm-
sounding device into a single unit, operated from a power supply either in the
unit or obtained at the point of installation. MULTIPLE-STATION ALARM means 2
or more single-station alarms that are capable of interconnection such that
actuation of 1 alarm causes all integrated, separate, audible alarms to
operate.
   STANDING COMMITTEE. A permanent body established by the Village Council
under § 150.04(G) to conduct the activities of a historic district study
committee on a continuing basis.
   VILLAGE. The Village of Manchester, Washtenaw County, Michigan.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The legislative body for the Village of Manchester.
   WORK. Construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation, or
demolition.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.03 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   Authority. The Village of Manchester Historic District Commission is
hereby established pursuant to Public Act 169 of 1970, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§
399.201 et seq.), and Public Act 213 of 1957, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 399.171
et seq.).
   (B)   Purpose. Historic preservation is declared to be a public purpose and
the Village Council may by ordinance regulate the construction, addition,
alteration, repair, moving, excavation, and demolition of resources in historic
districts within the village limits. The purpose of this chapter shall be to do
1 or more of the following:
      (1)   Safeguard the heritage of the village by preserving 1 or more
historic districts in the village that reflect elements of the village's
history, architecture, archaeology, engineering, or culture.
      (2)   Stabilize and improve property values in each district and the
surrounding areas.
      (3)   Foster civic beauty.
      (4)   Strengthen the local economy.
      (5)   Promote the use of historic districts for the education, pleasure,
and welfare of the citizens of the village and of the state.
   (C)   Organization. The Commission shall consist of 5 members, to be
appointed by the President of the Village Council and subject to the approval
of the Council. All members shall reside within the village. Members shall be
appointed for 3-year terms, except the initial appointments of some of the
members shall be staggered so that subsequent appointments shall not reoccur at
the same time. Thus, 1 shall be appointed for a 1-year term, 2 shall be
appointed for 2-year terms, and 2 shall be appointed for 3-year terms. Members
shall be eligible for reappointment. In the event of a vacancy on the
Commission, appointments shall be made within 60 calendar days by the
President, with the approval of the Village Council, to complete the term of
such position. The majority membership shall consist of representative citizens
who shall have demonstrated interest in or knowledge of historic preservation
and the village's history. The President, with the approval of the Council, may
appoint at least 1 member from a list of citizens submitted by a duly organized
and existing village preservation society or societies. If available, an
architect who is a graduate of an accredited school of architecture and has 2
years of architectural experience, or who is an architect registered in this
state; an attorney who is duly registered in the state; a member of the
Downtown Development Authority; an owner of property within the district; an
owner of a business within the district; and interested persons from the
village shall be appointed.
   (D)   Administrative rules. The Commission shall establish written rules
providing for the holding of its meetings and for the election of its officers.
The Commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure and shall adopt design
review standards and guidelines for resource treatment to carry out its duties
under this chapter.
   (E)   Open Meetings Act. The business that the Commission may perform shall
be conducted at a public meeting of the Commission held in compliance with the
Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261
to 15.275. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the meeting shall be
given in the manner required by Public Act 267 of 1976, as amended. A meeting
agenda shall be part of the notice and shall include a listing of each permit
application to be reviewed or considered by the Commission.
   (F)   Freedom of Information Act. The Commission shall keep a record of its
resolutions, proceedings, and actions. A writing prepared, owned, used, in the
possession of, or retained by the Commission in the performance of an official
function shall be made available to the public in compliance with the Freedom
of Information Act, Public Act 442 of 1976, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.231 to 15.246.
   (G)   Functions and duties. The Commission shall carry out the following
functions in accordance with its mission to safeguard the heritage of the
village, and perform the following duties:
      (1)   It shall have those duties and powers set forth in this chapter
concerning construction, alteration, repair, moving, purchase, maintenance or
demolition within a historic district.
      (2)   It shall have those duties and powers set forth in this chapter
concerning the coordination of plans of cities, villages, and townships with
its own historic plans.
      (3)   It shall encourage and cooperate with civic and fraternal groups
and other organizations in promoting the village's history, heritage,
traditions, and customs through participation in public historical activities,
patriotic celebrations or other special events.
      (4)   As long as the proposed activity meets the purposes set forth in
this chapter, it shall encourage and cooperate with merchants, banks,
utilities, and other commercial enterprises in the use of local historical
material in their advertising and sales promotion, using the Commission's
collections, knowledge and skill.
      (5)   It shall encourage and cooperate with local organizations in the
use of historical materials in promoting the welfare of the village.
      (6)   It shall work with local, county, state or national groups,
organizations, agencies, individuals, or units of government in the selection,
marking, and/or acquisition of historic structures, sites, districts, objects
or items as well as the acquisition, preservation and display of historical
material.
      (7)   It shall represent or serve as a liaison between the Village
Council and other organizations interested in the history of the village.
      (8)   It shall act in a management, administrative, advisory, research,
or service capacity for the Village Council in historical matters, subject to
the instructions of the Village Council.
      (9)   It shall advise the Village Council regarding the acceptance by the
village of gifts of property, both new and having historical significance, and
cooperate in the receipt of such property, funds, and bequests. It will assist
with the sale of such resources, attaching protective covenants if necessary.
      (10)   It shall carry out such special assignments on historical matters
as the Village Council may direct from time to time, including the solicitation
of grants and bequests for historical purposes by any and all appropriate
available means.
      (11)   It shall not obligate itself or the village in any financial
undertaking unless provided with the budget funds for such obligation, or
unless first authorized by the Village Council, though it may cooperate with
the various other local foundations and societies on the appropriate use,
application or expenditure of other society or foundation funds or assets.
      (12)   It shall report annually and as requested to the Village Council
on its activities and the results. The annual report shall be created with
promotion and education in mind.
      (13)   One or more members may serve on or be members of any historic
district study committee created pursuant to this chapter. To avoid any
conflict of interest, the Commissioners shall act in an advisory capacity to
the study committee.
      (14)   It shall advise the Village Council regarding the possibility of
issuing revenue bonds pursuant to Act Public Act 94 of 1933, as amended
(M.C.L.A. §§ 125.651 et seq.).
   (H)   Removal from office. Following a hearing before the Village Council, a
member of the Commission may be removed from office upon a showing of just
cause. Just cause may include (but not be limited to) failure to attend
meetings, failure to follow the provisions of this chapter, or acting upon a
matter in which the member had a clear conflict of interest.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.04 ESTABLISHMENT, MODIFICATION, AND ELIMINATION OF HISTORIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The Village Council may, by ordinance, establish 1 or more historic
districts. The Commission shall administer the historic districts.
   (B)   Before establishing a historic district, the Village Council shall
appoint a historic district study committee. The committee shall contain a
majority of persons who have a clearly demonstrated interest in or knowledge of
historic preservation, and shall contain representation from 1 or more duly
organized local historic preservation organizations.
   (C)   The committee shall do all of the following:
      (1)   Conduct a photographic inventory of resources within each proposed
historic district, following procedures established or approved by the
Department.
      (2)   Conduct basic research of each proposed historic district and the
historic resources located within that district.
      (3)   Determine the total number of historic and non-historic resources
within a proposed historic district and the percentage of historic resources of
that total. In evaluating the significance of historic resources, the committee
shall be guided by the selection criteria for evaluation issued by the United
Sates Secretary of the Interior for inclusion of resources in the National
Register of Historic Places, as set forth in 36 C.F.R. pt. 60, and criteria
established or approved by the Department, if any.
      (4)   Prepare a preliminary historic district study committee report that
addresses, at a minimum, all of the following:
         (a)    The charge of the committee.
         (b)   The composition of the committee membership.
         (c)   The historic district or districts studied.
         (d)   The boundaries for each proposed historic district, in writing
and on maps.
         (e)   The history of each proposed historic district.
         (f)    The significance of each district as a whole, as well as a
sufficient number of its individual resources to fully represent the variety of
resources found within the district, relative to the evaluation criteria.
      (5)   Transmit copies of the preliminary report for review and
recommendations to the Commission, Village Council, Village Planning
Commission, Department, Washtenaw County Historic District Commission, Michigan
Historical Commission, State Historic Preservation Review Board, and the State
Historic Preservation Office of the Michigan Historical Center of the Michigan
Department of State.
      (6)   Make copies of the preliminary report available to the public
pursuant to division (F).
   (D)   Not less than 60 calendar days after the transmittal of the
preliminary report, the committee shall hold a public hearing in compliance
with the Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§
15.261 to 15.275. Public notice of the time, date, and place of the hearing
shall be given in the manner required by the Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267
of 1976, as amended. Written notice shall be mailed, by first class mail, not
less that 14 calendar days before the hearing, to the owners of properties
within the proposed historic district, as listed on the tax rolls of the
village.
   (E)   After the date of the public hearing, the committee and the Village
Council shall have not more than 1 year, unless otherwise authorized by the
Village Council, to take the following actions:
      (1)   The committee shall prepare and submit a final report, with its
recommendations and the recommendations of the Planning Commission, to the
Village Council. If the recommendation is to establish a historic district or
districts, the final report shall include a draft of a proposed ordinance or
ordinances.
      (2)   After receiving a final report that recommends the establishment of
a historic district or districts, the Village Council, at its discretion, may
introduce and pass or reject an ordinance or ordinances. If the Village passes
an ordinance or ordinances establishing 1 or more historic districts, the
Village Council shall file a copy of that ordinance or those ordinances,
including a legal description of the property or properties located within the
historic district or districts, with the Register of Deeds. The Village Council
shall not pass an ordinance establishing a contiguous historic district less
than 60 days after a majority of the property owners within the proposed
historic district, as listed on the tax rolls of the village, has approved the
establishment of the historic district pursuant to a written petition.
   (F)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by
a committee in the performance of an official function shall be made available
to the public in compliance with the freedom of information act, Act No. 442 of
the Public Acts of 1976, as amended, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246.
   (G)   The Village Council may at any time establish by ordinance additional
historic districts, including proposed districts previously considered and
rejected, may modify boundaries of an existing historic district, or may
eliminate an existing historic district. Before establishing, modifying, or
eliminating a historic district, a historic district study committee appointed
by the Village Council shall, except as provided in division (H), comply with
the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (E), and shall consider any
previously written committee reports pertinent to the proposed action. To
conduct these activities, the Village Council may retain the initial committee,
establish a standing committee, or establish a committee to consider only
specific proposed districts and then be dissolved.
   (H)   If considering elimination of a historic district, a committee shall
follow the procedures set forth in divisions (A) through (E) for issuing a
preliminary report, holding a public hearing, and issuing a final report, but
with the intent of showing 1 or more of the following:
      (1)   The historic district has lost those physical characteristics that
enabled establishment of the district.
      (2)   The historic district was not significant in the way previously
defined.
      (3)   The historic district was established pursuant to defective
procedures.
   (I)   Upon receipt of substantial evidence showing the presence of historic,
architectural, archaeological, engineering, or cultural significance of a
proposed historic district, the Village Council may, at its discretion, adopt a
resolution requiring that all applications for permits within the proposed
historic district be referred to the Commission as prescribed in § 150.05 and §
150.06(A) and (B). The Commission shall review permit applications with the
same powers that would apply if the proposed historic district was an
established historic district. The review may continue in the proposed historic
district for not more than 1 year, or until such time as the Village Council
approves or rejects the establishment of the historic district by ordinance,
whichever occurs first.
   (J)   If the Village Council determines that pending work will cause
irreparable harm to resources located within an established historic district
or a proposed historic district, the Village Council may by resolution declare
an emergency moratorium of all such work for a period not to exceed 6 months.
The Council may extend the emergency moratorium for an additional period not to
exceed 6 months upon finding that the threat of irreparable harm to resources
is still present. Any pending permit application concerning a resource subject
to an emergency moratorium may be summarily denied.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.05 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION REVIEW.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before any work affecting the exterior
appearance of a resource is performed within a historic district or, if
required under division (E), work affecting the interior arrangements of a
resource is performed within a historic district. The person, individual,
partnership, firm, corporation, organization, institution, or agency of
government proposing to do that work shall file an application for a permit
with the Inspector of Buildings. If the Inspector of Buildings or other
authority receives the application, the application shall be immediately
referred (together with all required supporting materials, including but not
limited to, architectural drawings, site plans, specifications, samples of
proposed materials to be used, informational brochures, proposed work schedule,
and names of architect and contractors to be used) to the Commission via hand
delivery, fax or mail. A permit shall not be issued and proposed work shall not
proceed until the Commission has acted on the application by issuing a
certificate of appropriateness or a notice to proceed as prescribed in this
chapter.
   (B)   The Commission shall not issue a certificate of appropriateness unless
the applicant certifies in the application that the property where work will be
undertaken has, or will have before the proposed project completion date, a
fire alarm system or a smoke alarm complying with the requirements of the
Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code Act, Public Act 230 of
1972, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531.
   (C)   An applicant aggrieved by a decision of a commission concerning a
permit application may file an appeal with the State Historic Preservation
Review Board within the Department. The appeal shall be filed within 60 days
after the decision is furnished to the applicant. The appellant may submit all
or part of the appellant's evidence and arguments in written form. The Review
Board shall consider an appeal at its first regularly scheduled meeting after
receiving the appeal, but may not charge a fee for considering an appeal. The
Review Board may affirm, modify, or set aside a commission's decision and may
order a commission to issue a certificate of appropriateness or a notice to
proceed. A permit applicant aggrieved by the decision of the State Historic
Preservation Review Board may appeal the decision to the circuit court having
jurisdiction over the Historic District Commission whose decision was appealed
to the State Historic Preservation Review Board.
   (D)   In reviewing plans, the Commission shall follow the U. S. Secretary of
the Interior's standards for rehabilitation and guidelines for rehabilitating
historic buildings, as set forth in 36 C.F.R. pt. 67. Design review standards
and guidelines that address special design characteristics of historic
districts administered by the Commission may be followed, if they are
equivalent in guidance to the Secretary of Interior's standards and guidelines,
and are established or approved by the Department. The Commission shall also
consider all of the following:
      (1)   The historical and/or architectural value and significance of the
resource and its relationship to the historical value of the surrounding area.
      (2)   The relationship of any architectural features of such resource to
the rest of the resource and to the surrounding area.
      (3)   The general compatibility of exterior design, arrangement, texture,
and materials proposed to be used.
      (4)   Other factors, such as aesthetic value, that the Commission finds
relevant.
      (5)   Whether the applicant has certified in the application that the
property where work will be undertaken has, or will have before the proposed
project completion date, a fire alarm system or a smoke alarm complying with
the requirements of the Stille-DeRossett-Hall Single State Construction Code
Act, Public Act 230 of 1972 (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531).
   (E)   The Commission shall review and act upon only exterior features of a
resource and, except for noting compliance with the requirement to install a
fire alarm system or a smoke alarm, shall not review and act upon interior
arrangements unless specifically authorized to do so by the Village Council, or
unless interior work will cause visible change to the exterior of the resource.
The Commission shall disapprove an applications due to considerations not
prescribed in division (D).
   (F)   If an application is for work that will adversely affect the exterior
appearance of a resource that the Commission considers valuable to the village,
state, or nation, and the Commission determines that the alteration or loss of
that resource will adversely affect the public purpose of the village, state,
or nation, the Commission shall attempt to establish with the owner of the
resource an economically feasible plan for preservation of the resource.
   (G)   Work within a historic district shall be permitted through the
issuance of a notice to proceed by the Commission, if any of the following
conditions prevail, and if the proposed work can be demonstrated by a finding
of the Commission to be necessary to substantially improve or correct any of
the following conditions:
      (1)   The resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or to
the structure's occupants.
      (2)   The resource is a deterrent to a major improvement program that
will be of substantial benefit to the community, and the applicant proposing
the work has obtained all necessary planning and zoning approvals, financing,
and environmental clearances.
      (3)   Retention of the resource will cause undue financial hardship to
the owner when a governmental action, an act of God, or other events beyond the
owner's control created the hardship, and all feasible alternatives to
eliminate the financial hardship, which may include offering the resource for
sale at its fair market value or moving the resource to a vacant site within
the historic district, have been attempted and exhausted by the owner.
      (4)   Retention of the resource is not in the interest of the majority of
the community as determined by the Commission, and such structure may be given
appropriate preservation in terms of photographic, pictorial, item removal,
written or other means of limited or special preservation.
   (H)   The Commission may delegate the issuance of certificates of
appropriateness for specified minor classes of work to its staff, to the
Inspector of Buildings, or to another delegated authority. The Commission shall
provide to the delegated authority specific written standards for issuing
certificates of appropriateness under this division. On at least a quarterly
basis, the Commission shall review the certificates of appropriateness, if any,
issued for work by its staff, the Inspector, or another authority to determine
whether or not the delegated responsibilities should be continued.
   (I)   The Village Council by resolution may establish an application fee
and/or provide for the deposit of funds to defray the actual costs incurred by
the village to process and administer the application and/or permit.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.06 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The Commission shall file certificates of appropriateness, notices to
proceed, and denials of applications for permits with the Inspector of
Buildings or other duly delegated authorities. A permit shall not be issued
until the Commission has acted as prescribed by this chapter. If a permit
application is denied, the decision shall be binding on the Inspector or other
authority. A denial shall be accompanied with a written explanation by the
Commission of the reasons for denial and, if appropriate, a notice that an
application may be resubmitted for Commission review when suggested changes
have been made. The denial shall also include notification of the applicant's
rights of appeal to the State Historic Preservation Review Board and to the
circuit court. The failure of the Commission to act within 60 calendar days
after the date a complete application is filed with the Commission, unless the
applicant and the Commission agree upon an extension in writing, shall be
considered to constitute approval.
   (B)   Local public officials and employees shall provide information and
records to study committees, standing committees, and the Commission, and shall
meet with those bodies upon request to assist with their activities.
   (C)   When work has been done upon a resource without a permit, and the
Commission finds that the work does not qualify for a certificate of
appropriateness, the Commission may require an owner to restore the resource to
the condition the resource was in before the inappropriate work, or to modify
the work so that it qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the
owner does not comply with the restoration or modification requirement within a
reasonable time, as determined by the Historic District Commission, the
Commission may seek an order from the circuit court to require the owner to
restore the resource to its former condition, or to modify the work so that it
qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the owner does not comply or
cannot comply with the order of the court, the Commission or its agents may
enter the property and conduct work necessary to restore the resource to its
former condition or modify the work so that it qualifies for the certificate of
appropriateness in accordance with the court's order. The costs of the work
shall be charged to the owner, and may be levied by the village as a special
assessment against the property. When acting pursuant to an order of the
circuit court, a commission or its agents may enter a property for purposes of
this section.
   (D)   An applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Commission concerning a
permit application shall file an appeal in accordance with §
150.10.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.07 ACQUISITION OF PROPERTY.
   If all efforts by the Historic District Commission to preserve a resource
fail, or if it is determined by the Village Council that public ownership is
most suitable, the Village Council, if considered to be in the public interest,
may acquire the resource using public funds, public or private gifts, grants,
or proceeds from the issuance of revenue bonds. The acquisition shall be based
upon the recommendation of the Commission or standing committee. The Commission
or standing committee is responsible for maintaining publicly owned resources
using its own funds, if not specifically earmarked for other purposes, or
public funds committed for that use by the Village Council. Cooperative
programs of purchase ownership and management in the public interest may also
be worked out with other local commissions and societies. Upon recommendation
of the Commission or standing committee, the village may sell resources
acquired under this section, with protective easements included in the property
transfer documents, if appropriate.
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.08 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prevent ordinary maintenance
or repair of a resource within a historic district, or to prevent work under a
permit issued by the Inspector of Buildings or other duly delegated authority
before the chapter was enacted.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.09 NEGLECT OF MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   No person shall permit a resource under his or her ownership or
control within an historic district to deteriorate, resulting in any of the
following conditions that constitute demolition by neglect:
      (1)   A deterioration of exterior walls or other vertical supports.
      (2)   A deterioration of roofs or other horizontal members.
      (3)   A deterioration of exterior chimneys.
      (4)   The deterioration or crumbling of exterior plaster or mortar.
      (5)   The ineffective weatherproofing of exterior walls, roofs and
foundations, including broken windows or doors.
      (6)   A deterioration of any exterior architectural feature so as to
create or permit the creation of a hazardous or unsafe condition or conditions
that, in the judgment of the Commission, produces a detrimental effect upon the
character of the district as a whole, and the life and character of the
landmark in question.
   (B)   The Commission, on its own initiative, may file a petition with the
local Building Inspector, requesting that the office proceed to require
correction of defects or repairs of any such structure covered by this section
so that such structure may be preserved and protected in consonance with the
purpose of this chapter. Upon a finding by a commission that a historic
resource within a historic district or a proposed historic district subject to
its review and approval is threatened with demolition by neglect, the
Commission may do the following:
      (1)   Require the owner of the resource to repair all conditions
contributing to demolition by neglect.
      (2)   If the owner does not make repairs within a reasonable time, the
Commission or its agents may enter the property and make such repairs as are
necessary to prevent demolition by neglect. The costs of the work shall be
charged to the owner, and may be levied by the village as a special assessment
against the property. The Commission or its agents may enter the property for
purposes of this section upon obtaining an order from the circuit court.
      (3)   Seek a court order from the circuit court compelling the property
owner to remove those causes threatening the historic resource with demolition
by neglect.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007) Penalty, see §
150.99
§ 150.10 APPEAL.
   (A)   Except as provided in §
150.10(B), any citizen or duly organized historic preservation organization in
the village, as well as resource property owners, jointly or severally
aggrieved by a decision of the Historic District Commission, may appeal to the
Village Council. The appeal shall be filed within 60 days after the decision is
rendered. The appellant may submit all or part of the appellant's evidence and
arguments in written form. The Village Council shall consider an appeal at its
first regularly scheduled meeting after receiving the appeal, but may not
charge a fee for considering an appeal. The Village Council may affirm, modify,
or set aside a commission's decision, and may order a commission.
   (B)   Any citizen or duly organized historic preservation organization in
the village, as well as resource property owners, jointly or severally
aggrieved by a decision of the Historic District Commission rendered under §
150.05(A), may appeal to the State Historic Preservation Review Board under §
150.05(C).
   (C)   Any citizen or duly organized historic preservation organization in
the village, as well as resource property owners, jointly or severally
aggrieved by a decision, after exhausting the right to appeal under §
150.10(A) or (B), may appeal to the circuit court.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.11 ACCEPTANCE OF FUNDS.
   The Village Council may accept state or federal grants for historic
preservation purposes, and may participate in state and federal programs that
benefit historic preservation, and may accept public or private gifts for
historic preservation purposes. The Village Council may make the Historic
District Commission, a standing committee, or other agency its duly appointed
agent to accept and administer grants, gifts and program responsibilities.
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.12 BUDGET.
   There may be appropriated in the annual village budget a sum of money that
may be expended by the Historic District Study Committee and the Historic
District Commission for and in connection with:
   (A)   The preparation of surveys of buildings and structures in districts in
the village.
   (B)   The acquisition and/or restoration of buildings or structures of
historical or architectural significance.
   (C)   Subject to the approval of the Village Council, an incentive
improvement program under which the Commission may contract with the owner or
lessee of the designated historic building or structure or designated historic
cultural site to reimburse such owner or lessee some predetermined portion of
the cost incurred by him in the reconstruction, construction, addition, moving,
excavation, alteration, removal, preservation, maintenance, repairs or
painting, of an exterior or designated interior feature, and furtherance of the
purposes of this chapter as determined by the Commission. In any and all cases,
the Commission shall have the absolute right to determine the actual cost of
such work, and the proportion or amount to be reimbursed out of appropriated
funds.
   (D)   To provide funds for the operation of a village historical museum.
   (E)   To provide funds for special studies.
   (F)   To provide funds for staff or consultants to do necessary work of the
Commission.
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.13 REVENUE BONDS.
   The Village Council may issue revenue bonds pursuant to Public Act 94 of
1933, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.651 et seq.), for carrying out the functions
of the Historic District Commission.
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.14 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Within 15 days after this amended chapter is passed, the Clerk shall publish
it or a synopsis thereof in a newspaper circulated in the village. The chapter
shall not take effect before the 20th day after its passage or before the date
of its publication, whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
§ 150.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution, or agency of government that violates any provision of this
chapter is responsible for a civil violation and may be fined not more that
$5,000.
   (B)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution, or agency of government that violates this chapter may be ordered
by the court to pay the costs to restore or replicate a resource unlawfully
constructed, added to, altered, repaired, moved, excavated, or demolished.
(Ord. 175, passed 10-16-1989; Am. Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
APPENDIX A: INDIVIDUAL PARCELS WITHIN MANCHESTER HISTORIC DISTRICT LEGAL
DESCRIPTION: EXCHANGE PLACE
N/A Adrian (Survey No. 56): PM-16-02-462-017
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-010-00 MA 2-10 Beginning at the southeast Corner of Lot 1;
Thence northwesterly 46 1/3 feet in the easterly line of Lot 1; Thence DEFL 90°
to the left 45.50 feet; Thence DEFL 90° to the left 46 1/3 feet; Thence
northeasterly 45.50 feet in the southerly line of Lot 1 to the Place of
Beginning Being part of Lot 1, Block 3, original plat.
108 Adrian (Survey No. 58b): PM-16-02-462-020
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-013-00 MA 2-13 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
1; Thence northwesterly 93.50 feet in the easterly line of Lot 1 for a Place of
Beginning; Thence northwesterly 21 feet in the easterly line of Lot 1; Thence
DEFL 90° to the left 45 feet; Thence DEFL 90° to the left, 21 feet; Thence DEFL
90° to the left 45 feet to the Place of Beginning.
112 Adrian (Survey No. 58a): PM-16-02-462-
019                                                     
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-012-00 MA 2-12 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
1; Thence northwesterly 73 feet in the easterly line of Block 1 for a Place of
Beginning; Thence northwesterly 20.50 feet in the easterly line of Lot 1;
Thence DEFL 90° to the left 45.50 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 20.50 feet;
Thence DEFL 90º to the left 45.50 feet to the Place of Beginning. Being a part
of Lot 1, Block 3, original plat.
114 Adrian (Survey No. 57): PM-16-02-462-
018                                                    
TRANS 10/24/97 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-011-00 MA 2-11 Commencing at the southeast
corner of Lot 1; Thence northwesterly 46 1/3 feet in the easterly line of Lot 1
for a Place of Beginning; Thence northwesterly 26 2/3 feet in the easterly line
of Lot 1; Thence DEFL 90° to the left 45.50 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left
26 2/3 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 45.50 feet to the Place of Beginning.
Being a part of Lot 1, Block 3, original plat.
N/A E. Madison (Survey No. 15): PM-16-02-432-019
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-125-00 MA 2-118 Beginning at the northwest corner of Lot
11; Thence southeasterly 50 feet in the west line of Lot 11; Thence DEFL 90º to
the left 72.67 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 18 feet; Thence DEFL to the
right 2.33 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 32 feet to the north line of Lot
9; Thence southwesterly in the north line of Lots 9, 10, and 11, 75 feet to the
Place of Beginning. Being a part of Lots 9, 10, and 11, Block 22, original
plat.
N/A E. Madison (No Survey Number)
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-112-00 MA 2-106-A Commencing at the southwest corner of
Lot 3; Thence northwesterly in a west line of Lot 3, 99 feet for a Place of
Beginning; Thence continuing northwesterly in a west line of Lot 3 to the
northwest corner of Lot 3; Thence southwesterly 22 feet in the north line of
Lot 4; Thence DEFL 90º left 66 feet; Thence DEFL 90º left 17 feet; Thence DEFL
90º right 33 feet; Thence DEFL 90º left 5 feet to the Place of Beginning. Being
part of Lot 4, Block 22, original plat.
100 E. Main (Survey No. 16): PM-16-02-432-020
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-126-00 MA 2-119 Beginning at the southwest corner of Lot
11; Thence northwesterly 148 feet in a west line of Lot 11; Thence DEFL 90º to
the right 72.67 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 18 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to
the right 2.33 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the right 66 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to
the right 32 feet and 10 inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 64 feet and 2
inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 7 inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the right 35
feet and 10 inches to the south line of Lot 10; Thence southwesterly 42 feet
and 9 inches in a south line of Lots 10 and 11 to a Place of Beginning. Being a
part of Lots 9, 10, and 11, Block 22, original plat.
103 E. Main (Survey No. 63): PM-16-02-462-024 
(Property address listed as 102 S. Clinton) FROM 1602462021 08/30/94 **FROM
1602462022 08/30/94 **FROM 1602462023 08/30/94 MAV 2-21A-1 Lots 6 and 7, Block
3, original plat.
104 E. Main (Survey No. 17): PM-16-02-432-018
TRANS 07/25/97 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-124-00 MA 2-117 Commencing at the southeast
corner of Lot 10; Thence northeasterly 4 feet and 3 inches in the south line of
Lot 9 for a Place of Beginning; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 100 feet; Thence
DEFL 90º to the left 28 feet and 1 inch; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 64 feet
and 2 inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 7 inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the
right 35 feet and 10 inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 27 feet and 6 inches
to the Place of Beginning. Being a part of Lots 9 and 10, Block 22, original
plat.
108 E. Main (Survey No. 18a): PM-16-02-432-017
(Narrow alley way just west of 108 E. Main PM-16-02-432-016)
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-123-00 MA 2-116 Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot
9; Thence northeasterly 4 feet and 3 inches in the south line of Lot 9 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence northeasterly in the south line of Lot 9, 4 feet and
9 inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 100 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 4
feet and 9 inches; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 100 feet to the Place of
Beginning. Being a part of Lot 8, Block 22, original plat.
108 E. Main (Survey No. 18b): PM-16-02-432-016
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-122-00 MA 2-115 The east 24 feet in width of Lot 9; The
westerly boundary of said 24 feet being parallel to the east line of Lot 9,
Block 22, original plat.
109 E. Main (Survey No. 62b): PM-16-02-462-
007                                                                     
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-020-00 MA 2-20 Lot 5 EXC the easterly 5 feet and 1 inch in
width thereof Block 3, original plat.
110 E. Main (Survey No. 19): PM-16-02-432-015
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-121-00 MAV 2-114A The westerly 29 feet in width of Lot 8;
Then easterly boundary of said 29 feet being parallel to the west line of Lot
8, Block 22, original plat.
111 E. Main (Survey No. 62a): PM-16-02-462-006
TRANS 2/19/97 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-019-00 MA 2-19 Westerly 22 feet in width of
Lot 4; Also the easterly 5 feet and 1 inch in width of Lot 5, Block 3, original
plat.
112 E. Main (Survey No. 19): PM-16-02-432-014
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-120-00 MA V 2-113 The westerly 13 feet in width of Lot 7
and the easterly 7 feet in width of Lot 8; The easterly boundary of said 13
feet being parallel to the west line of Lot 7 and the westerly boundary of said
7 feet being parallel to the east line of Lot 8, Block, original plat.
115 E. Main (Survey No. 61b): PM-16-02-462-
005                                                                
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-018-00 MA 2-18 Westerly 11 feet in width of Lot 3; Also
the easterly 11 feet in width of Lot 4, Block 3, original plat.
116 E. Main (Survey No. 20): No parcel ID
117 E. Main (Survey No. 61a): PM-16-02-462-
004                                                                   
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-017-00 MA 2-17 Easterly 22 feet in width of Lot 3, Block
3, original plat.
118 E. Main (Survey No. 21): PM-16-02-432-013
TRANS 03/29/96 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-119-00 MA 2-112 The easterly 20 feet in
width of Lot 7; The westerly boundary of said easterly 20 feet being parallel
to the east line of Lot 7 also the west 11 feet in width of Lot 6; The east
boundary of said west 11 feet being parallel to the west line of Lot 6, Block
22, original plat.
122 E. Main (Survey No. 22): No parcel ID
126 E. Main (Survey No. 23): PM-16-02-432-012
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-118-00 MA 2-111 Lot 6 EXC the west 11 feet in width
thereof; The boundary of said west 11 feet being parallel to the west line of
Lot 6, Block 22, original plat.
128 E. Main (Survey No. 24a): PM-16-02-432-010
TRANS 03/11/98 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-116-00 MA 2-109 The westerly 11 feet in
width of Lot 4 and the easterly 11 feet in width of Lot 5; The easterly
boundary of said westerly 11 feet being parallel to the west side of Lot 4 and
the westerly boundary of said easterly 11 feet being parallel to the east line
of Lot 5, Block 22, original plat.
128 (130) E. Main (Survey No. 24b): PM-16-02-432-011
TRANS 03/11/98 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-117-00 MA 2-110 The westerly 22 feet in
width of Lot 5; The easterly boundary of said 22 feet being parallel to the
west line of Lot 5, Block 22, original plat.
131 (135) E. Main (Survey No. 60): PM -16-02-462-025 (Same legal description as
above)
134 E. Main (Survey No. 25a): PM-16-02-432-009
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-115-00 MA 2-108 Commencing at southeast corner of Lot 4;
Thence southwesterly 5 feet in a south line of Lot 4 for a Place of Beginning;
Thence DEFL 90º to the right 99 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 17 feet;
Thence DEFL 90º to the left 99 feet; Thence northeasterly 17 feet in the south
line of Lot 4 to the Place of Beginning. Being a part of Lot 4, Block 22,
original plat.
135 E. Main (Survey No. 59): PM-16-02-462-
025                                                               
Owner Request MA 2-14A Lots 1 and 2, Block 3, Original Plat, EXC Beginning at
the southeast corner of said Lot 1; Thence northwesterly along the east line of
Lot 1 114.50 feet; Thence DEFL 90º 00' 00" left 45 feet; Thence DEFL 90º 00'
00" left 21 feet; Thence DEFL 90º 00' 00" right 0.5 feet; Thence DEFL 90º 00'
00" left 93.50 feet; Thence DEFL 90º 00' 00" left 45.50 feet to the Place of
Beginning. Split on 03/23/2005 from PM-16-02-462-001, PM-16-02-462-002, PM-16-
02-462-003.
136 E. Main (Survey No. 25b):  PM-16-02-432-006
* OLD SID - PM -16-540-113-00 MA 2-106-B Beginning at the southwest corner of
Lot 3; Thence along the south line of Lot 3, 12 feet; Thence DEFL 90º 04' 30".
N/A E. Main (Survey No. 26): PM-16-02-432-008
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-114-00 MA 2-107 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
4; Thence southwesterly 5 feet in a south line of Lot 4; Thence DEFL 90º to the
right 99 feet for a Place of Beginning; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 17 feet;
Thence DEFL 90º to the right 33 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the right 17 feet;
Thence DEFL 90º to the right 33 feet to the Place of Beginning. Being part of
Lot 4, Block 22, original plat.
138 E. Main (Survey No. 27a): PM-16-02-432-005
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-111-00 MA V2-105 Commencing at the southwest corner of Lot
3; Thence northeasterly 12 feet in the south line of Lot 3 for a Place of
Beginning; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 99 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 12
feet; Thence northwesterly in the west line of Lot 3 to the northwest Corner of
Lot 3; Thence northeasterly 64.50 feet in the north line of Lots 3 and 2;
Thence DEFL 90º to the right to a point in the south line of Lot 2; Thence
southwesterly 52.50 feet in the south line of Lots 2 and 3 to the Place of
Beginning. Being a part of Lots 2 and 3, Block 22, original plat. Assessment
applies to that portion of this description not tax exempt - The Lodge Hall.
144 E. Main (Survey No. 27b): PM- 16-02-432-005
(Same legal description as above)
146 E. Main (Survey No. 28a): PM-16-02-432-004
TRANS 09/01/97 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-110-00 MA 2-104 Commencing at the southeast
corner of Lot 4; Thence northeasterly 64.50 feet in the south line of Lots 3
and 2 for a Place of Beginning; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 8 rods; Thence DEFL
90º to the right 22 feet; Thence DEFL 90º to the right 8 rods; Thence
southwesterly 22 feet in the south line of Lots 1 and 2 to the Place of
Beginning. Being a part of Lots 1 and 2, Block 22, original plat.
150 E. Main (Survey No. 28b): PM-16-02-432-003
TRANS 09/01/97 *OLD SID - PM 16-540-109-00 MA 2-103 Commencing at the southeast
corner of Lot 4; Thence northeasterly 86.50 feet in the south line of Lots 3,
2, and 1 for a Place of Beginning; Thence northeasterly 15 1/3 feet in a south
line of Lot 1; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 99.50 feet; Thence northwesterly to
a point which is 8 rods at right angles to the south line of Lot 1 from the
Place of Beginning; Thence southeasterly 8 rods to the Place of Beginning.
Being a part of Lot 1, Block 22, original plat.
152 E. Main (Survey No. 28c): PM-16-02-432-002
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-108-00 MA 2-102 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
4; Thence northeasterly 101 feet 10 inches in the south line of Lots 3, 2, and
1 for a Place of Beginning; Thence northeasterly 15 feet 2 inches in the south
line of Lot 1; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 65.50 feet; Thence northwesterly to
a point which is 99.50 feet at right angles to the south line of Lot 1 from the
Place of Beginning; Thence southeasterly 99.50 feet to the Place of Beginning.
Being a part of Lot 1, Block 22, original plat.
154 Main (Survey No. 29): PM-16-02-432-001
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-107-00 MA 2-101 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
4; Thence northeasterly 117 feet in the south line of Lots 3, 2, and 1 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence DEFL 90º to the left 65.50 feet to the bank of the
River Raisin; Thence southeasterly along the river to a point in the south line
of Lot 1; Thence southwesterly 37.40 feet in the south line of Lot 1 to the
Place of Beginning. Being a part of Lot 1, Block 22, original plat.
E. Main (Bridge) (Survey No. 54)
No legal description
N/A E. Main (Survey No. 30): PM-16-02-428-011
*OLD SID - PM 16-502-024-00 MA 1-49 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
1, Block 1, John W. Cowan's Addition; Thence south 61º west 79.19 feet in a
north line of Jefferson Street for a Place of Beginning; Thence north 28º 26'
west 88.94 feet; Thence southwesterly to a point in the north line of Jefferson
Street; Thence north 61º East 66.81 feet to a Place of Beginning. Being a part
of the southeast 1/4 of Section 2, T4S R3E.
N/A E. Main (Survey No. 31): PM-16-02-428-010
*OLD SID - PM 16-560-001-00 MA V 4-1 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot
1, Block 1; Thence south 61º west 58 feet in the south line of Lot 1 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence north 29º west 117 feet; Thence south 7º 52' 30".
201 E. Main (Survey No. 55): PM-16-02-460-
021                                                                
Owner Request MA 2-96A All that part of Block 21 which lies north of a line
described as commencing at the northwest corner Lot 1, Block 21, original plat;
Thence north 29º 30' 00" west 47.50 feet to a Place of Beginning; Thence north
60º 42' 51" east to the westerly bank of the River Raisin, and Poe. Split on
08/13/2002 from PM-16-02-460-009PM-16-02-460-010
E. Main (Dam) (Survey No. 53) No legal description
213 E. Main (Survey No. 50): PM-16-02-460-
008                                                                     
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-238-00 MA 2-214 Commencing at the northeast corner of
Block 40; Thence south 61º west 193 feet in the north line of Block 40 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence south 29º east 78 feet; Thence 61º east 28 feet;
Thence south 29º east 24 feet; Thence south 61º west 68 feet to the River
Raisin; Thence northerly along the river to a point in the north line of Block
40; Thence north 61º east 22.30 feet in the north line of Block 40 to the Place
of Beginning. Being a part of Block 40, original plat.
215 E Main (Survey No. 49): PM-16-02-460-
007                                                                   
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-237-00 MA V 2-213 Commencing at the northeast corner of
Block 40; Thence south 61º west 10 rods in the north line of Block 40 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence south 29º east 78 feet; Thence south 61º west 28
feet; Thence north 29º west 78 feet; Thence north 61º east 28 feet in the north
line of Block 40 to the Place of Beginning. Being a part of Block 40, original
plat.
223 E. Main (Survey No. 48a & b): PM-16-02-460-
006                                                             
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-236-00 MA V 2-212A Commencing at the northeast corner of
Block 40; Thence south 61º west 102 feet in the north line of Block 40 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence south 29º east 78 feet; Thence south 61º west 30
feet; Thence south 29º east 26.94 feet; Thence south 61º west 13 feet; Thence
north 29º west 104.94 feet; Thence north 61º east 43 feet to a Place of
Beginning. Being a part of Block 40, original plat.
227 E. Main (Survey No. 47b): PM-16-02-460-005
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-235-00 MA 2-211 Commencing at the northeast Corner of
Block 40; Thence south 61º west 80 feet in the north line of Block 40 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence south 29º east 78 feet; Thence south 61º west 22
feet; Thence north 29º west 78 feet; Thence north 61º east 22 feet in the north
line of Block 40 to the Place of Beginning. Being a part of Block 40, original
plat.
230 E. Main (Survey No. 32): PM-16-02-428-009
*OLD SID - PM 16-560-002-00 MA 4-2 Commencing at the southeast corner of Lot 1,
Block 1; Thence north 29º west 141 feet in the east line of Lots 1, 2, and 3
for a Place of Beginning; Thence south 29º 141 feet to the southeast corner of
Lot 1; Thence south 61º west 58 feet; Thence north 29º west 117 feet; Thence
northerly to a point which is south 61º west 54.59 feet from the Place of
Beginning; Thence north 61º east 54.59 feet to the Place of Beginning. Being a
part of the southeast 1/4 of Section 2. Being a part of Lots 1, 2, and 3, Block
1, John W. Cowan's addition owned and occupied as 1 parcel.
231 E. Main (Survey No. 47a): PM-16-02-460-004
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-234-00 MA V2-210 Commencing at the northeast corner of
Block 40; Thence south 61º west 60 feet in a northerly line of Block 40 for a
Place of Beginning; Thence south 61º west 20 feet; Thence south 29º east 78
feet; Thence south 61º west 22 feet; Thence south 29º east 90 feet; Thence
north 61º east 22 feet; Thence north 29º west 40 feet; Thence north 61º east 20
feet; Thence north 29º west 128 feet to the Place of Beginning. Being a part of
Block 40, original plat.
235 E. Main (Survey No. 46b): PM-16-02-460-003
*OLD SID - PM 16-540-233-00 MA V 2-209 Commencing at the northeast Corner of
Block 40; Thence south 61º west 41 feet and 10 inches in the north line of
Block 40 for a Place of Beginning; Thence south 61º west 18 feet and 2 inches;
Thence south 29º east 78 feet; Thence north 61º east 18 feet and 2 inches;
Thence north 29º west 78 feet to the Place of Beginning. Being a part of Block
40, original plat.
237 E. Main (Survey No. 46a): PM-16-02-460-022
Owner Request MA 2-206A Beginning at the northeast corner of Block 40, original
plat; Thence south 29º 00' 00" east 102.00 feet; Thence south 61º 00' 00" west
40.00 feet; Thence north 29º 00' 00" west 24.00 feet; Thence south 61º 00' 00"
west 1.83 feet; Thence north 29º 00' 00" west 78.00 feet; Thence north 61º 00'
00" east 41.83 feet to the Place of Beginning. Part of Block 40, original plat,
split on 01/27/2003 from PM-16-02-460-001and PM-16-02-460-002.
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
APPENDIX B: EXTERIOR BOUNDARY LEGAL DESCRIPTION OF MANCHESTER HISTORIC
DISTRICT: EXCHANGE PLACE
Particularly described as commencing at the South Quarter Corner of Manchester
Township, Section 2, Thence north 1º 58' 46.22" west 1,403.508 feet along the
center line of said Section 2, Thence south 74º 56' 28.56" east 87.256 feet,
for a Point of Beginning; Thence north 60º 46' 54.83" east 356.028 feet, Thence
south 39º 54' 1.80" east 5.41 feet; Thence south 58º 53' 47.24" east 22.494
feet; Thence south 62º 48' 12.45" east 17.854 feet; Thence south 78º 11' 14.95"
east 11.626 feet; Thence south 72º 12' 19.07" east 10.471 feet; Thence south
72º 10' 22.95" east 24.139 feet; Thence south 19º 51' 10.50" east 19.552 feet;
Thence south 41º 35' 9.24" east 16.979 feet; Thence south 55º 11' 38.60" east
38.595 feet; Thence south 12º 19' 31.24" east 15.272 feet; Thence south 48º 44'
14.08" east 10.523 feet; Thence south 30º 52' 25.02" east 17.441 feet; Thence
south 42º 13' 59.07" east 21.826 feet; Thence south 32º 58' 1.34" east 16.484
feet; Thence north 60º 0' 53.23" east 90.781 feet; Thence north 56º 25' 39.23"
east 36.474 feet; Thence north 13º 14' 25.87" west 5.938 feet; Thence north 1º
15' 29.64" east 7.742 feet; Thence north 7º 34' 3.68" west 5.619 feet; Thence
north 7º 37' 2.84" east 9.958 feet; Thence north 1º 38' 50.49" east 50.091
feet; Thence north 24º 19' 52.47" west 18.932 feet; Thence north 0º 36' 56.33"
east 14.891 feet; Thence north 15º 15' 13.00" west 33.334 feet; Thence north 6º
51' 52.95" east 10.374 feet; Thence north 26º 27' 3.30" east 22.45 feet; Thence
north 61º 31' 53.42" east 58.3 feet; Thence north 61º 31' 54.95" east 37.573
feet; Thence south 31º 29' 35.59" east 99.847 feet; Thence south 41º 45' 16.62"
east 32.225 feet; Thence south 43º 52' 50.22" east 20.27 feet; Thence south 54º
26' 23.08" east 20.651 feet; Thence south 62º 58' 17.78" east 46.454 feet;
Thence south 32º 36' 29.86" east 63.463 feet; Thence south 31º 2' 36.62" east
45.59 feet; Thence south 60º 4' 44.63" west 56.916 feet; Thence north 29º 54'
38.91" west feet; Thence south 63º 2' 33.66" west 32.008 feet; Thence south 30º
29' 4.57" east 45.732 feet; Thence south 63º 49' 38.90" west 18.931 feet;
Thence south 34º 21' 48.87"east 46.01 feet; Thence south 60º 58' 40.57" west
64.991 feet; Thence north 32º 32' 30.06" west 65.457 feet; Thence south 59º 41'
11.88" west 84.758 feet; Thence north 1º 28' 29.17" west 14.765 feet; Thence
north 5º 47' 35.61" east 19.319 feet; Thence south 65º 52' 9.95" west 115.602
feet; Thence south 60º 37' 6.53" west 9.192 feet; Thence south 1º 13' 41.14"
east 7.932 feet; Thence south 18º 11' 4.15" east 23.872 feet; Thence south 81º
18' 8.34" east 15.276 feet; Thence south 55º 21' 52.64" east 20.005 feet;
Thence south 19º 54' 15.04" east 21.707 feet; Thence south 54º 53' 0.09" east
15.819 feet; Thence south 11º 24' 28.75" east 13.752 feet; Thence south 60º 42'
54.52" west 74.926 feet; Thence south 41º 18' 47.61" west 70.709 feet; Thence
south 59º 22' 29.34" west 293.707 feet; Thence north 30º 2' 7.31" west 483.923
feet, to the Point of Beginning. TS, R3E containing 6.33 acres.
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
APPENDIX C: MANCHESTER HISTORIC DISTRICT: EXCHANGE PLACE HISTORIC DISTRICT MAP
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/fd9b94d5431905e8cbd9a74401f76c8d0af5116d/
IMAGES/0-0-0-1785.jpg]
 
(Ord. 262, passed 8-6-2007)
CHAPTER 151: ZONING CODE
Section
General Provisions
   
151.001   Short title
   
151.002   Purpose
   
151.003   Scope and construction of regulations
   
151.004   Conflict with other laws, regulations, and agreements
   
151.005   Vested right
   
151.006   Rules applying to text
   
151.007   Definitions
Administration and Enforcement
   
151.020   Zoning Administrator
   
151.021   Duties
   
151.022   Conditional land uses
   
151.023   Site plan review
   
151.024   Site condominium project regulations
   
151.025   Use of consultants
   
151.026   Performance guarantee
   
151.027   Fees
   
151.028   Permits for change of use of property
Zoning District Regulations
   
151.040   District designations
   
151.041   Zoning District Map
   
151.042   Application of district regulations
   
151.043   AG, Agriculture District
   
151.044   R-1A, Single-Family Residential District, Low Density
   
151.045   R-1B, Single-Family Residential District, Medium Density
   
151.046   R-2, Multiple-Family Residential District, Low Density
   
151.047   R-3, Multiple-Family Residential District, Medium Density
   
151.048   MHP, Mobile Home Park Residential District
   
151.049   OS, Office Service District
   
151.050   C-2, General Commercial District
   
151.051   CBD, Central Business District
   
151.052   I-1, Limited Industrial District
   
151.053   I-2, General Industrial District
   
151.054   RC, Regional Commercial District
   
151.055   MFOD, Marijuana Facilities Overlay District
Special Provisions
   
151.065   Intent
   
151.066   Cluster housing option
   
151.067   Open space preservation
   
151.068   Accessory buildings and uses
   
151.069   Emergency temporary dwellings
   
151.070   Single-family dwellings; mobile homes; prefabricated housing
   
151.071   Mobile home park requirements
   
151.072   Day-care facilities
   
151.073   Adult foster care facilities
   
151.074   Home occupations
   
151.075   Seasonal sales
   
151.076   Garage sales, rummage sales, and similar activities
   
151.077   Essential services
   
151.078   Self-storage facilities
   
151.079   Outdoor sales
   
151.080   General, building, and landscape contractor’s offices and yards
   
151.081   Automobile service stations
   
151.082   Outdoor displays of products or materials intended for retail sale or
rental
   
151.083   Sidewalk café service
   
151.084   Bed and breakfast accommodations
   
151.085   Mineral mining and extractive operations
   
151.086   Buildings to be moved
   
151.087   Wireless communication facilities
   
151.088   Wind energy conversion systems (WECS)
   
151.089   Medical marijuana home occupation
   
151.090   Temporary portable storage containers
Environmental Protection and Design Provisions
   
151.100   Purpose
   
151.101   Landscaping; greenbelts and buffers; screening
   
151.102   Fences, walls, and screens
   
151.103   Airborne emissions
   
151.104   Noise and vibration
   
151.105   Use, storage, and handling of hazardous substances; storage and
disposal of solid, liquid, and sanitary wastes
   
151.106   Electrical disturbance, electromagnetic, or radio frequency
interference
   
151.107   Glare and exterior lighting
   
151.108   Fire hazard
   
151.109   Safety
   
151.110   Stormwater management
   
151.111   Regulation of flood plain areas
   
151.112   Building grades
Planned Unit Development Districts
   
151.125   Purpose and intent
   
151.126   PUD regulations
   
151.127   Procedure for review
   
151.128   Project design standards
   
151.129   Conditions
   
151.130   Phasing and commencement of construction
   
151.131   Effect of approval
Signs
   
151.145   Intent and purpose
   
151.146   General conditions
   
151.147   Permitted freestanding signs
   
151.148   Permitted wall signs
   
151.149   Permitted projecting signs
   
151.150   Permitted temporary signs
   
151.151   Permitted billboards
   
151.152   Miscellaneous permitted signs
   
151.153   Permits required
Off-Street Parking and Loading
   
151.165   Intent and purpose
   
151.166   Generally
   
151.167   Off-street parking requirements
   
151.168   Table of off-street parking requirements
   
151.169   Off-street parking lot design and construction
   
151.170   Off-street loading requirements
   
151.171   Off-street stacking space for drive-through facilities
   
151.172   Outdoor storage of recreational vehicles
Nonconforming Uses, Structures, and Lots
   
151.185   Intent
   
151.186   Nonconforming lots
   
151.187   Nonconforming uses of land
   
151.188   Nonconforming structures
   
151.189   Nonconforming uses of structures and land
   
151.190   Repairs and maintenance
   
151.191   Uses allowed as conditional approval uses, not nonconforming uses
   
151.192   Change of tenancy or ownership
Zoning Board of Appeals
   
151.205   Authority
   
151.206   Membership
   
151.207   Meetings
   
151.208   Powers and duties
   
151.209   Procedure for appeal
Rezoning and Zoning Ordinance Text Amendments
   
151.220   Initiation of rezoning and Zoning Ordinance text amendments
   
151.221   Rezoning and Zoning Ordinance text amendment application procedure
   
151.222   Rezoning and Zoning Ordinance amendment process
   
151.223   Criteria for amendment of the official zoning map (rezoning)
   
151.224   Criteria for amendment of the official Zoning Ordinance text
   
151.225   Conditional rezoning of land
 
   
151.999   Penalty
   
Appendix A: Zoning Terms
   
Appendix B: Schedule of Area, Height, Width, and Setback Regulations
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the City and Village Zoning Act, 1921 PA
207, as amended, (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.581 et seq.) and subsequently amended
pursuant to the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006, as
amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.). This chapter shall be known and may be
cited as the “Village of Manchester Zoning Ordinance” and may hereinafter be
referred to as “this chapter.”
(Ord. 278, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 151.002 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of this chapter is to promote, protect, regulate,
restrict, and provide for the use of land and buildings within the Village of
Manchester; to meet the needs of the state's residents for places of residence,
recreation, industry, trade, service, and other uses of land; to ensure that
uses of the land shall be situated in appropriate locations and relationships;
to limit the inappropriate overcrowding of land and congestion of population
and transportation systems and other public facilities; to facilitate adequate
and efficient provision for transportation systems, sewage disposal, water,
energy, education, recreation, and other public service and facility needs; and
to promote public health, safety, and welfare.
   (B)   The village is divided into districts which include regulations
designating land uses or activities that shall be permitted or subjected to
special regulations.
   (C)   It is also the purpose of this chapter to provide for the
establishment of a Board of Appeals and its powers and duties; to provide for
the administration and enforcement hereof and for penalties for its violation;
and to provide for the repeal of any and all ordinances inconsistent herewith.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 1.2)
§ 151.003 SCOPE AND CONSTRUCTION OF REGULATIONS.
   (A)   (1)   This chapter shall be liberally construed in such manner as to
best implement its purpose.
      (2)   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter, the
requirements shall be held to be the minimum for the promotion of the public
health, safety, convenience, comfort, prosperity, and general welfare.
   (B)   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall hereafter be erected,
constructed, reconstructed, or altered, and no new use or change shall be made
of any building, structure, or land, or part thereof, except as permitted by
the provisions of this chapter.
   (C)   Where a condition imposed by a provision of this chapter upon the use
of any lot, building, or structure is conflicting with a condition imposed by
any other provision of this chapter, or by the provision of an ordinance
adopted under any other law, the provision which is more restrictive shall
govern.
   (D)   Nothing within this chapter shall be construed to prevent compliance
with an order by the appropriate authority to correct, improve, strengthen, or
restore to a safe or healthy condition, any part of a building or premises
declared unsafe or unhealthy.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 1.3)
§ 151.004 CONFLICT WITH OTHER LAWS, REGULATIONS, AND AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   Where any condition imposed by any provision of this chapter upon the
use of any lot, building, or structure is either more restrictive or less
restrictive than any comparable conditions imposed by any other provision of
this chapter or by the provision of any ordinance adopted under any other law,
the provision which is more restrictive or which imposes a higher standard or
requirement shall govern.
   (B)   This chapter is not intended to modify or annul any easement,
covenant, or other private agreement provided that where any provision of this
chapter is more restrictive or imposes a higher standard or requirement than
the easement, covenant, or other private agreement, the provision of this
chapter shall govern.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 1.5)
§ 151.005 VESTED RIGHT.
   It is hereby expressly declared that nothing in this chapter be held or
construed to give or grant to any person, firm, or corporation any vested
right, license, privilege, or permit.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 1.6)
§ 151.006 RULES APPLYING TO TEXT.
   The following rules shall apply to the text and language of this chapter.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption, the text shall control.
   (C)   The word SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word MAY
is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future, words used
in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural shall include
the singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   The word USED or OCCUPIED, as applied to any land or building, shall
be construed to include the words INTENDED, ARRANGED, OR DESIGNED TO BE USED OR
OCCUPIED.
   (F)   Any word or term not defined herein shall be used with a meaning of
common or standard utilization.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 2.1)
§ 151.007 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
Illustrations of specific definitions are provided as Figures 1 through 4 in
Appendix A.
   ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES. A supplementary building or structure on
the same lot or parcel of land as the principal building, occupied by or
devoted exclusively to an accessory use.
   ACCESSORY USE. A use reasonably and customarily incidental and subordinate
to the principal use of the premises.
   ADULT CARE FACILITIES. A facility for the care of adults, over 18 years of
age, as licensed and regulated by the state under Public Act 218 of 1979, and
rules promulgated by the State Department of Consumer and Industry Services.
Such organizations shall be defined as follows:
      (1)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITY. A facility or use as defined under the
Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 to
400.737, or under the Child Care Organization Act 1973 PA 116, M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 to 722.128. The following additional definitions shall apply in the
application of this chapter.
      (2)   ADULT FOSTER CARE CONGREGATE FACILITY. A facility or use as defined
under the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§
400.701 to 400.737, or under the Child Care Organization Act 1973 PA 116,
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 to 722.128.
      (3)   ADULT FOSTER CARE FAMILY HOME. A facility or use as defined under
the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701
to 400.737, or under the Child Care Organization Act 1973 PA 116, M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 to 722.128.
      (4)   ADULT FOSTER CARE LARGE GROUP HOME. A facility or use as defined
under the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§
400.701 to 400.737, or under the Child Care Organization Act 1973 PA 116,
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 to 722.128.
      (5)   ADULT FOSTER CARE SMALL GROUP HOME. A facility or use as defined
under the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§
400.701 to 400.737, or under the Child Care Organization Act 1973 PA 116,
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 to 722.128.
   AUTOMOBILE DEALER. A building or premises used primarily for the sale of new
or used automobiles.
   AUTOMOBILE REPAIR. General repair, engine rebuilding, rebuilding or
reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service, such as body, frame, or
fender straightening and repair, overall painting, and vehicle rustproofing.
   AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place that is used or designed to be used for
the retail supply of gasoline and other fuels used for the propulsion of motor
vehicles, kerosene, motor oil, lubricants or grease, including sale of
accessories and services, such as: polishing, washing, cleaning, greasing,
undercoating, and minor repairs, but not including bumping, painting, or
refinishing thereof. In addition to automobile service, convenience stores and
carryout restaurants may be included.
   AUTOMOBILE WASHES. A building, or portion thereof, the primary purpose of
which is that of washing vehicles either by automatic or self-service means.
   BASEMENT. The portion of a building having more than 1/2 of its height below
finished grade (see Appendix A, Figure 1).
   BED AND BREAKFAST OPERATIONS. A use which is subordinate to the principal
use of a dwelling unit as a single-family dwelling unit and a use in which
transient guests are provided a sleeping room and board in return for payment.
   BREWERY, DISTILLERY, WINE PRODUCTION. A facility in which beer, wine or
other alcoholic beverages are brewed, fermented, or distilled and then packaged
and stored for distribution and possesses the appropriate license(s) from the
State of Michigan and the federal government.
   BUILDING. A structure having a roof supported by columns or walls.
   BUILDING CODE. The currently adopted code or codes regulating building
construction in the Village of Manchester.
   BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the finished grade
level to the highest point of the roof surface if a flat roof; to the deck of
mansard roofs; and to the mean height level between eaves and ridges of gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs. Where the building may be situated on sloping terrain,
this height shall be measured from the average level of the finished grade at
the building wall (see Appendix A, Figure 2).
   BUILDING OFFICIAL. The administrative official designated by the Village
Council to enforce the building code.
   BUILDING SETBACK LINE. The line established by the minimum required setbacks
forming the area within a lot in which a building may be located.
   CHILD CARE ORGANIZATIONS. A government or non-governmental organization
having as its principal function the receiving of minor children for care,
maintenance training and supervision, notwithstanding that educational
instruction may be given. Such organizations shall be defined as follows:
      (1)   CHILD CARE CENTER (or DAYCARE CENTER). A facility or use as defined
under the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§
400.701 to 400.737, or under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA 116,
M.C.L.A. §§ 722.111 to 722.128. A facility, other than a private residence,
receiving 1 or more preschool or school age children for care for periods of
less than 24 hours a day and for not less than 2 consecutive weeks and where
the parents or guardians are not immediately available to the child.
      (2)   FOSTER FAMILY HOME. A facility or use as defined under the Adult
Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 to
400.737, or under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA 116, M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 to 722.128. A private home in which 1 but not more than 4 minor
children, who are not related to an adult member of the household by blood,
marriage or who are not placed in the household pursuant to the adoption code,
are given care and supervision for 24 hours a day, for 4 or more days a week
for 2 or more consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
      (3)   FOSTER FAMILY GROUP HOME. A facility or use as defined under the
Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 to
400.737, or under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA 116, M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 to 722.128. A private home in which more than 4 but fewer than 7 minor
children, who are not related to an adult member of the household by blood,
marriage, or who are not placed in the household pursuant to the Adoption Code,
are provided care for 24 hours a day for 4 or more days a week for 2 or more
consecutive weeks, unattended by a parent or legal guardian.
      (4)   FAMILY DAY CARE HOME. A facility or use as defined under the Adult
Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 to
400.737, or under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA116, M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 to 722.128. A private home in which 1 but fewer than 7 minor children
are received for care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours a day,
unattended by a parent, legal guardian, except children related to an adult
member of the family by blood, marriage, or adoptions. Family day care home
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated minor child for more than 4
weeks during a calendar year.
      (5)   GROUP DAY CARE HOME. A facility or use as defined under the Adult
Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 to
400.737, or under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA 116, M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 to 722.128. A private home in which more than 6 but not more than 12
minor children are given care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours
a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to the
adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. GROUP DAY CARE HOME
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated minor child for more than 4
weeks during a calendar year.
      (6)   CHILD CARE INSTITUTION. A facility or use as defined under the
Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing Act, 1979 PA 218, M.C.L.A. §§ 400.701 to
400.737, or under the Child Care Organizations Act, 1973 PA 116, M.C.L.A. §§
722.111 to 722.128. A child care facility which is organized for the purpose of
receiving children for care, maintenance and supervision usually on a 24-hour
basis, in a building maintained for that purpose, and operated throughout the
year. It includes a maternity home for the care of unmarried mothers and
institutions for mentally, emotionally or developmentally challenged or
disturbed children.
   COMMERCIAL USE. The use of property in connection with the purchase, sale,
barter, display, or exchange of goods, wares, merchandise, or personal
services, and the maintenance or operation of offices.
   CONDITIONAL USE. A use which is subject to conditional approval by the
Village Council. A conditional use may be granted only when there is a specific
provision in this chapter. A conditional use is not considered to be a
nonconforming use.
   CONVALESCENT OR NURSING HOME. A state-licensed facility for the care of
children, of the aged or infirm, or a place of rest for those suffering bodily
disorders. The home shall conform and qualify for license under state law even
though state law has different size regulations.
   CONVENIENCE GROCERY STORE. A 1-story, retail store that is designed and
stocked to sell primarily food, beverages, and other household supplies to
customers who purchase only a relatively few items (in contrast to a
supermarket). CONVENIENCE GROCERY STORES are designed to attract a large volume
of stop-and-go traffic.
   DAY-CARE FACILITIES. The following definitions shall apply in the
application of this chapter.
      (1)   DAY-CARE CENTER. A state-licensed facility, other than a private
residence, receiving more than 1 or more children for care and supervision for
periods less than 24 hours, and where the parents or guardians are not
immediately available to the child.
      (2)   FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME. A state-licensed, owner-occupied private
residence in which 1 but not more than 6 minor children are received for care
and supervision for periods less than 24 hours a day unattended by a parent or
legal guardian, excepting children related to an adult member of the family by
blood, marriage or adoption. It includes a home that gives care to an unrelated
child for more than 4 weeks in a calendar year.
      (3)   GROUP DAY-CARE HOME. A state-licensed, owner-occupied private
residence in which 7 but not more than 12 children are received for care and
supervision for periods less than 24 hours a day unattended by a parent or
legal guardian, excepting children related to an adult member of the family by
blood, marriage, or adoption. It includes a home that gives care to an
unrelated child for more than 4 weeks in a calendar year.
   DISTRICT. A portion of the village within which certain uses of land and/or
buildings are permitted and within which certain regulations and requirements
apply under the provisions of this chapter.
   DWELLING. A dwelling is a building used exclusively as a residence by not
more than 1 family, but in no case shall a travel trailer, motor home, trailer
coach, automobile chassis, tent, or other portable building be considered a
dwelling.
   DWELLING, 2-FAMILY. A building consisting of 2 dwellings.
   DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building consisting of 3 or more dwellings.
   DWELLING, SINGLE-FAMILY. A building designed for, or occupied exclusively
by, 1 family.
   EASEMENT. The right of an owner of property by reason of the ownership, to
use the property of another for purposes of ingress, egress, utilities,
drainage, and similar uses.
   ESSENTIAL SERVICES. Services that are erected, constructed, altered, or
maintained by public utilities or municipal agencies of underground, surface,
or overhead gas, electrical, steam, or water transmission or distribution
systems, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including
mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, wires, cables, fire alarm boxes,
traffic signals, hydrants, poles, and other similar equipment or accessories
reasonably in connection therewith for the furnishing of adequate service by
the public utilities or municipal agencies.
   EXTRACTIVE OPERATION. Premises from which any rock, gravel, sand, topsoil,
or earth in excess of 50 cubic yards in any calendar year is excavated or
removed for the purpose of disposition away from the premises except excavation
in connection with the construction of a building or within public highway
rights-of-way.
   FAMILY.
      (1)   An individual or a group of 2 or more persons related by blood,
marriage, or adoption, together with foster children and servants of the
principal occupants, with not more than 1 additional unrelated person, who are
domiciled together as a single, domestic housekeeping unit in a dwelling unit;
or
      (2)   A collective number of individuals domiciled together in 1 dwelling
unit whose relationship is of a continuing nontransient domestic character and
who are cooking and living as a single, noncommercial housekeeping unit. This
definition shall not include any society, club, fraternity, sorority,
association, lodge, coterie, organization, or group of students or other
individuals whose domestic relationship is of a transitory or seasonal nature
or for an anticipated limited duration of a school term or terms or other
similar determinable period.
   FENCE. A permanent or temporary barrier enclosing or bordering a plot of
land or portion thereof composed of suitable manmade materials for the purpose
of preventing or controlling entrance or to confine within or to mark boundary.
   FLOOR AREA. The sum of the gross horizontal areas of the building measured
from the exterior faces of the exterior walls or from the center line of walls
separating 2 buildings.
   FOOD PRODUCTION. A facility in which the preparation, processing, and
packaging of food and beverage products, but not the slaughtering of animals.
Examples of activities include, but are not limited to, bakeries, creameries,
and confectioneries.
   GARAGE. A structure which is accessory to a principal residential dwelling
and which is used for the parking and storage of vehicles owned and operated by
the residents thereof.
   GRADE. The degree of rise or descent of a sloping surface (see Appendix A,
Figure 3).
   GRADE, FINISHED. The final elevation of the ground surface after development
(see Appendix A, Figure 3).
   GRADE, NATURAL. The elevation of the ground surface in its natural state,
before manmade alternations (see Appendix A, Figure 3).
   HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is clearly
a customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling unit and
which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the residential
character of the neighborhood.
   JUNK YARD. A place, structure, parcel, or use of land where junk, waste,
discard, salvage, or similar materials such as old iron or the metal, wood,
lumber, glass, paper, rags, cloth, leather, rubber, bagging, cordage, barrels,
containers, and the like, are bought, sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed,
disassembled, or handled, including auto wrecking yards, inoperative machines,
used lumber yards, housing wrecking, and structural steel materials and
equipment and including establishments for the sale, purchase, or storage or
salvaged machinery and the processing of used, discarded, or salvaged
materials, for any 30 consecutive days.
   KENNEL. Any place or premises where 3 or more adult dogs, cats, or other
domestic pets are maintained, boarded, bred, or cared for in return for
remuneration, or are kept for the purpose of sale.
   LANDSCAPING. The following definitions shall apply in the application of
this chapter.
      (1)   BERM. A landscaped mound of earth which blends with the surrounding
terrain.
      (2)   BUFFER. A landscaped area composed of living material, wall, berm,
or combination thereof, established and/or maintained to provide visual
screening, noise reduction, and transition between conflicting types of land
uses.
      (3)   CONFLICTING NONRESIDENTIAL LAND USE. Any nonresidential use, such
as office, commercial, industrial, research, parking, or public road right-of-
way land use which abuts a residential land use.
      (4)   CONFLICTING RESIDENTIAL USE. Any residential land use developed at
a higher density which abuts a residential land use developed at a lower
density.
      (5)   GREENBELT. A landscaped area, established at a depth of the minimum
required front yard setback within a zoning district, which is intended to
provide a transition between a public road right-of-way and an existing or
proposed land use and/or between a conflicting land use and an existing or
proposed land use.
      (6)   OPACITY. The state of being impervious to sight.
      (7)   PLANT MATERIAL. A collection of living evergreen and/or deciduous,
woody-stemmed trees, shrubs, vines, and ground cover.
   LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building or group
of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading and/
or unloading merchandise or materials.
   LODGING FACILITY. Any establishment in which individual units are rented to
transients for periods of less than 30 days for the purpose of sleeping
accommodations. The term shall include hotels and motels, but shall not include
bed and breakfast operations, multiple-family dwellings, or rooming houses.
   LOT. A lot is a parcel of land, excluding any portion in a street or other
right-of-way, of at least sufficient size to meet minimum requirements for use,
coverage, lot area, and to provide the yards and other open spaces as herein
required. The lot shall have frontage on a public street, or on an approved
private street, and may consist of:
      (1)   A single lot of record;
      (2)   A portion of a lot of record;
      (3)   Any combination of complete and/or portions of lots of record; or
      (4)   A parcel of land described by metes and bounds.
   LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot, but
excluding that portion within a street right-of-way.
   LOT, CORNER. A lot with frontage on 2 intersecting streets. (See
illustration entitled “Corner, Interior and Double Frontage.”)
   LOT COVERAGE. The percentage of the lot area covered by the building area.
   LOT DEPTH. The mean horizontal distance from the front line to the rear lot
line; or in the case of a waterfront lot, from the lake frontage line to the
street frontage line; or in the case of an acreage lot, from the front right-
of-way line to the rear lot line.
   LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. A lot other than a corner lot having frontage on 2
more or less parallel streets. In the case of a row of double frontage lots, 1
street will be designated as the front street for all lots in the plat and in
the request for a zoning compliance permit. If there are existing structures in
the same block fronting 1 or both of the streets, the required front yard
setback shall be observed on those streets where structures presently front.
   LOT, INTERIOR. An interior lot is a lot other than a corner lot with only 1
lot line fronting on a street.
   LOT LINES. Any line dividing 1 lot from another or from a public right-of-
way, and thus constitutes the property lines bounding a lot.
   LOT OF RECORD. A lot of record is a lot, the dimensions of which are shown
on a subdivision plat recorded in the office of the Register of Deeds for
Washtenaw County, or a lot or parcel described by metes and bounds, the
accuracy of which is attested to by a professional engineer or registered
surveyor, so designated by the State of Michigan, and the description so
recorded or on file with the county.
   LOT, WIDTH. The required horizontal distance between the side lot lines
measured at the 2 points where the required front yard setback line intersects
the side lot lines. For lots located on the turning circle of a cul-de-sac, the
lot width may be reduced to 80% of the required lot width.
   MANUFACTURING. The use of land, buildings, or structures for the purpose of
manufacturing, assembly, making, preparing, inspecting, finishing, treating,
altering, repairing, warehousing, or storing or adapting for sale or other use
of any goods, substance, article, thing, or service.
   MARIJUANA. The substance or material defined in Section 7106 of the Public
Health Code, 1978 P.A. 368, M.C.L.A. § 333.7106.
   MEDICAL MARIJUANA HOME OCCUPATION. The cultivation of medical marijuana by a
registered primary caregiver as defined in Section 3 of the Michigan Medical
Marijuana Act (“Act”), M.C.L.A. § 333.26423, within a single-family dwelling
that is the registered primary caregiver’s residence and which cultivation is
in conformity with the restrictions and regulations contained in the Act, the
state regulations developed by the Michigan Department of Community Health
(“MDCH”), and the Village of Manchester Code.
   MEZZANINE. Is an intermediate floor in any story occupying but not to exceed
more than 1/3 of the floor area of the story.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached portable single-family dwelling, prefabricated on
its own chassis and intended for long-term occupancy. The unit contains
sleeping accommodations, a flush toilet, a wash basin, a tub or shower, eating
and living quarters. It is designed to be transported on its own wheels or
flatbed arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete dwelling
without permanent foundation and connected to existing utilities.
   MOBILE HOME PARK. Any parcel of land intended and designed to accommodate
more than 1 mobile home for living use which is offered to the public for that
purpose; and any structure, facility, area, or equipment used or intended for
use incidental to that living use.
   NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof lawfully existing at
the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and which does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter in the zoning district in which it is
located.
   NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the use regulations of the zoning district in which it is located.
   OFF-STREET PARKING AREA. A land surface or facility providing vehicular
parking spaces along with adequate drives and aisles for maneuvering so as to
provide access for entrance and exit for the parking of more than 2
automobiles.
   ORDINARY HIGH WATER MARK. The line between upland and bottomland which
persists through successive changes in water levels, below which the presence
and action of the water is so common or recurrent that the character of the
land is distinguished from the upland as evidenced in the soil, the
configuration of the surface of the soil, and vegetation.
   OUTDOOR WOOD-, CORN- OR PELLET-FIRED BOILER OR FURNACE. A fuel-burning
device designed: (1) to burn primarily wood or pellets by hand firing; (2) not
to be located inside structures ordinarily occupied by humans; and (3) to heat
spaces or water by the distribution through pipes of a fluid, typically water,
heated in the device. Examples of common uses of outdoor wood-fired boilers
include residential or commercial space heating, heating of domestic hot water
and heating of water for swimming pools, hot tubs, or whirlpool baths.
   PARKING SPACE. One unit of a parking area provided for the parking of 1
vehicle, and shall be exclusive of driveways, aisles, or entrances giving
access thereto and shall be fully accessible for the storage or parking of
permitted vehicles.
   PRINCIPAL BUILDING OR STRUCTURE. The main building or structure in which the
primary use is conducted.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, or municipal agency
authorized under federal, state, county, or municipal regulations to furnish
electricity, gas, communications, transportation, water, or sewer services.
   QUALIFYING PATIENT OR PATIENTS. A person as defined under Section 3 of the
Act, M.C.L.A. § 333.26423(h), and under the Michigan Administrative Rules
adopted pursuant to the Act, §§ R 333.101 et seq., and who has been issued and
possesses a registry information card.
   RECREATIONAL VEHICLE. Shall include the following.
      (1)   BOATS and BOAT TRAILERS. Shall include boats, floats, rafts,
canoes, plus the normal equipment to transport them on the highway.
      (2)   FOLDING TENT TRAILER. A canvas folding structure, mounted on wheels
and designed for travel and vacation use.
      (3)   MOTOR HOME. A recreational vehicle intended for temporary human
habitation, sleeping, and/or eating, mounted upon a chassis with wheels and
capable of being moved from place to place under its own power. MOTOR HOMES
generally contain sanitary, water, and electrical facilities.
      (4)   OTHER RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT. Includes snowmobiles, all-terrain or
special terrain vehicles, utility trailers, plus the normal equipment to
transport them on the highway.
      (5)   PICKUP CAMPER. A structure designed to be mounted on a pickup or
truck chassis with sufficient equipment to render it suitable for use as a
temporary dwelling during the process of travel, recreational, and vacation
uses.
      (6)   TRAVEL TRAILER. A portable vehicle on a chassis, not exceeding 36
feet in length or 9 feet in width, which is designed to be used as a temporary
dwelling during travel, recreational, and vacation uses, and which may be
identified as a TRAVEL TRAILER by the manufacturer. TRAVEL TRAILERS generally
contain sanitary, water, and electrical facilities.
   REGISTRY IDENTIFICATION CARD. The document defined under Section 3 of the
Act, M.C.L.A. § 333.26423(i), and the Michigan Administrative Rules adopted
pursuant to the Act, §§ R 333.101 et seq.
   RESTAURANT. A restaurant is any establishment whose principal business is
the sale of food and beverages to the customer in a ready-to-consume state, and
whose method of operation is characteristic of a carryout, drive-in, drive-
through, fast food, standard restaurant, or bar/lounge, or combination thereof,
as defined below.
      (1)   BAR/LOUNGE. A type of restaurant which is operated primarily for
the dispensing of alcoholic beverages, although the sale of prepared food or
snacks may also be permitted. If a bar or lounge is part of a larger dining
facility, it shall be defined as that part of the structure so designated or
operated.
      (2)   RESTAURANT, CARRYOUT. A restaurant whose method of operation
involved sale of food, beverages, and/or frozen deserts in disposable or edible
containers or wrappers in a ready-to-consume state for consumption primarily
off the premises.
      (3)   RESTAURANT, FAST-FOOD. A restaurant whose method of operation
involves minimum waiting for delivery of ready-to-consume food to the customer
at a counter or cafeteria line for consumption at the counter where it is
served, or at tables, booths, or stands inside or outside of the structure, or
for consumption off the premises, but not in a motor vehicle at the site.
      (4)   RESTAURANT, STANDARD. A restaurant whose method of operation
involves either the delivery of prepared food by waiters and waitresses to
customers seated at tables within a completely enclosed building, or the
prepared food is acquired by customers at a cafeteria line and is subsequently
consumed by the customers at tables within a completely enclosed building.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. A legal right of passage over real property typically
associated with roads and railroads.
   ROOMING HOUSE. A dwelling in which more than 3 persons either individually
or as families are housed or lodged for hire without meals.
   SCREEN. A structure providing enclosure, such as a fence, and/or visual
barrier between the area enclosed and the adjacent property. A SCREEN may also
consist of living materials such as trees and shrubs.
   SETBACK. The minimum required horizontal distance between the building or
structure and the front, side, and rear lot lines and natural features.
   SHOPPING CENTER. More than 1 commercial establishment, planned, developed,
owned, and managed as a unit, with off-street parking provided on the property.
   SIDEWALK CAFÉ SERVICE. An outdoor seating area for customers of a restaurant
where table- side service may be extended.
   SIGN. A device which is affixed to, or otherwise located or set upon a
building, structure, or parcel of land which directs attention to an activity
or business. The definition includes interior signs which are directed at
persons outside the premises of the sign owners and exterior signs, but not
signs primarily directed at persons within the premises of the sign owner. The
definition does not include goods for sale displayed in a business window. The
following additional definitions are provided.
      (1)   CANOPY SIGN. A sign displayed and affixed flat on the surface of a
canopy and does not extend vertically or horizontally beyond the limits off the
canopy.
      (2)   FREESTANDING SIGN. A sign which is attached to or part of a
completely self-supporting structure. The supporting structure shall be placed
in or below the ground surface and not attached to any building or any other
structure, whether portable or stationary.
      (3)   PORTABLE TEMPORARY SIGN. A single or double surface painted or
poster panel type sign or some variation thereof, which is temporary in nature,
easily movable, and not permanently attached to the ground or a building.
      (4)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign, other than a wall sign, which is
perpendicularly attached to and projects from a structure or building wall not
specifically designed to support the sign.
      (5)   REAL ESTATE SIGN. A temporary sign placed upon property for the
purpose of advertising to the public the sale or lease of the property.
      (6)   ROOF SIGN. Any sign wholly erected to, constructed, or maintained
on the roof structure of any building.
      (7)   SIGN SURFACE. The part of the sign upon, against, or through which
the message is displayed or illustrated.
      (8)   WALL SIGN. Any sign that shall be affixed parallel to the wall or
printed or painted on the wall of any building; provided, however, the wall
sign shall not project above the top of the wall or beyond the end of the
building. For the purpose of this chapter, any sign display surface that is
affixed flat against the sloping surface of a mansard roof shall be considered
a wall sign.
      (9)   WINDOW SIGN. A sign installed inside a window and intended to be
viewed from the outside.
   SITE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium development containing residential,
commercial, office, industrial, or other structures or improvements for uses
permitted in the zoning district in which located, in which each co-owner owns
exclusive rights to a volume of space within which a structure or structures
may be constructed, herein defined as a condominium unit, as described in the
master deed. The following additional definitions are provided.
      (1)   CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
through 559.276, as amended.
      (2)   CONDOMINIUM DOCUMENTS. The master deed, recorded pursuant to the
Condominium Act, and any other instrument referred to in the master deed or
bylaws which affects the rights and obligations of a co-owner in the
condominium.
      (3)   CONDOMINIUM LOT. The condominium unit and the contiguous limited
common element surrounding the condominium unit, which shall be the counterpart
of “lot” as used in connection with a project developed under the Land Division
Act, Public Act 288 of 1967, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 through 560.293, as
amended.
      (4)   CONDOMINIUM UNIT. The portion of a condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
      (5)   GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS. The common elements other than the limited
common elements.
      (6)   LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS. A portion of the common elements reserved
in the master deed for the exclusive use of less than all of the co-owners.
      (7)   MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium
project to which are attached as exhibits and incorporated by reference the
bylaws for the project and the condominium subdivision plan for the project,
and all other information required by § 8 of the Condominium Act, being Public
Act 59 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. § 559.108.
   STORY. The portion of a building included between the surface of any floor
and the surface of the floor above it, or if there is no floor above it, then
the space between the floor and the ceiling above it.
   STORY, ONE-HALF. A story under the gable, hip, or gambrel roof, the wall
plates of which on at least 2 opposite exterior walls are not more than 2 feet
above the floor of the story and the floor area shall not exceed 2/3 of the
area of the floor below.
   STREET. A public or private thoroughfare which affords the principal means
of access to abutting property.
   STREET LINE. The dividing line between the street right-of-way and the lot.
When the right-of-way is not definable, a line shall be defined as 33 feet on
either side of the center of the street.
   STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected above ground level or which is
attached to something located on the ground. STRUCTURES typically include such
things as buildings, amateur radio towers, sheds, and decks.
   TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINER. A non-habitable, transportable,
weather-resistant receptacle designed and used for the storage or shipment of
household goods, wares, building materials or merchandise on a temporary basis.
   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES. All structures and accessory facilities
relating to the use of the radio frequency spectrum for the purpose of
transmitting or receiving radio signals. This may include, but shall not be
limited to, radio towers, television towers, telephone devices and exchanges,
microwave relay towers, telephone transmission equipment building and
commercial mobile radio service facilities. Not included within this definition
are: citizen band radio facilities; short wave facilities; ham amateur radio
facilities; satellite dishes; and governmental facilities which may be subject
to state or federal law or regulations which preempt municipal regulatory
authority. For purposes of this chapter, the following additional terms are
defined.
      (1)   ATTACHED WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS FACILITIES. Wireless communication
facilities that are affixed to existing structures, such as existing buildings,
towers, water tanks, utility poles, and the like. A wireless communication
support structure proposed to be newly established shall not be included within
this definition.
      (2)   COLLOCATION. The location by 2 or more wireless communication
providers of wireless communication facilities on a common structure, tower, or
building, with the view toward reducing the overall number of structures
required to support wireless communication antennas within the community.
      (3)   WIRELESS COMMUNICATION SUPPORT STRUCTURES. Structures erected or
modified to support wireless communication antennas. Support structures within
this definition include, but shall not be limited to, monopoles, lattice
towers, light poles, wood poles and guyed towers, or other structures which
appear to be something other than a mere support structure.
   YARD, FRONT.
      (1)   A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the principal building and the
front lot line, and measured perpendicular to the building at the closest point
to the front lot line.
      (2)   In all cases, the front lot line shall be considered to be that
portion of the lot which abuts a public road right-of-way or private road
easement (see Appendix A, Figure 4).
   YARD, REAR. A yard extending across the full width of the lot, the depth of
which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line and the
nearest point of the principal building (see Appendix A, Figure 4).
   YARD, SIDE.
      (1)   A yard between any building and the side lot line, extending from
the front yard to the rear yard.
      (2)   The width of the required side yard shall be measured horizontally
from the nearest point of the side lot line to the nearest point of principal
building (see Appendix A, Figure 4).
   ZONING ACT. The Zoning Enabling Act of Michigan, Public Act 110 of 2006, as
amended, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1301 et seq.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 2.2; Am. Ord. 275, passed 12-20-2010, § 1; Am.
Ord. 278, passed 9-19-2011; Am. Ord. 282, passed 2-6-2012; Am. Ord. 288, passed
12-16-2013; Am. Ord. 300, passed 8-5-2019; Am. Ord. 314, passed 12-19-2022)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 151.020 ZONING ADMINISTRATOR.
   The Zoning Administrator, or the deputies, shall be appointed by the Village
Council and designated to administer and enforce the provisions of this
chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.1)
§ 151.021 DUTIES.
   The Zoning Administrator shall:
   (A)   Receive and review for completeness all applications for site plan
review and conditional use permits which the Planning Commission and Village
Council are required to decide under this chapter and refer the applications to
the Planning Commission and Village Council for determination;
   (B)   Receive and review for completeness all applications for appeals,
variances, or other matters which the Zoning Board of Appeals is required to
decide under this chapter and refer the applications to the Zoning Board of
Appeals for determination;
   (C)   Receive and review for completeness all applications for amendments to
this chapter and refer the applications to the Planning Commission and Village
Council for determination;
   (D)   Make periodic site inspections of the village to determine chapter
compliance, and answer complaints on Zoning Ordinance violations; and
   (E)   Implement the decisions of the Planning Commission and Village
Council.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.2)
§ 151.022 CONDITIONAL LAND USES.
   (A)   Application.
      (1)   Applications for conditional land use permits authorized in this
chapter shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator on a form provided by
the village.
      (2)   In addition to a complete application form, the applicant is
required to submit a preliminary site plan prepared in accordance with
§ 151.023. Incomplete submittals shall not be accepted by the Zoning
Administrator.
   (B)   Procedures.
      (1)   Conditional land use permits may be granted by the Village Council
at its discretion.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator shall review the proposed application and
preliminary site plan to determine if all required information has been
supplied, and forward the completed application, preliminary site plan, and
supporting data to the Planning Commission for a recommendation.
      (3)   (a)   Upon receipt of a recommendation by the Planning Commission,
1 notice that such a request has been received shall be published in at least 1
newspaper of general circulation within the village and sent by certified mail
or personal delivery to the owners of the property for which approval is being
considered, to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of
the boundary of the property in question, and to the occupants of all
structures within 300 feet. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term
“occupant” may be used in making notification. Notification need not be given
to more than 1 occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains
more than 1 dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different
individuals, partnerships, businesses, or organizations, 1 occupant of each
unit or spatial area shall receive notice. In the case of a single structure
containing more than 4 dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or
leased by different individuals, partnerships, businesses, or organizations,
notice may be given to the manager or owner of the structure who shall be
requested to post the notice at the primary entrance to the structure.
         (b)   1.   The notice shall be given in accordance with the
requirements of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Act 110 of the Public Acts of
2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq. not less than 15 days before the date the
application will be considered. The notice shall:
               a.   Describe the nature of the conditional land use request;
               b.   Indicate the property which is the subject of the
conditional land use request;
               c.   State when and where the conditional land use request will
be considered;
               d.   Indicate when and where written comments will be received
concerning the request; and
               e.    Indicate that a public hearing on the conditional land use
request may be requested by the property owner or the occupant of a structure
located within 300 feet of the boundary of the property being considered for a
special use.
            2.   At the initiative of the Village Council or upon the request
of the applicant or a property owner or resident entitled to notice hereunder,
a public hearing shall be held pursuant to notice as required in this paragraph
before a decision is made on the request for a conditional land use.
      (4)   (a)   After notice, and after a public hearing if requested, the
Village Council may deny, approve, or approve with conditions a request for a
conditional land use. The decision of the Village Council shall be incorporated
in a statement of conclusions relative to the conditional land use under
consideration. Any decision which denies a request or imposes conditions upon
its approval shall specify the basis for the denial or the conditions imposed.
         (b)   The Village Council may impose additional conditions and
safeguards deemed necessary for the general welfare, for the protection of
individual property rights, and for ensuring that the purposes of this chapter
and the general spirit and purpose of the district in which the conditional use
is proposed will be observed.
   (C)   Basis of determinations. The Planning Commission and Village Council
shall review the proposed conditional use in terms of the standards stated
within this chapter and shall establish that the use and the proposed location:
      (1)   Will be harmonious and in accordance with the general objectives or
any specific objectives of the Master Plan;
      (2)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, and maintained so as to be
harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing or intended
character of the general vicinity and will not change the essential character
of the area;
      (3)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing uses or uses
reasonably anticipated in the future;
      (4)   Will be an improvement in relation to property in the immediate
vicinity and to the village as a whole;
      (5)   Will be served adequately by essential public services and
facilities or that the persons responsible for the establishment of the
proposed use will provide adequately any such service or facility;
      (6)   Will not create excessive additional public costs and will not be
detrimental to the economic welfare of the village; and
      (7)   Will be consistent with the intent and purposes of this chapter.
   (D)   Duration, voiding, and extensions of permit.
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified by the Village Council, any conditional
land use permit granted under this section shall be null and void unless the
development proposed shall have its first building inspection within 1 year
from the date of the granting of the permit. The Zoning Administrator shall
give notice by certified mall to the holder of a permit before voidance is
actually declared. The notice shall be mailed to the permit holder at the
address indicated on the permit. Within 30 days of receipt of notice of voiding
of the permit, the applicant shall have the right to request an extension of
the permit from the Village Council. The Village Council may grant an extension
thereof for good cause for a period not to exceed 1 year.
      (2)   The Zoning Administrator may suspend or revoke a permit issued
under the provisions of this chapter whenever the permit is issued erroneously
on the basis of incorrect information supplied by the applicant or his or her
agent and is in violation of any of the provisions of this chapter or of any
other ordinances or regulations of the village.
   (E)   Reapplication. No application for a conditional use permit which has
been denied wholly or in part shall be resubmitted until the expiration of 1
year or more from the date of the denial, except on grounds of newly discovered
evidence or change of conditions found to be sufficient to justify
reconsideration by the Village Council.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.3; Am. Ord. 278, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 151.023 SITE PLAN REVIEW.
   (A)   Generally. The Village Council shall have the authority to review and
to approve or reject all site plans (i.e., preliminary, final, and combined
site plans), taking into account the recommendations of the Village Planning
Commission. Prior to the issuance of building permits or commencement of
construction for new structures and for additions that expand floor area, site
plan review and approval is required in accordance with the procedures
contained in this section.
   (B)   Where required.
      (1)   Site plan review is required for all proposed uses and certain
existing uses within the village where an alteration, addition, expansion,
change, or conversion constitutes an increase or reduction to the existing
structure or use of more than 500 square feet or 10%, whichever is less; or
would require a variance from the provisions of this chapter, regardless of its
size. Site plan review shall also be required prior to the paving of any off-
street parking for any use for which off-street parking is required by this
chapter.
      (2)   Site plan review shall not be required for individual single-family
dwellings, or residential accessory storage buildings.
      (3)   The village shall not issue a building permit until a final site
plan has been approved and is in effect. A use, not involving a building or
structure, shall not be commenced or expanded, nor shall the Zoning
Administrator or duly appointed agent issue an occupancy permit for the use
until a final site plan has been approved and is in effect.
      (4)   No grading, removal of trees or other vegetation, landfilling, or
construction of improvements shall commence for any development which requires
site plan approval until a final site plan is approved and is in effect, except
as otherwise provided in
§§ 151.020 et seq.
   (C)   Preliminary site plan.
      (1)   Application. Any applicant may submit a request for preliminary
site plan review by filing with the Zoning Administrator completed forms,
payment of the review fee, and 13 copies of the preliminary site plan drawing
(s). The Administrator, upon receipt of the application, shall transmit only
complete submittals of the preliminary site plan drawings to the Planning
Commission prior to its next regular meeting. The purpose of the preliminary
review is to confirm general compliance with village standards as well as to
suggest changes, if necessary, for final site plan approval.
      (2)   Information required. Each preliminary site plan submitted for
review shall provide the following information:
         (a)   Property owner’s and applicant's name and address;
         (b)   Scale, north arrow, and date of plan;
         (c)   Location, description, dimensions, and area of the site; zoning
classification; and demonstration of compliance with lot area, width, coverage,
and setback requirements;
         (d)   General topography and soils information and existing natural
and manmade features to be retained or removed;
         (e)   Location and dimensions of proposed buildings/structures;
including floor area, number of floors, height, number, and type of dwelling
units (where applicable);
         (f)   Proposed streets/drives; including general alignment, right-of-
way, surface type, and width;
         (g)   Proposed parking; including location and dimensions of spaces
and aisles, and surface type;
         (h)   Adjacent land uses, property owners, and zoning and location of
adjacent buildings and drives/streets;
         (i)   Proposed phasing; and
         (j)   Location and width of any easements on the site.
      (3)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation to approve, approve with conditions or deny the preliminary site
plan within 60 days from the date of the Planning Commission meeting at which
the site plan is first heard. The Planning Commission shall set forth the
reason for its action in the record of the meeting at which action is taken.
The time limit may be extended upon a written request by the applicant and
approval by the Planning Commission.
      (4)   Village Council action. The Village Council shall receive the
recommendations of the Planning Commission, and may approve or deny the
preliminary site plan.
      (5)   Effect of approval. Approval of a preliminary site plan by the
Village Council shall indicate its general acceptance of the proposed layout of
buildings, streets and drives, parking areas, other facilities and overall
character of the proposed development. The Village Council may, at its
discretion, and with appropriate conditions attached, authorize issuance of
grading and foundation permits on the basis of the approved preliminary site
plan. The authorization, however, will be used only in those situations in
which seasonable conditions, such as the onset of frost, or other severe time
limitations might, in the Village Council’s opinion, unduly delay the
commencement of construction until after the final site plan is approved. The
Village Council shall attach appropriate conditions to the authorization.
      (6)   Expiration of approval. Approval of a preliminary site plan shall
be valid for a period of 180 days from the date of approval and shall expire
and be of no effect unless an application for a final site plan is filed with
the Zoning Administrator within that time period. The Zoning Administrator or
duly appointed agent shall, within 10 days of the date of approval of the
preliminary site plan by the Village Council, transmit a written certification
of the approval to the applicant.
   (D)   Final site plan.
      (1)   Application. Following approval of a preliminary site plan, the
applicant shall submit to the Zoning Administrator 13 copies of a final site
plan as well as other data and exhibits hereinafter required, the review fee,
and a completed application form. The Administrator, upon receipt of the
application, shall transmit only complete submittals of the final site plan
drawing(s) to the Planning Commission prior to its next regular meeting.
      (2)   Information required. A final site plan submitted for review and
approval shall contain all of the following data presented in a clear and
legible format. Site plans shall consist of an overall plan for the entire
development. Sheet size shall be at least 24 inches by 36 inches with plan view
drawn to a scale of no greater than 1 inch = 50 feet for property less than 3
acres or no greater than 1 inch = 100 feet for property 3 or more acres.
         (a)   General information.
            1.   Proprietors’, applicants’, and owners’ names, addresses, and
telephone numbers;
            2.   Date of preparation, including revisions;
            3.   Scale;
            4.   North point;
            5.   Location map drawn at a scale of 1 inch = 2,000 feet with
north point indicated;
            6.   Architect, engineer, surveyor, landscape architect, or
planner's seal;
            7.   Existing and proposed lot lines, building lines, structures,
parking areas, and the like, on the parcel and within 100 feet of the site;
            8.   Centerline and existing and proposed right-of-way lines of any
street;
            9.   Zoning classification of petitioner's parcel and all abutting
parcels; and
            10.   Gross acreage figure.
         (b)   Physical features.
            1.   Acceleration, deceleration, and passing lanes and approaches;
            2.   Proposed locations of access drives, street intersections,
driveway locations, sidewalks, and curbing;
            3.   Location of existing and proposed service facilities above and
below ground, including:
               a.   Chemical and fuel storage tanks and containers;
               b.   Water supply facilities;
               c.   Sanitary sewage disposal facilities;
               d.   Storm water control facilities and structures; and
               e.   Location of all easements.
            4.   Location of all structures with setback and yard dimensions;
            5.   Dimensioned parking spaces and calculation, drives and method
of surfacing;
            6.   Exterior lighting locations and illumination patterns;
            7.   Location and description of all existing and proposed
landscaping, berms, fencing, and walls;
            8.   Trash receptacle pad location and method of screening;
            9.   Transformer pad location and method of screening;
            10.   Dedicated road or service drive locations;
            11.   Entrance details including sign locations and size;
            12.   Designation of fire lanes; and
            13.   Any other pertinent physical features.
         (c)   Natural features.
            1.   Soil characteristics of the parcel to at least the detail
provided by the U.S. Soil Conservation Service, Soil Survey of Washtenaw
County, Michigan;
            2.   Existing topography with a maximum contour interval of 2 feet.
Topography on the site and beyond the site for a distance of 100 feet in all
directions should be indicated. Grading plan, showing finished contours at a
maximum interval of 2 feet, correlated with existing contours so as to clearly
indicate required cutting, filling, and grading;
            3.   Location of existing drainage courses and associated bodies of
water, on- and off-site, and their elevations;
            4.   Location of existing wetlands; and
            5.   Location of natural resource features, including woodlands and
areas with slopes greater than 10% (1 foot of vertical elevation for every 10
feet of horizontal distance).
         (d)   Additional requirements for residential developments.
            1.   Density calculations by type of unit by bedroom counts;
            2.   Designation of units by type and number of units in each
building;
            3.   Carport locations and details where proposed; and
            4.   Specific amount and location of recreation spaces.
         (e)   Additional requirements for commercial and industrial
developments.
            1.   Loading/unloading areas;
            2.   Total and useable floor area; and
            3.   Number of employees in peak usage.
      (3)   Standards for review. In reviewing the final site plan, the
Planning Commission and Village Council shall determine whether the plan meets
the following specifications and standards.
         (a)   The plan conforms to the approved preliminary site plan and with
all Zoning Ordinance regulations.
         (b)   All required information is provided.
         (c)   The proposed use will not be injurious to the surrounding
neighborhood and protects the general health, safety, welfare, and character of
the township.
         (d)   There is a proper relationship between major thoroughfares and
proposed service drives, driveways, and parking areas. Proper access to all
portions of the site and all sides of any structure is provided. All structures
or groups of structures shall be so arranged as to permit emergency vehicle
access by some practical means to all sides.
         (e)   The location of buildings is such that the adverse effects of
the uses will be minimized for the occupants of that use and surrounding areas.
         (f)   Natural resources will be preserved to the maximum extent
possible in the site design by developing in a manner which will not
detrimentally affect or destroy natural features such as lakes, ponds, streams,
wetlands, steep slopes, soils, groundwater, and woodlands.
         (g)   Storm water management systems and facilities will preserve the
natural drainage characteristics and enhance the aesthetics of the site to the
maximum extent possible, and will not substantially reduce or increase the
natural retention or storage capacity of any wetland, water body, or water
course, or cause alterations which could increase flooding or water pollution
on- or off-site.
         (h)   Wastewater treatment systems, including on-site septic systems,
will be located to minimize any potential degradation of surface water or
groundwater quality and meet county and state standards.
         (i)   Sites which include storage of hazardous materials or waste,
fuels, salt, or chemicals will be designed to prevent spills and discharges of
polluting materials to the surface of the ground, groundwater, or nearby water
bodies in accordance with county and state standards.
         (j)   Landscaping, including grass, trees, shrubs, and other
vegetation is provided to maintain and improve the aesthetic quality of the
site and area.
         (k)   The proposed use is in compliance with all village ordinances
and any other applicable laws.
      (4)   Planning Commission action. The Planning Commission shall make a
recommendation to approve, approve with conditions, or deny the final site plan
within 60 days of the date of the Planning Commission meeting at which the site
plan is first heard. The time limit may be extended upon a written request by
the applicant and approved by the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission
may suggest and/or require modifications in the proposed final site plan as are
needed to gain approval. All engineering drawings and plans shall be reviewed
by the Village Engineer, DPW, and Fire Chief before a final site plan may be
recommended to Council.
      (5)   Village Council action. The Village Council shall receive the
recommendations of the Planning Commission and approve or deny the site plan.
      (6)   Effect of approval. Approval of a final site plan authorizes
issuance of a building permit or, in the case of uses without buildings or
structures, issuance of a certificate of zoning compliance.
      (7)   Expiration of approval. Approval of a final site plan shall expire
and be of no effect 1 year following the date of approval unless construction
has begun on the property in conformance with the approved final site plan.
Approval shall also expire and be of no effect unless a building permit shall
have been taken out within 180 days of the date of approval of the final site
plan.
   (E)   Combining preliminary and final site plans. An applicant may, at his
or her discretion and risk, combine a preliminary and final site plan in
application for approval. In such a situation the portion of the review process
concerning preliminary site plan application and review may be waived by the
Planning Commission. The Planning Commission shall have the authority to
require submittal of a preliminary site plan separate from a final site plan,
where, in its opinion, the complexity and/or scale of the site for the proposed
development so warrant. A preliminary and final site plan shall not be combined
for any development consisting of 2 or more phases.
   (F)   Amendment of approved site plan. The Zoning Administrator shall have
the authority to determine if a proposed change requires an amendment to an
approved final site plan. A site plan may be amended upon application and in
accordance with the procedure herein for a final site plan. The Zoning
Administrator may approve minor changes in an approved final site plan,
provided that a revised final site plan drawing (s) be submitted showing the
minor changes, for purposes of record.
   (G)   Modification of plan during construction. All improvements shall
conform to the final site plan. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant
to notify the Zoning Administrator of any such changes prior to the changes
being made. Any changes which result in a material alteration of the site plan
approved by the Planning Commission shall require resubmittal to the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission, Village Council, or Zoning Administrator
may require the applicant to correct the changes so as to conform to the
approved final site plan.
   (H)   Phasing of development. The applicant may, at his or her discretion,
divide the proposed development into 2 or more phases. In that case, the
preliminary site plan shall cover the entire property involved and shall
clearly indicate the location, the size, and character of each phase. A final
site plan may be submitted for review and approval for each phase.
   (I)   Inspection.
      (1)   The Building Inspector shall be responsible for inspecting all
improvements for conformance with the approved final site plan. All sub-grade
improvements such as utilities, sub-base installations for drives and parking
lots, and similar improvements shall be inspected and approved prior to
covering. The applicant shall be responsible for requesting the necessary
installation.
      (2)   The Building Inspector shall notify the Zoning Administrator, in
writing, when a development for which a final site plan is approved has passed
inspection with respect to the approved final site plan. The Building Inspector
shall notify the Zoning Administrator, in writing, of any development for which
a final site plan was approved, which does not pass inspection with respect to
the approved final site plan, and shall advise the Zoning Administrator of
steps taken to achieve compliance. In that case, the Building Inspector shall
periodically notify the Zoning Administrator of progress towards compliance
with the approved final site plan and when compliance is achieved.
   (J)   Violations. The approved final site plan shall regulate development of
the property and any violation of
§§ 151.020 et seq., including any improvement not in conformance of the
approved final site plan, shall be deemed a violation of this chapter as
provided in §§
151.188 and
151.999, and shall be subject to all penalties therein.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.4)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.024 SITE CONDOMINIUM PROJECT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Intent. Pursuant to the authority conferred by § 141 of the
Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. § 559.241 preliminary
and final site plans shall be regulated by the provisions of this chapter and
subject to the review by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   Each condominium lot shall be located within a zoning district that
permits the proposed use.
      (2)   Each condominium lot shall front on and have direct access to a
public street approved by the village.
      (3)   For the purposes of this chapter, each condominium lot shall be
considered equivalent to a single lot and shall comply with all regulations of
the zoning district in which located, and the provisions of any other statutes,
laws, ordinances, and/or regulations applicable to lots in subdivisions.
      (4)   In the case of a site condominium containing single-family detached
dwelling units, not more than 1 dwelling unit shall be located on a condominium
lot, nor shall a dwelling unit be located on a condominium lot with any other
principal structure or use except in a PUD district. Required yards shall be
measured from the boundaries of a condominium lot.
   (C)   Site plan approval requirements. Preliminary approval of the site plan
and final approval of the site plan and condominium documents by the Planning
Commission shall be required as a condition to the right to construct, expand,
or convert a site condominium project. No permits for erosion control, building
construction, grading, or installation of public water or sanitary sewerage
facilities shall be issued for property in a site condominium development until
a final site plan has been approved by the Village Planning Commission and is
in effect. Preliminary and final approval shall not be combined.
      (1)   Preliminary approval.
         (a)   A preliminary site plan pursuant to the standards and procedures
set forth in
§ 151.023 shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for preliminary review.
         (b)   If the site plan conforms in all respects to applicable laws,
ordinances, and design standards, preliminary approval shall be granted by the
Planning Commission.
         (c)   If the site plan fails to conform, the Planning Commission shall
either deny the application, or grant preliminary approval with conditions,
provided the conditions are met before final approval.
      (2)   Final approval.
         (a)   Following preliminary approval, the applicant shall submit a
final site plan pursuant to the standards and procedures set forth in
§ 151.023(D). In addition to the final site plan, the condominium documents
shall be submitted to the village for the review by the Village Attorney and
other appropriate staff and consultants. The condominium documents shall be
reviewed with respect to all matters subject to regulation by the village
including, without limitation: ongoing preservation and maintenance of
drainage, retention, wetland, and other natural and/or common area; maintenance
of private roads, if any; and maintenance of stormwater, sanitary, and water
facilities and utilities.
         (b)   The applicant shall also submit engineering plans in sufficient
detail for the village, to determine compliance with applicable laws,
ordinances, and design standards for construction of the project. The village
shall submit engineering plans to the Village Engineer for review.
         (c)   Upon completion of the review of the condominium documents and
engineering plans and receipt of the recommendations and findings from the
Village Attorney, Engineer, and Planner, the site plan shall be submitted to
the Village Council for final review.
         (d)   If the site plan, condominium documents and/or engineering plans
conform in all respects to applicable laws, ordinances, and design standards,
final approval shall be granted by the Village Council.
         (e)   If the site plan, condominium documents and/or engineering plans
fail to conform, final approval shall be denied by the Village Council.
         (f)   In the interest of insuring compliance with this chapter and
protecting the health, safety, and welfare of the residents of the village, the
Village Council, as a condition of final approval of the site plan, shall
require the applicant to deposit a performance guarantee as set forth in
§ 151.026 for the completion of improvements associated with the proposed use.
   (D)   Required improvements.
      (1)   All design standards and required improvements that apply to a
subdivision under the subdivision regulations adopted by the Village Council,
shall apply to any condominium development.
      (2)   Each condominium unit shall be connected to the village water,
sanitary, and storm sewers. Utility standards stated in Title V shall apply to
all condominium units. Furthermore, the utility provisions stated in the
village subdivision regulations shall apply to all condominium units proposed
for location on property which is not subdivided and recorded, or property
which is to be further subdivided. Each individual condominium unit shall be
considered a residential equivalent unit as defined in the village subdivision
regulations.
      (3)   (a)   Monuments shall be set at all boundary corners and deflection
points and at all road right-of-way intersection corners and deflection points.
Lot irons shall be set at all condominium lot corners and deflection points of
condominium lot lines.
         (b)   The village may grant a delay in the setting of required
monuments or irons for a reasonable time, but not to exceed 1 year, on
condition that the developer deposit with the Village Clerk cash, a certified
check, or an irrevocable bank letter of credit running to the village,
whichever the developer selects, in an amount as determined from time to time
by resolution of the Village Council. The deposit shall be returned to the
developer upon receipt of a certificate by a surveyor registered in the State
of Michigan that the monuments and irons have been set as required, within the
time specified. If the developer defaults, the Village Council shall promptly
require a registered surveyor to set the monuments and irons in the ground as
shown on the condominium site plans, at a cost not-to-exceed the amount of the
security deposit.
      (4)   Road rights-of-way shall be described separately from individual
condominium lots, and shall be accurately delineated by bearings and distances
on the condominium subdivision plan and the final site plan. The right-of-way
shall be for roadway purposes and for the purposes of locating, installing,
maintaining, and replacing of public utilities. The developer shall declare
easements to the village for all public water and sanitary sewer lines and
appurtenances.
      (5)   All improvements in a site condominium shall comply with the design
specifications as adopted by the Village Council and any amendments thereto.
   (E)   Information required prior to occupancy. Prior to the issuance of
occupancy permits for any condominium units, the applicant shall submit the
following to the Zoning Administrator:
      (1)   A copy of the recorded condominium documents (including exhibits);
      (2)   A copy of any recorded restrictive covenants;
      (3)   A copy of the site plan on laminated photostatic copy or mylar
sheet; and
      (4)   Evidence of completion of improvements associated with the proposed
use, including 2 copies of an as-built survey.
   (F)   Revision of site condominium plan. If the site condominium subdivision
plan is revised, the final site plan shall be revised accordingly and submitted
for review and approval or denial by the Planning Commission before any
building permit may be issued, where the permit is required.
   (G)   Amendment of condominium documents. Any amendment to a master deed or
bylaws that affects the approved preliminary or final site plan, or any
conditions of approval of a preliminary or final site plan, shall be reviewed
and approved by the Village Attorney and Planning Commission before any
building permit may be issued, where the permit is required. The Planning
Commission may require its review of an amended site plan if, in its opinion,
the changes in the master deed or bylaws require corresponding changes in the
site plan.
   (H)   Relocation of boundaries. Relocation of boundaries between adjoining
condominium units, if permitted in the condominium documents, as provided in §
48 of the Condominium Act, Public Act 59 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. § 559.148
shall comply with all regulations of the zoning district in which located and
shall be approved by the Zoning Inspector. These requirements shall be made a
part of the bylaws and recorded as part of the master deed.
   (I)   Subdivision of condominium lot. Each condominium lot that results from
a subdivision of another condominium lot, if the subdivision is permitted by
the condominium documents, as provided in § 49 of the Condominium Act, Public
Act 59 of 1979, being M.C.L.A. § 559.149 shall comply with all regulations of
the zoning district in which located, and shall be approved by the Zoning
Inspector. These requirements shall be made a part of the condominium bylaws
and recorded as part of the master deed.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.025 USE OF CONSULTANTS.
   From time to time, the Village Council and/or Planning Commission may employ
planning, engineering, legal, traffic, or other special consultants to assist
in the review of conditional use permits, site plans, rezonings, or other
matters related to the planning and development of the village.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.6)
§ 151.026 PERFORMANCE GUARANTEE.
   (A)   In the interest of ensuring compliance with the Zoning Ordinance
provisions, protecting the natural resources and the health, safety, and
welfare of the residents of the village and future users or inhabitants of an
are for which a site plan for a proposed use has been submitted, the Village
Council upon the recommendation of the Planning Commission shall require the
applicant to deposit a performance guarantee as set forth herein. The purpose
of the performance guarantee is to ensure completion of improvements connected
with the proposed use as required by this chapter, including, but not limited
to, streets, lighting, utilities, sidewalks, drainage, fences, screens, walls,
and landscaping.
   (B)   Performance guarantee as used herein shall mean a cash deposit,
certified check, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or corporate surety bond in
the amount of the estimated cost of the improvements to be made as determined
by the applicant and verified by the village. The village shall be authorized
to employ the village engineering consultant to review cost estimates and
conduct periodic inspection of the progress of improvements.
   (C)   Where the Village Council requires a performance guarantee, the
performance guarantee shall be deposited with the village prior to the issuance
of a building permit for the development and use of the land. Upon the deposit
of the performance guarantee the village shall issue the appropriate building
permit.
   (D)   The approval shall also prescribe the period of time within which the
improvements for which the performance guarantee has been required are to be
completed. The period will begin from the date of the issuance of the building
permit.
   (E)   The Zoning Administrator, upon the written request of the applicant,
shall rebate portions of the performance guarantee upon determination that the
improvements for which the rebate has been requested have been satisfactorily
completed. The portion of the performance guarantee to be rebated shall be in
the same amount as stated in the itemized cost estimate for the applicable
improvement.
   (F)   Upon the satisfactory completion, as determined by the village, of the
improvement for which the performance guarantee was required, the village shall
return to the applicant the performance guarantee deposited and any interest
earned thereon. However, the village is not required to deposit the performance
guarantee in an interest-bearing account.
   (G)   (1)   In the event the applicant defaults in making the improvements
for which the performance guarantee was required within the time period
established by the village, the village shall have the right to use the
performance guarantee deposited and any interest earned thereon to complete the
improvements through contract or otherwise, including, specifically, the right
to enter upon the subject property to make the improvements.
      (2)   If the performance guarantee is not sufficient to allow the village
to complete the improvements, the applicant shall be required to pay the
village any of the additional costs of completing the improvements. Should the
village use the performance guarantee, or a portion thereof, to complete the
required improvements, any amounts remaining after the completion shall be
applied first to the village's administrative costs, including, without
limitation, attorney fees, planning consultant fees, and engineering consultant
fees in completing the improvement with any balance remaining being refunded to
the applicant.
      (3)   If the applicant has been required to post a performance guarantee
or bond with another governmental agency other than the village to ensure
completion of an improvement the applicant shall not be required to deposit
with the village a performance guarantee for that specific improvement. At the
time the performance guarantee is deposited with the village and prior to the
issuance of a building permit, the applicant shall enter an agreement
incorporating the provisions hereof with the village regarding the performance
guarantee.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.7)
§ 151.027 FEES.
   The Village Council shall establish a schedule of fees, charges, and
expenses, and a collection procedure, for building permits, certificates of
occupancy, appeals, and other matters pertaining to this chapter. The village
shall have the authority to include fees for the use of engineering, planning,
legal, or other special consultants. The schedule of fees shall be posted in
the village offices, and may be altered or amended only by the Village Council.
No permit, certificate, conditional use on approval, or variance shall be
issued unless or until the costs, charges, fees, or expenses have been paid in
full, nor shall any action be taken on proceedings before the Board of Appeals,
unless or until preliminary charges and fees have been paid in full.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.8)
§ 151.028 PERMITS FOR CHANGE OF USE OF PROPERTY.
   No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be changed to or occupied
by a use of a different class or type unless a change of use permit is first
obtained for the new or different use. Buildings with more than one use must
apply and hold a change of use permit for each use within the building.
(Ord. 318, passed 2-20-2023)
ZONING DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 151.040 DISTRICT DESIGNATIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the Village of Manchester is hereby divided
into the following districts:
   (A)   AG, Agriculture District;
   (B)   R-1A, Single-Family Residential District, Low Density;
   (C)   R-1B, Single-Family Residential District, Medium Density;
   (D)   R-2, Multiple-Family Residential District, Low Density;
   (E)   R-3, Multiple-Family Residential District, Medium Density;
   (F)   MHP, Mobile Home Park Residential District;
   (G)   OS, Office Service District;
   (H)   C-2, General Commercial District;
   (I)   CBD, Central Business District;
   (J)   I-1, Limited Industrial District;
   (K)   I-2, General Industrial District; and
   (L)   PUD, Planned Unit Development District (§§ 151.125 et seq.).
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.1)
§ 151.041 ZONING DISTRICT MAP.
   (A)   Identified. The zoning districts as provided in
§ 151.040 are bounded and defined as shown on the map entitled Zoning District
Map of the Village of Manchester. The Zoning District Map, along with all
notations, references, and other explanatory information, shall accompany and
be made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   Authority. Regardless of the existence of purported copies of the
Zoning District Map which may be published, a true and current copy of the
Zoning District Map available for public inspection shall be located in and
maintained by the office of the Village Clerk. The Clerk's copy shall be the
final authority as to the current status of any land, parcel, lot, district,
use, building, or structure in the village.
   (C)   Interpretation of district boundaries. Where uncertainty exists with
respect to the boundaries of any of the districts indicated on the Zoning
District Map, the following rules shall apply.
      (1)   A boundary indicated as approximately following the centerline of a
highway, alley, or easement shall be construed as following the centerline.
      (2)   A boundary indicated approximately following a recorded lot line or
the line bounding a parcel shall be construed as following the line.
      (3)   A boundary indicated as approximately following a municipal
boundary line shall be construed as following the line.
      (4)   A boundary indicated as following a railroad line shall be
construed as being located midway in the right-of-way.
      (5)   A boundary indicated as following a shoreline shall be construed as
following the shoreline, and in the event of change in the shoreline shall be
construed as following the shoreline existing at the time the interpretation is
made.
      (6)   The boundary indicated as following the centerline of a stream or
river, canal, lake, or other body of water shall be construed as following the
centerline.
      (7)   A distance not specifically indicated on the Official Zoning Map
shall be determined by the scale of the map.
      (8)   Where an existing physical feature is at variance with that shown
on the Official Zoning Map or any other circumstances not covered by divisions
(C)(1) through (C)(7) above, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall interpret the
location of the zoning district boundary.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.2)
§ 151.042 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The regulations herein established within each zoning district
shall be the minimum regulations for promoting and protecting the public
health, safety, and general welfare and shall be uniform for each class of
land, buildings, structure, or uses throughout each district.
      (2)   No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, or moved, nor
shall any building or premises hereafter be used for any purpose other than is
permitted in the district in which the building or premises is located, except
by appeal as herein described by this chapter. Wherever the requirements of
this chapter are at variance with the requirements of any other adopted
regulations, or ordinances, the most restrictive or those imposing the higher
standards shall govern. Except as hereinafter provided, district regulations
shall be applied in the following manner.
   (B)   Uses in districts.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be permitted by right only if
specifically listed as principal permitted uses in the various zoning district
or are similar to the listed uses.
      (2)   Accessory uses and buildings. Accessory uses are permitted only if
the uses are clearly incidental to the permitted principal uses.
      (3)   Conditional uses. Conditional uses are permitted as listed or if
similar to the listed conditional uses.
   (C)   Application of area and width regulations.
      (1)   The area or width of a lot shall not be reduced below the minimum
requirements herein established for the district in which the lot is located.
      (2)   Every parcel of land shall meet the minimum lot width requirements
set forth in Appendix B and shall have frontage on and direct access to a
public street which has been accepted for maintenance by the village.
      (3)   Except in the R-1A District, access to a single-family dwelling
shall be limited to 1 individual driveway.
   (D)   Application of yard regulations.
      (1)   No part of a yard required for any building for the purposes of
compliance with this chapter shall be included as a part of a yard or other
open space similarly required for another building.
      (2)   All front yard setback lines shall be the minimum perpendicular
distance measured from the right-of-way of the road upon which a lot or parcel
fronts to the nearest point of the principal structure.
      (3)   All side and rear yard setback lines shall be the minimum
perpendicular distance between the nearest point on the side or rear of the
structure and the side or rear lot line parallel thereto.
      (4)   On corner lots the required front yards shall be provided along
both street frontages.
      (5)   No building, structure, fence, or other permanent improvement shall
be permitted to be erected or located within a public right-of-way except for
those improvements authorized by the village.
   (E)   Application of height regulations.
      (1)   No building shall be erected, converted, enlarged, reconstructed,
or structurally altered to exceed the height limit hereinafter established for
the district in which the building is located, as set forth in Appendix B.
      (2)   Roof structures for the housing of elevators, stairways, tanks,
ventilating fans, or similar equipment required to operate and maintain the
building, and fire or parapet walls, skylights, towers, steeples, and screens,
flagpoles, chimneys, smokestacks, water tanks, or similar structures may be
erected above the height limits herein prescribed. No structure shall exceed by
more than 15 feet the height limit of the district in which it is located.
      (3)   Communications towers shall be subject to the regulations set forth
in
§ 151.087.
   (F)   Location and number of buildings on lot of record.
      (1)   Every building erected, altered, or moved shall be located on a lot
of record as defined herein.
      (2)   (a)   There shall be only 1 single-family dwelling permitted per
lot.
         (b)   Where there is more than 1 single-family dwelling located on a
lot of record at the time of adoption of this chapter, the dwelling shall not
be divided from the lot except in conformity with the requirements of this
chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.3)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.043 AG, AGRICULTURE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   This District is composed of those areas of the village whose
principal use is and ought to be farming.
      (2)   The regulations of this District are designed to conserve,
stabilize, enhance, and develop farming and related resource-utilization
activities, to minimize conflicting uses of parcels, lots, buildings, and
structures detrimental to or incompatible with these activities, and to
prohibit uses of parcels, lots, buildings, and structures which require
streets, drainage, and other public activities and services of a different type
and quantity than those normally requited by these activities.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling;
      (2)   Farming operation, which includes the land, plants, buildings,
structure, including ponds used for agricultural or aquacultural activities,
machinery, equipment, and other appurtenances used in the commercial production
of farm products, and in accordance with the Michigan Right to Farm Act, Public
Act 93 of 1981, being M.C.L.A. §§ 286.471 - 286.474;
      (3)   A roadside stand, providing it is incidental to a permitted use and
provided the nursery stock or other agricultural products sold at the stand are
raised on the premises where the stand is located;
      (4)   Public and private recreation and conservation areas, such as
forest preserve; game refuge; recreation parks and reservation; and similar
public and private uses of low intensity use; and
      (5)   Any accessory use, building, or structure.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Public and private golf courses, golf driving ranges, clubs,
garden, nurseries, and greenhouses;
      (2)   Community and governmental buildings;
      (3)   Public and private nurseries, primary and secondary schools,
business schools, colleges, and universities;
      (4)   Churches and other institutions for religious worship;
      (5)   Veterinarians, animal clinics, and kennels; and
      (6)   Essential services.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.1)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.044 R-1A, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, LOW DENSITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This District is composed in those areas of the village
served by a public water supply system and a public sanitary sewer system where
the principal use is intended to be single-family dwellings developed at a low
density. In addition to the dwellings permitted in this Zoning District, there
are certain nonresidential and public uses which may be permitted through the
conditional approval of the village.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   A single-family dwelling and any use, building, or structure
accessory thereto; and
      (2)   Public parks and playgrounds.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Cluster housing subject to the provisions of
§ 151.066;
      (2)   Golf courses, but not including golf driving ranges;
      (3)   Country clubs, public swimming pools and recreation clubs, private
parks and playgrounds;
      (4)   Churches and other institutions for religious worship;
      (5)   Public and private nursery schools and kindergartens;
      (6)   Group day-care homes and day-care centers subject to the provisions
of
§ 151.072;
      (7)   Adult foster care facilities subject to the provisions of
§ 151.073;
      (8)   Public and private elementary, middle, and high schools;
      (9)   Bed and breakfast establishments subject to the provisions of
§ 151.084; and
      (10)   Public buildings.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.2)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.045 R-1B, SINGLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, MEDIUM DENSITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This District is composed of those areas of the village
served by a public water supply system and public sanitary sewer system where
the principal use is intended to be single-family dwellings on moderately sized
lots. In addition to the dwellings permitted in this Zoning District, there are
certain nonresidential and public uses which may be permitted through the
conditional approval of the village.
   (B)   Permitted uses. All permitted uses allowed in the R-1A District.
   (C)   Conditional uses. All conditional uses allowed in the R-1A District.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.3)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.046 R-2, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, LOW DENSITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This District is composed of those areas of the village where
the principal use is intended to be multiple-family dwellings. The regulations
of this District are designed to permit a lower density of population and land
use intensity than is allowed in the R-3 District. Areas zoned R-2 shall be
served by a public water supply system and a public sanitary sewerage system,
and abut or are adjacent to the other uses, buildings, structures, or amenities
which support, complement, or serve a multiple-family density. In addition to
the dwellings permitted in this Zoning District, there are certain
nonresidential and public uses which may be permitted through the conditional
approval of the village.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All permitted uses allowed in the R-1A District;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings and any use, building, or structure accessory
thereto; and
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings and any use, building, or structure
accessory thereto.
   (C)   Conditional uses. All conditional uses allowed in the R-1A District.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.4)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.047 R-3, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT, MEDIUM DENSITY.
   (A)   Purpose. This District is composed of those areas of the village where
the principal use is intended to be multiple-family dwellings at a moderate
density. The regulations of this District are designed to permit a medium
density of population and land use intensity. Areas zoned R-3 shall be served
by a public water supply system and a public sanitary sewerage system, and
which abut or are adjacent to the other uses, buildings, structures, or
amenities which support, complement, or serve such a multiple-family density.
In addition to the dwellings permitted in this Zoning District, there are
certain nonresidential and public uses which may be permitted through the
conditional approval of the village.
   (B)   Permitted uses. All permitted uses allowed in the R-2 District.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   All conditional uses allowed in the R-1A District;
      (2)   Medical and dental clinics, when associated with a hospital or
nursing home;
      (3)   Funeral establishments; and
      (4)   Hospitals, nursing homes, and sanitariums.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.048 MHP, MOBILE HOME PARK RESIDENTIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. The intent of this District is to provide for mobile home
residential development in areas where the natural conditions and features,
public services, and infrastructure are capable of supporting the development.
Areas zoned MHP shall be located in areas which are compatible with the
character and density of adjacent uses.
   (B)   Permitted Uses.
      (1)   Mobile home parks subject to the provisions set forth in
§ 151.071; and
      (2)   Parks and playgrounds.
   (C)   Conditional uses. All conditional uses allowed in the R-1A District.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.6)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.049 OS, OFFICE SERVICE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is designed primarily for the convenience of
persons residing in the village by providing office, limited retail, and
business service uses that serve the adjacent and surrounding neighborhoods.
The district shall be characterized by uses that generally operate during
normal business hours; are a compatible transitional use between commercial and
residential areas and/or between thoroughfares and residential areas; and are
located in buildings that are architecturally compatible with the residential
community. It is the purpose of these regulations to permit development of the
enumerated functions in a manner that is compatible with uses in the
surrounding area. To these ends, certain uses are excluded that would function
more effectively in other districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Office buildings for the use of any of the following occupations:
executive, administrative, professional, accounting, writing, clerical,
stenographic, drafting, and sales;
      (2)   Medical and dental office, including clinics and medical
laboratories;
      (3)   Banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations;
      (4)   Publicly owned buildings, public utility transformer stations and
substations, telephone exchanges, and public utility offices;
      (5)   Photographic studios;
      (6)   Retail office supply, computer and business machine sales;
      (7)   Business service establishments, such as printing and photocopying
services, mail and packaging services, and typing and secretarial services;
      (8)   Florist shops;
      (9)   Personal service establishments, such as barber and beauty shops;
watch, clothing, and shoe repair; locksmith; and similar establishments;
      (10)   Outdoor display of products or materials for retail sale or rental
when accessory to a principal permitted use subject to the requirements of §
151.082;
      (11)   A single-family dwelling and any use, building, or structure
accessory thereto, established and existing at the time of adoption of this
chapter;
      (12)   Office buildings of architects, engineers, surveyors, community
planners and other professions of similar nature;
      (13)   Theaters and studios for professional work;
      (14)   Governmental offices;
      (15)   Training and/or educational centers where such centers are
designed and intended to provide training at the business, technical, and/or
professional level; and
      (16)   Employee services.  Employee services, such as a cafeteria, snack
bar or exercise gym, may be permitted as an accessory use to a permitted or
conditional land use in the Office Service District, provided such services are
contained wholly within the principal structure and are offered to employees
only.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Private service clubs, social organizations, and lodge halls;
      (2)   Funeral homes;
      (3)   Multiple-family housing and/or apartment dwelling second floor and
above;
      (4)   Veterinary offices and hospitals, including accessory boarding,
provided no outdoor exercise runs or pens are permitted; and
      (5)   Bed and breakfast establishments subject to the provisions of §
151.084.
   (D)   Architectural standards. The architectural standards contained in this
section are intended to integrate the OS District into the existing fabric of
the village, contributing to the cohesive historic identity of Manchester.
Because of the planned lower density of development along the corridor,
structures shall possess architectural quality and variety to establish its own
identity and create a positive image for the village's OS District.
      Development in the OS District, including new buildings, additions and
renovations, shall be designed to preserve or complement the intended design
character of corridor development, provide visual harmony, and protect the
investment of adjacent landowners. These structures shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission under the following criteria:
      (1)   Building orientation. The intent of the OS District is to
contribute to the desirability of pedestrian activity within the district and
adjacent land uses, and to encourage connectivity to the streetscape.
Entranceway orientation and proposed flow of pedestrians will contribute
towards the desired pedestrian activity and scale described in this section.
The following shall be considered:
         (a)   Buildings shall front towards and have their primary pedestrian
entrance facing onto a public street or onto a major internal drive within a
planned shopping center. The Planning Commission may permit buildings that face
towards a side yard; provided that defined pedestrian access routes are
provided to the public street, and features such as those described above are
provided along walls that face the public street.
         (b)   Blank walls may not face a public street, and buildings must
have windows and architectural features commonly associated with the front
facade of a building, such as awnings, cornice work, edge detailing or other
decorative finish materials, on walls that face the public street.
      (2)   Building scale. The intent is to create development that is similar
in scale with the older buildings in the village by encouraging narrow facades,
and discouraging single, large scale buildings.
         (a)   Building facades shall be subdivided, through the location of
architectural treatments and the arrangement of openings (doors and windows)
compatible in size and scale to the surrounding buildings.
         (b)   1.   The height-to-width ratio of these subdivided facades of
single-story buildings shall not exceed 1:2.
            2.   The height-to-width ratio of these subdivided facades of two-
story buildings shall not exceed 1:1.
      (3)   Defined streetscape. Buildings that are to be located along a
public road shall be designed to create a defined streetscape along the
corridor, utilizing the following guidelines. The Planning Commission may
require a perspective drawing or a scale model of the proposed structure.
         (a)    Proper relationship to existing structures in the area shall be
maintained through building mass, proportion, scale, roofline shapes, windows,
and doors.
         (b)    All new development, additions, or renovations shall provide
sidewalk connections to adjacent properties and/or development.
      (4)   Building materials and design. The applicant must demonstrate the
proposed buildings possess architectural quality and variety that create a
distinct and harmonious character for the corridor. This shall be accomplished
by the following:
         (a)   Variety in building design shall be provided by architectural
features, details and ornaments such as archways, colonnades, towers, cornices
or peaked rooflines.
         (b)   Building entrances shall utilize windows, canopies and awnings;
provide unity of scale, texture, and color; and provide a sense of place.
         (c)   Roof shape and materials shall be architecturally compatible
with the district and enhance the predominant streetscape and surrounding
developments. Gable, hip and gambrel roofs are encouraged as the predominant
shapes along the corridor.
         (d)   The predominating surface plane of all building walls over 40
feet in length shall be varied through the use of architectural treatments,
such as varying building lines, entrance accents, and windows.
         (e)   Where the side or rear facade(s) of a building will be visible
from a residential zoning district or public land, such a facade shall be
constructed to a finished quality comparable to the front facade. Otherwise,
decorative block, such as split-faced or single-scored with an integral color,
may be used for these facades. Painted block is prohibited.
         (f)   A building located on a corner lot shall provide distinct and
prominent architectural features or site elements, which reflect the importance
of the building's corner location and create a positive visual landmark. An
entry feature or site landmark shall be required at the discretion of the
Planning Commission.
         (g)   All mechanical equipment shall be shielded from public view.
         (h)   Exterior building materials and treatment shall maintain a
consistent overall appearance within the OS District. Any side of a principal
building, at least 50% of the facade shall be constructed of, or covered with,
1 or more of the following materials:
            1.   Brick: smooth and hard in form; red, dark-red, or brown in
color;
            2.   Cut stone: carved and smooth-finish limestone;
            3.   Siding: wood clapboard or shingle siding, or high quality
vinyl;
            4.   Glass windows and/or doors: non-reflective, clear or slightly
tinted; and
            5.   Other materials similar to the above as determined by the
Planning Commission.
         (i)   The first floor of front facade(s) for nonresidential structures
shall include at least 30% non-reflective windows (clear or slightly tinted).
The approximate size, shape, orientation and spacing shall match that of
nonresidential buildings on adjacent lots.
      (5)   Other site elements. Signs, landscaping, walls, lighting and other
site elements shall be coordinated and compatible with the building design, as
well as harmonious with the intended character of the district.
   (E)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   OS District uses shall provide parking and loading in accordance
with the provisions set forth in §§
151.165 et seq. 
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be located in the side or rear yard, and
in no case shall be located in the required front yard. On lots where parking
requirements can not be met in the side and rear yards, the Planning Commission
may permit off-street parking in a portion of the non-required front yard.
      (3)   Planning Commission may approve a reduction in parking requirements
of up to 25%, if the applicant can demonstrate the use would be sufficiently
served by the proposed amount of parking. Applicant shall demonstrate that the
required parking could be accommodated on-site by delineation on the site plan.
This parking would be banked for future utilization if the parking needs of the
use were to change.
      (4)   Where off-street parking is visible from the public right-of-way,
screening shall be provided within the required greenbelt area between the
parking lot and the public right-of-way, and shall be accompanied by 1 of the
following options:
 
Parking Area Screening Options Minimum Buffer Width Minimum Landscaping
                                                    Requirements
Landscape strip                5 feet               10 shrubs per 30 feet
Three-foot-high, decorative    5 feet               5 shrubs per 30 feet
metal fence
Three-foot-high wall           5 feet               5 shrubs per 30 feet
 
         (a)   A minimum 5-foot buffer area between the off-street parking and/
or vehicular use area and the street right-of-way line, including plantings of
at least 10 shrubs for every 30 feet, or fraction thereof, of street frontage
of parking lot.
         (b)   A minimum 5-foot buffer area between the parking lot and the
right-of-way, including a 36-inch-high, decorative metal fence (i.e., wrought
iron). The fencing shall contain 4-inch spacing between metal pickets, with
masonry pilasters spaced 24 feet apart, capped, and at least 16 inches to 21
inches wide. The minimum landscaping required in conjunction with the metal
fence is 5 shrubs for every 30 feet, or fraction thereof, of street frontage of
parking lot.
         (c)   A minimum-5-foot buffer area between the parking lot and the
right-of-way, including a 36-inch-high, masonry screening wall in conjunction
with the minimum landscaping requirement of 5 shrubs for every 30 feet, or
fraction thereof, of street frontage of the parking lot. The wall shall be
constructed of brick or masonry block, and shall also include a concrete,
stone, or masonry cap.
   (F)   Access management.
      (1)   Statement of purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide
access standards that will facilitate through-traffic operations, ensure public
safety along roadways, and protect the public investment in the street system;
while providing property owners with reasonable, though not always direct,
access. The standards are specifically designed for streets whose primary
function is the movement of through traffic, as opposed to local streets whose
primary function is access to adjacent properties.
      (2)   Commercial driveway definition. For the purposes of this section, a
COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY is defined as any vehicular access except those serving 1
or 2 dwelling units, or serving just an essential public service structure.
      (3)   Application of standards.
         (a)   The standards of this section shall be applied to the Office
Service (OS) District.
         (b)   The access standards contained herein shall be required in
addition to, and, where permissible, shall supersede the requirements of the
Washtenaw County Road Commission.
         (c)   The standards contained in this section shall apply to all uses.
         (d)   For expansion and/or redevelopment of existing sites where the
Planning Commission determines that compliance with all standards of this
section is unreasonable, the standards shall be applied to the maximum extent
possible. In such situation, suitable alternatives that substantially achieve
the purpose of this section may be accepted by the Planning Commission,
provided that the applicant demonstrates all of the following apply:
            1.   Size of the parcel is insufficient to meet the dimensional
standards.
            2.   The spacing of existing, adjacent driveways or environmental
constraints prohibit adherence to the access standards at a reasonable cost.
            3.   The use will generate less than 500 total vehicle trips per
day or less than 75 total vehicle trips in the peak hour of travel on the
adjacent street, based on rates developed by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers.
            4.   There is no other reasonable means of access.
      (4)    General standards for driveway location.
         (a)   Driveways shall be located so as to minimize interference with
the free movement of traffic, to provide adequate sight distance, and to
provide the most favorable driveway grade to be determined at engineering
review.
         (b)   Driveways, including the radii or tapered approach, but not
including right-turn lanes, passing lanes and tapers, shall be located entirely
within the right-of-way frontage, unless otherwise approved by the Village
Engineer, and upon written certification (such as an easement) from the
adjacent property owner agreeing to such encroachment.
      (5)   Standards for the number of commercial driveways. The number of
commercial driveways shall be the minimum necessary to provide reasonable
access for regular traffic and emergency vehicles, while preserving traffic
operations and safety along the public roadway. A single means of direct or
indirect access shall be provided for each separately owned parcel. Where
possible, this access shall be via a shared driveway or a service drive. Where
it is not possible to provide shared access, this access may be by a single
commercial driveway. Additional commercial driveways may be permitted, at the
discretion of the Planning Commission, only under 1 of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Two 2-way entrances are required on the major highway.
Additional entrances for purposes of a service drive or access to secondary
frontages may be approved in the site plan.
         (b)   Additional commercial driveways may be justified due to the
amount of traffic generated by the use without compromising traffic operations
along the public street, based upon a traffic impact study submitted by the
applicant.
      (6)   Driveway spacing standards.
         (a)   Between driveways. The minimum spacing between 2 commercial
driveways on the same side of the road shall be 185 feet.
         (b)   Offsets. To reduce left-turn conflicts, new commercial driveways
should be aligned with driveways or streets on the opposite side of the roadway
where possible. If alignment is not possible, driveways should be offset a
minimum of 250 feet along M-52 and 150 feet along other roadways. Longer
offsets may be required, depending on the expected inbound left-turn volumes of
the driveways, or sight-distance limitations.
      (7)   Commercial driveway design.
         (a)   All commercial driveways shall be designed according to the
Village of Manchester Engineering Standards or the requirements of the
Washtenaw County Road Commission, as appropriate.
         (b)   For high-traffic generators, or for commercial driveways along
roadways experiencing or expected to experience congestion, the Planning
Commission may require 2 clearly marked egress lanes.
         (c)   The edge of commercial driveways shall be setback at least 4
feet from the side or rear property line. This setback is intended to help
control stormwater runoff, and permit snow storage on site, and provide an
adequate area for any necessary on-site landscaping.
      (8)   Service road design standards.
         (a)   Location.  Service roads shall generally be parallel or
perpendicular to the rear property line, may be located either adjacent to or
behind principal buildings, and shall not be permitted in front of the
principal building. In considering the most appropriate alignment for a service
road, the
Planning Commission shall consider the setbacks of existing buildings and
anticipated traffic flow for the site.
         (b)   Access easement.  The service road shall be within an access
easement permitting traffic circulation between properties. This easement shall
be 60 feet wide. The required width shall remain free and clear of
obstructions, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Construction and materials. Service roads shall have a base,
pavement and curb with gutter in accordance with the Village of Manchester
Engineering Standards for public streets, except the width of the service road
shall have a minimum pavement width of 18 feet face-to-face of curb.
         (d)   Parking. The service road is intended to be used exclusively for
circulation, not as a parking-maneuvering aisle. The Planning Commission may
require the posting of “no parking” signs along the service road. In reviewing
the site plan, the Planning Commission may permit temporary parking in the
easement area where a continuous service road is not yet available, provided
that the layout allows removal of the parking in the future to allow extension
of the service road.
         (e)   Access to service road. The Planning Commission shall approve
the location of all accesses to the service road, based on the driveway spacing
standards of this section.
         (f)   Elevation. The site plan shall indicate the proposed elevation
of the service road at the right-of-way line, and the village shall maintain a
record of all service road elevations so that their grades can be coordinated.
      (9)   Modification of standards for special situations. The Planning
Commission shall have the authority to modify the standards of this section
upon consideration of the following:
         (a)   The standards of this section would prevent reasonable access to
the site.
         (b)   Access via a shared driveway or service road is not possible due
to the presence of existing buildings or topographic conditions.
         (c)   Roadway improvements (such as the addition of a traffic signal,
a center turn lane or bypass lane) will be made to improve overall traffic
operations prior to project completion, or occupancy of the building.
         (d)   The use involves the redesign of an existing development or a
new use that will generate less traffic than the previous use.
         (e)   The proposed location and design is supported by the Village
Engineer as an acceptable design under the existing site conditions. The
Planning Commission may also request the applicant provide a traffic impact
study to support the requested access design.
         (f)   The modification shall be of the minimum amount necessary, but
in no case shall spacing to another full-access driveway be less than 60 feet,
measured centerline to centerline.
         (g)   Where there is a change in use or expansion at a site that does
not comply with standards herein, the Planning Commission shall determine the
amount of upgrade needed in consideration of the existing and expected traffic
pattern, and the capability to meet the standards herein to the extent
practical.
   (G)   Additional requirements.  All permitted and conditional land uses in
the OS District shall comply with all applicable provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.7; Am. Ord. 263, passed 8-20-2007)  
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.050 C-2, GENERAL COMMERCIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This district is intended to accommodate office, business
service, and retail uses that serve a larger market than the OS District,
including the village and portions of the surrounding townships. It is the
purpose of these regulations to permit development of the enumerated functions
in a manner that is compatible with uses in the surrounding area. To these
ends, certain uses are excluded that would function more effectively in other
districts.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All permitted and conditional uses allowed in the OS, Office
Service District, with the exception of single-family dwellings;
      (2)   Food services, including grocery, meat market, bakery, restaurant,
delicatessen and fruit market, and similar self-service units, but not
including any business of a drive-in type;
      (3)   Retail sales of drug and health care products, hardware, gifts, dry
goods, notions, sporting goods, clothing, furniture, and appliances;
      (4)   Radio, television, and electrical appliance repair, and shops of
plumbers, electricians, and other similar services and trades;
      (5)   Sit-down and/or carryout restaurants;
      (6)   Laundromats and dry-cleaning establishments;
      (7)   Planned shopping centers; and
      (8)   Accessory uses, buildings, or structures.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Bar/lounge serving alcoholic beverages and/or providing
entertainment;
      (2)   Fast-food restaurants;
      (3)   Lodging facilities;
      (4)   Outdoor sales of manufactured products subject to the requirements
set forth in
§ 151.079;
      (5)   Sale of new and used automobiles, boats, mobile homes, farm
machinery, and other vehicles, provided outdoor sales comply with the
requirements set forth in
§ 151.079;
      (6)   Automobile service stations and washes subject to the requirements
set forth in
§ 151.081;
      (7)   Recreation and amusement services, including theaters, bowling
alleys, roller and ice skating rinks, billiard halls, and miniature golf;
      (8)   Farm supply and feed stores; and
      (9)   Group day care homes and day care centers subject to the provisions
of §
151.072.
   (D)   Architectural standards. The architectural standards contained in this
section are intended to integrate the C-2 District into the existing fabric of
the village, contributing to the cohesive historic identity of Manchester.
Because of the planned lower density of development along the corridor,
structures shall possess architectural quality and variety to establish its own
identity and create a positive image for the village's C-2 District.
      Development in the C-2 District, including new buildings, additions and
renovations, shall be designed to preserve or complement the intended design
character of corridor development, provide visual harmony, and protect the
investment of adjacent landowners. These structures shall be reviewed by the
Planning Commission under the following criteria:
      (1)   Building orientation. The intent of the C-2 District is to
contribute to the desirability of pedestrian activity within the district and
adjacent land uses, and to encourage connectivity to the streetscape.
Entranceway orientation and proposed flow of pedestrians will contribute
towards the desired pedestrian activity and scale described in this section.
The following shall be considered:
         (a)   Buildings shall front towards and have their primary pedestrian
entrance facing onto a public street or onto a major internal drive within a
planned shopping center. The Planning Commission may permit buildings, which
face towards a side yard, provided that defined pedestrian access routes are
provided to the public street, and features such as those described above are
provided along walls that face the public street.
         (b)   Blank walls may not face a public street, and buildings must
have windows and architectural features commonly associated with the front
facade of a building, such as awnings, cornice work, edge detailing or other
decorative finish materials, on walls that face the public street.
      (2)   Building scale. The intent is to create development that is similar
in scale with the older buildings in the village by encouraging narrow facades,
and discouraging single, large scale buildings.
         (a)   Building facades shall be subdivided, through the location of
architectural treatments and the arrangement of openings (doors and windows)
that are compatible in size and scale to the surrounding buildings.
         (b)   1.   The height-to-width ratio of these subdivided facades of
single-story buildings shall not exceed 1:2.
            2.   The height-to-width ratio of these subdivided facades of two-
story buildings shall not exceed 1:1.
      (3)   Defined streetscape.  Buildings that are to be located along a
public road shall be designed to create a defined streetscape along the
corridor, utilizing the following guidelines. The Planning Commission may
require a perspective drawing or a scale model of the proposed structure.
         (a)   Proper relationship to existing structures in the area shall be
maintained through building mass, proportion, scale, roofline shapes, windows,
and doors.
         (b)   All new development, additions, or renovations shall provide
sidewalk connections to adjacent properties and/or development.
      (4)   Building materials and design. The applicant must demonstrate the
proposed buildings possess architectural quality and variety that create a
distinct and harmonious character for the corridor. This shall be accomplished
by the following:
         (a)   Variety in building design shall be provided by architectural
features, details and ornaments such as archways, colonnades, towers, cornices
or peaked rooflines.
         (b)   Building entrances shall utilize windows, canopies and awnings;
provide unity of scale, texture, and color; and provide a sense of place.
         (c)   Roof shape and materials shall be architecturally compatible
with the district and enhance the predominant streetscape and surrounding
developments. Gable, hip and gambrel roofs are encouraged as the predominant
shapes along the corridor.
         (d)   The predominating surface plane of all building walls over 40
feet in length shall be varied through the use of architectural treatments,
such as varying building lines, entrance accents, and windows.
         (e)   Where the side or rear facade(s) of a building will be visible
from a residential zoning district or public land, such a facade shall be
constructed to a finished quality comparable to the front facade. Otherwise,
decorative block, such as split-faced or single-scored with an integral color,
may be used for these facades. Painted block is prohibited.
         (f)   A building located on a corner lot shall provide distinct and
prominent architectural features or site elements that reflect the importance
of the building's corner location and create a positive visual landmark. An
entry feature or site landmark shall be required at the discretion of the
Planning Commission.
         (g)   All mechanical equipment shall be shielded from public view.
         (h)   Exterior building materials and treatment shall maintain a
consistent overall appearance within the C-2 district. Any side of a principal
building, at least 50% of the facade shall be constructed of, or covered with,
1 or more of the following materials:
            1.   Brick: smooth and hard in form; red, dark-red, or brown in
color;
            2.   Cut stone: carved and smooth-finish limestone;
            3.   Siding: wood clapboard or shingle siding, or high quality
vinyl;
            4.   Glass windows and/or doors: non-reflective, clear or slightly
tinted; and
            5.   Other materials similar to the above as determined by the
Planning Commission.
         (i)   The first floor of front facade(s) for nonresidential structures
shall include at least 30% non-reflective windows (clear or slightly tinted).
The approximate size, shape, orientation and spacing shall match that of
nonresidential buildings on adjacent lots. The remainder of the structure shall
meet the above standards in §
151.050(D)(4)(g), in addition to the 30% window on the front facade(s).
      (5)   Other site elements. Signs, landscaping, walls, lighting and other
site elements shall be coordinated and compatible with the building design, as
well as harmonious with the intended character of the district.
   (E)   Parking requirements.
      (1)   C-2 District uses shall provide parking and loading in accordance
with the provisions set forth in §§
151.165 et seq. 
      (2)   Off-street parking shall be located in the side or rear yard, and
in no case shall be located in the required front yard. On lots where parking
requirements can not be met in the side and rear yards, the Planning Commission
may permit off-street parking in a portion of the non-required front yard.
      (3)   Planning Commission may approve a reduction in parking requirements
of up to 25%, if the applicant can demonstrate the use would be sufficiently
served by the proposed amount of parking. Applicant shall demonstrate that the
required parking could be accommodated on-site by delineation on the site plan.
This parking would be banked for future utilization if the parking needs of the
use were to change.
      (4)   Where off-street parking is visible from the public right-of-way,
screening shall be provided within the required greenbelt area between the
parking lot and the public right-of-way, and shall be accompanied by 1 of the
following options:
 
Parking Area Screening Options Minimum Buffer Width Minimum Landscaping
                                                    Requirements
Landscape strip                5 feet               10 shrubs per 30 feet
Three-foot-high, decorative    5 feet               5 shrubs per 30 feet
metal fence
Three-foot-high wall           5 feet               5 shrubs per 30 feet
 
         (a)   A minimum-5-foot buffer area between the off-street parking and/
or vehicular use area and the street right-of-way line, including plantings of
at least 10 shrubs for every 30 feet, or fraction thereof, of street frontage
of parking lot.
         (b)   A minimum-5-foot buffer area between the parking lot and the
right-of-way, including a 36-inch-high, decorative metal fence (i.e., wrought
iron). The fencing shall contain 4-inch spacing between metal pickets, with
masonry pilasters spaced 24 feet apart, capped, and at least 16 inches to 21
inches wide. The minimum landscaping required in conjunction with the metal
fence is 5 shrubs for every 30 feet, or fraction thereof, of street frontage of
parking lot.
         (c)   A minimum-5-foot buffer area between the parking lot and the
right-of-way, including a 36-inch-high, masonry screening wall in conjunction
with the minimum landscaping requirement of 5 shrubs for every 30 feet, or
fraction thereof, of street frontage of the parking lot. The wall shall be
constructed of brick or masonry block, and shall also include a concrete,
stone, or masonry cap.
   (F)   Access management.
      (1)   Statement of purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide
access standards that will facilitate through-traffic operations, ensure public
safety along roadways, and protect the public investment in the street system;
while providing property owners with reasonable, though not always direct,
access. The standards are specifically designed for streets whose primary
function is the movement of through traffic, as opposed to local streets whose
primary function is access to adjacent properties.
      (2)   Commercial driveway definition. For the purposes of this section, a
COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY is defined as any vehicular access except those serving 1
or 2 dwelling units, or serving just an essential public service structure.
      (3)   Application of standards.
         (a)   The standards of this section shall be applied to the General
Commercial (C-2) District.
         (b)   The access standards contained herein shall be required in
addition to, and, where permissible, shall supersede the requirements of the
Washtenaw County Road Commission.
         (c)   The standards contained in this section shall apply to all uses.
         (d)   For expansion and/or redevelopment of existing sites where the
Planning Commission determines that compliance with all standards of this
section is unreasonable, the standards shall be applied to the maximum extent
possible. In such situation, suitable alternatives that substantially achieve
the purpose of this section may be accepted by the Planning Commission,
provided that the applicant demonstrates all of the following apply:
            1.   Size of the parcel is insufficient to meet the dimensional
standards.
            2.   The spacing of existing, adjacent driveways or environmental
constraints prohibit adherence to the access standards at a reasonable cost.
            3.   The use will generate less than 500 total vehicle trips per
day or less than 75 total vehicle trips in the peak hour of travel on the
adjacent street, based on rates developed by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers.
            4.   There is no other reasonable means of access.
      (4)   General standards for driveway location.
         (a)   Driveways shall be located so as to minimize interference with
the free movement of traffic, to provide adequate sight distance, and to
provide the most favorable driveway grade to be determined at engineering
review.
         (b)   Driveways, including the radii or tapered approach, but not
including right-turn lanes, passing lanes and tapers, shall be located entirely
within the right-of-way frontage, unless otherwise approved by the Village
Engineer, and upon written certification (such as an easement) from the
adjacent property owner agreeing to such encroachment.
      (5)   Standards for the number of commercial driveways. The number of
commercial driveways shall be the minimum necessary to provide reasonable
access for regular traffic and emergency vehicles, while preserving traffic
operations and safety along the public roadway. A single means of direct or
indirect access shall be provided for each separately owned parcel. Where
possible, this access shall be via a shared driveway or a service drive. Where
it is not possible to provide shared access, this access may be by a single
commercial driveway. Additional commercial driveways may be permitted, at the
discretion of the Planning Commission, only under 1 of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Two 2-way entrances are required on the major highway.
Additional entrances for purposes of a service drive or access to secondary
frontages may be approved in the site plan.
         (b)   Additional commercial driveways may be justified due to the
amount of traffic generated by the use without compromising traffic operations
along the public street, based upon a traffic impact study submitted by the
applicant.
      (6)   Driveway spacing standards.
         (a)   Between driveways.  The minimum spacing between 2 commercial
driveways on the same side of the road shall be 185 feet.
         (b)   Offsets. To reduce left-turn conflicts, new commercial driveways
should be aligned with driveways or streets on the opposite side of the roadway
where possible. If alignment is not possible, driveways should be offset a
minimum of 250 feet along M-52 and 150 feet along other roadways. Longer
offsets may be required, depending on the expected inbound left-turn volumes of
the driveways, or sight-distance limitations.
      (7)   Commercial driveway design.
         (a)   All commercial driveways shall be designed according to the
Village of Manchester Engineering Standards or the requirements of the
Washtenaw County Road Commission, as appropriate.
         (b)   For high-traffic generators, or for commercial driveways along
roadways experiencing or expected to experience congestion, the Planning
Commission may require 2 clearly marked egress lanes.
         (c)   The edge of commercial driveways shall be setback at least 4
feet from the side or rear property line. This setback is intended to help
control stormwater runoff, and permit snow storage on site, and provide an
adequate area for any necessary on-site landscaping.
      (8)   Service road design standards.
         (a)   Location. Service roads shall generally be parallel or
perpendicular to the rear property line, may be located either adjacent to or
behind principal buildings, and shall not be permitted in front of the
principal building. In considering the most appropriate alignment for a service
road, the Planning Commission shall consider the setbacks of existing buildings
and anticipated traffic flow for the site.
         (b)   Access easement. The service road shall be within an access
easement permitting traffic circulation between properties. This easement shall
be 60 feet wide. The required width shall remain free and clear of
obstructions, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)   Construction and materials. Service roads shall have a base,
pavement and curb with gutter in accordance with the Village of Manchester
Engineering Standards for public streets, except the width of the service road
shall have a minimum pavement width of 18 feet face-to-face of curb.
         (d)   Parking. The service road is intended to be used exclusively for
circulation, not as a parking-maneuvering aisle. The Planning Commission may
require the posting of “no parking” signs along the service road. In reviewing
the site plan, the Planning Commission may permit temporary parking in the
easement area where a continuous service road is not yet available, provided
that the layout allows removal of the parking in the future to allow extension
of the service road.
         (e)   Access to service road. The Planning Commission shall approve
the location of all accesses to the service road, based on the driveway spacing
standards of this section.
         (f)   Elevation. The site plan shall indicate the proposed elevation
of the service road at the right-of-way line, and the village shall maintain a
record of all service road elevations so that their grades can be coordinated.
      (9)   Modification of standards for special situations. The Planning
Commission shall have the authority to modify the standards of this section
upon consideration of the following:
         (a)   The standards of this section would prevent reasonable access to
the site.
         (b)   Access via a shared driveway or service road is not possible due
to the presence of existing buildings or topographic conditions.
         (c)   Roadway improvements (such as the addition of a traffic signal,
a center turn lane or bypass lane) will be made to improve overall traffic
operations prior to project completion, or occupancy of the building.
         (d)   The use involves the redesign of an existing development or a
new use that will generate less traffic than the previous use.
         (e)   The proposed location and design is supported by the Village
Engineer as an acceptable design under the existing site conditions. The
Planning Commission may also request the applicant provide a traffic impact
study to support the requested access design.
         (f)   The modification shall be of the minimum amount necessary, but
in no case shall spacing to another full-access driveway be less than 60 feet,
measured centerline to centerline.
         (g)   Where there is a change in use or expansion at a site that does
not comply with standards herein, the Planning Commission shall determine the
amount of upgrade needed in consideration of the existing and expected traffic
pattern, and the capability to meet the standards herein to the extent
practical.
   (G)   Additional requirements. All permitted and conditional land uses in
the C-2 District shall comply with all applicable provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.8; Am. Ord. 263, passed 8-20-2007; Am. Ord.
297, passed 5-21-2018) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.051 CBD, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This District is designed to provide for a variety of office,
business service, entertainment, and retail uses which occupy the prime retail
frontage, by serving the comparison, convenience, and service needs of the
market area which includes the village and surrounding townships. The
regulations of the CBD District are designed to promote convenient pedestrian
shopping and the stability of retail development by encouraging a continuous
retail frontage and by prohibiting automotive-related services and nonretail
uses which tend to break up the continuity.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All permitted uses allowed in the C-2 District;
      (2)   Theaters, when completely enclosed;
      (3)   Newspaper offices and printing plants;
      (4)   Post offices;
      (5)   Private service clubs, social organizations, and lodge halls; and
      (6)   Parks and playgrounds.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Bar/lounge serving alcoholic beverages and/or providing
entertainment;
      (2)   Fast-food restaurants;
      (3)   Lodging facilities;
      (4)   Recreation and amusement services, including theaters, bowling
alleys, roller and ice skating rinks, and billiard halls;
      (5)   Multiple-family housing and/or apartment dwellings on the second
floor and above; and
      (6)   Sidewalk café service, operated by a restaurant or other food
establishment which sells food for immediate consumption, subject to the
requirements set forth in
§ 151.083.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.9)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.052 I-1, LIMITED INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This District is designed to accommodate industrial, storage,
and other uses that generate a minimum of noise, glare, odors, dust, vibration,
air and water pollution, fire and safety hazards, or the emission of any
potentially harmful or obnoxious matter or radiation or any other nuisance
characteristics. It is the purpose of these regulations to permit development
of the enumerated functions to protect surrounding areas from incompatible
industrial activities, to restrict the intrusion of nonrelated uses such as
residential, agricultural, business and commercial, except retail businesses
that normally do not require the customer to call at the place of business, and
to encourage the discontinuance of uses presently existing in the district
which are nonconforming by virtue of the type of use. To these ends, certain
uses are excluded which would function more effectively in other districts and
which would interfere with the operation of the uses permitted in this
District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Research-oriented and light industrial park uses;
      (2)   Printing, lithographic, blueprinting, commercial laundries, dry
cleaning establishments, wholesale business, ice and cold storage plants,
lumber, fuel and feed supply yards, and other similar uses;
      (3)   Light manufacturing, research, assembly, testing, and repair of
components, devices, equipment, and systems of professional scientific and
controlling instruments, photographic and optical goods, including the
following:
         (a)   Communication, transmission, and reception equipment such as
coils, tubes, semi-conductors, navigation control equipment, and systems
guidance equipment;
         (b)   Data processing equipment and systems;
         (c)   Graphics and art equipment;
         (d)   Metering instruments;
         (e)   Optical devices, equipment, and systems;
         (f)   Stereo, audio units, radio equipment and systems;
         (g)   Photographic equipment;
         (h)   Radar, infrared, and ultraviolet equipment and systems;
         (i)   Scientific and mechanical instruments such as calipers and
transits; and
         (j)   Testing equipment.
      (4)   Light manufacturing, processing, packaging, or assembling of the
following:
         (a)   Biological products, drugs, medicinal chemicals, and
pharmaceutical preparation;
         (b)   Electrical machinery, equipment, and supplies, electronic
equipment and accessories;
         (c)   Office, computing, and accounting machines;
         (d)   Food and beverage products; and
         (e)   Alcohol (see brewery, distillery, wine production).
      (5)   Research and design centers where the center are intended for the
development of pilot or experimental products, together with related office
buildings for the research facilities where the offices are designed to
accommodate executive, administrative, professional, accounting, engineering,
architectural, and support personnel;
      (6)   Data processing and computer centers, including the servicing and
maintenance of electronic data processing equipment;
      (7)   Warehousing, refrigerated and general storage, but not including
self-storage facilities;
      (8)   Business service establishments such as printing and photocopying
services, mail and packaging services, and typing and secretarial services; and
      (9)   Training and/or educational centers where the centers are designed
and intended to provide training at the business, technical, and/or
professional level.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Restaurants and cafeteria facilities for employees;
      (2)   Trucking and transit terminals;
      (3)   Contractors' establishments subject to the requirements set forth
in
§ 151.080;
      (4)   Metal fabrication, and tool and die shops;
      (5)   Automobile repair garages and paint shops for autos and other
vehicles, construction and farm equipment sales;
      (6)   Computer and business machine sales when conducted in conjunction
with and accessory to a permitted principal use; and
      (7)   Self-storage facilities, subject to the requirement of
§ 151.078.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.10; Am. Ord. 314, passed 12-19-2022) Penalty,
see §
151.999
§ 151.053 I-2, GENERAL INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT.
   (A)   Purpose. This District is designed to provide the location and space
for all manner of industrial, wholesale, and industrial storage uses. It is the
purpose of these regulations to permit the development of certain functions, to
protect the surrounding areas from incompatible industrial activities, to
restrict the intrusion of nonrelated uses such as residential, retail business
and commercial, and to encourage the discontinuance of uses presently existing
in the District, which are nonconforming by virtue of the type of use. To these
ends, certain uses are excluded which would function more effectively in other
Districts and which would interfere with the operation of the uses permitted in
this District.
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   All permitted uses allowed in I-1 District;
      (2)   Contractor's establishments, provided all products, material, and
equipment are stored within an enclosed building;
      (3)   Trucking and cartage facilities, truck and industrial equipment
storage yards, repairing and washing equipment and yards;
      (4)   Manufacturing, processing, packaging, or assembling of the
following:
         (a)   Pharmaceutical preparations, cosmetics and toiletries;
         (b)   Plastic products such as laminate, pipe, plumbing products, and
miscellaneous molded or extruded products;
         (c)   Stone, clay, glass, and leather products;
         (d)   Food products, bakery goods, candy, and beverages;
         (e)   Prefabricated buildings and structured members; and
         (f)   Appliances.
      (5)   Metal fabrication and tool and die shops;
      (6)   Fabrication of paper and wood products such as office supplies,
bags, books, cabinets, furniture, and toys;
      (7)   Packaging operations, but not including baling of discarded or junk
materials, such as, but not limited to, paper, cloth, rags, lumber, metal, or
glass;
      (8)   Printing, publishing, or related activities;
      (9)   Manufacture and repair of signs, and heating and ventilating
equipment; and
      (10)   Recycling operations.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Mineral mining and extractive operation subject to the requirements
set forth in
§ 151.085; and
      (2)   Major automobile repair facilities and collision shops.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.4.11)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.054 RC, REGIONAL COMMERCIAL.
   (A)   Purpose. The Regional Commercial (RC) District is a mixed use business
district in the village, which is separate and distinct from the central
business district. The location of the RC District is intended for the
outskirts of the village, along main transportation routes into the village
such as M-52 and Austin Road. The RC District offers a diverse range of
businesses and services to the community and the region, which cater to the
motoring public. The uses in the RC District may generate more activity than
other uses within the village in terms of traffic and noise. Therefore, uses
adjacent to residential uses, where permitted, are required to provide
setbacks, buffering and sensitive site design. Development and redevelopment in
the RC District is to be orderly and planned, to complement adjoining uses and
harmonize with the surrounding area in terms of the physical site layout,
access, building design, pedestrian/bike facilities, landscaping, parking
arrangements, and lighting. Developments within the RC District shall comply
with the dimensional requirements noted in the following table.
 
Regional Commercial (RC) Schedule of Regulations
                                Maximum Yard Setback (feet)*  
Minimum Lot Size   Maximum Building       Side                    
                   Height           Front             Rear
Area     Lot Width Stories Feet           Least Total            Maximum Lot
                                                                 Coverage
10 acres 660 feet  2.5     35       25    15    30    35         20%
* The minimum distance of any principal building from the ordinary high
water mark shall be 50 feet.
 
   (B)   Permitted uses.
      (1)   Office buildings for the use of any of the following occupations:
executive; administrative; professional; accounting; writing; clerical;
stenographic; drafting; and sales.
      (2)   Medical and dental office, including clinics.
      (3)   Drive-through banks, credit unions, savings and loan associations.
      (4)   Publicly owned buildings, public utility transformer stations and
substations, telephone exchanges, and public utility offices.
      5)   Full service grocery store, with a minimum size of 20,000 square
feet, that may include within a meat market, bakery, deli, and fruit market.
      (6)   Retail sales of drug and health care products, sporting goods,
clothing, furniture, and appliances (minimum of 7,500 square feet).
      (7)   Radio, television, and audio installation and repair.
      (8)   Sit-down and/or carryout restaurants.
      (9)   Data processing and computer centers, including the servicing and
maintenance of electronic data-processing equipment.
      (10)   Business service establishments, such as printing and photocopying
services, mail and packaging services, and typing and secretarial services.
      (11)   Training and/or educational centers, where such centers are
designed and intended to provide training at the business, technical and/or
professional level.
      (12)   Indoor physical fitness and/or therapy establishments that may
include, but not be limited to, weight-training facilities, swimming pools, and
gymnasiums.
   (C)   Conditional uses.
      (1)   Post offices.
      (2)   Automobile service stations and washes, subject to the requirements
set forth in §
151.081.
      (3)   Sale of new and used automobiles, boats, mobile homes, farm
machinery, and other vehicles (snowmobiles, all-terrain vehicles, motorcycles,
scooters), provided outdoor sales comply with the requirements set forth in §
151.079.
      (4)   Lodging facilities.
      (5)   Funeral homes.
      (6)   Veterinary offices and hospitals, including accessory boarding,
provided no outdoor exercise runs or pens are permitted.
      (7)   Convalescent or nursing home.
      (8)   Bar/lounge serving alcoholic beverages and/or providing
entertainment.
      (9)   Recreation and amusement services, including bowling alleys, ice
skating rinks, miniature golf, and driving range.
      (10)   Outdoor display of products or materials for retail sale or rental
when accessory to a principal permitted use subject to the requirements of §
151.082.
      (11)   Laundromats and dry-cleaning establishments.
      (12)   Enclosed theaters.
      (13)   Newspaper offices and printing plants.
      (14)   Research and development.
      (15)   Printing, lithographic, blueprinting, commercial laundries,
wholesale businesses, ice and cold storage plants, lumber, fuel and feed supply
yards, and other similar uses.
      (16)   Private service clubs, social organizations and lodge halls.
   (D)   Landscaping, screening or buffering. Submission of a landscape plan to
the Planning Commission for review and approval shall be required, based on
requirements set forth in this division. Landscaping shall include the
following requirements:
      (1)   Minimum plant material standards. All proposed landscaping shall
meet the minimum plant material standards outlined in §
151.101(J) and (K). A performance guarantee may be required in accordance with
§
151.026. Minimum plant sizes at time of installation shall be according to the
following:
      (2)   Required greenbelt along street frontage. A 15-foot-wide greenbelt
shall be planted along each public street right-of-way, including the
equivalent of 1 canopy tree, rounded upward, for every 40 linear feet of
frontage. All greenbelt trees shall be uniformly spaced to create a tree-lined
corridor. The remaining greenbelt shall, with the exception of permitted
driveways, sidewalks, signs, and utilities, include only living materials.
      (3)   On-site landscaping. For every new development in the RC District,
there shall be interior landscaping areas and shall meet the requirements set
forth in §
151.101(G).
      (4)   Interior parking lot landscaping. Off-street parking areas
containing 25 or more parking spaces shall provide internal landscaping, other
than that required in a buffer zone or along the frontage, protected by a
raised standard or rolled concrete curb.
         (a)   Interior parking lot landscaping shall be provided in accordance
with the following:
            1.   Twenty-five through 100 spaces: 1 canopy/deciduous tree and
100 square feet of landscaped area per 10 spaces, rounded upward.
            2.   One hundred one through 200 spaces: 1 canopy/deciduous tree
and 100 square feet of landscaped area per 12 spaces, rounded upward.
            3.   Two hundred one spaces or more: 1 canopy/deciduous tree and
100 square feet of landscaped area per 15 spaces, rounded upward.
         (b)   The minimum size of a landscaped area shall be 100 square feet
and at least 10 feet in width.
         (c)   Landscaped areas shall be covered by grass, other living ground
cover, or wood mulch.
         (d)   Required trees shall be located a minimum of 3 feet from any
curb or pavement surface to minimize potential damage by vehicles.
         (e)   The internal landscaping shall be located and designed to direct
traffic flow, particularly near site entrances. Additional landscaping shall be
dispersed through the lot to define vehicular circulation, improve site
aesthetics, provide shade, and installed such that, when mature, it does not
obscure traffic signs, fire hydrants, lighting, drainage patterns on site or
adjacent properties, or obstruct vision for safety of ingress or egress.
      (5)   Buffer zone requirements.
         (a)   Upon any improvement for which a site plan is required, a
landscape buffer shall be required to create a visual screen, at least 6 feet
in height, along all adjoining boundaries with a residential use or land that
is zoned residential. In addition, the landscape buffer shall be provided if
any improvement, for which a site plan is required, is across the road from a
residential use or land that is zoned residential.
         (b)   A landscape buffer may consist of earthen berms and plant
materials, or plant materials only, so as to maintain a minimum opacity of at
least 80%. Opacity shall be measured by observation of any 2-square-yard area
of landscape screen, between 1 foot above the established grade of the area to
be concealed and the top or the highest point of the required screen. Provided
the minimum size of plant material provided herein at the time of installation,
the opacity standard shall be met, based upon reasonably anticipated growth
over a period of 3 years. The applicant shall agree, in writing, to install
additional plantings after the expiration of 3 years, in the event that the
landscaping has not screened the view of areas as required.
         (c)   Where there is a need to provide a greater visual, noise or dust
barrier, or to screen more intense development, a solid wall or fence may be
required. Such wall or fence shall be a minimum of 6 feet in height, as
measured on the side of the proposed wall having the higher grade, and shall be
constructed on both sides with textured concrete, split-face concrete block,
wood, brick or stone. Pre-cast panels and formed concrete structures may be
used if they provide surface detail and texture equal to, or greater than, the
materials just named. In addition, a minimum of 1 tree and 6 shrubs meeting the
minimum size requirements provided herein shall be planted adjacent to and for
each 30 lineal feet of wall or fence.
      (6)   Waiver from landscaping and screening requirements. During site
plan review, the Planning Commission may determine that existing landscaping or
screening intended to be preserved would provide adequate landscaping and
screening. The Planning Commission may also determine dimensional conditions
unique to the parcel would prevent development of required off-street parking
area landscaping, greenbelts or on-site landscaping. If such determination is
made, the Planning Commission may waive, in whole or in part, the landscaping
provisions of this section. Criteria that shall be used when considering a
waiver shall include, but shall not be limited to:
         (a)   Existing natural vegetation;
         (b)   Topography;
         (c)   Existing wetland, floodplain and poor soil areas;
         (d)   Existing and proposed building placement;
         (e)   Building heights;
         (f)   Adjacent land uses;
         (g)   Distance between land uses;
         (h)   Dimensional conditions unique to the parcel;
         (i)   Traffic sight distances;
         (j)   Traffic operational characteristics on and off site;
         (k)   Visual, noise and air pollution levels; and
         (l)   Health, safety and welfare of the Village.
   (E)   Architectural standards.  
      (1)   The architectural standards contained in this section are intended
to integrate the RC District into the existing fabric of the village,
contributing to the cohesive historic identity of Manchester. Because of the
planned lower density of development along the corridor, structures shall
possess architectural quality and variety to establish its own identity and
create a positive image for the RC District.
      (2)   Development in the RC District, including new buildings, additions
and renovations, shall be designed to preserve or complement the intended
design character of corridor development, provide visual harmony, and protect
the investment of adjacent landowners. These structures shall be reviewed by
the Planning Commission under the following criteria:
         (a)   Building orientation. The intent of the RC District is to
contribute to the desirability of pedestrian activity within the district and
adjacent land uses, and to encourage connectivity to the streetscape.
Entranceway orientation and proposed flow of pedestrians will contribute
towards the desired pedestrian activity and scale described in this section.
The following shall be considered:
            1.   Buildings shall front towards and have their primary
pedestrian entrance facing onto a public street, or onto a major internal drive
within a planned shopping center. The Planning Commission may permit buildings
that face towards a side yard, provided that defined pedestrian access routes
are provided to the public street, and features such as those described above
are provided along walls that face the public street.
            2.   Blank walls may not face a public street, and buildings must
have windows and architectural features commonly associated with the front
facade of a building, such as awnings, cornice work, edge detailing or other
decorative finish materials, on walls that face the public street.
         (b)   Building scale. The intent is to create development that is
similar in scale with the older buildings in the village by encouraging narrow
facades, and discouraging single, large scale buildings.
            1.   Building facades shall be subdivided, through the location of
architectural treatments and the arrangement of openings (doors and windows)
compatible in size and scale to the surrounding buildings.
            2.   a.   The height-to-width ratio of these subdivided facades of
single-story buildings shall not exceed 1:2.
               b.   The height-to-width ratio of these subdivided facades of
two-story buildings shall not exceed 1:1.
         (c)   Defined streetscape. Buildings that are to be located along a
public road shall be designed to create a defined streetscape along the
corridor utilizing the following guidelines. The Planning Commission may
require a perspective drawing or a scale model of the proposed structure.
            1.   Proper relationship to existing structures in the area shall
be maintained through building mass, proportion, scale, roofline shapes,
windows and doors.
            2.   All new development, additions or renovations shall provide
sidewalk connections to adjacent properties and/or development.
         (d)   Building materials and design. The applicant must demonstrate
the proposed buildings possess architectural quality and variety that create a
distinct and harmonious character for the corridor. This shall be accomplished
by the following:
            1.   Variety in building design shall be provided by architectural
features, details and ornaments, such as archways, colonnades, towers, cornices
or peaked rooflines.
            2.   Building entrances shall utilize windows, canopies and
awnings; provide unity of scale, texture, and color; and provide a sense of
place.
            3.    Roof shape and materials shall be architecturally compatible
with the district and enhance the predominant streetscape and surrounding
developments. Gable, hip and gambrel roofs are encouraged as the predominant
shapes along the corridor.
            4.    The predominating surface plane of all building walls over 40
feet in length shall be varied through the use of architectural treatments,
such as varying building lines, entrance accents, and windows.
            5.    Where the side or rear facade(s) of a building will be
visible from a residential zoning district or public land, such a facade shall
be constructed to a finished quality comparable to the front facade. Otherwise,
decorative block, such as split-faced or single-scored with an integral color,
may be used for these facades. Painted block is prohibited.
            6.    A building located on a corner lot shall provide distinct and
prominent architectural features or site elements that reflect the importance
of the building's corner location and create a positive visual landmark. An
entry feature or site landmark shall be required at the discretion of the
Planning Commission.
            7.   All mechanical equipment shall be shielded from public view.
            8.   Exterior building materials and treatment shall maintain a
consistent overall appearance within the RC District. Any side of a principal
building, at least 50% of the facade shall be constructed of, or covered with,
1 or more of the following materials:
                a.   Brick: smooth, hard in form; red, dark-red, or brown in
color;
               b.   Cut stone: carved and smooth-finish limestone;
               c.   Siding: wood clapboard or shingle siding, or high quality
vinyl;
               d.   Glass windows and/or doors: non-reflective, clear or
slightly tinted; and
               e.   Other materials similar to the above as determined by the
Planning Commission.
            9.    The first floor of front facade(s) for nonresidential
structures shall include at least 30% non-reflective windows (clear or slightly
tinted). The approximate size, shape, orientation and spacing shall match that
of nonresidential buildings on adjacent lots. The remainder of the structure
shall meet the above standards in division (E)(2)d.7., in addition to the 30%
window on the front facade(s).
         (e)   Other site elements. Signs, landscaping, walls, lighting and
other site elements shall be coordinated and compatible with the building
design, as well as harmonious with the intended character of the district.
   (F)   Parking requirements.  
      (1)   RC District uses shall provide parking and loading in accordance
with the provisions set forth in §§
151.165 et seq. 
      (2)    Off-street parking shall be located in the side or rear yard, and
in no case shall be located in the required front yard. On lots where parking
requirements can not be met in the side and rear yards, the Planning Commission
may permit off-street parking in a portion of the non-required front yard.
      (3)   The Planning Commission may approve a reduction in parking
requirements of up to 25%, if the applicant can demonstrate the use would be
sufficiently served by the proposed amount of parking. Applicant shall
demonstrate that the required parking could be accommodated on-site by
delineation on the site plan. This parking would be banked for future
utilization if the parking needs of the use were to change.
      (4)   Where off-street parking is visible from the public right-of-way,
screening shall be provided within the required greenbelt area, between the
parking lot and the public right-of-way, and shall be accompanied by 1 of the
following options:
 
Parking Area Screening Options Minimum Buffer Width Minimum Landscaping
                                                    Requirements
Landscape strip                5 feet               10 shrubs per 30 feet
Three-foot-high, decorative    5 feet               5 shrubs per 30 feet
metal fence
Three-foot-high wall           5 feet               5 shrubs per 30 feet
 
         (a)   A minimum-5-foot buffer area between the off-street parking and/
or vehicular use area and the street right-of-way line, including plantings of
at least 10 shrubs for every 30 feet, or fraction thereof, of street frontage
of parking lot.
         (b)   A minimum-5-foot buffer area between the parking lot and the
right-of-way, including a 36-inch-high, decorative metal fence (i.e., wrought
iron). The fencing shall contain 4-inch spacing between metal pickets, with
masonry pilasters spaced 24-feet apart, capped, and at least 16 inches to 21
inches wide. The minimum landscaping required in conjunction with the metal
fence is 5 shrubs for every 30 feet, or fraction thereof, of street frontage of
parking lot.
         (c)    A minimum-5-foot buffer area between the parking lot and the
right-of-way, including a 36-inch-high, masonry screening wall in conjunction
with the minimum landscaping requirement of 5 shrubs for every 30 feet, or
fraction thereof, of street frontage of the parking lot. The wall shall be
constructed of brick or masonry block, and shall also include a concrete,
stone, or masonry cap.
   (G)   Access management.
      (1)   Statement of purpose. The purpose of this section is to provide
access standards that will facilitate through-traffic operations, ensure public
safety along roadways, and protect the public investment in the street system;
while providing property owners with reasonable, though not always direct,
access. The standards are specifically designed for streets whose primary
function is the movement of through traffic, as opposed to local streets whose
primary function is access to adjacent properties.
      (2)   Commercial driveway definition. For the purposes of this section, a
COMMERCIAL DRIVEWAY is defined as any vehicular access except those serving 1
or 2 dwelling units, or serving just an essential public service structure.
      (3)    Application of standards.
         (a)   The standards of this section shall be applied to the Regional
Commercial (RC) District.
         (b)   The access standards contained herein shall be required in
addition to, and, where permissible, shall supersede the requirements of the
Washtenaw County Road Commission.
         (c)   The standards contained in this section shall apply to all uses.
         (d)   For expansion and/or redevelopment of existing sites where the
Planning Commission determines that compliance with all standards of this
section is unreasonable, the standards shall be applied to the maximum extent
possible. In such situation, suitable alternatives that substantially achieve
the purpose of this section may be accepted by the Planning Commission,
provided that the applicant demonstrates all of the following apply:
            1.   Size of the parcel is insufficient to meet the dimensional
standards.
            2.   The spacing of existing, adjacent driveways or environmental
constraints prohibit adherence to the access standards at a reasonable cost.
            3.   The use will generate less than 500 total vehicle trips per
day or less than 75 total vehicle trips in the peak hour of travel on the
adjacent street, based on rates developed by the Institute of Transportation
Engineers.
            4.   There is no other reasonable means of access.
      (4)    General standards for driveway location.
         (a)   Driveways shall be located so as to minimize interference with
the free movement of traffic, to provide adequate sight distance, and to
provide the most favorable driveway grade to be determined at engineering
review.
         (b)    Driveways, including the radii or tapered approach, but not
including right-turn lanes, passing lanes and tapers, shall be located entirely
within the right-of-way frontage, unless otherwise approved by the Village
Engineer, and upon written certification (such as an easement) from the
adjacent property owner agreeing to such encroachment.
      (5)   Standards for the number of commercial driveways. The number of
commercial driveways shall be the minimum necessary to provide reasonable
access for regular traffic and emergency vehicles, while preserving traffic
operations and safety along the public roadway. A single means of direct or
indirect access shall be provided for each separately owned parcel. Where
possible, this access shall be via a shared driveway or a service drive. Where
it is not possible to provide shared access, this access may be by a single
commercial driveway. Additional commercial driveways may be permitted, at the
discretion of the Planning Commission, only under 1 of the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Two 2-way entrances are required on the major highway.
Additional entrances for purposes of a service drive or access to secondary
frontages may be approved in the site plan.
         (b)   Additional commercial driveways may be justified due to the
amount of traffic generated by the use without compromising traffic operations
along the public street, based upon a traffic impact study submitted by the
applicant.
      (6)   Driveway spacing standards.
         (a)   Between driveways. The minimum spacing between 2 commercial
driveways on the same side of the road shall be 185 feet.
         (b)   Offsets. To reduce left-turn conflicts, new commercial driveways
should be aligned with driveways or streets on the opposite side of the roadway
where possible. If alignment is not possible, driveways should be offset a
minimum of 250 feet along M-52, and 150 feet along other roadways. Longer
offsets may be required, depending on the expected inbound left-turn volumes of
the driveways, or sight-distance limitations.
      (7)    Commercial driveway design.
         (a)   All commercial driveways shall be designed according to the
Village of Manchester Engineering Standards or the requirements of the
Washtenaw County Road Commission, as appropriate.
         (b)   For high-traffic generators, or for commercial driveways along
roadways experiencing or expected to experience congestion, the Planning
Commission may require 2 clearly marked egress lanes.
         (c)   The edge of commercial driveways shall be setback at least 4
feet from the side or rear property line. This setback is intended to help
control stormwater runoff, and permit snow storage on site, and provide an
adequate area for any necessary on-site landscaping.
      (8)   Service road design standards.
         (a)   Location. Service roads shall generally be parallel or
perpendicular to the rear property line, may be located either adjacent to or
behind principal buildings, and shall not be permitted in front of the
principal building. In considering the most appropriate alignment for a service
road, the Planning Commission shall consider the setbacks of existing buildings
and anticipated traffic flow for the site.
         (b)   Access easement.  The service road shall be within an access
easement permitting traffic circulation between properties. This easement shall
be 60 feet wide. The required width shall remain free and clear of
obstructions, unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission.
         (c)    Construction and materials. Service roads shall have a base,
pavement and curb with gutter in accordance with the Village of Manchester
Engineering Standards for public streets, except the width of the service road
shall have a minimum pavement width of 18 feet face-to-face of curb.
         (d)   Parking. The service road is intended to be used exclusively for
circulation, not as a parking-maneuvering aisle. The Planning Commission may
require the posting of “no parking” signs along the service road. In reviewing
the site plan, the Planning Commission may permit temporary parking in the
easement area where a continuous service road is not yet available, provided
that the layout allows removal of the parking in the future to allow extension
of the service road.
         (e)    Access to service road. The Planning Commission shall approve
the location of all accesses to the service road, based on the driveway spacing
standards of this section.
         (f)    Elevation. The site plan shall indicate the proposed elevation
of the service road at the right-of-way line, and the village shall maintain a
record of all service road elevations so that their grades can be coordinated.
      (9)   Modification of standards for special situations. The Planning
Commission shall have the authority to modify the standards of this section,
upon consideration of the following:
         (a)   The standards of this section would prevent reasonable access to
the site.
         (b)    Access via a shared driveway or service road is not possible
due to the presence of existing buildings or topographic conditions.
         (c)    Roadway improvements (such as the addition of a traffic signal,
a center turn lane or bypass lane) will be made to improve overall traffic
operations prior to project completion, or occupancy of the building.
         (d)    The use involves the redesign of an existing development or a
new use that will generate less traffic than the previous use.
         (e)   The proposed location and design is supported by the Village
Engineer as an acceptable design under the existing site conditions. The
Planning Commission may also request the applicant provide a traffic impact
study to support the requested access design.
         (f)    The modification shall be of the minimum amount necessary, but
in no case shall spacing to another full-access driveway be less than 60 feet,
measured centerline to centerline.
         (g)   Where there is a change in use or expansion at a site that does
not comply with standards herein, the Planning Commission shall determine the
amount of upgrade needed in consideration of the existing and expected traffic
pattern, and the capability to meet the standards herein to the extent
practical.
   (H)   Additional requirements.  All permitted and conditional land uses in
the RC District shall comply with all applicable provisions of this Zoning
Ordinance.
(Ord. 260, passed 6-4-2007)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.055 MFOD, MARIJUANA FACILITIES OVERLAY DISTRICT.
   (A)   The State of Michigan has adopted legislation to permit different
types of marijuana facilities. The marijuana facilities overlay district (MFOD)
is established as a special district to permit the establishment of such
facilities in the village.
   (B)   Intent. The MFOD overlay district is intended to overlay certain
designated and/or named properties in the I-2 industrial zoning district.
   (C)   Permitted medical marijuana uses. The following types of medical
marijuana facilities, as authorized by the Medical Marihuana Facilities
Licensing Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27101 et seq. and the Village of Manchester
Regulation of Marihuana Facilities Ordinance, are permitted uses in the MFOD
district:
      (1)   Marijuana safety compliance center; and
      (2)   Marijuana provisioning centers.
   (E)   Permitted recreational uses. The following types of recreational
marijuana facilities, as authorized by the Michigan Regulation and Taxation of
Marihuana Act (Initiated Law 1 of 2018) and the Village of Manchester
Regulation of Marihuana Facilities Ordinance, are permitted uses in the MFOD
district:
      (1)   Marijuana safety compliance center; and
      (2)   Marijuana retailers.
(Ord. 316, passed 12-19-2022)
SPECIAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.065 INTENT.
   The intent of
§§ 151.065 et seq. is to provide for those regulations which generally apply
regardless of the particular zoning district and to those conditional uses
which may be permitted in certain zoning districts.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.1)
§ 151.066 CLUSTER HOUSING OPTION.
   (A)   Generally. The cluster housing option may be applied for as a
conditional use in R-1A, R-1B, R-2, and R-3 Districts subject to the standards
set forth in
§ 151.022 and this section.
   (B)   Intent. The intent of the cluster housing option is to permit the
development of single-family residential patterns which, through design
innovation, will:
      (1)   Allow greater flexibility;
      (2)   Encourage a more creative approach to the development of single-
family residential areas;
      (3)   Encourage a more efficient, aesthetic, and desirable use of the
land;
      (4)   Provide a more desirable living environment through the
preservation and conservation of natural features such as topography, wetlands,
woodlands, bodies of water, and other natural assets; and
      (5)   Encourage the provision of open space so that benefits may accrue
directly to the residents of the development.
   (C)   Qualification of parcels. The parcel must be located in a district
zoned for residential use and must meet 1 or more of the following
characteristics listed below. Requests for qualification under these conditions
must be supported by documented evidence supplied by the applicant in either
narrative or graphic form.
      (1)   The parcel contains natural assets which would be preserved through
the use of cluster development. The assets may include natural stands of large
trees, land which serves as a natural habitat for wildlife, wetlands, bodies of
water, unusual topographic features, or other natural assets which should be
preserved. Requests for qualification under these conditions must be supported
by documented evidence.
      (2)   The parcel contains major topographic conditions which would
require mass grading resulting in loss of significant natural features.
      (3)   The parcel contains substantial portions of flood plain and
wetlands. A flood plain and wetlands map indicating the extent of the wetlands
and flood plain area shall be submitted to the Planning Commission in order to
support the proposal for the parcel's qualification for cluster development.
      (4)   The parcel, due to its size or shape, cannot be reasonably
developed as a conventional subdivision or site condominium development.
   (D)   Site design requirements. All cluster developments submitted under
this option shall conform to the following site design requirements.
      (1)   Attached or detached. Development is permitted as either attached
or detached dwelling units, provided the number of attached units shall not
exceed 20% of the total number of units in an R-1A and R-1B District.
      (2)   Open space.
         (a)   When completed, the development shall have 20% of the gross
acreage in the development devoted to open space, which shall remain in its
natural state and/or be restricted to active and/or passive outdoor
recreational purposes. Dedication of open space shall comply with the standards
set forth in
§ 151.082. Designated open space shall include area within any greenbelts
required by this division (D), subject to the restrictions contained herein.
         (b)   The computation of designated open space shall not include:
rights-of-way or easements designated for road purposes; areas within the
minimum setbacks of a dwelling unit; land which is under water (lakes, streams,
water courses, and other similar bodies of water); any area to be improved into
a lake or pond; and/or more than 25% of the area of regulated wetlands.
      (3)   Greenbelt adjacent and parallel to public streets.
         (a)   In addition to any required minimum setback specified in
division (D)(6) below, a greenbelt, the minimum width as set forth below, shall
be required along any adjacent public street. The greenbelt shall be measured
from the street right-of-way. The village, at its discretion, may permit either
reductions or variations in width of the greenbelt taking into consideration
topographic and/or other natural resource conditions, density of existing
vegetation to be preserved, and size and shape of the development site.
         (b)   The following minimum greenbelt from adjacent public streets
shall be applied:
 
District Minimum Width of Greenbelt From Adjacent Public Streets (in feet)
R-1A     50
R-1B     50
R-2      50
R-3      75
 
      (4)   Transition from adjacent parcels. In order to provide an orderly
transition of density when a cluster development abuts a single-family
residential district of equal or lower density, the Planning Commission, at it
discretion, may require 1 or more of the following measures: designation of
open space along the common boundaries; screening in accordance with the
requirements of
§ 151.101; and/or an area or row of lots of commensurate size as neighboring
residential lots.
      (5)   Density. The number of dwelling units within any development
permitted hereunder shall not exceed the number of dwelling units permitted in
the Zoning District in which the proposed development is located without
application of the cluster housing option. The applicant must submit a concept
plan that illustrates a site layout without the cluster option and all
applicable ordinances and laws observed.
      (6)   Setbacks. Minimum setback requirements are established in a manner
which permits variation in the siting of individual dwelling units in order to
encourage creativity in design and compatibility with natural resource
features. The minimum setback requirements for each dwelling unit shall be
shown on the site plan as follows.
         (a)   In the case of single-family detached dwellings, the following
minimum setbacks shall be applied:
 
Minimum Yard Setbacks Per Unit
District Front Rear Total Front and Rear Side
                                         Least Total
R-1A     20    30   55                   5     15
R-1B     20    30   55                   5     15
R-2      20    30   55                   5     15
R-3      20    30   55                   5     15
 
         (b)   In the case of single-family attached dwellings, the following
minimum setbacks shall be required:
 
District Minimum Setback
         From Internal Drives and Streets From Perimeter Property Boundaries
R-1A     20                               50
R-1B     20                               50
R-2      20                               50
R-3      20                               50
 
         (c)   In the case of single-family attached dwellings, the minimum
distance between buildings shall comply with Appendix B.
      (7)   Required street frontage. Any cluster lot contained within a
cluster lot development shall have frontage on and direct access to a public
street which has been accepted for maintenance by the village. The extent of
street frontage shall be determined by the village, in its discretion, taking
into consideration topographic and/or other natural resource considerations,
size and shape of the development site, and public safety factors.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.2)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.067 OPEN SPACE PRESERVATION.
   (A)   (1)   (a)   Whenever the preservation of open space is required by
this chapter, the applicant shall provide a demonstrated means that all open
space portions of the development will be maintained in the manner approved.
         (b)   Documents shall be presented that bind all successors and future
owners in fee title to commitments made as a part of the proposal. This
provision shall not prohibit a transfer of ownership or control, provided
notice of the transfer is provided to the village and the land uses continue as
approved in the open space community plan.
      (2)   The dedicated open space shall be set aside by the applicant
through an irrevocable conveyance that is found acceptable to the Village
Attorney, such as:
         (a)   Recorded deed restrictions;
         (b)   Covenants that run perpetually with the land; and/or
         (c)   Conservation easements such as those established per the State
of Michigan Conservation and Historic Preservation Act, Public Act 197 of 1980,
being M.C.L.A. § 399.251, as amended.
   (B)   The conveyance shall assure that the open space will be protected from
all forms of development, except as shown on an approved site plan, and shall
never be changed to another use. The conveyance shall:
      (1)   Indicate the proposed allowable use(s) of the dedicated open space;
      (2)   Demonstrate to the satisfaction of the village that dedicated open
space shall be maintained;
      (3)   Provide standards for scheduled maintenance of the open space; and
      (4)   Provide for maintenance to be undertaken by the village in the
event that the dedicated open space is inadequately maintained, or is
determined by the village to be a public nuisance, with the assessment of costs
upon property owners within the proposed development.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.3)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.068 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND USES.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   No accessory building or structure shall be built upon a lot or
parcel unless and until a principal structure is erected. A building or
structure not attached to a principal building shall be considered a detached
accessory building or structure.
      (2)   Accessory structures shall be subject to all applicable building
code regulations. Land use permits shall be required for buildings greater than
36 square feet in area and/or greater than four feet in height. Electrical
service for ground-mounted antennas shall be provided only through underground
lines.
      (3)   In no instance shall an accessory structure be located within a
dedicated easement or right-of-way.
      (4)   Detached accessory structures shall be erected only in a rear yard.
If the lot is a corner lot, accessory structures shall remain behind all
building lines adjacent to streets.
   (B)   Accessory buildings in residential zoning districts.
      (1)   Attached accessory buildings.
         (a)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall conform to all setback and height regulations of this
chapter and building codes applicable to main buildings.
         (b)   The sum total floor area of all accessory buildings and
structures shall not exceed 50% of the total floor area of all stories of the
principal building.
      (2)   Detached accessory buildings.
         (a)   Detached accessory structures shall be erected only in a rear
yard. If the lot is a corner lot, accessory structures shall remain behind all
building lines adjacent to streets.
         (b)   The sum total floor area of all accessory buildings and
structures shall not exceed 25% of the total required and nonrequired rear yard
area.
         (c)   Accessory buildings and structures shall be included in lot
coverage limitations.
         (d)   The combined ground floor area of all detached accessory
buildings shall not exceed 450 square feet plus 2% of the total lot area.
However, in no instance shall the combined floor area of all detached accessory
buildings and detached accessory supplemental buildings exceed the ground floor
footprint of the living area of the dwelling.
         (e)   Accessory buildings and structures located in rear yards shall
not be closer than 10 feet to any rear or side lot line. No detached accessory
building or structure shall be constructed within 10 feet of any other building
located on the same lot or parcel. No detached accessory building or structure
shall exceed 15 feet in overall height.
         (f)   Detached accessory structures in all other districts may be
constructed to equal the permitted maximum height of principal structures in
said districts.
         (g)   If a detached accessory structure has side facing or is visible
from a public or private street and is larger than 200 square feet, that side
shall be constructed of like materials of the principal structure.
         (h)   When located on a corner lot, the side lot line of which is
substantially a continuation of the front lot line of the lot to its rear, said
building shall not project beyond the front yard setback required.   
   (C)   Private swimming pools. Private swimming pools shall be subject to the
following.
      (1)   No portion of the swimming pool or associated structures shall be
permitted to encroach upon any easement or right-of-way that has been granted
for public utility use.
      (2)   Front yard and side yard setbacks shall comply with required
setbacks specified for the zoning district wherein the pool is located. Rear
yard setbacks shall be a minimum of 15 feet.
      (3)   All swimming pools shall be enclosed in accordance with applicable
building codes.
   (D)   Requirements for outdoor wood-, corn- or pellet-fired boilers or
furnaces. Outdoor wood-, corn- or pellet-fired boilers or furnaces shall be
subject to the following.
      (1)   This section is intended to promote the public health, safety and
welfare and to safeguard the health, comfort, living conditions, safety and
welfare of the citizens of the village due to the air pollution and fire
hazards of outdoor burning. However it does not apply to the following:
         (a)   Grilling or cooking using charcoal, wood, propane or natural gas
in cooking or grilling appliances.
         (b)   Burning in a stove, furnace, fireplace or other heating device
within a building used for human or animal habitation.
         (c)   Use of propane, acetylene, natural gas, gasoline or kerosene in
a device intended for heating, construction or maintenance activities.
      (2)   An outdoor wood-, corn- or pellet-fired boiler may be installed and
used in the village only in accordance with the following provisions:
         (a)   Shall not be used to burn any of the prohibited materials listed
in Chapter 91, Fire Prevention and Protection.
         (b)   Shall be located at least 200 feet from the property line when
located adjacent to a vacant parcel, or the same distance from an existing home
on any abutting parcels.
         (c)   Shall have a chimney that extends to a height no less than the
highest point of the roofs of the adjacent residences.
         (d)   Only boilers (a.k.a. furnaces) with manufacturer labels that
indicate their intentions (design) for such a use shall be permitted within the
village.
         (e)   All furnaces shall be located within the rear yard, and the base
structure shall be fully screened using landscaping and/or fencing of
comparable height to the structure.
         (f)   All stockpiles and/or pellet dispensers shall be fully screened
at opacity of no less than 80%. The height of stockpiles shall not exceed 5
feet, which will ensure they are at least 1 foot lower than the maximum fence
height permitted within the residential districts in the village. Additionally,
both stockpiles and dispensers shall be screened with a double-staggered row of
evergreens, no less than 1 foot taller than the fuel storage area, to ensure
adequate screening for adjacent property owners.
   (E)   Requirements applicable to accessory buildings within all other
districts. Accessory buildings shall be subject to the same placement and
height requirements to principal structures in the district in which located.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.4; Am. Ord. 275, passed 12-20-2010, § 2; Am.
Ord. 302, passed 4-20-2020) Penalty, see §
151.999
§ 151.069 EMERGENCY TEMPORARY DWELLINGS.
   (A)   When permitted. Emergency temporary dwellings may be permitted upon a
finding by the village that the principal residential structure has been
destroyed in whole or in part by fire, explosion, or natural disaster and
therefore is uninhabitable and the standards set forth herein have been met.
   (B)   Permit application and review.
      (1)   An application for a permit for the emergency temporary use and
installation of a mobile home, modular, or prefabricated dwelling unit shall be
made to the Zoning Administrator. The application shall be accompanied by a
plot plan showing the location of the proposed structure.
      (2)   The application shall be reviewed by a committee composed of the
Zoning Administrator and 2 elected Village Council members, other than the
Zoning Administrator. Approval of the application may be granted by a majority
vote of the committee upon a finding that all of the following conditions are
met.
         (a)   The principal residential structure has been destroyed in whole
or in part by fire, explosion, or natural disaster and therefore is
uninhabitable.
         (b)   The temporary dwelling unit shall be connected to public sewer
and water.
         (c)   The temporary dwelling unit shall comply with all applicable
zoning district requirements including setback, area, bulk, and other
requirements, except minimum house size requirements.
      (3)   (a)   The granting of a permit for an emergency temporary dwelling
unit shall be for a period of up to 1 year from the date of approval by the
committee.
         (b)   Any conditions of approval shall be specified in writing on the
permit.
      (4)   To guarantee compliance with the provisions of the ordinance and
removal of the emergency temporary dwelling upon expiration of the permit, the
Village Council may require a cash bond to be posted prior to the issuance of a
permit.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.070 SINGLE-FAMILY DWELLINGS; MOBILE HOMES; PREFABRICATED HOUSING.
   (A)   Generally. No single-family dwelling (site built), mobile home,
modular housing, or prefabricated housing located outside a mobile home park or
mobile home subdivision shall be permitted unless the dwelling unit conforms to
the following standards.
   (B)   Square footage. Each dwelling unit shall comply with the minimum
square footage requirements of this chapter for the zone in which it is
located.
   (C)   Dimensions. Each dwelling unit shall have a minimum width across any
front, side, or rear elevation of 20 feet and shall comply in all respects with
the building code, including minimum heights for habitable rooms. Where a
dwelling is required by law to comply with any federal or state standards or
regulations for construction and where the standards or regulations for
construction are different than those imposed by the Michigan State
Construction Code Commission, then and in that event the federal or state
standard or regulation shall apply.
   (D)   Foundation. Each dwelling unit shall be firmly attached to a permanent
foundation constructed on the site in accordance with the building code and
shall have a wall of the dimensions to adequately support the dwelling. All
dwellings shall be securely anchored to the foundation in order to prevent
displacement during windstorms.
   (E)   Undercarriage. Dwelling units shall not be installed with attached
wheels. Additionally, no dwelling shall have any exposed towing mechanism,
undercarriage, or chassis.
   (F)   Sewage disposal or water supply. Each dwelling unit shall be connected
to public sewer and water.
   (G)   Storage area. Each dwelling unit shall contain a storage capability
area either in a basement located under the dwelling, in an attic area, or in a
separate or attached structure of standard construction similar to or of better
quality than the principal dwelling, which storage area shall be equal to 10%
of the square footage of the dwelling or 100 square feet, which ever shall be
less.
   (H)   Architecture and compatibility.
      (1)   The compatibility of design and appearance shall be determined in
the first instance by the Zoning Administrator. The Zoning Administrator may
also refer any determination of compatibility to the Planning Commission. Any
determination of compatibility shall be based upon the character, design, and
appearance of 1 or more residential dwellings located outside of mobile home
parks within 500 feet of the subject dwelling. All dwellings shall be
aesthetically compatible in design and appearance with other residences in the
vicinity.
      (2)   All homes shall have a roof overhang of not less than 6 inches on
all sides or alternatively with window sills or roof drainage systems
concentrating roof drainage at collection points along the sides of the
dwelling. The dwellings shall not have less than 2 exterior doors with the
second one being in either the rear or side of the dwelling. Steps shall also
be required for exterior door areas or to porches connected to the door areas
where a difference in elevation requires the same. The foregoing shall not be
construed to prohibit innovative design concepts involving the matters as solar
energy, view, unique land contour, or relief from the common or standard
designed home.
   (I)   Additions. Each dwelling unit shall contain no addition or room or
other area which is not constructed with similar quality workmanship as the
original structure, including permanent attachment to the principal structure
and construction of a foundation as required herein.
   (J)   Code compliance. Each dwelling unit shall comply with all pertinent
building and fire codes. In the case of a mobile home, all construction and all
plumbing, electrical apparatus, and insulation within and connected to the
mobile home shall be of a type and quality conforming to the Mobile Home
Construction and Safety Standards as promulgated by the United States
Department of Housing and Urban Development, being 24 C.F.R. pt. 3280, and as
from time to time the standards may be amended or superseded. Additionally, all
dwellings shall meet or exceed all applicable roof snow load and strength
requirements.
   (K)   Building permit. All construction required herein shall be commenced
only after a building permit has been obtained in accordance with the
applicable building code provisions and requirements.
   (L)   Exceptions. The foregoing standards shall not apply to a mobile home
located in a licensed mobile home park except to the extent required by state
or federal law or otherwise specifically required in this chapter and
pertaining to the parks. Mobile homes which do not conform to the standards of
this section shall not be used for dwelling purposes within the village unless
located within a mobile home park or a mobile home subdivision district for the
uses, or unless used as a temporary residence as otherwise provided in this
chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.6)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.071 MOBILE HOME PARK REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The Mobile Home Code, as established by the Mobile Home Commission and
the Michigan Department of Public Health Rules under the authority of the
Mobile Home Commission Act, Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 -
125.2350, as amended, regulates development of mobile home parks. All mobile
home parks must be constructed according to the standards of the Code.
   (B)   In addition to the rules and standards of the State of Michigan, the
Village of Manchester imposes the following conditions.
      (1)   Mobile home parks shall be constructed, licensed, operated, and
managed in accordance with the provisions of the Mobile Home Commission Act,
Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 - 125.2350, as amended, and
subsequently adopted rules and regulations governing mobile home parks.
      (2)   Mobile home parks shall not be permitted on parcels less than 10
acres in size.
      (3)   Individual mobile home sites within a mobile home park shall have a
minimum lot size of 5,500 square feet per mobile home being served. This 5,500
square foot minimum may be reduced by 20%, provided that the individual site
shall be equal to at least 4,400 square feet. For each square foot of land
gained through this reduction of the site below 5,500 square feet, an equal
amount of land shall be dedicated as open space. In no case shall the open
space requirements be less than that required under R125.1946, Rule 946 of the
Michigan Administrative Code.
      (4)   The on-site storage of boat trailers, boats, camping units, horse
trailers, and similar recreational equipment shall be prohibited on mobile home
sites and in designated open space areas. The mobile home park may provide,
within the confines of the park, a common outdoor storage area for the storage
of the above mentioned equipment.
      (5)   (a)   Mobile home parks shall be landscaped as follows.
            1.   If the mobile home park abuts an existing residential
development, the park shall be required to provide screening along the park
boundary abutting the residential development.
            2.   If the park abuts a nonresidential development, the park need
not provide screening.
            3.   In all cases, however, a park shall provide screening along
the park boundary abutting a public right-of-way.
         (b)   The landscaping shall consist of evergreen trees or shrubs a
minimum 3 feet in height which are spaced so they provide a continuous screen
at maturity. Alternative screening devices may be utilized if they conceal the
mobile home park as effectively as the required landscaping described above.
      (6)   Mobile home parks shall be subject to preliminary plan review
requirements in accordance with Public Act 96 of 1987, being M.C.L.A. §§
125.2301 - 125.2350, as amended.
      (7)   A permit shall not be required for the construction or erection of
canopies or awnings which are open on 3 sides. A building permit shall be
required, however, before the construction of erection of any screened,
glassed-in, or otherwise enclosed awning or canopy.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.7)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.072 DAY-CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to establish standards for
day-care facilities which will ensure compatibility with adjacent land uses and
maintain the character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Application of regulations.
      (1)   A state licensed family day-care home shall be considered a
residential use of property and a permitted use in all residential districts.
Family day-care homes shall be prohibited in all other districts.
      (2)   The Village Council may, by issuance of a conditional use permit,
authorize the establishment of group day-care homes and day-care centers as
specified in district regulations and subject to the standards herein.
   (C)   Standards for group day-care homes. Group day-care homes shall be
considered as conditional land use subject to the requirements and standards of
§ 151.022 and the following additional standards.
      (1)   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements for
the zoning district in which it is located.
      (2)   The property is maintained in a manner that is consistent with the
character of the neighborhood.
      (3)   There shall be an outdoor play area of at least 500 square feet
provided on the premises. The play area shall not be located within the front
yard setback. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Commission if a
public play area is within 500 feet of the subject parcel.
      (4)   All outdoor play areas shall be enclosed by a fence that is
designed to discourage climbing, and is at least 4 feet in height, but no
higher than 6 feet.
      (5)   The hours of operation do not exceed 16 hours within a 24-hour
period. Activity between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. shall be limited
so that the drop-off and pick-up of children is not disruptive to neighboring
residents.
      (6)   One off-street parking space per employee not a member of the group
day-care home family shall be provided.
      (7)   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be
maintained.
   (D)   Standards for day-care centers. Day-care centers shall be considered
as a conditional land use subject to the requirements and standards of
§ 151.022 and the following standards.
      (1)   The day-care center shall be served by public sewer and water.
      (2)   A separate drop-off and pick-up area shall be provided adjacent to
the main building entrance, located off of a public street and the parking
access lane, and shall be of sufficient size so as to not create congestion on
the site or within a public roadway.
      (3)   Off-street parking shall be provided at a rate of 1 space per
employee plus 1 space for every 5 children enrolled at the facility.
      (4)   There shall be an outdoor play area of at least 1,000 square feet
provided on the premises the play area shall not be located within the front
setback. This requirement may be waived by the Planning Commission if public
play area is available 500 feet from the subject parcel.
      (5)   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be
maintained.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.8)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.073 ADULT FOSTER CARE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Intent. It is the intent of this section to establish standards for
adult foster care facilities which will ensure compatibility with adjacent land
uses and maintain the character of the neighborhood.
   (B)   Application of regulations.
      (1)   A state licensed adult foster care small group home serving 6
persons or less and adult foster care family home shall be considered a
residential use of property and a permitted use in all residential districts.
      (2)   The village may, by issuance of a conditional use permit, authorize
the establishment of adult foster care small group homes serving more than 6
persons and adult foster care large group homes in the following zoning
districts: R-1A, R-1B, R-2, and R-3. The facilities shall be prohibited in all
other districts.
      (3)   The village may, by issuance of a conditional use permit, authorize
the establishment of an adult foster care congregate facility in the following
zoning districts: R-2 and R-3. The facilities shall be prohibited in all other
districts.
   (C)   Standards for adult foster care small group homes serving more than 6
persons and adult foster care large group homes. These homes shall be
considered as conditional land use subject to the requirements and standards of
§ 151.022 and the following additional standards.
      (1)   A site plan, prepared in accordance with
§ 151.023, shall be required to be submitted.
      (2)   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements for
the zoning district in which it is located, provided there is a minimum site
area of 1,500 square feet per adult, excluding employees and/or care givers.
      (3)   The property is maintained in a manner that is consistent with the
character of the neighborhood.
      (4)   One off-street parking space per employee and/or caregiver shall be
provided.
      (5)   In its sole discretion, the village may determine that landscape
screening in accordance with
§ 151.101(D) is required.
      (6)   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be
maintained.
   (D)   Standards for adult foster care congregate facilities. These
facilities shall be considered as a conditional land use subject to the
requirements and standards of
§ 151.022 and the following standards.
      (1)   A site plan, prepared in accordance with
§ 151.023, shall be required to be submitted.
      (2)   The subject parcel shall meet the minimum lot area requirements for
the zoning district in which it is located, provided there is a minimum site
area of 1,500 square feet per adult, excluding employees and/or caregivers.
      (3)   Parking requirements as required for convalescent homes and similar
facilities, set forth in
§§ 151.165 et seq. shall be met.
      (4)   All landscape requirements set forth in
§ 151.101 shall be met.
      (5)   Appropriate licenses with the State of Michigan shall be
maintained.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.9)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.074 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. All home occupations shall be in single-family residences
subject to the following requirements.
   (B)   Requirements.
      (1)   A home occupation must be clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary use of the dwelling unit for dwelling purposes. No more than 25% of the
floor area of dwelling shall be devoted to a home occupation.
      (2)   A home occupation use shall not change the character of the
residential nature of the premises, both in terms of use and appearance.
      (3)   A home occupation use shall not create a nuisance or endanger the
health, safety, welfare, or enjoyment of any other person in the area, by
reason of noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor, unsanitary or unsightly
conditions, fire hazards, or the like, involved in or resulting from the home
occupation.
      (4)   A home occupation shall not generate sewage or water use in excess
of what is normally generated from a single-family dwelling in a residential
area.
      (5)   No employees shall be permitted other than members of the immediate
family resident in the dwelling unit.
      (6)   All activities shall be carried on within an enclosed structure.
There shall be no outside display of any kind, or other external or visible
evidence of the conduct of a home occupation.
      (7)   There shall be no vehicular traffic permitted for the home
occupation, other than that which is normally generated for a single dwelling
unit in a residential area, both as to volume and type of vehicles.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.10)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.075 SEASONAL SALES.
   The sale of Christmas trees, pumpkins, firewood, and other seasonal items
shall be considered temporary uses within any zoning district subject to the
conditions contained herein. All sales shall be conducted in a manner so as not
to create a traffic hazard or a nuisance to neighboring properties. Adequate
parking and ingress and egress to the premises shall be provided. Upon
discontinuance of the seasonal use, any temporary structures shall be removed.
Signs shall conform to the provisions of the district in which the seasonal use
is located.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.11)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.076 GARAGE SALES, RUMMAGE SALES, AND SIMILAR ACTIVITIES.
   Garage sales, rummage sales, yard sales, moving sales, and similar
activities shall be considered temporary accessory uses within any residential
zoning district subject to the conditions contained herein. Any garage sale,
rummage sale, or similar activity shall be allowed without a permit for a
period not to exceed 4 days within a 6-month period. All the sales shall be
conducted in a manner so as not to create a traffic hazard or a nuisance to
neighboring properties. No signs advertising a garage sale or similar activity
shall be placed upon public property. Signs shall not be placed more than 24
hours prior to the sale and must be removed upon completion of the sale.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.12)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.077 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the village. The construction of buildings associated with
essential services shall be subject to the provisions of
§ 151.023. Otherwise, the construction, maintenance, and alteration of
essential services shall be exempt from the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.13)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.078 SELF-STORAGE FACILITIES.
   (A)   Generally. Self-storage facilities shall be subject to the following
requirements and conditions.
   (B)   Requirements and conditions.
      (1)   No activity other than rental of storage units and the rental of
outside storage space for recreational vehicles shall be allowed. No
commercial, wholesale, retail, industrial, or other business use on, or
operated from, the facility shall be allowed.
      (2)   The storage of any toxic, explosive, corrosive, flammable, or
hazardous materials is prohibited. Fuel tanks on any motor, vehicle, boat, lawn
mower, or similar property will be drained or removed prior to storage.
Batteries shall be removed from vehicles before storage.
      (3)   Other than the storage of recreational vehicles, all storage shall
be contained within a building. All recreational vehicle storage shall be
screened from the view of neighboring properties and public roads in accordance
with
§ 151.101.
      (4)   Exterior walls of the ends of all storage units shall be of masonry
or face-brick construction.
      (5)   All storage units must be accessible by paved circular drives
clearly marked to distinguish traffic flow. A minimum 26-foot drives shall be
provided between buildings. Site circulation shall be designed to accommodate
fire trucks, as well as trucks that will customarily access the site.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.14)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.079 OUTDOOR SALES.
   Outdoor sales for new and used automobiles, boats, mobile homes, farm
machinery, and other vehicles and manufactured products and similar uses shall
be subject to the following provisions.
   (A)   There shall be no strings of flags, pennants, or bare light bulbs
permitted.
   (B)   No vehicles or merchandise for sale shall be displayed within any
required front yard setback.
   (C)   There shall be no broadcast of continuous music or announcements over
any loudspeaker or public address system.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.15)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.080 GENERAL, BUILDING, AND LANDSCAPE CONTRACTOR'S OFFICES AND YARDS.
   (A)   A contractor's office building shall be of permanent construction.
Temporary construction trailers shall not be permitted to be occupied as the
office of the contractor. Outdoor storage shall be strictly and clearly
accessory to the contractor's principal office use of the property. Only
products, materials, and equipment owned and operated by the principal use
shall be permitted for storage.
   (B)   Storage shall not be located within the required front yard. The
storage shall not be located in any required parking or loading space.
   (C)   Storage shall be screened from the view of public street, and adjacent
properties zoned either residential, commercial, or office. Screening measures
shall meet the requirements of
§ 151.101(D).
   (D)   The location and size of areas for storage, nature of items to be
stored therein, and details of the enclosure, including description of
materials, height, and typical elevation of the enclosure, shall be provided as
part of the information submitted under
§ 151.023.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.16)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.081 AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATIONS.
   (A)   Generally. Automobile service stations and washes shall be subject to
the following standards.
   (B)   Standards.
      (1)   Separation shall be made between the pedestrian sidewalk and
vehicular parking and maneuvering areas with the use of curbs, wheel stops,
greenbelts, or traffic islands.
      (2)   All activities related to vehicle washing, service, and repair
equipment shall be entirely enclosed within a building.
      (3)   Driveways shall be designed to accommodate the type and volume of
vehicular traffic using the site and located in a manner which is compatible
with uses located adjacent to and across from the site.
      (4)   Inoperative or unlicensed vehicles shall not be stored outside for
more than 7 days. The storage shall not occur in front of the building front
line.
      (5)   Vehicle sales shall not be permitted on the premises of any
automobile service station or wash.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.17)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.082 OUTDOOR DISPLAYS OF PRODUCTS OR MATERIALS INTENDED FOR RETAIL SALE OR
RENTAL.
   (A)   General standards.
      (1)   An outdoor display shall be considered as an accessory to the
principal business use conducted on the premises.
      (2)   The exterior of the premises shall be kept clean, orderly, and
maintained.
      (3)   The village shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of
damage, theft, or personal injury which may occur as a result of an outdoor
display.
      (4)   In the administration of these provisions, the Zoning Administrator
shall be permitted to refer a request to the Planning Commission for review and
recommended where site conditions may create difficulty in adherence to the
standards contained herein.
   (B)   Standards within CBD Districts.
      (1)   An outdoor display may be located in front of or adjacent to the
establishment. An outdoor display that extends beyond the property lines of the
applicant shall require the permission of the affected property owners.
      (2)   If an outdoor display is located on a public sidewalk, a minimum of
5 feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along the sidewalk shall be
maintained. Sufficient room shall also be provided to allow car doors to open
along the curbside.
   (C)   Standards within C-2 Districts.
      (1)   An outdoor display may be located within any required yard but
shall not be located within any public road right-of-way.
      (2)   An outdoor display shall not occupy or obstruct the use of any fire
lane, required off-street parking, or landscaped area required to meet the
requirements of this chapter.
   (D)   Transient and seasonal sales.
      (1)   Transient or seasonal sales may be located within any required yard
but shall not be located within any public road right-of-way.
      (2)   Transient or seasonal sales shall not occupy or obstruct the use of
any fire lane, required off-street parking, or landscaped area required to meet
the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.18)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.083 SIDEWALK CAFÉ SERVICE.
   (A)   Generally. A sidewalk café service operated by a restaurant or other
food establishment which sells food for immediate consumption may be permitted
in the CBD Central Business District, subject to the following conditions.
   (B)   Conditions.
      (1)   (a)   An application depicting the location and a site layout of
the café facility shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator.
         (b)    Each permit application for a sidewalk café shall be
accompanied by a policy or certificate of insurance, in an amount acceptable to
the village, including worker’s compensation, naming the village as
additionally insured. Establishments serving alcohol shall also provide a
liquor liability policy or certificate of insurance naming the village as
additionally insured.
         (c)    Each permit shall be effective 8 months from April 1 to
December 1 and must be renewed annually through administrative review. The
annual permit fee for establishing and maintaining a sidewalk café shall be
established by Village Council resolution.
      (2)    A sidewalk café shall be allowed only during the 8 month period
beginning April 1. All sidewalk café furniture is to be removed by December 1
each year.
      (3)    A sidewalk café may be located in front of the establishment.
      (4)    If a sidewalk café is located on a public sidewalk, a minimum of 5
feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along the sidewalk shall be maintained.
      (5)    A sidewalk café shall be allowed only during normal operating
hours of the establishment.
      (6)    The exterior of the premises shall be kept clean, orderly and
maintained.
      (7)    The permittee shall be responsible for repair of any damage to the
sidewalk caused by the sidewalk café furniture. No permanent attachments to the
sidewalk are permitted.
      (8)   All sidewalk café furniture is to be maintained in a manner that is
compatible with the building’s site elements (i.e. signs, awnings and walls).
No broken, peeling, rusting or other aesthetic elements should be left outdoors
for continued use.
      (9)   The village shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of
damage, theft or personal injury which may occur as a result of a sidewalk café
operation.
      (10)   All sidewalk cafes shall comply with applicable regulations of the
County Health Department, the State Liquor Control Commission and any other
applicable county, state or federal regulation.
      (11)   The Village of Manchester reserves the right to deny, revoke or
suspend a sidewalk café permit if the permittee has failed to correct
violations of the sidewalk café permit within the time specified on the
violation notice. If the village denies, revokes or suspends the permit the
village will notify the permittee in writing. The decision to deny, revoke or
suspend a permit may be appealed to the Village Council. Variances from the
sidewalk café standards must be appealed before the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.19; Am. Ord. 288, passed 12-16-2013) Penalty,
see §
151.999
§ 151.084 BED AND BREAKFAST ACCOMMODATIONS.
   (A)   Each premises must be occupied and operated by its owner.
   (B)   The proposed use shall not cause a nuisance to adjoining residences
due to noise, odor, lighting, or traffic.
   (C)   No bed and breakfast sleeping room shall be permitted that does not
comply with the construction code.
   (D)   There shall be no separate cooking facilities used for bed and
breakfast stay.
   (E)   The stay of bed and breakfast occupants shall be no more than 14
consecutive days and not more than 30 days in any 1 calendar year.
   (F)   The operator of each facility shall keep a list of the names of all
persons staying at the bed and breakfast which list shall be available for
inspection by the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   One bathroom for every 3 sleeping rooms shall be provided, with a
minimum of 2 bathrooms.
   (H)   One parking space shall be provided off-street in the side or rear
yard area for each bed and breakfast bedroom.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.20)
§ 151.085 MINERAL MINING AND EXTRACTIVE OPERATIONS.
   (A)   Intent and purpose. It is the intent and purpose of this section to
promote the underlying spirit and intent of the entire zoning code, but at the
same time allow for the extraction of minerals in locations where they have
been naturally deposited, and to ensure that mineral mining activity shall be
compatible with adjacent uses of land, the natural environment, and the
capacities of public services and facilities affected by the land use, and, to
ensure that mineral mining activities are consistent with the public health,
safety, and welfare of the village.
   (B)   Use restriction. Mineral mining and extractive operations may be
considered as a conditional use in the I-2 District. The extraction, removal,
and/or processing of sand, gravel, stone, and/or other mineral mining in the
village shall be prohibited unless first authorized by the grant of a
conditional approval use application by the village in accordance with this
section and
§ 151.022.
   (C)   Exemption. Usual and customary land balancing by cutting and filling,
in preparation for immediately planned and approved development in accordance
with this and all other applicable ordinances and law, shall be exempted from
the provisions of this section.
   (D)   Application. An application shall be filed with the Zoning
Administrator and shall include the following:
      (1)   Site plan prepared in accordance with
§ 151.023;
      (2)   Vertical aerial photograph, enlarged to a scale of 1 inch equals
200 feet, from original photograph flown at a negative scale no smaller than 1
inch equals 660 feet. The date of the aerial photograph shall be certified, and
shall have been flown at the time as the foliage shall be off of on-site trees,
provided, if there are changes in the topography from the date of the
photograph, an accompanying text shall be provided explaining each change. The
vertical photograph shall cover:
         (a)   All land anticipated to be mined in the application, together
with adjoining land owned by the applicant;
         (b)   All contiguous land which is or has been used by the owner or
leasehold applicant for mineral extraction and/or processing and/or storage,
and all contiguous (land) in which the applicant or any affiliate has a current
interest;
         (c)   All lands within 1/2 mile of the proposed mining area;
         (d)   All private and public roads from which access to the property
may be immediately gained;
         (e)   Boundary of the entire planned mining area by courses and
distance;
         (f)   Site topography and natural features including location of water
courses within the planned mining area; and
         (g)   Means of vehicular access to the proposed operation.
      (3)   Duration of proposed operation, and location, timing, and any other
relevant details with respect to the phasing and progression of work on the
site;
      (4)   Land use study/drawing showing the existing land uses with
specification of type of use, e.g., single-family residential, multiple-family
residential, retail, office, and the like, and density of individual units in
areas shown, including:
         (a)   Property within a radius of 1 mile around the site; and
         (b)   The property fronting on all vehicular routes within the village
contemplated to be utilized by trucks which will enter and leave the site.
      (5)   Geological/hydrological/engineering survey prepared by appropriate
and qualified experts, indicating:
         (a)   All anticipated impact to the qualitative and quantitative
aspects of surface water, ground water, and drainage during and subsequent to
the operation to the geographical extent reasonably expected to be affected;
and
         (b)   Opinion whether the exposure of subterranean waters and/or the
impoundment of surface waters, where permitted, will establish a suitable water
level at the level or levels proposed as part of the operation, and whether the
same will not interfere with the existing subterranean water or cause any harm
or impairment to the general public.
      (6)   Description of the vehicles, machinery, and equipment proposed for
use on the property, specifying with respect to each, the anticipated noise and
vibration levels.
   (E)   Review procedure.
      (1)   The Zoning Administrator shall forward the original of the
application to the Village Clerk for the file, and forward the copies to the
members of the Planning Commission, the Village Engineer, the Village Planner,
and to the Road Commission.
      (2)   The Village Engineer and the Village Planner shall each file a
report with the Zoning Administrator, together with a recommendation on the
need for additional experts. The Zoning Administrator shall retain the original
of these reports for the file, and forward copies to the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The Zoning Administrator shall request a report from the Road
Commission regarding traffic safety relevant to the application and any road
improvements deemed appropriate to protect the public health, safety, and
welfare for areas located outside of the village.
      (4)   After receiving all reports, including any additional reports of
experts recommended by the Village Engineer and/or Planner, if deemed
appropriate the Planning Commission shall consider the application in
accordance with the procedures set forth in
§ 151.022.
      (5)   (a)   Reasonable conditions may be required with the approval of
the application for the conditional land use, to ensure that public services
and facilities affected by proposed land use or activity will be capable of
accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by the land use or
activity, to protect the natural environment and conserve natural resources and
energy, to ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of land, and to promote the
use of land in a socially and economically desirable manner.
         (b)   Conditions imposed shall be reasonable and shall be in
compliance with applicable law.
   (F)   Requirements and standards. The determination on applications
submitted under this section shall be based upon the following requirements and
standards, as determined in the discretion of the Planning Commission, and if
the application is approved, the standards and requirements shall be maintained
as a condition to continued operation and use by the applicant.
      (1)   Demonstration by the applicant that the proposed land use shall not
result in a probable impairment to, pollution of, unreasonable impact upon,
and/or destruction of the following:
         (a)   The water table and/or private wells of property owners within
the reasonably anticipated area of impact during and subsequent to the
operation;
         (b)   The course, quantity, and quality of surface water, ground
water, and/or the watershed anticipated to be impacted by the operation; and
         (c)   The surrounding property and/or property along haul routes, in
terms of noise, dust, air, water, odor, light, and/or vibration, and further,
shall not unreasonably impact upon persons perceiving the operation in terms of
aesthetics.
      (2)   The proposed land use shall not be incompatible with the
surrounding uses, based upon an application of generally accepted planning
standards and principles.
      (3)   The proposed land use shall not unreasonably burden the capacity of
public services and facilities.
      (4)   The proposed land use shall have immediate and direct access to a
paved road having a planned right-of-way not less than 120 feet and having
necessary and appropriate load bearing and traffic volume capacity in relation
to the proposed intensity of the use.
      (5)   All activities conducted in connection with the operation shall
occur at least 160 feet from the nearest property line, provided, all
processing and stockpiling shall be conducted at least 200 feet from the
nearest property line.
      (6)   The hours of operation shall not reasonably interfere with usual
and customary uses of land within the surrounding area anticipated to be
impacted.
      (7)   The maximum duration of the proposed use, if conducted in or
immediately adjacent to a residential zoning district, shall be 10 years.
      (8)   The site shall be secured with fencing and screened from all
adjacent public highways and residentially used parcels.
      (9)   The total area being mined which has not been reclaimed shall at no
time exceed 40% of the entire parcel.
      (10)   The proposed transportation route or routes within the village
shall be as direct and minimal in detrimental impact as reasonably possible, as
determined in the discretion of the village at the time of application, and
thereafter.
   (G)   Reclamation. Reclamation of the site shall be in accordance with a
reclamation plan approved by the village as part of the application review
process. There shall be no final slopes having a grade in excess of a minimum
ratio of 1 foot vertical to 5 feet horizontal, and, for permanent water areas,
for a distance of not less than 10 feet nor more than 50 feet, the submerged
slopes shall be graded from the water’s edge at a grade not in excess of a
minimum ratio of 1 foot vertical to 7 feet horizontal; the entire site shall be
planted with sufficient vegetation so as to sustain short and long term growth,
in order to avoid erosion and washout, and, to the extent necessary to achieve
this objective, suitable soils shall be placed on the property; and, all
structures, machinery, equipment, and improvements shall be removed from the
site. The Village Council shall have the right to impose performance bonds or
letters of credit to ensure that the reclamation and restoration plans as
submitted are implemented.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.21)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.086 BUILDINGS TO BE MOVED.
   (A)   No permit shall be granted for the moving of buildings or structures
from without or within the limits of the village to be placed on property
within the limits unless the Building Official shall have made an inspection of
the building to be moved and has found that it is structurally safe, will not
adversely affect the character of existing buildings in the neighborhood of the
new location, and will fully comply with the building code and other codes
regulating public health, safety, and general welfare. A performance bond as
established by the Village Council of sufficient amount to insure the cost of
completing the building for occupancy within a period of not less than 6 months
from date of permit shall be furnished before permit is issued.
   (B)   Any building moved within a district and placed upon a foundation or
any building moved into a district shall be subject to all the limitations and
requirements herein set forth relating to uses, construction, permits, and
certificates.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.22)
§ 151.087 WIRELESS COMMUNICATION FACILITIES.
   (A)   Purpose and intent.
      (1)   It is the general purpose and intent of the village to carry out
the will of the United States Congress by authorizing communication facilities
needed to operate wireless communication systems. However, it is the further
purpose and intent of the village to provide for the authorization in a manner
which will retain the integrity of neighborhoods and the character, property
values, and aesthetic quality of the community at large. In fashioning and
administering the provisions of this section, attempt has been made to balance
these potentially competing interests.
      (2)   Recognizing the number of providers authorized to establish and
operate wireless communication services and coverage, it is the further purpose
and intent of this section to:
         (a)   Facilitate adequate and efficient provision of sites for
wireless communication facilities and ensure that wireless communication
facilities are situated in appropriate locations and relationships to other
land uses, structures, and buildings;
         (b)   Establish predetermined districts or zones of the number, shape,
and in the location, considered best for the establishment of wireless
communication facilities, subject to applicable standards and conditions;
         (c)   Recognize that operation of a wireless communication system may
require the establishment of facilities in locations not within the
predetermined districts or zones;
         (d)   Minimize the adverse impacts of technological obsolescence of
the facilities, including a requirement to remove unused and/or unnecessary
facilities in a timely manner; and
         (e)   Minimize the negative visual impact of wireless communication
facilities on neighborhoods, community land marks, historic sites and
buildings, natural beauty areas, and public rights-of-way.
   (B)   Authorization.
      (1)   Subject to the standards and conditions set forth in division (C)
below, wireless communication facilities shall be permitted uses in the
following circumstances, and in the following districts.
         (a)   Circumstances creating permitted use treatment. In all zoning
districts, a proposal to establish a new wireless communication facility shall
be deemed a permitted use in the following circumstances:
            1.   An existing structure which will serve as an attached wireless
communication facility within a nonresidential zoning district, where the
existing structure is not, in the discretion of the Zoning Administrator,
proposed to be either materially altered or materially changed in appearance;
            2.   A proposed collocation upon an attached wireless communication
facility which had been pre-approved for the collocation as part of an earlier
approval by the village; and/or
            3.   An existing structure which will serve as an attached wireless
communication facility consisting of a utility pole located within a right-of-
way, where the existing pole is not proposed to be modified in a manner which,
in the discretion of the Zoning Administrator, would materially alter the
structure and/or result in an impairment of sight lines or other safety
interests.
         (b)   Permitted use districts. Wireless communication facilities shall
be a permitted use in the I-2 Industrial District.
      (2)   If it is demonstrated by an applicant that a wireless communication
facility is required to be established outside of a district identified in
division (B)(1) above, in order to operate, the wireless communication
facilities may be permitted elsewhere in the community as a conditional land
use, subject to the requirements and standards of
§ 151.022 and the following.
         (a)   At the time of the submittal, the applicant shall demonstrate
that a location within the areas identified in division (B)(1) above cannot
reasonably meet the coverage and/or capacity needs of the applicant.
         (b)   Locations outside of the districts identified in division (B)(1)
above shall be permitted on the following sites, subject to application of all
other standards contained in this section:
            1.   Municipally owned site;
            2.   Other governmentally owned site;
            3.   Religious or other institutional site;
            4.   Public park and other large permanent open space areas when
compatible;
            5.   Public or private school site;
            6.   Other locations if none of the above is available; and
            7.   Wireless communication facilities shall be of a design such as
(without limitation) a steeple, bell tower, or a form which is compatible with
the existing character of the proposed site, neighborhood, and general area, as
approved by the village.
         (3)   All other criteria and standards set forth in
§ 151.085(C) and (D) are met.
   (C)   General regulations.
      (1)   Standards and conditions applicable to all facilities. All
applications for wireless communication facilities shall be reviewed,
constructed, and maintained in accordance with the following standards and
conditions. In addition, if the facility is approved, it shall be constructed
and maintained with any additional conditions imposed by the village in its
discretion.
         (a)   Facilities shall not be demonstrably injurious to neighborhoods
or otherwise detrimental to the public safety and welfare.
         (b)   Facilities shall be located and designed to be harmonious with
the surrounding areas.
         (c)   Facilities shall comply with applicable federal and state
standards relative to the environmental effects of radio frequency emissions.
         (d)   The following additional standards shall be met.
            1.   The maximum height of the new or modified support structure
and antenna shall be the minimum height demonstrated to be necessary for
reasonable communication by the applicant and by other entities to collocate on
the structure. Applicants shall demonstrate a justification for the proposed
height of the structures and an evaluation of alternative designs which might
result in lower heights.
            2.   The accessory building contemplated to enclose switching
equipment shall be limited to the maximum height for accessory structures
within the respective district.
            3.   The setback of the support structure from any residential
district shall be no less than the height of the structure. The setback of the
support structure from any existing or proposed rights-of-way or other publicly
traveled roads shall be no less than the height of the structure.
            4.   Where the proposed new or modified support structure abuts a
parcel of land zoned for a use other than residential, the minimum setback of
the structure, and accessory structures, shall be in accordance with the
required setbacks for principal buildings as provided in the schedule of
regulations for the zoning district in which the support structure is located.
            5.   There shall be an unobstructed paved access drive to the
support structure, for operation, maintenance, repair, and inspection purposes,
which may be provided through or over an easement. This access drive shall be a
minimum of 14 feet in width.
            6.   The division of property for the purpose of locating a
wireless communication facility is prohibited unless all zoning requirements
and conditions are met.
            7.   Where an attached wireless communication facility is proposed
on the roof of a building, any equipment enclosure shall be designed,
constructed, and maintained to be architecturally compatible with the principal
building. The equipment enclosure may be located within the principal building
or may be an accessory building. If proposed as an accessory building, it shall
conform with all district requirements for principal buildings, including yard
setbacks.
            8.   The village shall review and approve the color of the support
structure and all accessory buildings, so as to minimize distraction, reduce
visibility, maximize aesthetic appearance, and ensure compatibility with
surroundings. It shall be the responsibility of the applicant to maintain the
wireless communication facility in a neat and orderly condition.
            9.   The support system shall be constructed in accordance with all
applicable building codes and shall include the submission of a soils report
from a geotechnical engineer, licensed in the State of Michigan. This soils
report shall include soil borings and statements indicating the suitability of
soil conditions for the proposed use. The requirements of the Federal Aviation
Administration, Federal Communication Commission, and Michigan Aeronautics
Commission shall be noted.
            10.   A maintenance plan, and any applicable maintenance agreement,
shall be presented and approved as part of the site plan for the proposed
facility. The plan shall be designed to ensure the long-term, continuous
maintenance to a reasonably prudent standard.
      (2)   Standards and conditions applicable to conditional land use
facilities. Applications for wireless communication facilities which may be
approved as conditional land uses shall be reviewed, and if approved,
constructed and maintained, in accordance with the standards and conditions in
division (C)(1) above and in accordance with the following standards.
         (a)   The applicant shall demonstrate the need for the proposed
facility to be located as proposed based upon the presence of 1 or more of the
following factors:
            1.   Proximity to a major thoroughfare;
            2.   Areas of population concentration;
            3.   Concentration of commercial, industrial, and/or other business
centers;
            4.   Areas where signal interference has occurred due to tall
buildings, masses of trees, or other obstructions;
            5.   Topography of the proposed facility location in relation to
other facilities with which the proposed facility is to operate; and/or
            6.   Other specifically identified reason creating facility need.
         (b)   The proposal shall be reviewed in conformity with the
collocation requirements of this section.
   (D)   Application requirements.
      (1)   A site plan prepared in accordance with
§ 151.023;
      (2)   The site plan shall also include a detailed landscaping plan
illustrating screening and aesthetic enhancement for the structure base,
accessory buildings, and enclosure. In all cases, there shall be shown on the
plan fencing which is required for protection of the support structure and
security from children and other persons who may otherwise access facilities;
      (3)   The application shall include a signed certification by a State of
Michigan licensed professional engineer with regard to the manner in which the
proposed structure will fall, which certification will be utilized, along with
other criteria such as applicable regulations for the district in question, in
determining the appropriate setback to be required for the structure and other
facilities;
      (4)   The application shall include a description of security to be
posted at the time of receiving a building permit for the facility to ensure
removal of the facility when it has been abandoned or is no longer needed, as
provided in division (F) below. In this regard, the security shall, at the
election of the applicant, be in the form of:
         (a)   Cash;
         (b)   Surety bond;
         (c)   Letter of credit; or
         (d)   An agreement in a form approved by the Village Attorney and
recordable at the office of the Register of Deeds, establishing a promise of
the applicant and owner of the property to timely remove the facility as
required under this section, with the further provision that the applicant and
owner shall be responsible for the payment of any costs and attorneys fees
incurred by the village in securing removal.
      (5)   The application shall include a map showing existing and known
proposed wireless communication facilities within the village, and further
showing existing and known proposed wireless communication facilities within
areas surrounding the borders of the village in the location, and in the area,
which are relevant in terms of potential collocation or in demonstrating the
need for the proposed facility. If and to the extent the information in
question is on file with the community, the applicant shall be required only to
update as needed. Any proprietary information may be submitted with a request
for confidentiality in connection with the development of governmental policy,
in accordance with M.C.L.A. § 15.243. This chapter shall serve as the promise
to maintain confidentiality to the extent permitted by law. The request for
confidentiality must be prominently stated in order to bring it to the
attention of the village; and
      (6)   The name, address, and phone number of the person to contact for
engineering, maintenance, and other notice purposes. This information shall be
continuously updated during all times the facility is on the premises.
   (E)   Collocation.
      (1)   Statement of policy. It is the policy of the village to minimize
the overall number of newly established locations for wireless communication
facilities and encourage the use of existing structures.
      (2)   Feasibility of collocation. Collocation shall be deemed to be
feasible for purposes of this section where all of the following are met.
         (a)   The wireless communication provider entity under consideration
for collocation will undertake to pay market rent or other market compensation
for collocation.
         (b)   The site on which collocation is being considered, taking into
consideration reasonable modification or replacement of a facility, is able to
provide structural support.
         (c)   The collocation being considered is technologically reasonable,
e.g., the collocation will not result in unreasonable interference, given
appropriate physical and other adjustment in relation to the structure,
antennas, and the like.
         (d)   The height of the structure necessary for collocation will not
be increased beyond a point deemed to be permissible by the village, taking
into consideration the standards set forth in this section.
      (3)   Requirements for collocation.
         (a)   Approval for the construction and use of a new wireless
communication facility shall not be granted unless and until the applicant
demonstrates that a feasible collocation is not available for the coverage area
and capacity needs.
         (b)   All new and modified wireless communication facilities shall be
designed and constructed so as to accommodate collocation.
         (c)   If a party who owns or otherwise controls a facility shall fail
or refuse to alter a structure so as to accommodate a proposed and otherwise
feasible collocation, the facility shall thereupon and thereafter be deemed to
be a nonconforming structure and use, and shall not be altered, expanded, or
extended in any respect.
   (F)   Removal.
      (1)   The village reserves the right to request evidence of ongoing
operation at any time after the construction of an approved tower.
      (2)   A condition of every approval of a wireless communication facility
shall be adequate provision for removal of all or part of the facility by users
and owners upon the occurrence of 1 or more of the following events:
         (a)   When the facility has not been used for 180 days or more. For
purposes of this section, the removal of antennas or other equipment from the
facility, or the cessation of operations (transmission and/or reception of
radio signals) shall be considered as the beginning of a period of nonuse; and/
or
         (b)   Six months after new technology is available at reasonable cost
as determined by the municipal legislative body, which permits the operation of
the communication system without the requirement of the support structure.
      (3)   The situations in which removal of a facility is required, as set
forth in division (F)(2) above, may be applied and limited to portions of a
facility.
      (4)   Upon the occurrence of 1 or more of the events requiring removal,
specified in division (F)(2) above, the property owner or persons who had used
the facility shall immediately apply or secure the application for any required
demolition or removal permits, and immediately proceed with and complete the
demolition/removal, restoring the premises to an acceptable condition as
reasonably determined by the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   If the required removal of a facility or a portion thereof has not
been lawfully completed within 60 days of the applicable deadline, and after at
least 30-days’ written notice, the village may remove or secure the removal of
the facility or required portions thereof, with its actual cost and reasonable
administrative charge to be drawn or collected from the security posted at the
time application was made for establishing the facility.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 5.23)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.088 WIND ENERGY CONVERSON SYSTEMS (WECS).
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to promote the effective and
efficient use of wind energy conversion systems (WECS) with minimum regulations
on the siting, design and installation of conversion systems so that the public
health, safety, and welfare of neighboring property owners or occupants will
not be jeopardized.
   (B)   Approval required.
      (1)   (a)   Except where noted in this section, it shall be unlawful to
construct, erect, install, alter, locate, or use any WECS project within
Manchester Village unless a conditional use permit has been obtained pursuant
to this section.
         (b)   Application for conditional use permit required by this section
shall be made on forms provided by Manchester Village and shall contain the
following, in addition to §
151.022 (Conditional land uses):
            1.   Plot plan to show location of the WECS pole or tower, guy
lines where required, guy line anchor bases, and their distance from all
property lines;
            2.   Methods to screen the base of the WECS pole and/or other
ground apparatus; and
            3.   A permit fee for each WECS as set by Village Council must
accompany the application.
      (2)   Roof mounted WECS are prohibited.
   (C)   Exemption from conditional use permit.
      (1)   Private freestanding WECS not exceeding 40 feet may be permitted
with administrative approval. An application shall be submitted to Zoning
Administrator for approval.
      (2)   Agricultural WECS projects accessory to permitted farm and
agricultural operations shall be exempt from the requirements of this section.
Agricultural WECS projects shall conform to the regulations of the zoning
district, including maximum height and minimum setback standards.
   (D)   General standards. The following standards shall apply to all private
and commercial wind energy conversion systems in Manchester Village:
      (1)   Design safety certification. The safety of the design of all WECS
towers shall be certified by a professional engineer registered in the State of
Michigan. The standard for certification shall be included with the permit
application.
      (2)   Controls and brakes.
         (a)   All private projects shall be equipped with manual and automatic
controls to give protection to power grids and to limit rotation of blades to a
speed below the designed limits of the WECS. The professional engineer must
certify that the rotor and over-speed control design and fabrication conform to
applicable design standards.
         (b)   No changes or alterations from certified design standards shall
be permitted unless accompanied by a professional engineer’s statement of
certification.
      (3)   Electrical components. All electrical compartments, storage
facilities, wire conduit, and interconnections with utility companies must
conform to national and local electrical codes.
      (4)   Compliance with laws. Projects shall be in compliance with all
Manchester Village zoning ordinance requirements, applicable ordinances,
statutes, rules, and laws.
      (5)   Setbacks. All projects must be setback from property lines at a
distance equal to or greater than 150% of the WECS height. No part of the wind
system structure, including guy wire anchors, may extend within the required
setbacks.
      (6)   Height is measured by the height above grade of the wind energy
tower, including the wind turbine or blades at their maximum height. Maximum
height of private WECS shall be 70 feet. Commercial WECS projects shall be
exempt from the height requirements of this chapter, subject to the provisions
of §
151.022 (Conditional uses), and compliance with FAA regulations.
      (7)   Installation certification. The professional engineer shall certify
that the construction and installation of the project meets or exceeds the
manufacturer’s construction and installation standards.
      (8)   Climb prevention. All project towers, guy wires, and or poles must
be un-climbable by design or protected by anti-climbing devices such as:
         (a)   Fences with locking portals at least 6 feet high;
         (b)   Anti-climbing devices 12 feet from base of pole; or
         (c)    Anchor points for guy wires supporting tower shall be enclosed
by a 6-foot high fence or shall be located within the confines of a yard that
is completely fenced.
      (9)   Interference. It shall be the responsibility of the person in
charge of the WECS to submit acceptable documentation as part of the
conditional use permit to determine if the WECS project would in any way cause
interference with microwave transmissions, residential television reception, or
radio reception.
      (10)   Fire risk. All private projects must adhere to all applicable
electrical codes and standards, must remove fuel sources, such as vegetation,
from the immediate vicinity of electrical gear and connections, and must
utilize twistable cables on turbines.
      (11)   Waste. All solid wastes, whether generated from supplies,
equipment parts, packaging, operation, or maintenance of the WECS, including
old parts and equipment, shall be removed from the site immediately and
disposed of in an appropriate manner. All hazardous waste generated by the
operation and maintenance of the WECS, including but not limited to lubricating
materials, shall be removed from the site immediately and disposed of in a
manner consistent with all local, state, and federal rules and regulations.
      (12)   Noise levels. The noise level measured at the property line of the
property on which the project has been installed shall not exceed 55 decibels.
      (13)   Liability insurance. The owner or operator of the project shall
maintain a current insurance policy with a bond rating acceptable to the
Village to cover installation and operation of the project and provide proof to
the village. The amount of the policy shall be established as a condition of
conditional use permit approval. For a private WECS project accessory to a
principal residence, proof of homeowner’s insurance with specific coverage of
at least $1,000,000 general liability for the WECS shall satisfy this
requirement.
      (14)   Performance guarantee required. In the interest of insuring
compliance with these provisions the applicant shall deposit a performance
guarantee for a conditional use as set forth in §
151.026.
   (E)   Additional standards for private wind energy systems.
      (1)   Utility notification. No project shall be installed until written
evidence has been provided to the village that the utility company has been
informed of the customer’s intent to install an interconnected customer-owned
generator. Off-grid systems shall be exempt from this requirement.
      (2)   Signage and color. No project shall display visible signage, such
as advertisements, on its face and should be painted a neutral grey, white or
light blue. Other neutral colors may be approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (3)   Shadow flicker. At the discretion of the Zoning Administrator the
applicant shall submit a copy of a shadow flicker analysis at the property line
to identify the locations of shadow flicker that may be caused by the project
and it shall also identify problem areas where shadow flicker may affect
adjacent parcels and show measures that shall be taken to eliminate or mitigate
the problems.
      (4)   Guy wire safety. If the system is supported by guy wires, the wires
shall be visible to a height of a least 6 feet above the guy wire anchors.
      (5)   Lightening protection. All towers shall have lightning protection.
      (6)   Lighting. Artificial lighting shall be at the discretion of the
Zoning Administrator. Artificial lighting shall be discouraged unless required
by the Federal Aviation Administration.
      (7)   Abandonment and removal. In the event a project which has been
granted a conditional use permit or administrative approval is abandoned or
unused for a period of 180 days, the owner of the system or land shall promptly
remove system and all related equipment. Failure to remove the system and
related equipment in accordance with the foregoing shall subject the system and
land owners to fines established by the Village Council. In addition, by
accepting a conditional use permit for the system the applicant and the land
owner agree that in the event the tower and equipment is not removed as
required, after 30 days’ notice from the village, the village shall undertake
such removal and bill the costs to the applicant and the land owner plus
administrative fees of 15% which, if not paid within 30 days shall be assessed
against the land on which the system and related equipment is located and
collected in the same manner as delinquent taxes. In addition, the village can
pursue any other relief to which it is entitled to by law.
   (F)   Additional standards for commercial WECS projects. The following
additional standards shall apply to all commercial wind energy conversion
systems in Manchester Village:
      (1)   Color. Towers and blades shall be painted any neutral color that is
acceptable to Manchester Village or otherwise required by law.
      (2)   Compliance with FAA. It shall be the responsibility of the person
in charge of the project to complete the proper FAA applications and obtain the
proper permits for the project. It shall also be the responsibility of the
person in charge of the project to obtain a determination of no significant
impact to air navigation from the FAA.
      (3)   Warning. A visible warning sign of “High Voltage” may be required
to be placed at the base of all projects. The sign must have at a minimum six-
inch letters with 3/4-inch stroke. Such signs shall be located a maximum of 300
feet apart and at all points of site ingress and egress.
      (4)   Annual inspection. Every project must be inspected annually by an
authorized factory representative or professional engineer to certify that it
is in good working condition and not a hazard to the public. Such records shall
be submitted to Manchester Village and considered a part of the continuing
conditional use permit.
      (5)   Compliance with additional regulations. It shall be the
responsibility of the person in charge of the project to contact the FCC and
FAA regarding additional permits necessary or any other applicable federal or
state regulations for the installation, prior to the Manchester Village
granting a conditional use permit.
      (6)   Migratory birds. The village may require an avian study conducted
to determine any potential impacts the project may present to migratory birds.
The study as part of the conditional use permit must provide assurances that
the project does not negatively affect the path of migratory birds.
      (7)   Decommissioning plan and escrow.
         (a)   The project must contain a decommissioning plan to ensure it is
properly decommissioned upon the end of the project life or facility
abandonment. Facility abandonment shall mean out of production for a period of
time not less than 1 year.
         (b)   Decommissioning shall include: removal of all structures
(including transmission equipment and fencing) and debris to a depth of 4 feet,
restoration of the soil, and restoration of vegetation within 6 months of the
end of project life or facility abandonment.
         (c)   The decommissioning plan shall state how the facility will be
decommissioned, the professional engineer’s estimated cost of decommissioning,
the financial resources to be used to accomplish decommissioning, and the
escrow agent with which the resources shall be deposited. The decommissioning
plan shall also include an agreement between the applicant and the village
that:
            1.   The financial resources for decommissioning shall be in the
form of a surety bond, irrevocable bank letter of credit, or a cash surety that
shall be deposited in an escrow account with an escrow agent acceptable to
Manchester Village.
            2.   The village shall have access to the escrow account funds for
the expressed purpose of completing decommissioning if decommissioning is not
completed by the applicant within 6 months of the end of project life or
facility abandonment.
            3.   The village is granted the right of entry onto the site,
pursuant to reasonable notice, to effect or complete decommissioning.
            4.   The village is granted the right to seek injunctive relief to
effect or complete decommissioning, as well as the village’s right to seek
reimbursement from applicant or applicant’s successor in interest for
decommissioning costs in excess of the amount of the surety and to file a lien
against any real estate owned by applicant or applicant's successor or in which
they have an interest for the amount of the excess, and to take all steps
allowed by law to enforce said lien. Applicant shall consent to lien rights of
the village to recover excess costs as part of conditional use approval for the
WECS.
(Ord. 279, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 151.089 MEDICAL MARIJUANA HOME OCCUPATION.
   (A)   Generally. The possession, use, and cultivation of medical marijuana
by a caregiver shall only be permitted in the Village of Manchester if such
possession, use, and cultivation is in accordance with the Act and the
requirements of this section. All other use, possession, and cultivation is
prohibited.
   (B)   Home occupation permit required. The cultivation of medical marijuana
within the Village of Manchester requires a medical marijuana home occupation
permit under this section. The medical marijuana home occupation permit may be
applied for in R-1A, R-1B, R-2, and R-3 Districts subject to the standards set
forth in §
151.074 (Home occupations) and this section.
   (C)   Requirements. The following requirements apply to medical marijuana
home occupations:
      (1)   Patient limitation. No more than 2 qualifying patients shall be on
the premises at any 1 time where a valid medical marijuana home occupation
permit has been secured.
      (2)   Exterior alterations. Home occupations shall not require exterior
alterations or involve construction features not customary in dwellings, or
require the use of mechanical or electrical equipment which creates a nuisance
to the adjacent neighborhood.
      (3)   Interior alterations. Any permanent structural alterations to the
interior of the dwelling unit for purposes of conducting the home occupation
which would render it unsuitable for residential use shall be prohibited.
      (4)   Outdoor storage. There shall be no outdoor storage of items
supportive of the home occupation.
      (5)   Not more than 5 qualifying patients shall be assisted with the
medical use of marijuana within any given calendar week.
      (6)   All medical marijuana shall be contained within the main building
in an enclosed, locked facility inaccessible on all sides and equipped with
locks or other security devices that permit access only by the registered
primary caregiver, as reviewed and approved by the Village Police Department.
      (7)   All necessary building, electrical, plumbing, and mechanical
permits shall be obtained for any portion of the residential structure in which
electrical wiring, lighting and/or watering devices that support the
cultivation, growing or harvesting of marijuana are located.
      (8)   If a room with windows is utilized as a growing location, any
lighting methods that exceed usual residential periods between the hours of 11:
00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. shall employ shielding methods, without alteration to the
exterior of the residence, to prevent ambient light spillage that may create a
distraction for adjacent residential properties.
      (9)   That portion of the residential structure where energy usage and
heat exceeds typical residential use, such as a grow room, and the storage of
any chemicals such as herbicides, pesticides, and fertilizers shall be subject
to inspection and approval by the Manchester Area Fire Department to insure
compliance with the Michigan Fire Protection Code.
      (10)   The medical use of marijuana shall comply at all times and in all
circumstances with the Michigan Medical Marijuana Act and the General Rules of
the Michigan Department of Community Health adopted pursuant to the Act as they
may be amended from time to time.
      (11)   A parcel of land for which a permit is issued under this section
must be located outside of a 1,000-foot radius from any school, including child
care or day care facility, to insure community compliance with federal “Drug-
Free School Zone” requirements.
      (12)   A parcel of land for which a permit is issued under this section
must be located outside of a 1,000-foot radius from any other registered
primary caregiver.
      (13)   Not more than 1 primary caregiver shall be permitted to service
qualifying patients on a parcel.
      (14)   Permits are non-transferable and shall only apply to the person
listed on the permit.
      (15)   Permits shall be valid for a period of 1 year, and may be renewed
if the home occupation is in compliance with the Act, the General Rules adopted
pursuant to the Act, and the provisions of this chapter.
   (D)   Rights acquired. A registered primary caregiver who is in compliance
with the Act, the General Rules adopted pursuant to the Act, and the
requirements of this chapter, may obtain a medical marijuana home occupation
permit under this chapter. Nothing in this chapter, or in any companion
regulatory provision adopted in any other provision of this code, is intended
to grant, nor shall they be construed as granting, immunity from criminal
prosecution for growing, sale, consumption, use, distribution, or possession of
marijuana not in strict compliance with that Act and the General Rules. Also,
since federal law is not affected by that Act or the General Rules, nothing in
this chapter, or in any companion regulatory provision adopted in any other
provision of this code, is intended to grant, nor shall they be construed as
granting, immunity from criminal prosecution under federal law. The Michigan
Medical Marijuana Act does not protect users, caregivers, or the owners of
properties on which the medical use of marijuana is occurring from federal
prosecution, or from having their property seized by federal authorities under
the Federal Controlled Substances Act.
(Ord. 282, passed 2-6-2012)
§ 151.090 TEMPORARY PORTABLE STORAGE CONTAINERS.
   (A)   Temporary portable storage containers may be permitted in all zoning
districts subject to the following regulations:
      (1)   A portable storage container shall be permitted subject to the
validation of an active building permit.
      (2)   In agricultural and residential zoning districts, no more than one
temporary portable storage container may be permitted on a property at one
time. In commercial and industrial zoning districts, no more than two temporary
portable storage containers may be permitted on a property at one time.
      (3)   A portable storage container shall not be utilized for or contain
habitable space.
      (4)   Temporary portable storage containers may not be located in an area
that would interfere with vehicular or pedestrian circulation or cause reduced
visibility at street intersections.
      (5)   A temporary portable storage container may be utilized as a
detached accessory structure incidental to a principal structure, subject to
the following additional standards:
         (a)   A temporary portable storage container shall be located within
the rear yard and shall be set back at least ten feet from side and rear
property lines and at least ten feet from the principal structure.
         (b)   An individual temporary portable storage container shall not
exceed 200 square feet in area and 8.5 feet in height.
         (c)   The exterior appearance of all temporary portable storage
containers shall be maintained and absent of all rust, holes, and any other
evidence of aging or wear.
         (d)   A temporary portable storage container may be placed on a paved
or gravel off-street surface in the front yard. In all cases, temporary
portable storage containers shall be set back at least 20 feet from the front
property line and ten feet from the side or rear property line.
         (e)   The use of not more than one temporary portable storage
container is permitted for not more than 60 continuous or separate days. One
time extension shall be permitted beyond the initial 60 days contingent on
Village Council approval.
         (f)   A temporary portable storage container may be placed on a
property with an active building permit and must be removed no later than 12
days after the issuance of a certificate of occupancy or the completion of
construction.
   (B)   The Zoning Administrator may authorize time to utilize temporary
portable storage containers based upon reasonable storage needs and
construction needs upon the written request of the applicant, but in no case
shall the Zoning Administrator allow such storage containers on properties
without active building permits for greater than four months.
(Ord. 300, passed 8-5-2019) Penalty, see §
151.999
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AND DESIGN PROVISIONS
§ 151.100 PURPOSE.
   (A)   Environmental standards are established in order to preserve the
short- and long-term environmental health, safety, and quality of the village.
   (B)   No parcel, lot, building, or structure in any district shall be used
or occupied in any manner so as to create any dangerous, injurious, noxious, or
otherwise objectionable element or condition so as to adversely affect the
surrounding area or adjoining premises.
   (C)   Any use permitted by this chapter may be undertaken and maintained if
acceptable measures and safeguards are employed to limit dangerous and
objectionable elements to acceptable limits as established by the following
performance standards.
   (D)   No use, otherwise allowed, shall be permitted within any district
which does not conform to the following standards of use, occupancy, and
operation.
   (E)   These standards are established as minimum requirements to be
maintained.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.1)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.101 LANDSCAPING; GREENBELTS AND BUFFERS; SCREENING.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to:
      (1)   Protect and preserve the appearance, character, and value of the
community;
      (2)   Minimize noise, air, and visual pollution;
      (3)   Improve the overall aesthetics and appearance, divide the expanse
of pavement, and define parking areas and vehicular circulation within off-
street parking lots and other vehicular use areas;
      (4)   Require buffering of residential areas from more intense land uses
and public road rights-of-way;
      (5)   Prevent soil erosion and soil depletion and promote sub-surface
water retention;
      (6)   Encourage an appropriate mixture of plant material, such as
evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs, to protect against insect and disease
infestation and produce a more aesthetic and cohesive design; and
      (7)   Encourage the integration of existing woodlands in landscape plans.
   (B)   Application of requirements.
      (1)   These requirements shall apply to all uses for which site plan
review is required under
§ 151.023 and subdivision plat review as required under the Subdivision Control
Ordinance.
      (2)   No site plan, site condominium plan, or subdivision plat shall be
approved unless a landscape plan is provided which meets the requirements set
forth herein.
   (C)   Landscape plan requirements. A separate detailed landscape plan shall
be required to be submitted to the village as part of the site plan review or
tentative preliminary plat review. The landscape plan shall demonstrate that
all requirements of this section are met and shall include, but not necessarily
be limited to, the following items:
      (1)   Location, spacing, size, root type, and descriptions for each plant
type;
      (2)   Typical straight cross section, including slope, height, and width
of berms;
      (3)   Typical construction details to resolve specific site conditions,
such as landscape walls and tree wells used to preserve existing trees or
maintain natural grades;
      (4)   Details, in either text or drawing form, to ensure proper
installation and establishment of proposed plant materials;
      (5)   Identification of existing trees and vegetative cover to be
preserved;
      (6)   Identification of grass and other ground cover and method of
planting; and
      (7)   Identification of landscape maintenance program, including
statement that all diseased, damaged, or dead materials shall be replaced in
accordance with standards of this chapter.
   (D)   Screening between land uses.
      (1)   Upon any improvement for which a site plan is required, a landscape
buffer shall be constructed to create a visual screen at least 6 feet in height
along all adjoining boundaries between either a conflicting nonresidential or
conflicting residential land use and residentially zoned or used property. A
landscape buffer shall consist of earthen berms and plant materials, or plant
materials only, so as to maintain a minimum opacity of at least 80%. Opacity
shall be measured by observation of any 2 square yard area of landscape screen
between 1 foot above the established grade of the area to be concealed and the
top or the highest point of the required screen. The plantings must meet this
standard, based upon reasonably anticipated growth over a period of 3 years.
      (2)   (a)   Where there is a need to provide a greater noise or dust
barrier or to screen more intense development, a solid wall or fence shall be
required by the village. The wall or fence shall be a minimum of 6 feet in
height, as measured on the side of the proposed wall having the higher grade.
         (b)   A required wall shall be located on the lot line, except where
underground utilities interfere and except in instances where this chapter
requires conformity with front yard setback requirements. Upon review of the
landscape plan, the village may approve an alternate location of a wall.
            1.   The village and the Building Official shall approve the
construction materials of the wall or fence, which may include face brick,
poured-in-place simulated face brick, precast brick face panels having
simulated face brick, stone, or wood.
            2.   In addition, a minimum of 1 deciduous tree and 6 shrubs
meeting the minimum size requirements provided herein shall be planted adjacent
to, and for each 30 lineal feet of wall or fence.
   (E)   Parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   Required landscaping within parking lots. Separate landscape areas
shall be provided within parking lots in accordance with the following
requirements.
         (a)   There shall be a minimum of 1 canopy/deciduous tree for every 8
parking spaces, provided that a landscape island shall be provided for no more
than 16 continuous spaces.
         (b)   Landscaping shall be arranged in curbed islands within the
parking lot and shall not be less than 8 feet wide.
         (c)   A minimum distance of 3 feet from the backside of the curb and
the proposed landscape plantings shall be provided. Where vehicles overhang a
landscape island or strip, a minimum distance of 5 feet from the backside of
the curb and the proposed landscape plantings shall be provided.
         (d)   The village, at its discretion, may approve alternative
landscape plantings at the perimeter of parking lots where landscaping within
parking lots would be impractical due to the size of the parking lot or
detrimental to safe and efficient traffic flow, or would create an unreasonable
burden for maintenance and snowplowing.
      (2)   Required landscaping at the perimeter of parking lots. Separate
landscape areas shall be provided at the perimeter of parking lots in
accordance with the following requirements.
         (a)   Parking lots considered to be a conflicting land use, as defined
by this section, shall meet the screening requirements set forth in division
(D) above.
         (b)   Parking lots visible from a public road shall be screened from
view with a landscaped berm, varied in height from between 2 to 3 feet along
the perimeter of those sides that are visible. The berm shall be planted with a
minimum of 1 deciduous or evergreen tree and 5 deciduous or evergreen shrubs,
meeting the minimum size requirements set forth in this section for every 30
lineal feet, or major portion thereof. The Planning Commission, at its
discretion, may approve alternative landscape plantings, such as a solid hedge
or a solid wall in lieu of a landscape berm.
   (F)   Greenbelts. A landscaped greenbelt, equivalent in depth to the front
yard setback, is required in accordance with the requirements of this section.
The greenbelt shall be located adjacent to the road right-of-way.
      (1)   The greenbelt shall be landscaped with a minimum of 1 deciduous or
evergreen tree plus 6 deciduous and/or evergreen shrubs for every 30 lineal
feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage abutting a public road right-of-way.
Deciduous trees within a greenbelt shall be a minimum caliper of 2½ inches or
greater. Evergreen trees within a greenbelt shall be a minimum height of 6
feet.
      (2)   If ornamental deciduous trees are substituted for either deciduous
trees or evergreen trees, they shall be provided at a minimum of 1 tree for
every 20 lineal feet, or fraction thereof, of frontage abutting a public road
right-of-way. Ornamental deciduous trees within a greenbelt shall be a minimum
caliper of 2 inches or greater.
      (3)   In addition to the required trees within the greenbelt, the
remainder of the greenbelt shall be landscaped in grass, ground cover, shrubs,
and other natural landscape materials.
      (4)   Access drives from public rights-of-way through required greenbelts
shall be permitted, but the drives shall not be subtracted from the lineal
dimension used to determine the minimum number of trees required.
   (G)   Site landscaping. In addition to any landscape greenbelt and/or
parking lot landscaping required by this section, 10% of the site area,
excluding existing public rights-of-way, shall be landscaped. The site area
landscaping may include a combination of the preservation of existing tree
cover, planting of new trees and plant material, landscape plazas and gardens
and building foundation planting beds. Site area landscaping shall be provided
to screen potentially objectionable site features such as, but not limited to,
retention/detention ponds, transformer pads, air-conditioning units, and
loading areas.
   (H)   Subdivision and site condominium landscaping. Landscaping for single-
family residential subdivisions and site condominiums shall be provided in
accordance with the following requirements.
      (1)   Street trees. The frontage of all internal public or private
streets shall be landscaped with a minimum of 1 tree for every 50 lineal feet,
or fraction thereof. The street trees shall meet the minimum size and spacing
requirements set forth in division (K) below.
      (2)   Screening between land uses. Where a subdivision or site
condominium contains uses defined as conflicting land uses by this section, the
screening requirements set forth in division (D) above shall be met.
      (3)   Screening from public roads. Where a subdivision or site
condominium abuts a public road right-of-way located outside of the proposed
subdivision or site condominium, the screening requirements set forth in
division (D) above shall be met.
      (4)   Other site improvements. A landscape plan for a subdivision or site
condominium development shall also include landscaping details of the entrance
to the development, stormwater retention and/or detention areas, community
buildings and other recreational areas, and any other site improvement that
would be enhanced through the addition of landscaping.
   (I)   Screening of trash containers.
      (1)   Outside trash disposal containers shall be screened on all sides
with an opaque fence or wall, and gate at least as high as the container, but
no less than 6 feet in height, and shall be constructed of material compatible
with the architectural materials used in the site development.
      (2)   Containers shall be consolidated to minimize the number of
collection sites, and located so as to reasonably equalize the distance from
the building they serve.
      (3)   Containers and enclosures shall be located away from public view
insofar as possible.
      (4)   Containers and enclosures shall be situated so that they do not
cause excessive nuisance or offense to occupants of nearby buildings.
      (5)   Concrete pads of appropriate size and construction shall be
provided for containers or groups of containers having a capacity of 6 30-
gallon cans or more. Aprons shall be provided for loading of bins with a
capacity of 1.5 cubic yards or more.
      (6)   For storage of recyclable materials, the enclosure area and pad
size shall be increased to amply accommodate the extra materials and their
containers.
      (7)   Screening and gates shall be of a durable construction.
   (J)   Landscape elements. The following minimum standards shall apply.
      (1)   Quality. Plant materials shall be of generally acceptable varieties
and species, free from insects and diseases, hardy to Washtenaw County, conform
to the current minimum standard of the American Association of Nurserymen, and
shall have proof of any required governmental regulations and/or inspections.
      (2)   Composition. A mixture of plant material, such as evergreen and
deciduous trees and shrubs, is recommended as a protective measure against
insect and disease infestation. A limited mixture of hardy species is
recommended, rather than a large quantity of different species, to produce a
more aesthetic, cohesive design and avoid a disorderly appearing arrangement.
      (3)   Berms. Berms shall be constructed with slopes not to exceed a 1:
3 gradient. Berm slopes shall be protected with sod, seed, or other form of
natural ground cover.
      (4)   Existing trees. The preservation and incorporation of existing
trees is encouraged. Where existing trees are used to satisfy the requirements
of this section, the following requirements shall apply.
         (a)   Paving, or other site improvements, shall not encroach upon the
dripline of the existing tree(s) to be preserved.
         (b)   If existing plant material is labeled “To Remain” on site plans
by the applicant or required by the village, protective techniques, such as,
but not limited to, fencing or barriers placed at the dripline around the
perimeter of the plant material shall be installed during construction. No
vehicle or other construction equipment shall be parked or stored within the
dripline of any plant material intended to be saved. Other protective
techniques may be used, provided the techniques are approved by the village.
         (c)   In the event that healthy trees used to meet the minimum
requirements of this chapter or those labeled to remain are cut down,
destroyed, damaged, or excavated at the dripline, as determined by the village,
the contractor shall replace them with trees that meet chapter requirements.
      (5)   Installation, maintenance, and completion.
         (a)   All landscaping required by this chapter shall be planted before
obtaining a certificate of occupancy or the appropriate financial guarantee, as
set forth in
§ 151.026, shall be placed in escrow in the amount of the cost of landscaping
to be released only after landscaping is completed.
         (b)   All landscaping and landscape elements shall be planted, and
earth moving or grading performed, in a sound workmanlike manner, according to
accepted planting and grading procedures.
         (c)   The owner of property required to be landscaped by this chapter
shall maintain the landscaping in a strong and healthy condition, free from
refuse, debris, and insects. All materials used to satisfy the requirements of
this chapter, which become unhealthy or dead, shall be replaced within 1 year
of damage or death or the next appropriate planting period, whichever comes
first. All landscaped areas shall be provided with a readily available and
acceptable water supply.
   (K)   Minimum size and spacing requirements. Where landscaping is required,
the following schedule sets forth minimum size and spacing requirements for
representative landscape materials.
Trees Minimum Size Allowable (Height/ Recommended On-Center Spacing (In Feet)
      Caliper)
                        Minimum Size Allowable  Recommended On-Center Spacing
Trees                   (Height/Caliper)        (In Feet)
                        Evergreen Trees:
Fir                     4                           4
Spruce                  4                           4
Pine                    4                           4
Evergreen Trees:
Hemlock                 4                           4
Douglas Fir             4                           4
Narrow Evergreen Trees:
Red Cedar                 4                           4
Arborvitae                4                           4
Juniper (selected         4                           4
varieties)
Large Deciduous Trees:
Oak                           4                 4
Maple                         4                 4
Beech                         4                 4
Linden                        4                 4
Ginko (male only)             4                 4
Honeylocust (seedless,        4                 4
thornless)
Birch                         4                 4
Sycamore                      4                 4
Small Deciduous Trees (ornamental):
Flowering Dogwood           4                       4
Flowering Dogwood           4
(disease resistant)
Flowering Cherry, Plum,     4                     4
Pear
Small Deciduous Trees (ornamental):
Hawthorn                    4                       4
Redbud                      4                     4
Magnolia                    4                       4
Flowering Crabapple         4                       4
Mountain Ash                4                       4
Hornbean                    4                     4
Shrubs Minimum Size Allowable (Height/ Recommended On-Center Spacing (In Feet)
       Spread)
                          Minimum Size Allowable  Recommended On-Center Spacing
Shrubs                    (Height/Spread)         (In Feet)
                          Large Evergreen Shrubs:
Pyrimidal Yew              4                      4
Hicks Yew                      4                        4
Spreading Yew                4                        4
Alberta Spruce             4                            4
Chinensis Juniper            4                      4
varieties
Sabina Juniper                 4                      4
Mugho Pine                     4                    4
Small Evergreen Shrubs:
Brown’s Ward’s Sebion      4                          4
Yews
Horizontal Juniper             4                    4
varieties
Small Evergreen Shrubs:
Boxwood                        4                        4 *
Euanymous Speading             4                      4
varieties
Large Deciduous Shrubs:
Lilac                        4                    4
Privet                       4                      4     *
Sumac                        4                      4
Buckthorn/Tallhedge        4                          4   *
Pyracantha                     4                      4
Weigela                    4                            4
Flowering Quince             4                      4
Cotoneaster (Peking and      4                        4
Spreading)
Dogwood (Red Osier and       4                      4
Grey)
Euonymous (Burning Bush)     4                      4 *
Viburnum varieties           4                      4
Small Deciduous Shrubs:
Barberry                       4                      4
Dwarf Winged Euonymus          4                      4   *
Small Deciduous Shrubs:
Spirea                         4                        4
Frangrant Sumac                4
Japanese Quince                4                          4
Cotonester                     4                          4
Cotonester (Rockspray,         4                      4
Cranberry)
Potenilla                      4                          4
 
   (L)   Exceptions.
      (1)   Buildings abutting property lines. Required screening may be
omitted along any lot line where a building wall exists immediately abutting
the lot line.
      (2)   Location adjustments. Where property line screening is required,
the location may be adjusted, at the discretion of the Planning Commission, so
that the screening may be constructed at or within the setback line, provided
the areas between the screening and the property lines are landscaped, or in
rural areas, retain their natural vegetative state.
      (3)   Planning Commission modification. Any of the requirements of this
section may be waived or modified through site plan approval, provided the
Planning Commission first makes a finding that:
         (a)   The topographic features or special characteristics of the site
create conditions so that the strict application of the provisions of this
section will result in less effective screening and landscaping than
alternative landscape designs; and
         (b)   The public benefit intended to be secured by this section will
exist with less than the required landscaping or screening.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.2; Am. Ord. 263, passed 8-20-2007)  
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.102 FENCES, WALLS, AND SCREENS.
   (A)   Any person desiring to build or cause to be built a fence upon
property within the Village of Manchester shall first apply to the Zoning
Administrator for a permit. Application for the permit shall contain any and
all information, including site plan and opacity, which are required and
necessary for the determination of whether the erection of the fence would be
contrary to the provisions of this chapter. The fee for the permit shall be set
by Council resolution.
   (B)   Except as otherwise required by this chapter, the following
regulations shall apply.
      (1)   In a residential district, fences shall not exceed 6 feet in
height. However, fences in the required front yard shall not exceed 4 feet in
height and 50% opacity. Opacity is the degree to which a fence is impervious to
rays of light. This condition shall be measured by the observation of any 2
square yard area of fence between 1 foot above the ground level and the top of
the fence. The observation shall be from a direction perpendicular to the place
of the fence.
         (a)    Residential fences shall only be constructed of the following
materials:
            1.   Treated wood, cedar, or redwood.
            2.   Simulated wood, including vinyl covered and synthetic wood
composite or equivalent.
            3.   Decorative brick or stone.
            4.   Chain link.
            5.   Any other material which the Zoning Administrator determines
to be equivalent to the above in terms of quality and appearance.
         (b)   The use of barbed wire, snow fence, chicken wire, and electric
is prohibited as a residential fence.
         (c)   Welded wire farm fencing and similar is prohibited as a
residential fence except within the R1A and AG Districts. All fence supports
shall be uniform in height and style.
         (d)   The Zoning Administrator shall evaluate the fence type to
determine which side of the fence shall face outward with the rule being that
the finished side faces the neighbor.
      (2)   In a commercial, industrial, or office district, no fence, wall, or
other screening structure shall exceed 12 feet in height.
      (3)   The use of barbed wire, spikes, nails, or any other sharp point or
instrument of any kind on top or on the sides of any fence is prohibited.
Barbed wire cradles may be placed on top of fences enclosing public utility
buildings or wherever deemed necessary in the interests of public safety.
      (4)   No fence shall be constructed or maintained which is charged or
connected with an electrical current.
      (5)   Retaining walls shall be designed and constructed in accordance
with applicable building code requirements.
      (6)   Temporary construction fences and fences required for protection
around excavations shall comply with Article 18 of the Basic Building Code. The
fences shall not remain in place for a period greater than a year.
      (7)   Clear vision requirements.
         (a)   No fence, wall, screen, hedge, sign, or other structure or
planting shall obstruct visibility between the heights of 30 inches and 10 feet
above the sidewalk grade within 25 feet of the intersection of 2 or more
streets.
         (b)   On any interior lot, no fence, wall, screen, hedge, sign, or
other structure or planting shall obstruct the visibility of a driveway, either
on a parcel or on an adjacent parcel, between the height of 30 inches and 10
feet measured a distance of 20 feet back from the point where the driveway
intersects the street.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.3; Am. Ord. 296, passed 12-19-2016) Penalty,
see §
151.999
§ 151.103 AIRBORNE EMISSIONS.
   (A)   Smoke and air contaminants. It shall be unlawful for any person, firm,
or corporation to permit the emission of any smoke or air contaminant in
violation of air quality standards adopted by federal and/or state regulatory
authorities.
   (B)   Odors. Any condition or operation which results in the creation of
odors of the intensity and character as to be detrimental to the health and
welfare of the public or which interferes unreasonably with the comfort of the
public shall be removed, stopped, or so modified as to remove the odor. The
provisions of this division (B) are not intended to apply to farming
activities.
   (C)   Gases. The escape or emission of any gas which is injurious or
destructive, harmful to person or property, or explosive shall be unlawful and
shall be abated.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.4)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.104 NOISE AND VIBRATION.
   (A)   Noise which is objectionable as determined by the village due to
volume, frequency, or beat shall be muffled, attenuated, or otherwise
controlled, subject to the noise control provisions in the Village Code.
   (B)   In addition, objectionable sounds of an intermittent nature, or sounds
characterized by high frequencies, even if falling below the decibel readings
in the noise control provisions of this code, shall be so controlled so as not
to become a nuisance to adjacent uses. Sirens and related apparatus used solely
for public purposes are exempt from this requirement. Noise resulting from
temporary construction activity shall also be exempt from this requirement.
   (C)   No use shall generate any ground transmitted vibration in excess of
the limits set forth below. Vibration shall be measured at the nearest adjacent
lot line. The vibration maximums set forth below are stated in terms of
particle velocity, which may be measured directly with suitable instrumentation
or computed on the basis of displacement and frequency. When computed, the
following standards shall apply.
 
Particle Velocity, Inches Per Second
Frequency in Cycles Per Second Displacement in Inches
0 to 10                        0.0010
10 to 20                       0.0008
20 to 30                       0.0005
30 to 40                       0.0004
40 and over                    0.0003
 
   (D)   Vibrations resulting from temporary construction activity shall be
exempt from the requirements of this section.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.105 USE, STORAGE, AND HANDLING OF HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES; STORAGE AND
DISPOSAL OF SOLID, LIQUID, AND SANITARY WASTES.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm, corporation, or other legal
entity to pollute, impair, or destroy the air, water, soils, or other natural
resources within the village through the use, storage, and handling of
hazardous substances and/or wastes or the storage and disposal of solid,
liquid, gaseous, and/or sanitary wastes.
   (B)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity operating a
business or conducting an activity which uses, stores, or generates hazardous
substances shall obtain the necessary permits or approval from the appropriate
federal, state, or local authority having jurisdiction.
   (C)   Any person, firm, corporation, or other legal entity operating a
business or conducting an activity which uses, stores, or generates hazardous
substances shall complete and file a hazardous chemicals survey on a form
supplied by the village in conjunction with the following:
      (1)   Upon submission of a site plan;
      (2)   Upon any change of use or occupancy of a structure or premises; and
      (3)   Upon any change of the manner in which the substances are handled,
and/or in the event of a change in the type of substances to be handled.
   (D)   All business and facilities which use, store, or generate hazardous
substances in quantities greater than 100 kilograms per month (equal to or
greater than 25 gallons or 220 pounds) shall comply with the following
standards.
      (1)   Above-ground storage and use areas for hazardous substances.
         (a)   1.   Secondary containment of hazardous substances and polluting
materials shall be provided.
            2.   Secondary containment shall be sufficiently impervious to
contain the substance for the maximum anticipated period of time necessary for
the recovery of any released substance.
         (b)   Outdoor storage of hazardous substances and polluting materials
shall be prohibited except in product-tight containers which are protected from
weather, leakage, accidental damage, and vandalism.
         (c)   Secondary containment structures such as out buildings, storage
rooms, sheds, and polebarns shall not have floor drains.
         (d)   Areas and facilities for loading/unloading of hazardous
substances and polluting materials, as well as areas where the materials are
handled and used, shall be designed and constructed to prevent discharge or
runoff.
      (2)   Underground storage tanks. Existing and new underground storage
tanks shall be registered, installed, operated, maintained, and removed in
accordance with requirements of the appropriate federal, state, or local
authority having jurisdiction.
      (3)   Loading and unloading areas. Areas used for the loading and
unloading of hazardous substances shall be designed and constructed to prevent
the harmful release to the environment of hazardous materials which may be
spilled or leaked.
   (E)   All site plans for businesses or facilities which use, store, or
generate hazardous substances shall be reviewed by the Fire Department, Village
Engineer, and any other appropriate experts determined necessary by the
Planning Commission prior to approval by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.6)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.106 ELECTRICAL DISTURBANCE, ELECTROMAGNETIC, OR RADIO FREQUENCY
INTERFERENCE.
   No use shall create any electrical disturbance that adversely affects any
operations or equipment other than those of the creator of the disturbance, or
cause, create, or contribute to the interference with electronic signals
(including television and radio broadcasting transmission) to the extent that
the operation of any equipment not owned by the creator of the disturbance is
adversely affected.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.7)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.107 GLARE AND EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   Light and glare from indirect sources.
      (1)   Glare from any process (such as or similar to arc welding or
acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful ultraviolet rays shall be
performed in such a manner as not to be seen from any point beyond the property
line, and as not to create a public nuisance or hazard along lot lines.
      (2)   The design and/or screening of the development shall ensure that
glare from automobile and commercial or industrial vehicle headlights shall not
be directed into any adjacent property, particularly residential property.
      (3)   Exterior doors shall be located, operated, and maintained so as to
prevent any glare and light from creating a nuisance or safety hazard to
operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians, and neighboring land uses.
   (B)   Exterior lighting from direct sources.
      (1)   Subject to the provisions set forth herein, all parking areas,
walkways, driveways, building entryways, off-street parking and loading areas,
and building complexes with common areas shall be sufficiently illuminated to
ensure the security of property and the safety of persons using the public or
common areas.
      (2)   Exterior lighting shall be located and maintained to prevent the
reflection and glare of light in a manner which created a nuisance or safety
hazard to operators of motor vehicles, pedestrians, and neighboring land uses.
This provision is not intended to apply to public street lighting.
   (C)   Additional standards. The following additional standards shall apply.
      (1)   Only white, nonglare lighting such as metal halide, color-corrected
high pressure sodium, or other types of lighting which achieve the same effect
shall be permitted. Lighting shall be placed and shielded so as to direct the
light onto the site and away from adjoining properties. Lighting shall be
shielded so that it does not cause glare for motorists.
      (2)   The light intensity provided at ground level shall be a minimum of
0.3 foot-candle anywhere in the area to be illuminated. Light intensity shall
average a minimum of 0.5 foot-candle over the entire area, measures 5 feet
above the surface.
      (3)   Except as noted below, lighting fixtures shall not exceed a height
of 25 feet. In portions of a site adjacent to residential areas, lighting
fixtures shall not exceed a height of 20 feet.
      (4)   All lighting, including ornamental lighting, shall be shown on site
plans in sufficient detail to allow determination of the effects of the
lighting upon adjacent properties, and traffic safety. Building or roof-mounted
lighting intended to attract attention to the building and/or use and not
strictly designed for security purpose is not permitted. Temporary holiday
lighting and decoration are exempt from the aforementioned provision.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.8)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.108 FIRE HAZARD.
   Any activity involving the use or storage of flammable or explosive
materials shall be protected by adequate fire-fighting and fire suppression
equipment and the safety devices as are normally used in the handling of any
such material. The hazards shall be kept removed from adjacent activities to a
distance which is compatible with the potential danger involved.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.9)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.109 SAFETY.
   Existing hazards or potential hazards and nuisances, such as construction
sites, junk yards, land fills, sanitary land fills, demolition sites, unused
basements, abandoned wells or cisterns and sand, gravel, and stone pits or
piles are to be enclosed by suitable fencing or barriers so as not to endanger
public health, safety, and welfare.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.10)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.110 STORMWATER MANAGEMENT.
   (A)   Generally. All developments and earth changes subject to review under
the requirements of this chapter shall be designed, constructed, and maintained
to prevent flooding and protect water quality. The particular facilities and
measures required on site shall reflect the natural features, wetlands, and
watercourses on the site; the potential for on-site and off-site flooding,
water pollution, and erosion; and the size of the site. Stormwater management
shall comply with the following standards.
      (1)   The design of storm sewers, detention facilities, and other
stormwater management facilities shall comply with the standards of the
Washtenaw County Drain Commissioner.
      (2)   Stormwater management conveyance, storage, and infiltration
measures and facilities shall be designed to prevent flood hazards arid water
pollution related to stormwater runoff and soil erosion from the proposed
development.
      (3)   The use of swales and vegetated buffer strips is encouraged in
cases where the Planning Commission deems to be safe and otherwise appropriate
as a method of stormwater conveyance so as to decrease runoff velocity, allow
for natural infiltration, allow suspended sediment particles to settle, and to
remove pollutants.
      (4)   Alterations to natural drainage patterns shall not create flooding
or water pollution for adjacent or downstream property owners.
      (5)   Discharge of runoff from any site which may contain oil, grease,
toxic chemicals, or other polluting materials is prohibited. If a property
owner desires to propose measures to reduce and trap pollutants, the owner must
meet the requirements of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality and
the Washtenaw County Drain Commissioner, based upon professionally accepted
principles, such a proposal shall be submitted and reviewed by the Village
Engineer, with consultation of appropriate experts.
      (6)   Drainage systems shall be designed to protect public health and
safety and to be visually attractive, taking into consideration viable
alternatives.
   (B)   On-site stormwater detention. For the purpose of controlling drainage
to off-site properties and drainage ways, all properties which are developed
under this zoning code, whether new or improved, shall provide for on-site
detention storage of storm water in accordance with the current Washtenaw
County Drain Commission’s standards.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.11)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.111 REGULATION OF FLOOD PLAIN AREAS.
   (A)   Purpose.
      (1)   The flood plains of the village are subject to periodic inundation
of floodwaters which result in loss of property, health, and safety hazards,
disruption of commerce and governmental service, and impairment of tax base.
      (2)   It is the purpose of this section to comply with the provisions and
requirements of the National Flood Insurance Program, as constituted in
accordance with the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968, and subsequent
enactments and rules and regulations promulgated in furtherance of this program
by the Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA), as published in the 44
C.F.R. pt. 31177.
      (3)   The provisions of this section are intended to:
         (a)   Help protect human life, prevent or minimize material losses,
and reduce the cost to the public for rescue and relief efforts;
         (b)   Restrict or prohibit uses which are dangerous to health, safety,
or property in times of flooding or cause excessive increases in flood heights
or velocities;
         (c)   Require that uses vulnerable to floods, including public
facilities which serve those uses, shall be protected against flood damage at
the time of initial construction;
         (d)   Protect individuals from buying lands which are designated to be
unsuited for intended purposes because of flooding; and
         (e)   Permit reasonable economic use of property located within a
designated flood plain area.
   (B)   Delineation of flood plain areas.
      (1)   Designated flood plain areas shall overlay existing zoning
districts delineated on the Zoning District Map of the village. The boundaries
of the flood plain areas are identified in the report entitled, the Flood
Insurance Study, Village of Manchester, prepared by FEMA with an effective date
of 6-15-1982, as may be revised from time to time. The study and accompanying
maps are adopted by reference, appended, and declared to be part of this
chapter.
      (2)   The standard applied to establishing the flood plain area is the
base flood plain delineated by the base flood. In areas associated with
riverine flooding, a floodway is designated within the flood plain area.
      (3)   Where there are disputes as to the location of a flood plain area
boundary, the Zoning Board of Appeals shall resolve the dispute in accordance
with
§§ 151.205 et seq.
   (C)   Application of regulations.
      (1)   In addition to other requirements of this chapter applicable to
development in the underlying zoning district, compliance with the requirements
of this section shall be necessary for all development occurring within
designated flood plain areas. Conflicts between the requirements of this
section and other requirements of this chapter or any other ordinance shall be
resolved in favor of this section, except where the conflicting requirement is
more stringent and would further the objectives of this section. In those
cases, the more stringent requirement shall be applied.
      (2)   Upon application for land use permits, the Zoning Administrator
shall determine whether the use is located within a designated flood plain area
utilizing the documents cited in division (B) above. The issuance of a land use
permit within the flood plain area shall comply with the following standards:
         (a)   The requirements of this section shall be met;
         (b)   The requirement of the underlying districts and all other
applicable provisions of this chapter shall be met; and
         (c)   All necessary development permits shall have been issued by
appropriate local, state, and federal authorities, including a flood plain
permit, approval, or letter of authority from the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources under authority of Public Act 451 of 1994, being M.C.L.A. §§
324.101 et seq. Where a development permit cannot be issued prior to the
issuance of a zoning compliance permit, a letter from the issuing agency
indicating intent to issue contingent only upon proof of zoning compliance
shall be acceptable.
      (3)   Flood plain management administrative duties.
         (a)   With regard to the National Flood Insurance Program, and the
regulation of development within the flood hazard area zone as prescribed in
division (D) below, the duties of the Zoning Administrator shall include, but
are not limited to:
            1.   Notification to adjacent communities and the Department of
Natural Resources of the proposed alteration or relocation of any watercourse,
and the submission of the notifications to the Federal Insurance
Administration;
            2.   Verification and recording of the actual elevation in relation
to mean sea level of the lowest floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures constructed within the flood hazard area, and
in the case of flood proofed structures, the elevation to which the structure
was flood proofed; and
            3.   Recording of all certificates of flood proofing, and written
notification to all applicants to whom variances are granted in flood hazard
area zone indicating the terms of the variance. A record of all variance
notifications and variance actions shall be maintained together with the
justification for each variance.
         (b)   All records and maps pertaining to the National Flood Insurance
Program shall be maintained in the office of the Zoning Administrator and shall
be open for public inspection.
         (c)   It shall be the responsibility of the Zoning Administrator to
obtain and utilize the best available flood hazard data for purposes of
administering this chapter in the absence of data from FEMA.
   (D)   Flood plain standards and requirements.
      (1)   The following general standards and requirements shall be applied
to all uses proposed to be located within the flood plain area.
         (a)   All new construction and substantial improvements within a flood
plain, including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile homes,
shall:
            1.   Be designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse, or
lateral movement of the structure;
            2.   Be constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant
to flood damage; and
            3.   Be constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood
damage.
         (b)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems.
         (c)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall minimize
or eliminate infiltration of flood waters into the systems and discharges from
systems into flood waters.
         (d)   All public utilities and facilities shall be designed,
constructed, and located to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
         (e)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
         (f)   The Village Engineer or his or her representative shall review
development proposals to determine compliance with the standards in this
sections and shall transmit his or her determination to the Zoning
Administrator.
         (g)   Land shall not be divided in a manner creating parcels or lots
which cannot be used in conformance with the requirements of
§§ 151.100 et seq.
         (h)   The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated
watercourse not subject to state and federal regulations designed to insure
flood carrying capacity shall be maintained.
         (i)   Available flood hazard data from federal, state, or other
sources shall be reasonably utilized in meeting the standards of this section.
Data furnished by FEMA shall take precedence over data from other sources.
      (2)   The following specific standards shall be applied to all uses
proposed to be located within the flood plain area but not within the floodway
portion of the flood plain area. All new construction and substantial
improvements of nonresidential structures shall have either;
         (a)   The lowest floor, including basement, elevated at least 0.1 foot
above the base flood level; or
         (b)   Be constructed so that below base flood level, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this division (D)(2)(b) are satisfied, and
that the floodproofing methods employed are adequate to withstand the flood
depths, pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces, and other factors
associated with base flood in the location of the structure.
      (3)   The following general standards and requirements shall be applied
to mobile homes located within flood plain areas.
         (a)   Anchoring must meet HUD specifications, per rule 605.
         (b)   An evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and
escape routes shall be filed with the Washtenaw County Sheriff Department for
mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions.
         (c)   Mobile homes within zones Al-30 on the Flood Insurance Rate Map
shall be located in accord with the following standards.
            1.   All mobile homes shall be placed on stands or lots which are
elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile
home will be at or above the base flood level.
            2.   Adequate surface drainage away from all structures and access
for a mobile home hauler shall be provided.
            3.   In the instance of elevation on pilings, lots shall be large
enough to permit steps, piling foundations shall be placed in stable soil no
more than 10 feet apart; and reinforcement shall be provided for piers more
than 6 feet above ground level.
            4.   In mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions which exist
at the time this division (D)(3)(c) is adopted, where repair, reconstruction or
improvement of streets, utilities, and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value
of the streets, utilities, and pads before the repair, the standards in
divisions (D)(3)(c)1. through (D)(3)(c)3. above shall be complied with.
      (4)   The following standards shall be applied to all uses proposed to be
located within the floodway portion of the flood plain area.
         (a)   1.   Encroachments, including fill, new construction,
substantial improvements, and other development shall be prohibited.
            2.   Exception to this prohibition shall only be made upon
certification by a registered professional engineer or the Department of
Natural Resources that the development proposed will not result in any
increases in flood levels during a base flood discharge, and compliance with
Public Act 245 of 1929, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 - 323.12, as amended by Public
Act 167 of 1968, being M.C.L.A. §§ 323.1 - 323.5b.
         (b)   The placement of mobile homes shall be prohibited.
         (c)   The uses of land permitted in an underlying zoning district
shall not be construed as being permitted within the regulatory floodway,
except upon compliance with the provisions of this section.
   (E)   Warning and disclaimer of liability.
      (1)   The degree of flood protection required by provisions of this
section is considered reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on
engineering and scientific methods of study. Larger floods may occur on rare
occasions.
      (2)   These provisions do not imply that areas outside the flood plain or
land uses permitted within the districts will be free from flooding or flood
damages nor shall the village or any officer or employee thereof be liable for
any flood damages that result from reliance on the provisions of this section
or any administrative decision lawfully made thereunder.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.12)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.112 BUILDING GRADES.
   (A)   Any building requiring yard space shall be located at such an
elevation that a finished grade shall be maintained to cause the flow of
surface water to run away from the walls of the building. All grades shall be
established and maintained so that surface water run-off damage does not occur
to adjoining properties prior to, during, and after construction.
   (B)   When a new building is constructed on a vacant lot between 2 existing
buildings or adjacent to an existing building, the Building Official shall use
the existing established finished grade or the minimum established grade, in
determining the proper grade around the new building. The yard around the new
building shall be graded in such a manner as to meet existing codes and to
preclude normal run-off of surface water to flow onto the adjacent property.
   (C)   Final grades shall be approved by the Building Official who may
require a grading plan which has been duly completed and certified by a
registered engineer or land surveyor.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 6.13)
Penalty, see § 151.999
PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT DISTRICTS
§ 151.125 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   Planned unit development (PUD) district regulations are intended to provide
for various types of land uses planned in a manner which shall encourage the
use of land in accordance with its character and adaptability; conserve natural
resources and energy; encourage innovation in land use planning; provide
enhanced housing, employment, shopping, traffic circulation, and recreational
opportunities for the people of the village; and bring about a greater
compatibility of design and use. The provisions of
§§ 151.125 et seq. provide enabling authority and standards for the submission,
review, and approval of applications for planned unit developments.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 7.1)
§ 151.126 PUD REGULATIONS.
   (A)   A planned unit development (PUD) may be applied for in any zoning
district. The grant of a planned unit development application shall require a
rezoning by way of amendment of this chapter upon the recommendation of the
Planning Commission and approval of the Village Council.
   (B)   Any land use authorized in this chapter may be included in a planned
unit development, subject to adequate public health, safety, and welfare
protection mechanisms being designed into the development to ensure the
compatibility of varied land uses both within and outside the development
   (C)   The applicant for a planned unit development mast demonstrate all of
the following criteria as a condition to being entitled to planned unit
development treatment.
      (1)   Grant of the planned unit development will result in 1 of the
following:
         (a)   A recognizable and material benefit to the ultimate users of the
project and to the community, where the benefit would otherwise be unfeasible
or unlikely to be achieved without application of the planned unit development
regulations;
         (b)   Long-term protection and preservation of natural resources and
natural features of a significant quantity and/or quality, where the benefit
would otherwise be unfeasible or unlikely to be achieved without application of
the planned unit development regulations; or
         (c)   A nonconforming use shall, to a material extent, be rendered
more conforming, or less offensive, to the zoning district in which it is
situated.
      (2)   The proposed type and density of use shall not result in an
unreasonable increase in the need for or burden upon public services,
facilities, streets, and utilities.
      (3)   The proposed development shall be consistent with the public
health, safety, and welfare of the village.
      (4)   The proposed development shall not result in an unreasonable
negative environmental impact on the subject site or surrounding land.
      (5)   The proposed development shall not result in an unreasonable
negative economic impact upon surrounding properties.
      (6)   The proposed development shall be under single ownership and/or
control so that there is a single person having responsibility for completing
the project in conformity with this chapter.
      (7)   The proposed development shall be consistent with the goals and
policies of the general development plan.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 7.2)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.127 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW.
   (A)   Preapplication conference. Prior to the submission of an application
for planned unit development approval, the applicant shall meet with the Zoning
Administrator, together with any staff and consultants the Administrator deems
appropriate. The applicant shall present at the conference, or conferences, at
least a sketch plan of the proposed planned unit development, as well as the
following information:
      (1)   Total number of acres in the project;
      (2)   A statement of the number of residential units, if any;
      (3)   The number and type of nonresidential uses;
      (4)   The number of acres to be occupied by each type of use;
      (5)   The known deviations from ordinance;
      (6)   Regulations to be sought;
      (7)   The number of acres to be preserved as open or recreational space;
and
      (8)   All known natural resources and natural features to be preserved.
   (B)   Preliminary plan.
      (1)   Generally. Following the preapplication conference, the applicant
shall submit a preliminary site plan of the proposed planned unit development.
The preliminary site plan shall be prepared in accordance with the standard set
forth in
§ 151.023(C). A narrative report shall accompany the site plan providing a
description of the project, discussing the market concept and feasibility of
the project, and explaining the manner in which the criteria set forth in
§ 151.125 have been met.
      (2)   Planning Commission action. The preliminary plan shall be noticed
for public hearing as a zoning amendment before the Planning Commission.
Following the hearing, the Planning Commission shall review the preliminary
site plan and shall take 1 of the following actions.
         (a)   Approval. Upon finding that the preliminary plan meets the
criteria and standards set forth in §§
151.125 and
151.126, the Planning Commission shall grant preliminary approval. Approval
shall constitute approval of the uses and design concept as shown on the
preliminary plan and shall confer upon the applicant the right to proceed to
preparation of the final plan. Approval of the preliminary plan by the Planning
Commission shall not constitute rezoning of the property to PLTD nor bind the
Village Council to approval of the final plan.
         (b)   Tabling. Upon finding that the preliminary plan does not meet
the criteria and standards set forth in §§
151.125 and
151.126, but could meet the criteria if revised, the Planning Commission may
table action until a revised preliminary plan is resubmitted.
         (c)   Denial. Upon finding that the preliminary plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in §§
151.125 and
151.126, the Planning Commission shall deny preliminary approval.
   (C)   Final plan. Within 6 months following receipt of the Planning
Commission comments on the preliminary plan, the applicant shall submit a final
plan and supporting materials conforming with this section. If a final plan is
not submitted by the applicant for final approval within 6 months following
receipt of Planning Commission comments, the preliminary plan approval becomes
null and void.
      (1)   Information required. A final site plan and application for a PUD
shall contain the following information:
         (a)   A site plan meeting all requirements of
§ 151.023(D);
         (b)   A separately delineated specification of all deviations from
this chapter which would otherwise be applicable to the uses and development
proposed in the absence of
§§ 151.125 et seq.;
         (c)   A specific schedule of the intended development and construction
details, including phasing or timing;
         (d)   A specific schedule of the general improvements to constitute a
part of the development, including, without limitation, lighting, signage, the
mechanisms designed to reduce noise, utilities, and visual screening features;
         (e)   A specification of the exterior building materials with respect
to the structures proposed in the project; and
         (f)   Signatures of all parties having an interest in the property.
      (2)   Planning Commission action. The final plan shall constitute an
application to amend this chapter, and shall be noticed for public hearing as a
zoning amendment before the Planning Commission, and otherwise acted upon by
the Planning Commission, and the Village Council, as provided by law.
         (a)   Approval. Upon finding that the final plan meets the criteria
and standards set forth in §§
151.125 and
151.126, the Planning Commission shall recommend approval to the Village
Council.
         (b)   Tabling. Upon finding that the final plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in §§
151.125 and
151.126, but could meet the criteria if revised, the Planning Commission may
take action until a revised final plan is resubmitted.
         (c)   Denial. Upon finding that the final plan does not meet the
criteria and standards set forth in §§
151.125 and
151.126, the Planning Commission shall recommend denial to the Village Council.
The Planning Commission shall, to the extent it deems appropriate, submit
detailed recommendations relative to the planned unit development project,
including, without limitation, recommendations with respect to matters on which
the Village Council must exercise discretion.
      (3)   Village Council action. Upon receiving a recommendation from the
Planning Commission, the Village Council shall review the final plan. Taking
into consideration the recommendations of the Planning Commission and the
criteria and standards set forth in §§
151.125 and
151.126, the Village Council shall approve, table, or deny the final plan.
Prior to approval of a final plan, the Village Council shall require all
standards and conditions of approval to be incorporated in a development
agreement. The agreement shall be prepared by the Village Attorney, approved by
the Village Council, and signed by both the village and the applicant.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 7.3)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.128 PROJECT DESIGN STANDARDS.
   (A)   Residential design standards.
      (1)   Residential density shall not be greater than the maximum density
permitted in the zoning district in which the property is situated immediately
prior to classification under
§§ 151.125 et seq.
      (2)   Additional density for residential uses may be allowed in the
discretion of the Village Council upon the recommendation of the Planning
Commission and based upon a demonstration by the applicant of consistency with
the general development plan and of planning and design excellence resulting in
a material benefit to the village, adjacent land uses, and/or the ultimate
users of the project, where the benefit would otherwise be unlikely to be
achieved without the application of the PUD regulations, including, without
limitation, innovative design producing significant energy efficiency,
pedestrian or vehicular safety, long-term aesthetic beauty, and protection and
preservation of natural resources and features.
   (B)   Nonresidential design standards.
      (1)   Nonresidential uses may be permitted in combination with other
nonresidential uses or as part of a common development with residential uses.
      (2)   The nonresidential uses, including parking and vehicular traffic
ways, shall be separated and buffered from residential units in a manner
consistent with good land and community planning principles.
   (C)   General design standards.
      (1)   (a)   All regulations applicable to setbacks, parking and loading,
general provisions, and other requirements shall be met in relation to each
respective land use in the development based upon zoning districts in which the
use is listed as a principal permitted use. In all cases, the strictest
provisions shall apply.
         (b)   Notwithstanding division (C)(1)(a) above, deviations with
respect to the regulation may be granted as part of the overall approval of the
planned unit development, provided there are features or elements demonstrated
by the applicant and deemed adequate by the Village Council upon the
recommendation of the Planning Commission designed into the project plan for
the purpose of achieving the objectives of
§§ 151.125 et seq.
      (2)   To the maximum extent feasible, the development shall be designed
so as to preserve the natural resources and natural features. The benefit which
would reasonably be expected to accrue from the proposal shall be balanced
against the reasonably foreseeable detriments of the activity, taking into
consideration the local, state, and national concern for the protection and
preservation of the natural resources or features and the following criteria:
         (a)   The availability of feasible and prudent alternative methods of
accomplishing any development;
         (b)   The extent and permanence of the beneficial or detrimental
effects of the proposed activity; and
         (c)   The size, quality, and rarity of the natural resources or
natural features which would be impaired or destroyed.
      (3)   There shall be a perimeter setback and berming, as found to be
necessary by the village, for the purpose of buffering the development in
relation to surrounding properties. If the planned unit development project
includes nonresidential uses adjacent to a district authorizing residential
uses, and/or if the project is larger than 1 acre in area, the perimeter
setback shall be established with a dimension from the property line of up to
100 feet in the discretion of the Village Council, taking into consideration
the use or uses in and adjacent to the development. The setback distance need
not be uniform at all points on the perimeter of the development.
      (4)   Thoroughfare, drainage, and utility design shall meet or exceed the
standards otherwise applicable in connection with each of the respective types
of uses served.
      (5)   There shall be underground installation of utilities, including
electricity, and telephone, as found necessary by the village.
      (6)   Pedestrian walkways shall be separated from vehicular circulation,
as found necessary by the village.
      (7)   Signage, lighting, landscaping, building materials for the exterior
of all structures, and other features of the project shall be designed and
completed with the objective of achieving an integrated and controlled
development, consistent with the character of the community, surrounding
development or developments, and natural features of the area.
      (8)   Where nonresidential uses adjoin off-site residentially-zoned
property, noise reduction and visual screening mechanisms such as earthen and/
or landscape berms and/or decorative walls, shall be employed. The village, in
its discretion, shall review and approve the design and location of the
mechanisms.
      (9)   The Village Council, upon the recommendation of the Planning
Commission, shall resolve all ambiguities as to applicable regulations using
the zoning code, general development plan, and other village standards or
policies as a guide.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 7.4)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.129 CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Reasonable conditions may be required with the approval of a planned
unit development, to the extent authorized by law, for the purpose of ensuring
that public services and facilities affected by a proposed land use or activity
will be capable of accommodating increased service and facility loads caused by
the land use or activity, protecting the natural environment and conserving
natural resources and energy, ensuring compatibility with adjacent uses of
land, and promoting the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner.
   (B)   Conditions imposed shall be designed to protect natural resources and
the public health, safety, and welfare of individuals in the project and those
immediately adjacent, and the community as a whole; reasonably related to the
purposes affected by the planned unit development; and, necessary to meet the
intent and purpose of this chapter, and be related to the objective of ensuring
compliance with the standards of this chapter. All conditions imposed shall be
made a part of the record of the approved planned unit development.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 7.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.130 PHASING AND COMMENCEMENT OF CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   Phasing. Where a project is proposed for construction in phases, the
planning and designing shall be such that, upon completion, each phase shall be
capable of standing on its own in terms of the presence of services,
facilities, and open space, and shall contain the necessary components to
ensure protection of natural resources and the health, safety, and welfare of
the users of the planned unit development and the residents of the surrounding
area. In addition, in developments which include residential and nonresidential
uses, the relative mix of uses and the scheduled completion of construction for
each phase shall be disclosed and determined to be reasonable in the discretion
of the Village Council after recommendation from the Planning Commission.
   (B)   Commencement and completion of construction. To ensure completion of
required improvements, the village is authorized to impose performance
guarantees in accordance with
§ 151.026. Construction shall be commenced within 1 year following final
approval of a planned unit development and shall proceed substantially in
conformance with the schedule set forth by the applicant, as required by
§ 151.126(C). If construction is not commenced within the time, any approval of
a site plan on the project shall expire and be null and void, provided, an
extension for a specified period may be granted by the Village Council upon
good cause shown if the request is made to the Village Council prior to the
expiration of the initial period. Moreover, in the event a site plan has
expired, the Village Council, based on a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, shall be authorized to rezone the property in any reasonable
manner, and, if the property remains classified as PUD, a new application shall
be required, and shall be reviewed in light of then existing and applicable law
and ordinance provisions.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 7.6)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.131 EFFECT OF APPROVAL.
   When approved, the planned unit development amendment, with all conditions
imposed, if any, shall constitute the land use authorization for the property,
and all improvement and use shall be in conformity with the amendment. Notice
of adoption of the final PUD plan and conditions shall be recorded by the
applicant at the Washtenaw County Register of Deeds, evidence of which shall be
supplied to the Zoning Administrator.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 7.7)
SIGNS
§ 151.145 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   (A)   The intent of
§§ 151.145 et seq. is to regulate the location, size, construction, and manner
of display of signs and outdoor advertising in order to minimize their harmful
effects on the public health, safety, and welfare. While this chapter
recognizes that signs and outdoor advertising are necessary to promote commerce
and public information, failure to regulate them may lead to poor
identification of individual businesses, deterioration and blight of the
business and residential areas of the village, conflicts between different
types of land use, and reduction in traffic safety to pedestrians and
motorists.
   (B)   To achieve its intended purpose,
§§ 151.145 et seq. has the following objectives:
      (1)   To prevent the placement of signs in a manner that will conceal or
obscure signs or adjacent businesses;
      (2)   To keep the number of signs and sign messages at the level
reasonably necessary to identify a business and its products;
      (3)   To keep signs within a reasonable scale with respect to the
buildings they identify;
      (4)   To reduce visual distraction and obstructions to motorists
traveling along, entering, or leaving streets;
      (5)   To promote a quality manner of display which enhances the character
of the village;
      (6)   To prevent the proliferation of temporary signs which might promote
visual blight; and
      (7)   To eliminate the potential for any adverse effects on the
neighboring properties.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.1; Am. Ord. 289, passed 6-2-2014)
§ 151.146 GENERAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   Location. All signs must advertise a business or service on the
premises upon which the sign is located and to which the sign is accessory,
unless otherwise specified herein.
   (B)   Illumination.
      (1)   No sign shall be illuminated by other than electrical means.
      (2)   The light from illuminated signs shall be directed and shielded in
a manner that will not interfere with vehicular traffic or the enjoyment and
use of adjacent properties, nor directly shine onto adjacent or abutting
properties. Illuminated signs adjacent to residentially zoned or used property
shall be designed and maintained such that illumination levels do not exceed
0.1 foot-candle along the adjacent property line. All externally illuminated
signs shall have a shielded light fixture.
      (3)   No sign shall have blinking, flashing, or fluttering lights or
other illuminating devices which have a changing light intensity, brightness or
color, or which are so constructed and operated as to create an appearance or
illusion of writing or printing, except that movement showing the date, the
time and the temperature exclusively may be permitted.
      (4)   Internal illumination shall be permitted under the following
circumstances:
         (a)   Individual back-lit letters which are silhouetted against softly
illuminated walls;
         (b)   Individual letters with translucent faces, containing soft
lighting elements inside each letter; and
         (c)   Metal-faced box signs with cut-out letters and soft-glow
fluorescent tubes;
      (5)   Only indirectly illuminated signs shall be allowed in any
residential district.
      (6)   Internally-illuminated plastic signs with dark-colored detachable
letters shall be strictly prohibited in all districts.
      (7)   Gas-filled light types (fluorescent) shall be allowed for indirect
illumination and when placed in such a manner that the tubes are not exposed to
view from any point along the roadway or sidewalk.
      (8)   Rear-illuminated (backlit) awnings are prohibited.
      (9)   Neon lighting is prohibited outside of the sign structure and shall
not be permitted as accent lighting along a building wall or window.
   (C)   Safety.
      (1)   All signs shall be erected and maintained in compliance with all
applicable building codes, and other applicable ordinances governing
construction within the village. In the event of conflict between this chapter
and other laws, the most restrictive shall govern.
      (2)   All signs shall be so placed as to not interfere with the
visibility or effectiveness of any official traffic sign or signal; driver
vision at any access point or intersection; or pedestrian movement on any
public sidewalk.
      (3)   No sign shall be erected, relocated, or maintained so as to
obstruct firefighting or prevent free access to any door, window, or fire
escape.
   (D)   Landscape quality and preservation. In the application of this
chapter, it is the intent to protect the public welfare and to enhance the
appearance and economic value of the landscape by providing that signs:
      (1)   Do not interfere with scenic views;
      (2)   Do not create a nuisance to persons using the public right-of-way;
      (3)   Do not constitute a nuisance to occupancy of adjacent and
continuous property by their brightness, size, height, or movement;
      (4)   Are not detrimental to land or property values; and
      (5)   Contribute to the special character of particular areas or
districts in the village.
   (E)   Signs prohibited in all districts.
      (1)   Roof signs;
      (2)   Signs containing flashing, intermittent or moving lights, moving or
revolving parts, or reflecting parts which may distract drivers. This provision
is not intended to exclude those signs which give the time or temperature,
provided no other animated messages are displayed;
      (3)   Signs affixed to trees, rocks, shrubs, or similar natural features,
except signs denoting a site of historic significance;
      (4)   Signs which imitate traffic signals, traffic direction signs, or
similar traffic-control devices, and signs which make use of words such as
“Stop,” “Look,” “Danger,” or any other words, phrases, symbols, or characters,
in such a manner as to interfere with, mislead, or confuse traffic;
      (5)   Temporary signs mounted upon trucks, vans, or other wheeled
devices, except for political signs. Signs permanently painted on, or otherwise
permanently displayed upon, a vehicle licensed and operating on the public
streets and highways, identifying the owner's occupation or livelihood, shall
be permitted;
      (6)   Signs other than those erected by a public agency which are located
within or overhang the public right-of-way or on public property, unless
otherwise specified herein;
      (7)   Any sign or sign structure which constitutes a hazard to public
health and safety due to inadequate maintenance; and
      (8)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected, or maintained.
   (F)   Signs permitted in all districts.
      (1)   Nameplates not exceeding 2 square feet in size;
      (2)   Political signs for public office or issues to be determined by
election may be erected 45 days prior to an election. The signs shall be
erected on private property only and no less than 100 feet from any entrance to
a building in which a polling place is located. All signs shall be removed 5
days following Election Day;
      (3)   Directional signs which indicate the direction of traffic flow on
private property. Directional signs shall not exceed 2 square feet in size,
shall contain no advertising, and may be illuminated; and
      (4)   Street numbers.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.2; Am. Ord. 289, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see
§
151.999
§ 151.147 PERMITTED FREESTANDING SIGNS.
   (A)   General requirements.
      (1)   One freestanding sign shall be permitted per premises which has
frontage on only 1 public road.
      (2)   Two freestanding signs shall be permitted per premises which has
frontage on 2 public roads. One sign shall not exceed the area requirements set
forth herein. The second sign shall not exceed 50% of the area requirements set
forth herein. Maximum sign area is provided in Table A below.
      (3)   A freestanding sign shall have a setback of 10 feet from a public
road right-of-way and a setback distance equal to the height of the sign from
all other property boundaries.
      (4)   Within all residential zoning districts, only 1 ground sign shall
be permitted per zoning lot for the purpose of identifying a non-residential
special land use. Size and location shall be determined during site plan
review.
      (5)   All internally illuminated free-standing signs shall have a
background darker than the lettering. If a free-standing sign has an opaque
background and only the letters are illuminated, it may have a non-illuminated
light background.
   (B)   Specific requirements. Freestanding signs shall be permitted by
district in accordance with the following requirements.
   Table A - Maximum Sign Dimensions for Freestanding Signs
District Height Limit Square Foot Limit (per side) Setback
District Height Limit Square Foot Limit (per side) Setback
CBD      6 feet       25 square feet               10 feet
C-2      8 feet       25 square feet               10 feet
OS       6 feet       20 square feet               10 feet
I-1      6 feet       30 square feet               10 feet
I-2      10 feet      40 square feet               10 feet
R1-3     6 feet       20 square feet               10 feet
MHP      6 feet       20 square feet               10 feet
 
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.3; Am. Ord. 289, passed 6-2-2014) Penalty, see
§
151.999
§ 151.148 PERMITTED WALL SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. The following wall signs shall be permitted in the
following districts in accordance with the regulations herein.
   (B)   General requirements.
      (1)   No wall sign shall be erected to extend above the top of the wall
to which it is attached, nor extend beyond the ends of the wall to which it is
attached. Signs erected on the vertical portion of the mansard roof are
considered to be wall signs.
      (2)   All wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to the
building by means of metal anchors, bolts, or expansion screws. In no case
shall any wall sign be secured with wire, straps of wood, or nails.
      (3)   (a)   There shall be no more than 1 wall sign permitted for each
building.
         (b)   Buildings which have frontages on 2 public rights-of-way are
permitted a wall sign on both building frontages, provided total square foot
area requirements set forth in division (C) below are not exceeded.
      (4)   For buildings with distinct and separate uses, separate wall signs
shall be permitted for each use. However, the total allowable square footage
shall not exceed the maximum allowable square footage specified for each
district.
   (C)   Specific requirements. Wall signs shall be permitted by the district
in accordance with the following requirements.
 
District                            Height Area
CBD and C-2 Districts; all                 1 square foot for each lineal foot
permitted and special uses          4 feet of building frontage not to exceed a
                                           total of 100 square feet
                                           1 square foot for each lineal foot
OS District                         4 feet of building frontage not to exceed a
                                           total of 40 square feet
I-1 and I-2 Districts; all                 1 square foot for each lineal foot
permitted and special uses          4 feet of building frontage not to exceed a
                                           total of 40 square feet
R-1A, R-1B, R-2, and R-3 Districts;
all nonresidential permitted and           1 square foot for each lineal foot
special uses such as schools,       2 feet of building frontage not to exceed a
churches, parks, and municipal             total of 20 square feet
buildings
R-1A, R-1B, R-2, and R-3 Districts;        1 square foot for each lineal foot
identification signs for all        2 feet of building frontage not to exceed a
residential developments                   total of 20 square feet
 
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.4)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.149 PERMITTED PROJECTING SIGNS.
   (A)   Projecting and suspended signs shall be permitted in CBD Central
Business Districts.
   (B)   The surface area of the projecting or suspended sign shall not exceed
20 square feet on each side or a total of 40 square feet. The total square feet
of signage (both sides) shall be subtracted from the total allowable wall
signage square footage for the district
   (C)   The bottom of the projecting or suspended sign shall be a minimum of 8
feet above the surface of the sidewalk or ground area, or otherwise be located
so as not to interfere with pedestrian traffic.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.150 PERMITTED TEMPORARY SIGNS.
   (A)   Generally. The following temporary signs shall be permitted in
accordance with the regulations herein.
   (B)   Permitted real estate.
      (1)   One nonilluminated sign used for advertising land or buildings for
rent, lease, or sale shall be permitted in any district, provided the signs are
located on the property intended to be rented, leased, or sold. The signs shall
not exceed an area of 6 square feet and a height of 4 feet in all residential
districts, and an area of 32 square feet and a height of 12 feet in all other
districts. The signs must be removed 7 days after closing. Real estate open
house and directional signs are limited to use on the day of the event, and are
allowed in the public right-of-way.
      (2)   Signs listing persons or firms connected with construction or work
being performed are prohibited.
   (C)   Temporary signs and promotional signs and banners.
      (1)   Temporary promotional sign or banner. In all districts, the Zoning
Administrator may allow a business to use 1 temporary promotional sign or
banner for a period of up to a 45 days. The use of temporary promotional signs
or banners is limited to 4 times per calendar year. All temporary signs
permitted under this provision shall otherwise comply with all requirements
pertaining to height and area for the zoning district in which they are
located.
      (2)   Allowable portable display signs.
            (a)   Definition.  PORTABLE DISPLAY SIGNS are defined as follows:
               1.   SANDWICH-BOARD TYPE. Two rigid boards, connected at the top
to form an A-frame, with the faces of the board extending to within 6 inches of
the ground;
               2.   EASEL TYPE. A single board, held vertically or almost
vertically, and supported with leg(s) extending from the top of the board to
the ground to form an A-frame. The board shall extend to within 6 inches of the
ground;
               3.   DOUBLE-SIDED TYPE. A single board with display faces on
each side, standing vertical and supported at the bottom.
            (b)   Location.
               1.   In commercial zones (OS, C-2, and CBD), 1 portable display
sign shall be permitted per building or business, placed directly in front of
that business or property.
               2.   In the Central Business District (CBD), portable display
signs must be placed so that the outer edge of the display shall be not more
than 30 inches from the face of the building.
               3.   For buildings with distinct and separate uses, 1 portable
display sign shall be permitted for each principal public building entrance,
adjacent to that principal public building entrance.
               4.   In the C-1 and C-2 Districts, portable display signs must
be placed at least 2 feet off the inside of the sidewalk.
            (c)   Specifications. Maximum height shall not exceed 5 feet.
Maximum width shall not exceed 2 feet. Portable display signs must be self-
supporting and structurally stable under all reasonable wind and weather
conditions. Business owners will be free to design high-quality creations with
minimum restrictions, encouraging hand-painted, carved, and unique signage on a
flat surface. Portable display signage is encouraged to be visually consistent
with the architecture within the district the signs are used.
            (d)   Restrictions.
               1.   Must advertise the adjacent business.
               2.   Shall not be attached to any stationary fixture in the
public sidewalk or common areas.
               3.   Must not obstruct any driveway, or the sight lines of
motorists entering or exiting a driveway or street.
               4.   Are the responsibility of the sign owner to remove during
inclement weather.
               5.   Shall be used only during hours of operation and must not
be left on the sidewalk overnight.
               7.   Illumination is prohibited.
               8.   Must be kept in good condition.
               9.   All portable display signs are, at all times, subject to
removal at the order of the police or Village Manager for emergencies, major
events, and right-of-way maintenance.
            (e)   Permitting process. All portable display signs require
submission of an application and a 1-time issuance of a permit. New or
replacement signs require a new permit.
               1.   A certificate of insurance coverage, naming the village as
an additional insured party in the amount of at least $1,000,000 for public
liability and property damage associated with the use and placement of the
sign, must be filed with the Zoning Administrator, if the portable display sign
is to be placed in the public right-of-way.
               2.   A hold harmless and indemnification agreement, signed on
behalf of the business, must be filed with the Zoning Administrator.
               3.   Application and permit fees shall be established by the
Village Council.
      (3)   Allowable civic and charitable activity signs.
            (a)   Permission to display a sign or banner for civic or
charitable activity may be authorized by the Zoning Administrator and requires
a permit.
            (b)   Non-profit community groups may display portable display
signs on the public right-of-way next to a business in the Central Business
District within 5 days of, during, and no more than 24 hours after, their
event, with the permission of that business owner. The business owner does not
forfeit the right to display their own business sign. The non-profit signs
should fall under the same design and permitting standards as the for-profit
portable display signs, except for the insurance requirement (division (C)(2)
(e)1.).
      (4)   Promotional light pole banners are permitted with Council approval.
Promotional street banners are permitted on village-controlled streets with the
Zoning Administrator’s approval. All promotional banners that are not properly
maintained shall be removed at the order of the Zoning Administrator.
      (5)   All other promotional signs and banners are strictly prohibited.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.6; Am. Ord. 269, passed 4-7-2008)  
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.151 PERMITTED BILLBOARDS.
   (A)   Generally. The following regulations shall apply to billboards.
   (B)   Where permitted. Billboards shall be permitted only in the I-
2 District, subject to the standards contained herein, and the Highway
Advertising Act of 1972, as amended.
   (C)   Spacing.
      (1)   Not more than 3 billboards may be located per linear mile of street
or highway regardless of the fact that the billboards may be located on
different sides of the street or highway. The linear mile measurement shall not
be limited to the boundaries of the Village of Manchester where the particular
street or highway extends beyond the boundaries. Double-faced billboard
structures (i.e., structures having back-to-back billboard faces) and V-type
billboard structures having only 1 face visible to traffic proceeding from any
given direction on a street or highway shall be considered as 1 billboard.
Additionally, billboard structures having tandem billboard faces (i.e., 2
parallel billboard faces facing the same direction and side by side to one
another) or stacked billboard faces (i.e., 2 billboard faces facing the same
direction with 1 face being directly above the other) shall be considered as 1
billboard. Otherwise, billboard structures having more than 1 billboard face
shall be considered as 2 billboards and shall be prohibited in accordance with
the minimum spacing requirement set forth in division (C)(2) below.
      (2)   No billboard shall be located within 1,000 feet of another
billboard abutting either side of the same street or highway.
      (3)   No billboard shall be located within 200 feet of a residential zone
and/or existing residence. If the billboard is illuminated, this required
distance shall instead be 300 feet.
      (4)   No billboard shall be located closer than 75 feet from a property
line adjoining a public right-of-way or 10 feet from any interior boundary
lines of the premises on which the billboard is located.
   (D)   Height. The height of a billboard shall not exceed 30 feet above the
level of the street or road upon which the billboard faces or to which the
message upon the billboard is directed. In the event that the billboard is
situated upon 2 streets or roads having different levels, the height of the
billboard shall be measured from the higher street or road.
   (E)   Surface area. The surface display area of any side of a billboard may
not exceed 300 square feet. In the case of billboard structures with tandem or
stacked billboard faces, the combined surface display area of both faces may
not exceed 300 square feet.
   (F)   Illumination. A billboard may be illuminated, provided the
illumination is concentrated on the surface of the sign and is located so as to
avoid glare or reflection onto any portion of an adjacent street or highway,
the path of on-coming vehicles or any adjacent premises. In no event shall any
billboard have flashing or intermittent lights, nor shall the lights be
permitted to rotate or oscillate.
   (G)   Construction and maintenance.
      (1)   No billboard shall be on top of, cantilevered, or otherwise
suspended above the roof any building.
      (2)   (a)   A billboard must be constructed in such a fashion that it
will withstand all wind and vibration forces that can normally be expected to
occur in the vicinity.
         (b)   A billboard must be maintained so as to assure proper alignment
of structure, continued structural soundness and continued readability of
message.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.7)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.152 MISCELLANEOUS PERMITTED SIGNS.
   (A)   Directory signs. For offices, office parks, industrial parks, and
multi-tenant buildings in the CBD, directory signs which identify only the
names and locations of occupants or uses within a building on a lot shall be
permitted in addition to other signs permitted under these regulations.
      (1)   No more than 1 directory sign per lot is permitted, except where a
lot has frontage on no less than 2 sides.
      (2)   No directory sign shall exceed 24 square feet in area or 6 feet in
height from finished grade.
      (3)   No directory sign shall be located closer than 50 feet to any
property line in all Districts except the CBD.
   (B)   Menu board. One menu board for a drive-in or drive-through restaurant
shall be permitted in addition to other signs permitted under these
regulations, provided the sign does not exceed 16 square feet in area or 6 feet
in height from finished grade.
   (C)   Changeable copy signs. Manual changeable copy signs shall be permitted
when incorporated into a permitted wall or ground sign, provided that the area
devoted to changeable copy does not exceed 20% of the permissible sign area.
      (1)   Lettering used on manual changeable copy signs directed to local or
collector streets shall not exceed 3 inches in height.
      (2)   Lettering used on manual changeable copy signs directed to
secondary or major arterial streets shall not exceed least 6 inches in height.
      (3)   Lettering used on manual changeable copy signs directed to
pedestrians shall be at least 2 inches in height.
   (D)   Off-premises directional signs. Off-premises directional signs
directing vehicular traffic to a church, governmental building, or educational
institution may be permitted in all districts subject to the review of the
Planning Commission and the following standards.
      (1)   No more than 2 signs per use shall be permitted.
      (2)   The size of an off-premises directional sign shall not exceed 2
square feet in size.
      (3)   The height of an off-premises directional sign shall be no less
than 3 feet nor exceed 6 feet. However, variations in height may be granted by
the Planning Commission to accommodate vehicular visibility to avoid
obstruction to visibility.
      (4)   Illumination shall not be permitted.
      (5)   Permission of the property owner where the proposed sign is to be
located must be provided.
   (E)   Historic markers.
      (1)   If a structure within the village has been designated a state
historical site or listed in the National Register of Historic Places, then a
marker designating that fact, obtained from the appropriate state or federal
agency, shall be permitted in addition to any other sign or signs which may
lawfully be placed on the structure or the property on which the structure is
located.
      (2)   Anyone wishing to place a historic marker on a structure or
property shall complete and file a sign permit application with the Zoning
Administrator. No fee shall be charged for a historic marker application.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review the proposed placement of the
historic marker and no historic marker shall be placed on any structure or
property unless a permit has been approved by the Planning Commission.
   (F)   Window signs.
      (1)   Any sign, excluding the posting of hours of operation and/or street
and building address, which is painted or mounted onto a window pane, or which
is hung directly inside the window with the purpose or effect of identifying
any premises from the sidewalk or street. Window signs shall not exceed more
than 30% of the window area in which they are displayed.
      (2)   Nontemporary signs hung inside windows shall be made of clear
materials, such as transparent plastic, with lettering painted or attached to
them, with all hours of operation, credit card and address signs being exempt.
      (3)   Window signs do not require sign permits, nor count in the
calculation of total building signage permitted.
      (4)   Permanent and/or illuminated window signs require a permit and
application.
   (G)   Mural signs. When a mural or graphic includes identification of an
establishment or specific services, good, or products, or a representation of
the types of services, good, or products provided on the site, the mural area
will count towards the total permitted wall sign area. Murals are subject to
conditional land approval based upon a recommendation from the Planning
Commission and the following standards.
      (1)   No mural may be placed on any building or structure that includes
nonconforming signs.
      (2)   Only 1 wall, facade, or surface of a building or structure may be
used for a mural.
      (3)   A wall, facade, or surface that is used for a mural pertaining to
the business on which it is located shall be counted as 1 sign. A mural will
count towards the total wall signage allowed for the business; however, the
Village Council in its sole discretion may permit murals of larger size. Larger
murals shall be permitted when determined to demonstrate at least 1 of the
following:
         (a)   Accentuates the historic features of the building;
         (b)   Masks an unattractive building facade;
         (c)   Creates an aesthetically pleasing amenity; and/or
         (d)   Superior in aesthetics to an attached wall sign;
      (4)   The owner of record of the building or structure on which the
proposed mural is to be placed shall, in writing, consent to the placement of
the mural on the property, and shall agree to restore the wall, facade, or
surface upon which the mural is placed to its prior existing condition if and
at the time the mural is not maintained by the applicant. The permit
application shall include a statement detailing the applicant’s plans for the
maintenance of the mural.
      (5)   In the review of the conditional land use, the Village Council
shall grant approval only if the following criteria are met.
         (a)   The placing of the proposed mural at the location selected by
the applicant would not constitute a significant traffic safety hazard.
         (b)   Neither the mural, nor the placement of the mural, would
endanger the public health, safety, or general welfare.
         (c)   Neither the mural, nor the placement of the mural, would be
injurious to the use and enjoyment of other property in the immediate vicinity
of the proposed location.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.8)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.153 PERMITS REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to display, erect, relocate, or alter any sign
without obtaining a sign permit, except where otherwise noted within this
chapter.
   (B)   A permit shall be issued by the Zoning Administrator only if the
proposed sign meets all requirements of this chapter, provided if an alteration
of an existing sign is limited to the information communicated on the sign
without increasing its size, structural modification of the sign shall not be
required.
   (C)   (1)   When a sign permit has been issued by the village, it shall be
unlawful to change, modify, alter, or otherwise deviate from the terms or
conditions of the permit without prior approval of the building official.
      (2)   A written record of the approval shall be entered upon the original
permit application and maintained in the files of the village.
   (D)   (1)   The application for a sign permit shall be made by the owner or
tenant of the property on which the sign is to be located, or his or her
authorized agent, or a sign contractor.
      (2)   The applications shall be made in writing on forms furnished by the
village and shall be signed by the applicant.
   (E)   The application for a sign permit shall be accompanied by the
following plans and other information:
      (1)   The name, address, and telephone number of the owner or persons
entitled to possession of the sign and of the sign contractor or erector;
      (2)   The location by street address of the proposed sign structure;
      (3)   Complete information as required on application forms including a
site plan and elevation drawings of the proposed sign, caption of the proposed
sign, and the other data as are pertinent to the application;
      (4)   Plans indicating the scope and structural detail of the work to be
done, including details of all connections, guylines, supports and footings,
and materials to be used;
      (5)   The application, including all required information, for an
electrical permit if the sign will have an electrical connection; and
      (6)   A statement of valuation.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 8.9)
Penalty, see § 151.999
OFF-STREET PARKING AND LOADING
§ 151.165 INTENT AND PURPOSE.
   The purpose of
§§ 151.165 et seq. is to ensure the provision of off-street parking facilities
that are sufficient in number, adequately sized, and properly designed to meet
the range of parking needs and demands that are associated with land uses now
in place in the village or with land uses allowed by this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.1)
§ 151.166 GENERALLY.
   (A)   Where required. In all zoning districts, off-street parking facilities
for the storage and parking of self-propelled motor vehicles for the use of
occupants, employees, and patrons of the buildings hereafter erected, altered,
or extended after the effective data of this chapter, shall be provided as
herein prescribed. The space shall be maintained and shall not be encroached
upon so long as the main building or structure remains, unless an equivalent
number of the spaces are provided elsewhere in conformance with this chapter.
   (B)   Existing off-street parking at effective date this chapter. Off-street
parking existing at the effective date of this chapter which serves an existing
building or use shall not be reduced in size to less than that required under
the terms of this chapter.
   (C)   Required greenbelt and setbacks. Off-street parking, including
maneuvering lanes, shall not be located within the required front greenbelt in
accordance with
§ 151.101(F). Off-street parking shall be permitted within the required side or
rear yard setbacks, provided a minimum 5-foot setback is maintained between
off-street parking and the side and rear lot lines of all adjoining properties.
   (D)   Parking duration. Except when land is used as storage space in
connection with the business of a repair or service garage, a 24-hour time
limit for parking in nonresidential off-street parking areas shall prevail, it
being the purpose and intention of the foregoing that the requirement of
maintaining vehicle storage or parking space is to provide for the public
safety in keeping parked cars off the streets, but the requirement is not
designed to or intended to provide, and it shall be unlawful to permit, the
storage or prolonged parking on any such parking area in any such district
wrecked or junked cars, or for creating a junk yard or a nuisance in those
areas.
   (E)   Units and methods of measurement. For the purpose of determining off-
street parking requirements, the following units of measurement shall apply.
      (1)   Floor area. Where floor area is the unit for determining the
required number of off-street parking spaces, the unit shall mean the gross
floor area, except that floor area's within the principal building used for
parking, incidental service and storage, housing of mechanical equipment,
heating systems and similar uses need not be included.
      (2)   Employees. For requirements stated in terms of employees, the
calculation shall be based upon the maximum number of employees likely to be on
the premises during the largest shift.
      (3)   Places of assembly. In stadiums, sports arenas, churches, and other
places of assembly in which those in attendance occupy benches, pews, or other
similar seating facilities, each 24 inches of such shall be counted as 1 seat.
In cases where a place of assembly has both fixed seats and open assembly area,
requirements shall be computed separately for each type and added together.
      (4)   Fractional requirements. When units or measurements determining
number of required parking spaces result in requirement of a fractional space,
any fraction shall require 1 parking space.
   (F)   Location of parking.
      (1)   One- and 2-family dwellings. The off-street parking facilities
required for 1- and 2-family dwellings shall be located on the same lot or plot
of ground as the building they are intended to serve, but shall not be
considered a parking lot under the provisions of
§§ 151.165 et seq.
      (2)   Multiple-family residential. The off-street parking facilities for
multiple-family dwellings shall be located on the same lot or plot of ground as
the dwellings they are intended to serve, and shall consist of a parking lot as
set forth in
§§ 151.165 et seq. In no event shall any parking space be located nearer than
10 feet to any main building.
      (3)   Other land uses. The off-street parking facilities required for all
other uses shall be located on the lot or within 500 feet of the permitted uses
requiring the off-street parking, the distance to be measured along lines of
public access to the property between the nearest point of the parking facility
to the building to be served.
      (4)   Restriction on parking on private property. It shall be unlawful
for any person, firm, or corporation to park any motor vehicle on any private
property without the authorization of the owner or agent of the property.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.2)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.167 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The amount of required off-street parking spaces for new uses or
buildings, additions thereto, and additions to existing buildings shall be
determined in accordance with
§ 151.168.
      (2)   Parking requirements listed in
§ 151.168 shall not include off-street stacking spaces for drive-through
facilities set forth in
§ 151.171.
   (B)   Similar uses and requirements. When a use is not specifically
mentioned, the requirements of off-street parking for a similar use shall
apply.
   (C)   Collective provisions. Nothing in this section shall be construed to
prevent collective provisions of off-street parking facilities for 2 or more
buildings or uses, provided the facilities collectively shall not be less than
the sum of the requirements for the various individual uses computed separately
in accordance with
§ 151.168.
   (D)   Parking exemption. As of the effective date of this chapter, buildings
and uses located within the CBD Central Business District shall be exempt from
providing off-street parking. However, in no case should a building or use be
expanded to remove off-street parking established before the effective date of
this chapter.
   (E)   Flexibility in application.
      (1)   The village recognizes that, due to the specific requirements of
any given development, inflexible application of the parking standards set
forth in
§ 151.168 may result in development with inadequate parking or parking far in
excess of that which is needed. The former situation may lead to traffic
congestion or unauthorized parking on adjacent streets or neighboring sites.
The latter situation may result in excessive paving and stormwater runoff and a
waste of space which could be left as open space.
      (2)   The Village Council, based on a recommendation from the Planning
Commission, may permit deviations from the requirements of
§ 151.168 and may require more or allow less parking whenever it finds that the
deviations are more likely to provide a sufficient number of parking spaces to
accommodate the specific characteristics of the use in question.
      (3)   The Village Council may attach conditions to the approval of a
deviation from the requirement of
§ 151.168 that bind the approval to the specific use in question. Where a
deviation results in a reduction of parking, the Village Council may further
impose conditions which ensure that adequate reserve area is set aside for
future parking, is needed.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.3)
§ 151.168 TABLE OF OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   The amount of required off-street parking space for new uses or buildings,
additions thereto, and additions to existing buildings shall be determined in
accordance with the following table.
Use Required Number of Parking Spaces Per Each Unit of Measure as Follows
Use            Required Number of Parking Spaces Per Each Unit of Measure as Follows
Residential Uses
Single- or 2-
family         2                                                    Per each dwelling unit
dwelling
Multiple-      2                                                    Per each dwelling, plus
family
dwelling                                                            1           Per each dwelling
Institutional                                                                   unit, plus
Uses
               Senior citizen housing and senior assisted living                Per each 3 seats
                                                                                based on maximum
Churches                                                            1           seating capacity in
                                                                                the main place of
                                                                                assembly therein
                                                                    Per each 3 individual members
Private clubs  1                                                    allowed within the maximum
and lodges                                                          occupancy load as established
                                                                    by fire and/or building codes
               1                                                    Per each 4 beds, plus
Hospitals                                                           1           Per each 5 beds,
               Convalescent homes, homes for the aged, children’s             plus
               homes                                                Institutional Uses
                                                                    1           Per each teacher,
                                                                                plus
High schools,                                                       1           Per each teacher,
trade schools,                                                                  plus
colleges, and                                                       Child-care            Per each
universities   Elementary and middle schools                        center, or  1         5
                                                                    nursery               students,
                                                                    schools               plus
Day-care homes                                                                  1
Stadiums,                                                                                 Per each
sports arenas, 1                                                    Per each 4 seats based onloyee
and                                                                 maximum seating capacity /or
auditoriums                                                                               caregiver
Libraries and  1                                                    Per each 500 square feet of
museums                                                             floor area
General Commercial Uses
Retail Stores,                                                      Per each 100 square feet of
except as      1                                                    floor area specified herein
otherwise
Supermarkets,
drugstores,
and other      1                                                    Per 150 square feet of floor
self-serve                                                          area
retail
establishments
Convenience                                                         Per 100 square feet of floor
stores and     1                                                    area
video stores
Planned                                                             Per 100 square feet of floor
shopping       1                                                    area for the first 15,000
center                                                              square feet, plus
General        Furniture, appliances, hardware, household equipment             Per each 400 square
Commercial     sales                                                1           feet of floor area,
Uses                                                                            plus
               1                                                    Per each guest bedroom, plus
Motels and                                                                      Per each 125 square
hotels                                                              1           feet of floor area,
                                                                                plus
               Fast-food restaurants                                            Per each 3 seats,
                                                                    1           based on maximum
                                                                                seating capacity,
                                                                                plus
                                                                                Per each 3 persons
Sit-down                                                                        allowed within the
restaurants                                                                     (other than fast-
                                                                                food restaurants)
                                                                    1           maximum occupancy
                                                                                load as established
               Taverns and cocktail lounges                                     by fire and/or
                                                                                building codes,
                                                                                plus
                                                                                Per each 800 square
Garden stores,                                                                  feet of lot area
building                                                            1           used for the
material sales                                                                  business provided
                                                                                for herein
Movie theaters 1                                                    Per each 4 seats based on the
                                                                    maximum seating capacity, plus
Automotive     Wholesale stores, machinery sales, and other similar             Per each 1,000
Uses           uses                                                 1           square feet of
                                                                                floor area, plus
               1                                                    Per each 200 square feet of
                                                                    showroom floor area, plus
                                                                    2           Per each service
Auto sales                                                                      stall, plus
                                                                                          Per each
                                                                                1         pump
               Automotive repair facilities                                               unit,
                                                                    Gasoline              plus
                                                                    stations              Per each
                                                                    without     1         pump
                                                                    convenience           unit,
                                                                    store                 plus
                                                                                          Per each
                                                                    1                     wash
                                                                                          stall,
Gasoline                                                                                  plus
stations with                                                                             Per 200
convenience                                                                               square
store                                                                                     feet of
               Car washes (self-serve)                                                    floor
                                                                                          area of
                                                                                1         customer
                                                                                          waiting
                                                                                          and
                                                                    Car washes            service
                                                                    (automatic)           areas,
                                                                                          plus
                                                                                Collision   Per
                                                                                or bump     each
                                                                                shops,      stall
Office and Service Uses                                                         and other 2 or
                                                                                similar     service
                                                                                uses        area,
                                                                                            plus
Medical and    1                                                    Per each 150 square feet of
dental office                                                       floor area
Business and                                                        Per each 200 square feet of
professional   1                                                    floor area
offices
Banks          1                                                    Per each 200 square feet of
                                                                    floor area
Barber and     3                                                    Per each chair
beauty shops
Recreational Uses
               4                                                    Per bowling lane, plus
                                                                    Amount required for accessory
Bowling alleys                                                      uses such as a restaurant or
                                                                    cocktail lounge
                                                                    1           Per each 2
               Private tennis, swim, or golf clubs, or other                    memberships, plus
               similar uses                                         Amount required for accessory
                                                                    uses such as a restaurant or
                                                                    cocktail lounge
               5                                                    Per each hole, plus
Golf course,                                                        Amount required for accessory
open to the                                                         uses such as a restaurant or
general public                                                      cocktail lounge
               Industrial Uses
Industrial or  1                                                    Per each employee, or
manufacturing                                                                   Per each employee,
or                                                                  1           or
establishments Warehouses and storage buildings
Contractors                                                         1           Per each employee
office
 
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.4)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.169 OFF-STREET PARKING LOT DESIGN AND CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   (1)   The construction of any parking lot shall be in accordance with
the requirements of the provisions of this chapter and the construction shall
be completed and approved by the Zoning Administrator before use of the
property as a parking lot and before a certificate of occupancy is issued.
      (2)   Unless incorporated in a site plan prepared and approved in
accordance with
§ 151.023, plans for the development of any parking lot must be submitted to
the Zoning Administrator, prepared at a scale of not less than 50 feet equals 1
inch and indicating existing and proposed grades, drainage, pipe sizes, parking
of all dimensions, type of curbing, drive and aisle dimensions, lighting,
adjacent main buildings, sidewalks, landscaping, surfacing and base materials
to be used and the layout of the proposed parking lot.
   (B)   (1)   All the parking lots, driveways, or loading areas required for
uses other than single- or 2-family residential shall be hard-surfaced with
asphalt or concrete pavement, shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of
surface water which might accumulate within or upon the area, and shall be
completely constructed prior to a certificate of occupancy being issued.
Drainage for parking lots shall conform to the standards set forth in
§ 151.110.
      (2)   All illumination for all the parking lots shall meet the standards
set forth in
§ 151.107.
      (3)   Parking lot landscaping and buffering requirements shall meet the
standards set forth in
§ 151.101(E).
      (4)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot, by means of limited
and clearly defined drives, shall be provided for all vehicles.
      (5)   Where necessary to prevent encroaching upon pedestrian walkway or
damaging required landscaping, wheel stops shall be provided. No portion of a
parking space and/or maneuvering aisle shall obstruct or encroach upon a public
sidewalk.
      (6)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accordance with the following minimum regulations.
 
Maneuvering Lane Width
Parking Pattern 1-Way   2-Way   Parking Space Width Parking Space Length
0° Parallel    12 feet 20 feet 9 feet              25 feet
30° - 53°     12 feet 20 feet 9 feet              20 feet
54° - 74°     l5 feet 24 feet 9 feet              20 feet
75° - 90°     l5 feet 24 feet 9 feet              20 feet
 
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.170 OFF-STREET LOADING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building or part thereof, erected and
occupied for any uses involving the receipt or distribution of trucks and/or
delivery vehicles, material or merchandise, adequate space for loading and
unloading shall be provided in accordance with the following.
   (B)   (1)   Loading and unloading space. The loading and unloading space,
unless completely and adequately provided for within a building, shall be an
area 10 feet by 50 feet, with 14-foot height clearance, and shall be provided
according to the following schedule.
 
Gross Floor Area of Building (Square Required Loading and Unloading Spaces
Feet)
0 - 2,000                            None
2,000 - 20,000                       1 space
                                     1 space plus 1 space for each 20,000
20,000 - 100,000                     square feet in excess of 20,000 square
                                     feet
                                     5 spaces plus 1 space for each 40,000
100,000 - 500,000                    square feet in excess of 100,000 square
                                     feet
                                     15 spaces plus 1 space for each 80,000
Over 500,000                         square feet in excess of 500,000 square
                                     feet
 
      (2)   Required greenbelt, setbacks, and screening.
         (a)   Off-street loading areas, including maneuvering lanes, shall not
be located within the front greenbelt required in accordance with
§ 151.101. Off-street parking shall be permitted within the required side or
rear yard setbacks, provided a minimum 10-foot setback is maintained between
off-street loading and the abutting side and rear lot lines.
         (b)   Off-street loading which abuts residentially zoned or used
property shall be screened in accordance with
§ 151.101.
      (3)   Double count. Off-street loading space areas shall not be construed
as, or counted toward, the supplying of area required as off-street parking
space area.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.6)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.171 OFF-STREET STACKING SPACE FOR DRIVE-THROUGH FACILITIES.
   (A)   All businesses which provide drive-through facilities for serving
customers within their automobile shall provide adequate off-street stacking
space and lanes which meets the following requirements.
   (B)   (1)   Each stacking space shall be computed on the basis of 10 feet in
width and 20 feet in length. Each stacking lane shall be a minimum of 12 feet
in width.
      (2)   (a)   Clear identification and delineation between the drive-
through facility and parking lot shall be provided.
         (b)   Drive-through facilities shall be designed in a manner which
promotes pedestrian and vehicular safety.
      (3)   For all drive-through facilities which have a single stacking lane,
an escape lane shall be provided which allows other vehicles to pass those
waiting to be serviced.
      (4)   (a)   The number of stacking spaces per service lane shall be
provided for the following uses.
         (b)   When a use is not specifically mentioned, the requirements for
off-street stacking space for the similar use shall apply.
Use Stacking Spaces Per Service Lane
Use                   Stacking Spaces Per Service Lane
Banks                 4
Photo service         4
Dry-cleaning          4
Fast-food restaurants 6
Car washes (self-service):
Entry                 3
Exit                  1
Car washes (automatic):
Entry                 6
Exit                  2
 
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.7)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.172 OUTDOOR STORAGE OF RECREATIONAL VEHICLES.
   (A)   In all residential districts, a recreational vehicle maybe parked or
stored subject to the following conditions.
   (B)   (1)   Storage or parking shall not be permitted on vacant lots or
parcels, except as approved by the Zoning Administrator.
      (2)   Unless within a completely enclosed building, a recreational
vehicle shall be parked or stored in 1 of the following manners:
         (a)   Within the side or rear yard, but no closer than 5 feet from any
side or rear lot line; or
         (b)   In those instances where the side or rear yard is not accessible
or has insufficient clearance for the passage of a recreational vehicle, the
Zoning Administrator may allow the parking or storage of a recreational vehicle
in the front yard. In those instances where a recreational vehicle is to be
parked or stored in a front yard, only the driveway portion of the yard shall
be utilized and in no instance shall the recreational vehicle be parked or
stored in a manner which obstructs pedestrian or vehicular visibility.
      (3)   No recreational vehicle shall be used for living, sleeping, or
housekeeping purposes on the premises, except for occasional living purposes to
accommodate visitors not to exceed a maximum period of 2 weeks.
      (4)   No recreational vehicle shall be stored on a public street or
right-of-way or private road easement.
      (5)   A recreational vehicle stored outside shall be in a condition for
the safe and effective performance of its intended function.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 9.8)
Penalty, see § 151.999
NONCONFORMING USES, STRUCTURES, AND LOTS
§ 151.185 INTENT.
   Certain existing lots, structures, and uses of lots and structures were
lawful before this chapter was adopted, but have become nonconformities under
the terms of this chapter and its amendments. It is the intent of this chapter
to permit the nonconformities to remain until they are discontinued or removed,
but not to encourage their survival or, where discontinuance or removal is not
feasible, to gradually upgrade the nonconformities to conforming status.
Nonconformities shall not be enlarged, expanded, or extended, except as
provided herein, and shall not be used as grounds for adding other structures
and uses of lots and structures which are prohibited. Nonconformities are
declared by this chapter to be incompatible with the structures and uses
permitted in the various districts.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.1)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.186 NONCONFORMING LOTS.
   (A)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though the lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width, or both, of the lots shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which the lot is located.
   (B)   If 2 or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements for lot width and area as established by this chapter, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purpose of this
chapter, and no portion of the parcel or lot shall be used or sold which does
not meet lot width and area requirements established by this chapter, nor shall
any division of the parcel or lot be made which leaves remaining any parcel or
lot with width or area below the requirements stated in this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.2)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.187 NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND.
   (A)   Where, at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter,
lawful use of land exists that is made no longer permissible under the terms of
this chapter as enacted or amended, the use may be continued, so long as it
remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (B)   (1)   No nonconforming uses shall be enlarged or increased, or
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   No nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by the use at the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If the nonconforming use of land ceases operation with the intent
of abandonment for a period of more than 6 months, any subsequent use of the
land shall conform to the regulations specified by this chapter for the
district in which the land is located.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.3)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.188 NONCONFORMING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Where a lawful structure exists at the effective date of adoption or
amendment of this chapter that could not be built under the terms of this
chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot coverage, height, yards, or
other characteristics of the structure or its location on the lot, the
structure may be continued so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to
the following provisions.
   (B)   (1)   No structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which increases
its nonconformity.
      (2)   Should the structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of more
than 50% of replacement value at the time of destruction, it shall not be
reconstructed except in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Should the structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is moved.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.4)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.189 NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND LAND.
   (A)   If a lawful use of a structure, or of structure and land in
combination, exists at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter that would not be allowed in the district under the terms of this
chapter, the lawful use may be continued so long as it remains otherwise
lawful, subject to the following provisions.
   (B)   (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted by this
chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved, or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any part of a
building which was manifestly arranged or designed for the use, and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no use shall
be extended to occupy any land outside the building.
      (3)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations pertaining to the uses permitted in the district in which
the structure is located, and the nonconforming use may not thereafter be
resumed. Sections 151.188 and 151.999 of this section shall apply to any
nonconformity relating to the structure(s).
      (4)   If the non-conforming use of land and structures ceases operation
with the intent of abandonment for a period of more than 6 months, any
subsequent use of the land shall conform to the regulations specified by this
chapter pertaining to the uses permitted in the district in which the land is
located. Structures occupied by seasonal uses shall be excepted from this
provision only so long as seasonal uses shall continue.
      (5)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
      (6)   (a)   If no structural alterations are made, any nonconforming use
of structure, or structure and premises, may be changed to another
nonconforming use of the same or a more restricted classification provided that
the Board of Appeals, either by general rule or by making findings in the
specific case, shall find that the proposed use is equally appropriate or more
appropriate to the district than the existing nonconforming use.
         (b)   In permitting the change, the Board of Appeals may require
appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the purpose and intent of
this chapter.
         (c)   Where a nonconforming use of a structure, land, or structure and
land in combination is hereafter changed to a more restrictive classification,
it shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted classification.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.5)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.190 REPAIRS AND MAINTENANCE.
   (A)   On any building devoted in whole or in part to any nonconforming use,
work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive months on ordinary repairs, or
on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls, fixtures, wiring, or plumbing to
an extent not exceeding 50% of the replacement value of the building, provided
that the cubic content of the building as it existed at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter shall not be increased.
   (B)   (1)   A nonconforming structure, nonconforming portion of a structure,
or a structure containing a nonconforming use which is physically unsafe or
unlawful due to lack of repairs and maintenance as determined by the Building
Official may be restored to a safe condition.
      (2)   Where enlargement or structural alternation is necessary to allow
compliance with health and safety laws or ordinances, the cost of the work
shall not exceed 25% of the structure's fair market value, as determined by the
Assessor at the time the work is done.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.6)
Penalty, see § 151.999
§ 151.191 USES ALLOWED AS CONDITIONAL APPROVAL USES, NOT NONCONFORMING USES.
   Any use for which conditional approval is permitted as provided in this
chapter shall not be deemed a nonconforming use, but shall without further
action be deemed a conforming use in the district.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.7)
§ 151.192 CHANGE OF TENANCY OR OWNERSHIP.
   There may be a change of tenancy, ownership, or management of any existing
nonconforming uses of land, structures, and premises provided there is no
change in the nature or character of the nonconforming uses except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 10.8)
ZONING BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 151.205 AUTHORITY.
   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals, the membership,
powers, duties of which are prescribed in the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act,
Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended. The Zoning Board of Appeals in addition to
the general powers and duties conferred upon it by the Act, in specific cases
and subject to appropriate conditions and safeguards, shall have the power to
interpret, vary and determine the application of this chapter so that the
purposes and intent of this chapter are met and substantial justice is
maintained.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 11.1; Am. Ord. 278, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 151.206 MEMBERSHIP.
   The Village Council shall act as the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 11.2)
§ 151.207 MEETINGS.
   (A)   All decisions of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be made at a
meeting open to the public. All deliberations of the Zoning Board of Appeals
constituting a quorum of its member shall take place at a meeting open to the
public except as provided in compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Public Act
267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 - 15.275, as amended.
   (B)   A majority of the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
constitute a quorum for purposes of transacting the business of the Zoning
Board of Appeals and the Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of 1976, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 - 15.275, as amended. Each member of the Zoning Board of
Appeals shall have 1 vote.
   (C)   Regular meetings of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be called as
needed in response to receipt of a notice of appeal, so long as the meeting is
scheduled within 20 days of the notice of appeal. The meeting can be called by
the Zoning Administrator, the Chair of the Zoning Board of Appeals, or, in his
or her absence, the Vice-Chair. Public notice of the date, time, and place of a
public meeting of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be given in accordance with
the provisions of the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Act 110 of the Public Acts
of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 et seq.
   (D)   The business of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be conducted in
accordance with its adopted bylaws.
   (E)   The Chair, or in his or her absence, Vice-Chair may administer oaths
and compel the attendance of witnesses.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 11.3; Am. Ord. 278, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 151.208 POWERS AND DUTIES.
   (A)   Generally. The Board has the power to act on matters as provided in
this chapter and by the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006.
The specific powers of the Board are enumerated in the following provisions of
§§ 151.205 et seq.
   (B)   Voting.
      (1)   The concurring vote of a majority of the members of the Board shall
be necessary to reverse an order, requirements, decision, or determination of
an administrative official or body, or to decide in favor of the applicant a
matter upon which the Board is required to pass under an ordinance, or to
effect a variation in an ordinance except that a concurring vote of 2/3 of the
members of the Board shall be necessary to grant a variance from uses of land
permitted in an ordinance.
      (2)   A member shall be disqualified from a vote in which there is a
conflict of interest. Failure of a member to disclose a conflict of interest
and be disqualified from a vote shall constitute misconduct in office.
   (C)   Administrative review. The Board shall hear and decide appeals where
it is alleged by the appellant that there is error in any order, requirement,
permit, decision, or refusal made by the Zoning Administrator or other duly
authorized enforcing agent, in enforcing any provision of this chapter.
   (D)   Interpretation.
      (1)   The Board shall hear and decide requests for interpretation of this
chapter or the Zoning Map taking into consideration the intent and purpose of
this chapter and the general development plan.
      (2)   (a)   A record shall be kept by the Board of all decisions for
interpretation of this chapter or Zoning Map and land uses which are approved
under the terms of this section.
         (b)   The Board shall request the Planning Commission to review any
ordinance amendment it deems necessary.
   (E)   Variances. Upon an appeal, the Board is authorized to grant a variance
from the strict provisions of this chapter, whereby extraordinary or
exceptional conditions of the property, the strict application of the
regulations enacted would result in peculiar or exceptional practical
difficulties to, or exceptional undue hardship upon, the owner of the property,
provided the relief may be granted without substantial detriment to the public
good and without substantially impairing the intent and purpose of this
chapter. In granting a variance, the Board may attach thereto the conditions
regarding the location, character, and other features of the proposed uses as
it may deem reasonable in furtherance of the purpose of this chapter. Further,
in granting a variance, the Board shall state the grounds upon which it
justifies the granting of a variance as outlined below. When granting any
variance, the Board must ensure that the spirit of this chapter is observed,
public safety secured, and substantial justice done.
      (1)   Use variance. A use variance is a variance that permits a use that
is otherwise not provided for in a zoning district. The applicant must present
evidence to show that, if this chapter is applied strictly, unnecessary
hardship to the applicant will result, and that all 4 of the following
requirements are met:
         (a)   That the property could not be reasonably used for the purposes
permitted in that zone;
         (b)   That the appeal results from unique circumstances peculiar to
the property and not from general neighborhood conditions;
         (c)   That the use requested by the variance would not alter the
essential character of the area; and
         (d)   That the alleged hardship has not been created by any person
presently having an interest in the property.
      (2)   Nonuse or area variance. A nonuse or area variance is a variance
from any dimensional standard or requirement of this chapter, such as, but not
limited to, a deviation from density, height, bulk, setback, parking,
landscaping and signage standards and requirements. The applicant must present
evidence to show that if this chapter is applied strictly, practical
difficulties will result to the applicant and:
         (a)   That the chapter restrictions unreasonably prevent the owner
from using the property for a permitted purpose;
         (b)   That the variance would do substantial justice to the applicant
as well as to other property owners in the district, and a lesser relaxation
than that requested would not give substantial relief to the owner of the
property or be more consistent with justice to other property owners;
         (c)   That the plight of the landowner is due to the unique
circumstances of the property; and
         (d)   That the alleged hardship has not been created by any person
presently having an interest in the property.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 11.4; Am. Ord. 278, passed 9-19-2011)
§ 151.209 PROCEDURE FOR APPEAL.
   (A)   An applicant requesting any action by the Board shall commence the
request by filing a notice of appeal, on the form supplied by the village,
accompanied by the appeal fee as determined by the Village Council, and all
plans, studies, and any other information and data as applicable, all of which
shall be made a part of the record.
   (B)   Every appeal from a determination of the Zoning Administrator or other
duly authorized enforcing agent shall be made by the applicant within 30 days
of the date of the order issuance or refusal to issue permit, requirement, or
refusal.
   (C)   The Board shall fix a time for a hearing on the appeal, and shall
notify the applicant of the time and place of the hearing. Notice of all public
hearings conducted by the Board shall appear in a newspaper of general
circulation in the village in accordance with the provisions of the Michigan
Zoning Enabling Act, Act 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101
et seq. not less than 15 days prior to the hearing where the appeal pertains to
a specific parcel(s) of property. Notice of the public hearings shall be sent
to the persons to whom real property is assessed and to the occupants of all
structures within 300 feet of the boundaries of the property in question. The
notice shall be delivered personally or by mail addressed to the respective
owners and tenants at the address given in the last assessment roll. If the
tenant’s name is not know, the term occupant may be used.
   (D)   Any person may appear in person at the public hearing, or be
represented by an agent or attorney, and present any evidence in support of
their appeal. The Board of Appeals shall have the power to require the
attendance of witness, administer oaths, compel testimony, and otherwise cause
the production of books, papers, files, and other evidence pertaining to
matters properly coming before the Board of Appeals.
   (E)   The Board shall not decide an appeal until after a public hearing.
   (F)   The Board may reverse, affirm, vary, or modify, any order,
requirement, or determination, as to which it has the power to consider, and
have all the powers of the officer or body from whom the appeal was taken and
may issue or direct the issuance of a permit.
   (G)   The Board may impose conditions with any decision. The conditions
imposed shall meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, public health, safety,
and welfare and the social and economic well being of those who will use the
land use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole;
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes
which are affected by the proposed use or activity; and
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of this chapter, be
related to the standards established in this chapter for the land use or
activity under consideration, and be necessary to ensure compliance with those
standards. Violations of any of these conditions shall be deemed a violation of
this chapter, enforceable as such, and/or may be grounds for revocation or
reversal of the decision.
   (H)   All decisions of the Board shall be in writing and so far as it is
practicable, in the form of a general statement or resolution reciting the
conditions, facts, and findings of the Board. The applicant shall be advised of
the decision after the public hearing unless the Board moves for a continuation
of the hearing.
   (I)   Any decision of the Board favorable to the applicant shall remain
valid only as long as the information or data relating thereto are found to be
correct, and the conditions upon which the decision was based are maintained.
   (J)   The Board may reconsider an earlier decision if, in the opinion of the
Board, circumstances justify taking the action.
   (K)   (1)   No order of the Board of Appeals permitting the erection or
alteration of a building shall be valid for a period of longer than 1 year,
unless a building permit for the erection or alteration is obtained within the
period, and the erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in
accordance with the terms of the permit.
      (2)   No order of the Board of Appeals permitting a use of a building or
premises shall be valid for a period longer than 1 year, unless the use is
established within the period; provided, however, that the order shall continue
in force and effect if a building permit for the erection or alteration is
obtained within the period, and the erection or alteration is started and
proceeds to completion in accordance with the permit.
   (L)   (1)   Any person or persons or any board or department of the village
having an interest affected by a decision of the Board shall have the right to
appeal to the circuit court and in accordance with the provisions of the
Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, Act 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, M.C.L.A. §§
125.3101 et seq. on questions of law and fact.
      (2)   The appeal must be taken within 21 days after the date of the
Board's decision.
      (3)   A request for reconsideration under division (J) above shall not
toll the time for taking the appeal.
      (4)   In the event a request for reconsideration is granted, the time
period for appeal shall commence from the approval the minutes of the meeting
where the appeal was reconsidered.
      (5)   In any event, only 1 request for reconsideration on each appeal
shall be allowed.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 11.5; Am. Ord. 278, passed 9-19-2011)
REZONING AND ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENTS
§ 151.220 INITIATION OF REZONING AND ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENTS.
   Zoning amendment initiation. An amendment to the zoning district boundaries
contained on the official zoning map (rezoning) and to the text of this chapter
may be initiated by the Village Council or the Planning Commission. An
amendment to the zoning district boundaries may also be initiated by the owner
or owners of property that is the subject of the proposed rezoning. An
amendment to the text of this chapter may also be initiated by petition of 1 or
more residents or property owners of the village.
(Ord. 253, passed 12-19-2005, § 13.1)
§ 151.221 REZONING AND ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT AMENDMENT APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application information for amendments. An amendment to the official
zoning map or this chapter, except those initiated by the Village Council or
Planning Commission, shall be initiated by submission of a complete application
on a form supplied by the village, including an application fee, which shall be
established from time to time by resolution of the Village Council. The
application shall explicitly describe the proposed amendment and shall be
signed by the applicant.
   (B)   Application information for zoning map amendment.  In the case of an
amendment to the official zoning map (rezoning), the following information
shall accompany the application.
      (1)   Information to indicate the dimensions, location and size of the
subject property, such as a sketch plan, property identification number, a
legal description, street address of the subject property, a map identifying
the subject property in relation to surrounding properties, or other method
required by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   The name, signature and address of the owner of the subject
property, a statement of the applicant's interest in the subject property if
not the owner in fee simple title, or proof of consent from the property owner.
      (3)   The existing and proposed zoning district designation of the
subject property.
      (4)   A written description of how the requested rezoning meets §
151.223, Criteria for Amendment of the Official Zoning Map (Rezoning).
      (5)   At the Planning Commission's discretion, the following additional
information may be required.
         (a)   A site analysis site plan illustrating existing conditions on
the site and adjacent properties; such as woodlands, wetlands, soil conditions,
steep slopes, drainage patterns, views, existing buildings, any sight-distance
limitations, and relationship to other developed sites and access points in the
vicinity.
         (b)   A conceptual plot plan to scale, demonstrating that the site
could be developed with representative uses permitted in the requested zoning
district meeting requirements for setbacks, wetland buffers access spacing, any
requested service drives and other site-design factors.
         (c)   A traffic impact analysis if any use permitted in the requested
zoning district could generate 100 or more peak-hour directional trips, or
1,000 or more vehicle trips per day. The traffic study should contrast the
daily and peak-hour, trip-generation rates for representative uses in the
current and requested zoning district. The determination of representative uses
shall be made by the Planning Commission, with input from village staff and
consultants.
         (d)   The site to be staked to clearly indicate the location of the
requested amendment. Flagged stakes shall be placed at each parcel corner.
(Ord. 253, passed 12-19-2005, § 13.02)
§ 151.222 REZONING AND ZONING ORDINANCE AMENDMENT PROCESS.
   (A)   Public hearing. Upon initiation of a rezoning, Zoning Ordinance text
amendment or Master Plan amendment, a public hearing on the proposed amendment
shall be scheduled before the Planning Commission. Notice of the hearing shall
be given by 1 publication in a newspaper of general circulation in the village,
not less than 15 days before the date of the hearing, and in accordance with
the provisions of the City and Village Zoning Act, as amended.
   (B)   Planning Commission review and recommendation. Following the public
hearing, the Planning Commission shall identify and evaluate all factors
relevant to the petition, and shall report its findings and recommendation to
the Village Council. In the case of an amendment to the official zoning map
(rezoning), the Planning Commission shall consider the criteria contained in §
151.223 in making its finding and recommendation.
   (C)   Village Council review and action. Following receipt of the findings
and recommendation of the Planning Commission, the Village Council shall
consider the proposed ordinance map or text amendment. In the case of an
amendment to the text of this Zoning Ordinance, the Village Council may modify
or revise the proposed amendment as recommended by the Planning Commission,
prior to enactment. In the case of an amendment to the official zoning map
(rezoning), the Village Council shall approve or deny the amendment, which may
be based on consideration of the criteria contained in §
151.223.
   (D)   Notice of adoption. Following adoption of a zoning text or map
amendment by the Village Council, a notice will be published in accordance with
the City and Village Zoning Act, as amended.
   (E)   Resubmittal. No petition for rezoning or Zoning Ordinance text
amendment that has been denied by the Village Council shall be resubmitted for
a period of 1 year from the date of denial, except on the grounds of new
evidence or proof of changed conditions relating to all of the reasons noted
for the denial found to be valid by the Planning Commission.
(Ord. 253, passed 12-19-2005, § 13.03)
§ 151.223 CRITERIA FOR AMENDMENT OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING MAP (REZONING).
   In considering any petition for an amendment to the official zoning map
(rezoning), the Planning Commission and the Village Council shall consider the
following criteria in making its findings, recommendations and decision.
   (A)   Consistency with the goals, policies and Future Land Use Map of the
Master Plan, including all applicable sub-area and corridor studies. If
conditions have changed since the Master Plan was adopted, the consistency with
recent development trends in the area.
   (B)   Compatibility of the site's physical, geological, hydrological and
other environmental features, with the potential uses allowed in the proposed
zoning district.
   (C)   Evidence the applicant cannot receive a reasonable return on
investment through developing the property with 1 of the uses permitted under
the current zoning.
   (D)   The compatibility of all the potential uses allowed in the proposed
zoning district with surrounding uses and zoning in terms of land suitability,
impacts on the environment, density, nature of use, traffic impacts,
aesthetics, infrastructure and potential influence on property values.
   (E)   The capacity of village infrastructure and services sufficient to
accommodate the uses permitted in the requested district without compromising
the “health, safety and welfare” of the village;
   (F)   The apparent demand for the types of uses permitted in the requested
zoning district in the village in relation to the amount of land in the village
currently zoned to accommodate the demand.
   (G)   Where a rezoning is reasonable given the above criteria, a
determination shall be made that the requested zoning district is more
appropriate than another district or amending the list of permitted or special
land uses within a district.
(Ord. 253, passed 12-19-2005, § 13.04)
§ 151.224 CRITERIA FOR AMENDMENT OF THE OFFICIAL ZONING ORDINANCE TEXT.
   The Planning Commission and Village Council shall, at minimum, consider the
following before taking action on any proposed amendment.
   (A)   Compatibility with the basic intent and purpose of the Zoning
Ordinance.
   (B)   Consistency with the goals and objectives and future land use map of
the Master Plan, including any sub-area or corridor studies.
   (C)   The requested amendment will correct an error in current appropriate
documentation.
   (D)   The requested amendment will resolve an inequitable situation created
by the Zoning Ordinance and does not grant special privileges.
   (E)   The requested amendment will not result in unlawful exclusionary
zoning.
   (F)   There is documentation from village staff or the Zoning Board of
Appeals indicating problems and conflicts in implementation or interpretation
of specific sections of the ordinance.
   (G)   The requested amendment will address changes in state legislation,
other village ordinances, or federal regulations.
   (H)   The requested amendment will resolve potential legal issues or
administrative problems with
the Zoning Ordinance, based on recent case law or opinions rendered by the
Attorney General of the State of Michigan.
(Ord. 253, passed 12-19-2005, § 13.05)
§ 151.225 CONDITIONAL REZONING OF LAND.
   As an alternative to a rezoning amendment as described in §
151.220, the village may allow conditional rezoning to help ensure the proper
use of land and natural resources, and to allow for a more flexible approach to
the rezoning process in accordance with state law. It is recognized that, in
certain instances, it would be an advantage to both the village and petitioners
seeking rezoning of land, if a site plan, along with conditions and limitations
that may be relied upon by the village, could be proposed as part of a petition
for rezoning. Conditional rezoning of land must follow the standards and
procedures as noted below.
   (A)   The amendment procedure for a conditional rezoning shall follow the
same procedure as a traditional rezoning amendment pursuant to §
151.221.
   (B)   In addition to the procedures as noted in §
151.221, the following specific procedures, standards, and requirements apply
to all proposed conditional rezoning requests.
      (1)   A conditional rezoning request must be voluntarily offered by an
owner of land within the village. All offers must be made in writing, and must
provide the specific conditions to be considered by the village as a part of
the rezoning request. All offers shall be in the form of a written agreement,
approvable by the village and property owner, incorporating the conditional
rezoning site plan and setting forth any conditions and terms mutually agreed
upon by the parties relative to the land for which the conditional rezoning is
sought.
      (2)   Conditional rezoning shall not allow a use or activity that would
not otherwise be allowed in the proposed zoning district.
      (3)   Conditional rezoning shall not alter any of the various zoning
requirements for the use(s) in question, i.e., parking, landscaping, lot area,
lot width, building height, setbacks, lot area coverage, and the like.
Conditional rezonings shall not grant zoning variances of any kind. Any zoning
variance must follow the provisions of §
151.208.
      (4)   Conditional rezoning shall not grant conditional land use approval.
The process for review and approval of conditional land uses must follow the
provisions of §
151.022.
      (5)   All conditions offered by a land owner in relation to a rezoning
request must have a direct relationship to the rezoning itself. The provisions
to allow conditional rezoning shall not be construed to allow rezoning by
exaction.
      (6)   In addition to the informational requirements provided for in §
151.221, the applicant must provide a conditional rezoning site plan prepared
by a licensed professional allowed to prepare such plans under this section,
which may show the location, size, height or other measures for and/or of
buildings, structures, improvements and features on, and in some cases adjacent
to, the property that is the subject of the conditional rezoning of land. The
details to be offered for inclusion in the conditional rezoning site plan shall
be determined by the applicant, subject to approval of the village. A
conditional rezoning site plan shall not replace the requirement under this
section for site plan review and approval, or subdivision or site condominium
approval, as the case may be.
   (C)   Time limits and reversion of land to previous district.
      (1)   If the proposed conditions of rezoning are acceptable to the
village, the village may establish a time period during which the conditions
apply to the property and must be met. If the conditions are not satisfied
within the time specified under this section, the property shall revert to its
former zoning classification, unless an extension is granted as noted below.
Reversion of a property back to its former classification must follow the
rezoning amendment provisions as provided in §§
151.220 et seq.
      (2)   Unless a reversion of the zoning takes place as described in the
division (C)(1) above, the approved conditional rezoning shall be binding upon
the subject property owner, their heirs, successors, assigns, and transferees.
      (3)   Upon approval of a conditional rezoning, a copy of the written
agreement between the property owner and village shall be filed with the
Washtenaw County Register of Deeds, which shall act to provide notice to all
subsequent owners of the property of the conditions approved and agreed to by
the village.
      (4)   The village may not add to or alter any conditions approved as a
part of a rezoning during the time period specified above.
      (5)   The time limits specified and approved by the village may be
extended upon the application of the landowner and approval of the village.
   (D)   Review procedures. The factors found in §
151.223 section must be considered in any conditional rezoning request.
   (E)   Amendments required to conform to court decree. Any amendment for the
purpose of conforming to a decree of a court of competent jurisdiction shall be
adopted by the Village Council and published, without necessity of a public
hearing.
(Ord. 254, passed 2-20-2006, § 13.6)
§ 151.999 PENALTY.
   Uses of land, buildings, or structures, including tents and mobile homes,
erected, altered, razed, or converted in violation of this chapter are hereby
declared to be nuisances per se. The court shall order the nuisance abated and
the owner and/or agent in charge of the dwelling, building, structure, tent,
mobile home, or land shall be adjudged guilty of maintaining a nuisance per se.
Anyone violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall upon conviction
thereof be subject to a fine of not more than as per Council resolution and the
costs of prosecution thereof, by imprisonment in the County Jail for a period
not to exceed 30 days, or both. Each day that a violation is permitted to exist
from the time of formal citation by the village shall constitute a separate
offense. The imposition of any sentence shall not exempt the offender from
compliance with the requirements of this chapter.
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 3.9)
APPENDIX A: ZONING TERMS
Figure 1
[Click_here_to_view_a_PDF_of_the_image]
Figure 2
[Click_here_to_view_a_PDF_of_the_image]
Figure 3
[Click_here_to_view_a_PDF_of_the_image]
Figure 4
[Click_here_to_view_a_PDF_of_the_image]
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 2.2)
APPENDIX B: SCHEDULE OF AREA, HEIGHT, WIDTH, AND SETBACK REGULATIONS
                Minimum Lot Size Maximum Building Minimum Yard
Zoning District                  Height Space     Setback      Maximum Lot
                                                               Coverage
             Minimum Lot Size   Maximum Building   Minimum Yard Setback
Zoning                          Height Space                                   Maximum Lot
District     Area    Lot width                     Front  Side          Rear   Coverage
             (square (feet)     Stories Feet       (feet) Least  Total  (feet)
             feet)                                        (feet) (feet)
Agriculture,
AG                                      35 (75
(see A, E,   1 acre  150        2 1/2   farm       50     20     25     50     10%
F, and H                                buildings)
below)
Single-
Family
Residential,
Low Density, 1 acre  100        2 1/2   35         25     10     25     35     25%
R-1A
(see A, E,
F, and H
below)
Single-
Family
Residential,
Medium
Density, R-  13,000  90         2 1/2   35         25     8      23     35     30%
1B
(see A, E,
F, and H
below)
Multiple-    SF:     90         2 1/2   35         25     8      20     35
Family       13,000
Residential, 2F:     120        2 1/2   35         25     8      20     35
Low Density, 20,000                                                            30%
R-2
(see A, B,   MF:     120        2 1/2   35         35     10     25     35
D, E, and H  20,000
below)
Multiple-    SF:     90         2 1/2   35         25     8      20     35
Family       13,000
Residential, 2F:     120        2 1/2   35         25     8      20     35
Medium       20,000                                                            35%
Density, R-3
(see A, C,   MF: 5   300        2 1/2   35         50     20     50     50
D, E, F, and acres
G below)
Mobile Home
Park, MHP    10      See        2 1/2   35         See
(see A and E acres   § 151.071                    § 151.071
below)
Office
Service, OS  5,000   50         21/2    35         25     10     20     15     30%
(see A and E
below)
General
Commercial,
C-2          20,000  100        2 1/2   35         35     10     20     35     25%
(see A and E
below)
Central
Business
District,    -       -          3       45         -      -      -      -      -
CBD
(see A, E,
and G below)
Limited
Industrial,
I-1          1 acre  150        2       40         50     50     100    35     30%
(see A and E
below)
General
Industrial,
I-2          3 acres 200        2       40         85     50     100    50     25%
(see A and E
below)
NOTES TO TABLE:
 
SF: - Single-Family Dwellings
2F: - 2-Family Dwellings
MF: - Multiple-Family Dwellings
A - All dwelling units and occupied buildings shall be served with a public water supply
system and a public sanitary sewer system.
B - Every lot or parcel of land occupied by a low density multiple-family structure shall
contain a minimum of 20,000 square feet and a total area of not less than the following:
   Unit Type                              Lot Area/Dwelling Unit
   Efficiency 4,800 square feet
   1 bedroom 6,000 square feet
   2 bedrooms 6,700 square feet
   Every additional bedroom 1,300 square feet
C - Every lot or parcel of land occupied by a medium density multiple-family dwelling
structure shall contain a minimum area of 5 acres and a total area of not less than the
following:
   Unit Type                             Lot Area/Dwelling Unit
   Efficiency 1,900 square feet
   1 bedroom 2,300 square feet
   2 bedrooms 3,000 square feet
   Every additional bedroom 700 square feet
D - In addition to the required setbacks from property boundaries, the following minimum
distances shall be required between each multiple family structure:
   (a)   Where buildings are front to front or front to rear, 3 times the height of the
taller building, and not less than 70 feet;
   (b)   Where buildings are side to side, 1.5 times the height of the taller building, but
not less than 20 feet; and
   (c)   Where buildings are front to side, rear to side, or rear to rear, 2 times the height
of the taller building but not less than 35 feet.
In applying the above standards, the front of the building shall mean that the face of the
building having greatest length and contains the primary entrance to the building; the rear
is that face opposite the front. The side is the face having the smallest dimension.
E - The minimum distance of any principal building from the ordinary high water mark shall be
50 feet.
F - Driveways to single-family dwellings shall be located in the greater side yard setback.
G - Any structure located within the CBD which abuts a dwelling located within the AG, R-1A,
or R-1B District shall have a minimum setback from the common property line of 10 feet.
H - The minimum floor area of dwelling units shall be as follows:
   Type of Dwelling                    Total Usable Floor Area (square feet)
   1-family 1,000
   2-family, per dwelling unit 800
   Multiple-family:
    Efficiency Unit 500
    1 bedroom unit 700
    2 bedroom units 900
    3 bedroom units 1,100
    4 bedroom units 1,300
    Each additional bedroom 90
 
(Ord. 239, passed 3-5-2001, § 4.5)
CHAPTER 152: SUBDIVISION REGULATIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
152.001   Short title
   
152.002   Purpose
   
152.003   Legal basis
   
152.004   Scope
   
152.005   Administration
   
152.006   Fees
   
152.007   Cemeteries
   
152.008   Conformance with zoning code
   
152.009   Rules applying to text
   
152.010   Definitions
Plat Procedures and Specifications
   
152.025   Initial procedures
   
152.026   Purpose
   
152.027   Suggested information
   
152.028   Subdivision Advisory Committee
   
152.029   Preliminary plat tentative approval; filing procedures
   
152.030   Information required
   
152.031   Review procedures
   
152.032   Effect of tentative approval of preliminary plat
   
152.033   Preliminary plat final approval of the preliminary plat
   
152.034   Information required for final approval of the preliminary plat
   
152.035   Review by the Village Planning Council
   
152.036   Review by the Village Council
   
152.037   Effect of final approval of preliminary plat
   
152.038   Final plat; filing procedures
   
152.039   Information required
   
152.040   Review of final plat
   
152.041   Effect of final plat approval
Design and Development Standards
   
152.055   Generally
   
152.056   Streets and alleys
   
152.057   Street layout
   
152.058   Drainage
   
152.059   Half streets
   
152.060   Cul-de-sac streets
   
152.061   Alleys
   
152.062   Private streets
   
152.063   Marginal access streets
   
152.064   Other required streets
   
152.065   Special treatment along major streets
   
152.066   Street names and house numbers
   
152.067   Location for utilities
   
152.068   Street standards and specifications
   
152.069   Blocks
   
152.070   Lots; dimensions
   
152.071   Lot frontage
   
152.072   Resubdividing
   
152.073   Lot lines
   
152.074   Lots to be buildable
   
152.075   Setbacks and yard requirements
   
152.076   Access
   
152.077   Access from private streets
   
152.078   Lot division
   
152.079   Reserve strips
   
152.080   Nonresidential lots
   
152.081   Pedestrian ways and sidewalks
   
152.082   Natural features
   
152.083   Uninhabitable areas
Utilities
   
152.095   Storm drainage
   
152.096   Sewer and water utilities
   
152.097   Gas, wire or cable utilities
   
152.098   Easements
   
152.099   Reservation of public use areas
Special Plats
   
152.110   Planned unit residential development
   
152.111   Mobile home subdivisions
   
152.112   Commercial subdivisions
   
152.113   Industrial subdivisions
   
152.114   Soil erosion and sediment control
   
152.115   Restrictive covenants
   
152.116   Trees
   
152.117   Street lights
Subdivision Improvements
   
152.130   Purpose
   
152.131   Standards
   
152.132   Preparation of plans
   
152.133   Timing of developments
   
152.134   Staging
   
152.135   Oversize facilities
   
152.136   Engineering drawings of improvements
   
152.137   Modification during construction
   
152.138   As built drawings
   
152.139   Construction schedule
   
152.140   Required improvements
   
152.141   Monuments
   
152.142   Streets and alleys
   
152.143   Utilities
   
152.144   Storm drainage
   
152.145   Water supply system
   
152.146   Sanitary sewer system
   
152.147   Gas, wire and cable utilities
   
152.148   Street name signs
   
152.149   Sidewalks and pedestrian paths
   
152.150   Public use areas
   
152.151   Trees
   
152.152   Street lighting
   
152.153   Driveways
   
152.154   Erosion and sedimentation control
   
152.155   Guarantee of completion of improvements
   
152.156   Performance or surety bond
   
152.157   Cash deposit, certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit
   
152.158   Contingency deposit
   
152.159   Protection and repair bond
   
152.160   Failure to complete the construction of an improvement
   
152.161   Inspection of improvements
   
152.162   Inspection schedule
   
152.163   Inspection of improvements under construction
   
152.164   Compliance with standards
   
152.165   Acceptance
   
152.166   Fees
   
152.167   Site cleanup
Variances
   
152.180   Generally
   
152.181   Hardship variance
   
152.182   Findings required
   
152.183   Report
   
152.184   Conditions
   
152.185   Comprehensive development variance
   
152.186   Criteria
   
152.187   Application required
   
152.188   Comprehensive development variance
   
152.189   Responsibility for granting variances
Enforcement
   
152.200   Building permits
   
152.201   Occupancy permits
   
152.202   Amendments
   
152.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 152.001 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the Village of Manchester
Subdivision Ordinance.
(1984 Code, § 5.501)
§ 152.002 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate and control the subdivision of
land within the village in order to promote the safety, public health and
general welfare of the community. These regulations are specifically designed
to:
   (A)   Provide for orderly growth and harmonious development of the
community, consistent with adopted development policies of the village.
   (B)   Secure proper arrangement of streets in relation to adequate traffic
circulation through coordinated existing and planned streets and to the adopted
General Development Plan, and adequate traffic circulation through coordinated
street systems with proper relation to major thoroughfares, adjoining
subdivisions, and public facilities.
   (C)   Achieve individual lots of maximum utility and livability, and lots of
such size and layout as to be in harmony with the existing and proposed
development pattern of the area.
   (D)   Insure adequate provisions for water, drainage and sanitary sewer
facilities, and other health requirements.
   (E)   Insure adequate provisions for recreational areas, school sites, and
other public facilities.
(1984 Code, § 5.502)
§ 152.003 LEGAL BASIS.
   This chapter is adopted pursuant to the statutory authority granted by the
Municipal Planning Commission Act, 285 P.A. 1931, as amended; and the
Subdivision Control Act, 288 P.A. 1931, as amended.
(1984 Code, § 5.503)
§ 152.004 SCOPE.
   This chapter shall not apply to any lot or lots forming a part of a
subdivision created and recorded prior to the effective date of Ordinance 98,
adopted 2-21-1977, except for further dividing of existing lots. Nor is it
intended by this chapter to repeal, abrogate, annul, or in any way impair or
interfere with existing provisions of other laws, ordinances or regulations, or
with private restrictions placed upon property by deed, covenant, or other
private agreements, or with restrictive covenants running with the land to
which the village is a party. Where this chapter imposes a greater restriction
upon land than is imposed or required by such existing provision of this Code
the provisions of this chapter shall prevail.
(1984 Code, § 5.504)
§ 152.005 ADMINISTRATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered in accordance with Act
288 P.A. 1967, as amended, and Act 285 P.A. 1931, as amended.
(1984 Code, § 5.505)
§ 152.006 FEES.
   The fees for the review of plans and plats, the inspection of improvements
for the administration of this chapter, and for other costs incurred by the
Village in the platting process, shall be paid to the Village Clerk by a
proprietor as follows:
   (A)   Upon submitting for Village Council approval a preliminary plat, a fee
as per Council resolution for the first 5 lots plus as per Council resolution
for each additional lot in the subdivision therein proposed. Provided, however,
that the minimum fee therefor shall be as per Council resolution.
   (B)   Upon submitting for Village Council approval a final plat, a fee of as
per Council resolution for the first 5 lots plus as per Council resolution for
each additional lot in the subdivision therein proposed. Provided, however,
that the minimum fee therefor shall be as per Council resolution.
   The fees herein provided shall be in addition to other fees provided by law.
(1984 Code, § 5.506) (Am. Ord. 140, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 152.007 CEMETERIES.
   Cemeteries shall not be included in the definition of subdivision and shall
not be subject to the provisions of this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 5.507)
§ 152.008 CONFORMANCE WITH ZONING CHAPTER.
   All plats reviewed under these regulations shall conform to all provisions
of Chapter 151 of this code for the district in which the proposed plat is to
be located. All required zoning changes shall be made prior to tentative
approval of the preliminary plat by the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 5.508)
§ 152.009 RULES APPLYING TO THE TEXT.
   For the purpose of this chapter certain rules of construction apply to the
text, as follows:
   (A)   Words used in the present tense include the future tense; and the
singular includes the plural, unless the context clearly indicates the
contrary.
   (B)   The term SHALL is always mandatory and not discretionary; the word MAY
or SHOULD is permissive.
   (C)   Any word or term not interpreted or defined by this section or
§ 152.010 shall be used with a meaning of common or standard utilization.
(1984 Code, § 5.511)
§ 152.010 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or private right-of-way shown on a plat which provides
secondary access to a lot, block or parcel of land.
   AS-BUILT PLANS. Construction plans revised to show the facility as actually
constructed.
   BLOCK. An area of land within a subdivision that is entirely bounded by
streets, highways, or ways, except alleys, or between streets, highways, or
ways and a railroad right-of-way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream,
or any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   BUILDING LINE or SETBACK LINE. A line parallel to a street right-of-way
line, shore of a lake, edge of a stream or river bank, or other property line,
established on a parcel of land or on a lot for the purpose of prohibiting
construction of a building or structure between such building line, and right-
of-way, other public area or the shore of a lake, or the edge of a stream or
river bank, or other property line.
   CAPTION. The name by which the plat is legally and commonly known.
   COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land, as defined in this section,
in which the land is to be developed for retail stores, wholesale businesses,
offices, business services, and similar uses.
   COMMON OPEN SPACE. An area within a subdivision held out of development by
the proprietor and designed for the common use or enjoyment of residents of the
subdivision. Common open space may contain such complementary structures as are
necessary and appropriate for the use or enjoyment of the subdivision. Thus
common open space may include (without limiting the generality of the foregoing
language) areas for recreational use, wildlife or plant preserves, and nature
study areas.
   COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT. A residential cluster subdivision, a commercial
or industrial park, or a planned unit residential development as defined in
this section.
   COUNTY DRAIN COMMISSIONER. The Washtenaw County Drain Commissioner.
   COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The Washtenaw County Health Department.
   COUNTY PLANNING COMMISSION. The Washtenaw County Metropolitan Planning
Commission.
   COUNTY PLAT BOARD. The Washtenaw County Flat Board.
   COUNTY ROAD COMMISSION. The Washtenaw County Road Commission.
   DEDICATION.  The intentional transfer by the proprietor to the public of the
ownership of or an interest in, land for a public purpose. Dedication may be
effected by compliance with the statutes relating to dedication of land, by
formal deed of conveyance, or by any other method recognized by the law of
Michigan.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any subdivision of land as herein defined or any material
change in the use or appearance of any parcel of land subject to the provisions
of this chapter, or the act of building structures and installing site
improvements.
   EASEMENT. An interest in land owned by another which entitles the owner or
owners of the easement to a limited use or enjoyment of the land. An EASEMENT
may be created in favor of the public generally, federal and state agencies,
municipal and private corporations, and individuals. An AFFIRMATIVE EASEMENT
authorizes a use of land which, if no easement existed, would give the
landowner a cause of action. A NEGATIVE EASEMENT precludes the landowner from
uses of his or her land which, if no easement existed, would be perfectly
lawful.
   FILLING DATE. Means the date of the Planning Commission or Village Council
meeting at which a complete application is received from the Village Clerk.
   FLOOD PLAIN. That area of land adjoining the channel of a river, stream,
water course, lake or other similar body of water which will be inundated by a
flood which can easily be expected for that region.
   GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN. A comprehensive land use plan for the village
which, through any combination of text, charts, and maps, sets forth proposals
for general locations for the various land uses, streets, parks, schools,
public buildings, and for the physical development of the village, adopted by
the Village Planning Commission and duly transmitted to the Village Council and
to the County Planning Commission, or any unit or part of such plan separately
adopted, and any amendments to such plan or any unit or part thereof separately
adopted; provided, however, that such plan or any unit or part thereof
separately adopted shall have been duly published. Any reference in this
section or elsewhere in this chapter to adoption of plans refers to adoption by
the Village Planning Commission in accordance with Act 285, Public Acts of
1931, as amended. The term GENERAL DEVELOPMENT PLAN includes such commonly used
terms as basic plan, master plan, general plan, comprehensive plan, and land
use plan.
   GREENBELT or BUFFER. A strip or tract of land located between incompatible
land uses which is subject to private use restrictions or a negative easement
or is dedicated to public use as open space, for the purpose of protecting the
environment of a subdivision or to enhance a street right-of-way, or both.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Any structure or material change incident to servicing or
furnishing facilities for a subdivision such as, but not limited to grading,
street surfacing, curb and gutter, driveway approaches, sidewalks, pedestrian
ways, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, culverts, bridges,
utilities, lagoons, slips, waterways, lakes, bays, canals, and other
appropriate items, with appurtenant construction, demolition of structures;
planting; or removal of trees and other vegetation cover.
   INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land, as defined in this section,
in which the land is to be developed for manufacturing plants, trucking and
warehouse facilities, and similar activities.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land, described and fixed in
a recorded plat or in a plat proposed to be recorded, and is considered as a
unit.
      (1)   CORNER LOT. A lot with 2 adjacent sides abutting upon streets or
other public or open spaces.
      (2)   INTERIOR LOT. A lot which faces on 1 street.
   MATERIAL CHANGE. Includes but is not limited to any commencement of mining,
excavation, grading, or land clearance; deposit of refuse, waste, or fill on
land not already used for that purpose, or permitted to be used for that
purpose by the Chapter 151 of this code, or which extends the height of any
existing deposit above the level of land adjoining the site; alteration of a
shore, bank or flood plain of a river, stream or of any lake or pond, natural
or artificial.
   MOBILE HOME. A detached single-family dwelling unit with all of the
following characteristics:
      (1)   Designed for long term occupancy, and containing sleeping
accommodations, a flush toilet, a tub or shower bath, and kitchen facilities,
with plumbing and electrical connections provided for attachment to outside
systems.
      (2)   Designed to be transported after fabrication on its own wheels or
on flatbed or other trailers or detachable wheels, and to be moved from 1 site
to another.
      (3)   Arriving at the site where it is to be occupied as a complete
dwelling, including major appliances and furniture and ready for occupancy
except for minor and incidental unpacking and assembly operations, location on
foundation supports, connection to utilities, and the like.
      (4)   Designed to be used with a permanent foundation.
      This definition does not include travel trailers, nor the so-called
MODULAR HOMES commonly built by mobile home manufacturers and made into
permanent residences by attaching 2 or more units together on foundations,
slabs, or basements. Modular homes shall be treated, under this chapter as
standard housing and not as mobile homes.
   OPEN SPACE. Land dedicated or reserved for use by the general public or for
use by residents of the subdivision, or land held out of development and
retained in its natural condition, with or without public access. OPEN SPACE
includes but is not limited to parks, parkways, playgrounds, school sites,
wildlife or plant life preserves, and nature study areas.
   OUTLOT. When included within the boundary of a recorded plat, means a lot
set aside for purposes other than a building site, park or other land dedicated
to public use or reserved to private use.
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the Subdivision Control Act.
   PEDESTRIAN WAY. A separate right-of-way dedicated to or reserved for public
use by pedestrians, which crosses blocks or other tracts of land for the
purpose of facilitating pedestrian access to adjacent streets and properties.
   PERSONS. Means an individual, corporation, government, or governmental
agency, business, trust, estate trust, partnership or association, 2 or more
persons having a joint or common interest, or any legal entity.
   PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. An area with a minimum contiguous
acreage of 10 acres which is to be developed as a single entity according to a
plan and which is to contain 1 or more residential cluster subdivisions or
other residential developments with an established overall
maximum dwelling unit density, along with associated uses primarily for the
benefit of the PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT. A PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL
DEVELOPMENT may be planned, developed, and regulated as a single land use unit
rather than as an aggregation of individual buildings on separate lots.
   PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the Village of Manchester as
established under Act 285, Public Acts of 1931, as amended.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
   PROPRIETOR. Means any person or any combination of persons, including a
government agency undertaking any development as defined herein. The term
PROPRIETOR includes such commonly used references as subdivider, developer, and
owner.
   PUBLIC OPEN SPACE. An area within a subdivision held out of development by
the proprietor and conveyed or otherwise dedicated to, or reserved for purchase
by, a municipality, municipal agency, board of education, State or county
agency, or other public body for recreation or conservation use.
   PUBLIC USE AREAS. Public parks, playgrounds, or other recreational areas;
scenic or historic sites; school sites or sites for other public buildings; and
other areas dedicated to public use or enjoyment.
   PUBLIC UTILITY. All persons, firms, corporations, co-partnerships, or
municipal or other public authority providing gas, electricity, water, steam,
telephone, telegraph, storm sewers, transportation, or other services of
similar nature.
   REPLAT. The process of changing, or the map or plat which changes the
boundaries of a recorded subdivision plat or part thereof. The legal dividing
of an outlot within a recorded subdivision plat without changing the exterior
boundaries of the outlot is not a replat.
   RESERVE. To hold subdivision land out of development for the purpose:
      (1)   Of limiting it to use by the residents of the subdivision by means
of easements and private use restrictions; or
      (2)   Permitting its future acquisition for public use by the village or
some other appropriate public agency.
   RESIDENTIAL CLUSTER SUBDIVISION. A subdivision of land, as defined in this
section, which contains 1 or more clusters of residential housing units with
each cluster directly accessible to an open space system that is an integral,
planned part of the subdivision. The dimensions and area of each lot in a
residential cluster subdivision may be reduced below the minimums ordinarily
required by Chapter 151 of this code with the surplus land area being
incorporated into the open space system of the subdivision. The overall
dwelling unit density and the total number of dwelling units in a residential
cluster subdivision will not exceed those of a typical residential cluster of
the same area. The open space system of a residential cluster subdivision may
consist of common open space, or partly of common open space and partly of
public open space, or entirely of public open space.
   RIGHT-OF-WAY. The area covered by a public street, alley, or pedestrian way,
or by a private easement for access or passage.
   SIDEWALK. A facility, placed within the right-of-way of existing streets, or
a facility connecting with buildings, parking lots, or other activities having
access to the street right-of-way, for the purpose of providing safe movement
of pedestrians.
   SOIL CONSERVATION DISTRICT. Washtenaw County Soil Conservation District.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway or other way
which is an existing state, county, or municipal roadway; or a street or way
shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved by official
action; or a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of
the County Register of Deeds. A street or way may be public or private and
includes the land between the street lines whether improved or unimproved, and
may consist of pavement, shoulders, gutters, sidewalks, parking areas, and
lawns.
   STRUCTURE. Means any object or assembly of materials constructed or
installed on, above, or below the surface of a parcel and includes, but is not
limited to, any combination of materials, whether portable or fixed, having a
roof, to form a building for occupancy by persons, animals, or property,
anything attached to a building, any pole, pipeline, or other part of a
distribution system whether located on, above, or below the surface of a
parcel. A STRUCTURE is any improvement, as defined in this section, other than
an improvement which consists only of a material change, as defined in this
section.
   SUBDIVIDE or SUBDIVISION. To SUBDIVIDE or the act of SUBDIVISION is the
partitioning of a parcel or tract of land by the proprietor thereof or by his
heirs, executors, administrators, legal representatives, successors, or as
signs for the purpose of sale or lease of more than 1 year, or of building
development, where the act of division created 5 or more parcels of land each
of which is 10 acres or less in area, are created by successive divisions
within a period of 10 years.
   SUBDIVISION ADVISORY COMMITTEE (SAC). A committee created by resolution of
the County Planning Commission for the purpose of reviewing the technical
aspects of proposed plats.
   SUBDIVISION CONTROL ACT. Act 288, P.A. of 1967, as amended, State of
Michigan.
   SURVEYOR. A land SURVEYOR who is registered in this State as a registered
professional engineer.
   TOPOGRAPHICAL MAP. A map showing existing physical characteristics, with
contour lines of not greater than 2-foot intervals to permit determination of
proposed grades and drainage.
   WATER RESOURCES COMMISSION. The WATER RESOURCES COMMISSION of the Michigan
Department of Conservation.
(1984 Code, § 5.512)
PLAT PROCEDURES AND SPECIFICATIONS
§ 152.025 INITIAL PURPOSES.
   The proprietor is encouraged to consult the general development plans and
detailed plans of any unit of government that affect the tract to be subdivided
and the area surrounding it before he or she submits a preliminary plat for
review. He or she should also become acquainted with Chapter 151 of this code,
standards and requirements, this chapter, and other chapters which regulate the
subdivision of land in the Village. He or she should also discuss the concepts
of the proposed subdivision with the Village Planning Commission, with the
staff of the County Planning Commission, and with the public utility companies
serving the area.
(1984 Code, § 5.516)
§ 152.026 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of the initial procedures stage of the platting process is to
acquaint the proprietor with the planning policies of the village as they apply
to the property to be subdivided, to give the Planning Commission an
opportunity to discuss the subdivision with the proprietor before expensive
surveys and drawings are made, and to discuss the concepts and basic
organization of the proposed development in relation to existing and future
conditions on and around the site. The basic decisions as to the interpretation
of planning policy for the site and area in question, and modification of such
policy as a result of the proposed development will be made in this stage. The
consensus reached in this stage will form the basis of the preliminary plat.
(1984 Code, § 5.517)
§ 152.027 SUGGESTED INFORMATION.
   In order to gain maximum benefit from the initial procedures stage the
proprietor should submit the following information to the Planning Commission
for the entire tract of land, whether or not the tract will be developed in
stages. Information may be combined on 1 or more drawings.
   (A)   Description of features, existing and proposed, surrounding the site,
or of importance to the proposed development.
   (B)   Description of general topographic and general soil conditions on the
site.
   (C)   Location and description of existing and future man-made features on
the site of importance to the proposed development.
   (D)   A site analysis showing which of the conditions the proprietor intends
to retain or modify as part of the design of the subdivision.
   (E)   The concept, objectives, general layout and location and extent of the
various uses and facilities to be incorporated within the subdivision.
   (F)   Stages of development.
   (G)   Property dimensions and area.
   (H)   Aerial photograph of the site and surrounding area, with the site
clearly defined.
   (I)   Proprietor's interest in the land.
(1984 Code, § 5.518)
§ 152.028 SUBDIVISION ADVISORY COMMITTEE.
   The proprietor may present his preliminary development ideas to the
Subdivision Advisory Committee for its comments and advice. The Planning
Commission may request comments and advice from the Committee on the proposed
layout.
(1984 Code, § 5.519)
§ 152.029 PRELIMINARY PLAT TENTATIVE APPROVAL; FILING PROCEDURES.
   The proprietor shall file 8 copies of the preliminary pint, together with a
completed application form and plat review fees with the Village Clerk at least
10 days prior to the regular Planning Commission meeting at which the plat is
to be considered. The Clerk shall check the completeness of the submittal, and
if complete, transmit same to the Chairperson of the Planning Commission at
least 7 days prior to the Planning Commission's next regular meeting. If the
application is not complete, the Clerk shall so notify the applicant in writing
and shall list deficiencies.
(1984 Code, § 5.520)
§ 152.030 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   The following information is required for all preliminary plats submitted
for tentative approval. The required information may be combined for
presentation on 1 or more drawings or maps. The Planning Commission may request
that the information be presented on drawings or maps in addition to those
submitted in the interests of clarity, speed, and efficiency in the review
process.
   (A)   Name of proposed subdivision.
   (B)   Legal description of the entire site to be subdivided.
   (C)   Scale, date, and north point shall be indicated on each map or plan.
   (D)   Name and address of proprietor; other owners, if any; and planner,
engineer, surveyor, or designer responsible for the subdivision layout.
   (E)   Names of adjacent subdivisions; layout of streets indicating street
names, right-of-way widths, and connections with adjoining platted streets;
widths and locations of alleys, easements, and public walkways adjacent to or
connecting with the proposed subdivision; layout and dimensions of lots
adjacent to the proposed subdivision; and names and addresses of owners of
record of all adjacent property.
   (F)   Topography, existing and proposed, at 2-foot intervals. Proposed
grading and land filling shall be indicated on the plans along with a
description of measures to be used to control sedimentation and erosion. All
topographic data shall relate to USGS data.
   (G)   Plans and specifications of soil erosion and sedimentation control
measures in accordance with standards and specifications of the Soil
Conservation District.
   (H)   Proposed deed restrictions or protective covenants; if none, a
statement of such in writing.
   (I)   Layout and width of right-of-way and pavement, of all streets or
public ways proposed for the subdivision.
   (J)   Lot layout, dimensions, setback requirements, area, and lot numbers of
proposed lots.
   (K)   All parcels or lands to be dedicated or reserved for public use or for
use in common by property owners in the subdivision shall be indicated on the
preliminary plat, along with any conditions of such dedication or reservation.
   (L)   Location and size of all existing sanitary sewer, storm sewer and
water supply facilities; and location of, and points of connection to, proposed
lines; elevations, and grades, direction of flow, profiles; location of valves
and hydrants; location of electricity, telephone, and gas supply lines;
location, description, and details of any on-site facilities to serve the
entire subdivision.
   (M)   Identification, location, and nature of all uses other than single-
family residences to be included within the subdivision.
   (N)   Staging of development of the entire subdivision shall be clearly
shown on the plat, and the relation of each stage to the entire subdivision
plat shall be clearly indicated.
   (O)   Location, dimensions, and purpose of all easements shall be shown on
the plat.
   (P)   Location and type of sidewalks, street lighting standards, street
trees, curbs, water mains, sanitary sewers and storm drains, manholes, catch
basins and underground conduits.
   (Q)   Zoning status of property included in the preliminary plat and of all
adjacent properties; civil jurisdiction of all such properties.
   (R)   Modification requested by the Planning Commission.
(1984 Code, § 5.521)
§ 152.031 REVIEW PROCEDURES.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall, at the meeting at which the preliminary
plat is received from the Village Clerk, establish a date for a public hearing
thereon. Notices of public hearing shall be sent by registered mail to the
proprietor, to owners of adjoining lands, and the public utility companies
serving the area. Notices shall be mailed not less than 15 days prior to the
hearing date. The hearing shall be held within 35 days of date on which the
Planning Commission receives the preliminary plat from the Village Clerk.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat for
conformance to the General Development Plan and to standards and specifications
set forth in the Subdivision Control Act and in this chapter. If the Planning
Commission determines that there is substantial conformance, it shall transmit
1 copy of the preliminary plat to the Staff of the County Planning Commission
for design review, 1 copy to the Subdivision Advisory Committee for technical
review, 1 copy to the Village Engineer for technical review, and 1 copy to the
Superintendent of the Manchester Public Schools for information purposes. If
there is not substantial conformance the Planning Commission shall return the
preliminary plat to the proprietor and shall explain by letter or report, the
reasons for the nonconformance.
   (C)   After holding a public hearing, and after receiving comments and
recommendations, if any, from the County Planning Commission Staff, the
Subdivision Advisory Committee, the Village Engineer and the Superintendent of
Schools, the Planning Commission shall re-evaluate the preliminary plat and may
request modifications therein.
   (D)   The Planning Commission shall tentatively approve or disapprove the
preliminary plat within 60 days of the date of filing of the plat. The review
period may be extended by written agreement between the Planning Commission and
the proprietor, if the Planning Commission does not act within the 60-day
period, and if no extension is secured, the Planning Commission's tentative
approval of the preliminary plat shall be assumed.
   (E)   The Village Council shall, within 30 days of receiving the Planning
Commission's report, tentatively approve or disapprove the preliminary plat. If
approved, same shall be noted on the plat; if disapproved, reasons therefor
shall be submitted in writing to the proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.522)
§ 152.032 EFFECT OF TENTATIVE APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Tentative approval of the preliminary plat shall confer upon the proprietor
for a period of 1 year from the approval date, approval of the lot sizes, lot
orientations and street layout of the proposed subdivision. The tentative
approval may be extended if an extension is applied for by the proprietor,
submitted to the Planning Commission for recommendation, and granted in writing
by the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 5.523)
§ 152.033 PRELIMINARY PLAT FINAL APPROVAL; FILING PROCEDURES.
   The preliminary plat, as tentatively approved by the Village Council and
approved by county and state plat approval authorities as required by the
Subdivision Control Act, together with the required information, completed
application form and fees, shall be submitted to the Clerk at least 10 days
prior to the meeting of the Planning Commission at which the preliminary plat
is to be considered for final approval. The Clerk shall check the completeness
of the submittal, and, if complete, transmit same to the Chairman of the
Planning Commission at least 7 days prior to the Planning Commission's next
regular meeting. if the application is not complete, the Clerk shall so notify
the applicant in writing and shall list deficiencies.
(1984 Code, § 5.524)
§ 152.034 INFORMATION REQUIRED FOR FINAL APPROVAL OF THE PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The following information shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
final approval of the preliminary plat:
   (A)   The proprietor shall provide the following information:
      (1)   A list of all county and state authorities required by the
Subdivision Control Act to approve the preliminary plat, certifying that each
authority has approved the preliminary plat.
      (2)   One approved copy of the preliminary plat from each county and
state authority required by the Subdivision Control Act to approve the
preliminary plat.
      (3)   Copy of receipt from the Village Treasurer that all fees required
under this chapter have been paid.
      (4)   Certificate of approval as set forth in
§ 152.133(D), and construction schedules.
   (B)   The Village Engineer shall file a report with the Planning Commission
indicating his or her approval or rejection of the preliminary plat. The
Village Engineer shall obtain the views and comments of the Fire Chief, Police
Chief and Village Administrator in preparing his or her report.
(1984 Code, § 5.525)
§ 152.035 REVIEW BY THE VILLAGE PLANNING COMMISSION.
   (A)   The Planning Commission shall review the preliminary plat at its next
regular meeting after submittal of the complete application, or within 20 days
of the date of application to the Village Clerk. The Planning Commission shall
finally approve the preliminary plat if it conforms to the preliminary plat as
tentatively approved by the Commission and Council and if all other required
approvals have been obtained by the proprietor.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall disapprove the preliminary plat if it
does not conform to the preliminary plat as tentatively approved by the
Commission and Council, or if any of the other required approvals have not been
obtained.
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall immediately after acting on the
preliminary plat transmit a report thereon to the Village Council, Indicating
therein reasons for its action. A copy of the report shall also be sent to the
proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.526)
§ 152.036 REVIEW BY VILLAGE COUNCIL.
   (A)   The Village Council shall review the preliminary plat and the Planning
Commission's report within 20 days of the date of application to the Village
Clerk The Council shall finally approve the preliminary plat if it conforms to
the preliminary plat as tentatively approved and if all other required
approvals have been obtained. The Clerk shall promptly notify the proprietor of
final approval in writing.
   (B)   The Council shall disapprove the preliminary plat if it does not
conform to the preliminary plat as tentatively approved by the Commission and
Council, or if any of the other required approvals have not been obtained. The
Clerk shall promptly notify the proprietor of the rejection and reasons
therefor, in writing. The reasons for disapproval shall be recorded in the
minutes of the Council meeting. Notice of disapproval shall be sent to each of
the other plat approval agencies by the Clerk.
   (C)   In case of disapproval of the preliminary plat by the Village Council
further consideration of a plat for subdividing the same land can be obtained
only if the proprietor applies for tentative approval of a preliminary plat.
   (D)   In order to reach a compromise when the Village Council indicates that
it will disapprove the preliminary plat, the proprietor and Council may agree,
in writing, to extend the 20-day review period. Any changes made in the plat
during the period of extension shall be sent to each authority which approved
the preliminary plat. Approval of such changes by such authorities shall be
obtained before the Council may finally approve the preliminary plat. This
provision is intended to be used only in situations where, in the opinion of
the Council, objections to final approval are minor.
(1984 Code, § 5.527)
§ 152.037 EFFECT OF FINAL APPROVAL OF PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   Final approval of the preliminary plat shall confer upon the proprietor for
a period of 2 years from the date of approval the conditional right that the
general terms and conditions under which the final approval of the preliminary
plat was granted will not be changed. The 2-year period may be extended if an
extension is applied for by the proprietor and granted by the Village Council
in writing. Written notice of any extension shall be sent by the Council to all
other plat approval authorities. Construction of improvements may commence upon
final approval of the preliminary plat by the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 5.528)
§ 152.038 FINAL PLAT, FILING PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Final plats shall be submitted in the form required in the Subdivision
Control Act, together with:
      (1)   The completed application form;
      (2)   Fees for filing and recording and plat review, and inspection of
improvements; and
      (3)   Agreement and security required to guarantee performance; and
   (B)   Shall be submitted to the Clerk at least 10 days prior to the meeting
of the Planning Commission at which the plat is to be considered. The Clerk
shall determine if the submittal is complete, and if complete, transmit same to
the Commission in adequate time for inclusion in the agenda for the
Commission's next meeting. If the application is not complete the Clerk shall
so notify the applicant in writing and shall list deficiencies. A final plat
shall not be accepted for review after the date of expiration of the final
approval of the preliminary plat. The final plat shall be submitted to the
following agencies, in the indicated order, and the proprietor shall obtain
signatures from the agencies thereon, in the indicated order, prior to filing
the final plat with the Planning Commission for approval.
      (1)   County and Village Treasurer;
      (2)   County Drain Commissioner;
      (3)   Village Engineer.
   (C)   The final plat shall be signed by the registered land surveyor or
Professional Engineer and by the proprietor(s) prior to filing with the Village
Clerk.
(1984 Code, § 5.529)
§ 152.039 INFORMATION REQUIRED.
   All final plats shall be in the form, and contain the information, required
by the Subdivision Control Act.
   (A)   One reproducible copy on mylar or other dimensionally stable material,
and 4 paper prints thereof, and the filing and recording fees, shall be filed
by the proprietor with the Village Clerk.
   (B)   Abstract of title or other certificate establishing ownership
interests and to ascertain if proper parties have signed the plat, for all land
included in the subdivision.
   (C)   The proprietor shall provide the Village with a certificate from his
or her engineer indicating that improvements have been installed in conformance
with the approved engineering drawings, with any changes noted therein and
attached in drawings, and proof or a guarantee of completion for those
improvements to be installed after final plat approval, as finally approved in
the preliminary plat.
   (D)   A detailed estimate of all costs of all required improvements not to
be installed prior to final plat approval, as provided in §§
152.095 through
152.099. The estimate of costs shall be checked and approved by the Village
Engineer prior to review of the final plat by the Planning Commission.
(1984 Code, § 5.530)
§ 152.040 REVIEW OF FINAL PLAT.
   (A)   The final plat shall conform closely to the preliminary plat as
finally approved. The final plat may cover only a portion of the area covered
by the preliminary plat as finally approved.
   (B)   All improvements and facilities to be provided by the proprietor shall
be installed, or adequate security in lieu thereof shall be provided, and all
dedications and easements shall be evidenced as having been made before the
Planning Commission may approve the final plat. All installations shall be
inspected and approved by the Village Engineer before the Planning Commission
may approve the final plat. (Approval of the final plat shall not constitute
acceptance by the Village of items for dedication).
   (C)   The Planning Commission shall approve or disapprove the final plat and
shall immediately report its action and reasons therefor, to the Village
Council. The Commission shall take action within 20 days of the date of
submittal to the Clerk.
   (D)   The Village Council shall review the Planning Commission's action and
report and shall approve or disapprove the final plat within 20 days of the
date of submittal to the Clerk. Approval of the final plat by the Council shall
not constitute acceptance of items for dedication.
   (E)   If the final plat is approved, the Clerk shall transmit the
reproducible copy of the plat and the filing and recording fee to the County
Plat Board. One print of the Plat shall be retained by the Clerk and 1 print
shall be distributed to the Building Inspector, the Planning Commission and the
Subdivision Advisory Committee.
   (F)   If the final plat is approved the Clerk shall sign a certificate
signifying Council approval of the final plat, which shall include the date of
approval and the date on which the Clerk signs the certificate.
   (G)   If the final plat is disapproved the Clerk shall record the reasons
therefor in the minutes of the meeting, notify the proprietor in writing of the
action and reasons therefor, and return the plat to the proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.531)
§ 152.041 EFFECT OF FINAL PLAT APPROVAL.
   Approval of the final plat shall confer upon the proprietor for a period of
3 years from date of approval a right that all existing zoning regulations and
subdivision regulations as they apply to the property included in the final
plat shall continue in effect.
(1984 Code, § 5.532)
DESIGN AND DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS
§ 152.055 GENERALLY.
   In considering applications for approval of subdivision plats, the standards
set forth in this subchapter shall be considered to be minimum requirements.
Where a duly adopted and published General Development Plan requires higher
standards, such higher standards shall apply. The Planning Commission and the
Village Council recognize that the standards set forth in this subchapter are
directed primarily to residential subdivisions and that such standards are not
always reasonably applicable to mobile home subdivisions, commercial
subdivisions, and industrial subdivisions. Therefore §§
152.095 through
152.099 is included to provide the necessary modifications. Variances from the
standards set forth in this subchapter shall be granted as provided in §§
152.180 through
152.189, herein.
(1984 Code, § 5.541)
§ 152.056 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   The specifications contained in this chapter are the standards for all
highways, streets, and alleys which might hereafter be platted or accepted
within the village.
(1984 Code, § 5.542)
§ 152.057 STREET LAYOUT.
   (A)   Street layout shall conform to the duly adopted and published General
Development Plan or the portion thereof relating to streets and traffic. The
arrangement of streets in the subdivision shall provide for the continuation of
streets in adjacent subdivisions, where such extensions are deemed desirable by
the Planning Commission and Village Council, and where such extension is not
precluded by topographic or other existing conditions. The layout shall provide
for proper projection of principal streets into adjoining properties not yet
subdivided. In general, all such streets shall have a width at least as great
as the street being extended.
   (B)   Local streets shall be laid out so as to discourage their use by
through traffic.
   (C)   Streets shall be arranged in proper relation to topography so as to
result in usable lots, safe streets, and reasonable grades, both for the
streets and for driveways intersecting therewith.
   (D)   The street layout shall not isolate lands from existing public streets
or roads, unless suitable access is provided, and that such access be granted
by easement or dedicated to public use. Slight jogs in continuous streets at
points of intersection with other streets shall not be permitted. Where offsets
cannot be avoided, a minimum distance of 125 feet shall be established between
centerlines of the intersecting streets.
   (E)   When future connections to adjacent areas are to be provided, the land
for such connection shall be covered by an easement and shall be designated
future road on the various plats. A document conveying the easement for road
purposes shall be filed with the village at the time of filing of the
preliminary plat for final approval. The easement shall conform to the right of
way standards of this chapter.
   (F)   Intersection of local or residential streets with collector and
arterial streets shall be reduced to a reasonable minimum but should, in
general, be at least 500 feet apart, centerline to centerline, to preserve the
traffic carrying capacity of the collector and arterial streets, and to reduce
the potential of accidents at such intersections. In general, all streets
should intersect each other so that for a distance of at least 100 feet the
street is approximately at right angles to the street it joins. In no case
shall an intersection form an angle of less than 80 degrees. No more than 2
streets shall cross at 1 intersection. All street construction shall be
centered on the street right-of-way unless the Village Engineer approves an
exception.
(1984 Code, § 5.543)
§ 152.058 DRAINAGE.
   All streets and alleys shall be provided with underground storm drains and
integrated with curb and gutter according to specifications of the Village
Engineer
(1984 Code, § 5.544) (Am. Ord. 186, passed 8-6-1990)
§ 152.059 HALF STREETS.
   Half-Street dedication will be acceptable only when the boundary of the
proposed plat coincides with the boundary of a recorded plat on which a half-
street has previously been dedicated, or when land for the other half of the
street can be dedicated at the same time.
(1984 Code, § 5.545)
§ 152.060 CUL-DE-SAC STREETS.
   Each cul-de-sac street shall not be more than 1,000 feet in length.
Exceptions may be made where topographic or other unusual existing conditions
would so require, Each cul-de-sac shall terminate with an adequate turn-around
with a radius of 75 feet for right-of-way and 50 feet for pavement. “Y” or “T”
back-arounds may be substituted for the circular terminus, if recommended by
the Village Engineer.
(1984 Code, § 5.546)
§ 152.061 ALLEYS.
   Alleys shall be prohibited, except in commercial and industrial subdivisions
and where provided they shall be at least 30 feet wide. Dead-end alleys shall
be prohibited. Alleys shall be provided in accordance with standards of the
Village Engineer and shall be paved.
(1984 Code, § 5.547)
§ 152.062 PRIVATE STREETS.
   Private streets are generally unacceptable in subdivisions in which any of
the streets are dedicated to the public. Exceptions will be considered in
commercial and industrial subdivisions, and in planned unit residential
developments.
(1984 Code, § 5.548)
§ 152.063 MARGINAL ACCESS STREETS.
   Where marginal access streets are required the proprietor shall dedicate
property for the purpose of marginal access streets to the Village and shall be
responsible for improving said marginal access streets, according to standards
of the Village Engineer. A landscaped strip at least 20 feet wide shall be
provided between a marginal access street and the adjacent street.
(1984 Code, § 5.549)
§ 152.064 OTHER REQUIRED STREETS.
   Where a subdivision borders or contains a railroad right-of-way or limited
access highway right-of-way, the Planning Commission may require a street
approximately parallel to and on 1 or both sides of such right-of-way, at a
distance suitable for the appropriate use of the intervening land (as for park
purposes in residential areas, or for commercial or industrial purposes in
appropriate districts). Such distances shall also be determined with due regard
for the requirements of approach grades and future grade separations.
(1984 Code, § 5.550)
§ 152.065 SPECIAL TREATMENT ALONG MAJOR STREETS.
   When a subdivision abuts or contains an existing or proposed arterial or
major collector street, the Planning Commission may require marginal access
streets, reverse frontage with screen planting contained in a non-access
reservation along the rear property line, or such other treatment as might be
necessary for adequate protection of residential properties to afford
separation of through and local traffic and to retain the traffic carrying
capacity of the arterial or collector streets.
(1984 Code, § 5.551)
§ 152.066 STREET NAMES AND HOUSE NUMBERS.
   Street names shall not duplicate names of any existing street in the
Townships of Manchester, Sharon, Freedom and Bridgewater, except where a new
street is a continuation of an existing street in the village. Street names
that are spelled differently but sound the same shall be avoided. Duplication
shall be avoided by checking new street names with the master listing of the
County Road Commission. Generally no street should change direction by more
than 90 degrees without a change in street name. Streets should have names and
not numbers or letters.
(1984 Code, § 5.552)
§ 152.067 LOCATION FOR UTILITIES.
   Utilities shall be located so as to best conform to the layout of existing
facilities. In streets where no pattern has been established, utilities shall
be located in conformance with standards of the Village Engineer.
(1984 Code, § 5.553)
§ 152.068 STREET STANDARDS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   All public and private streets shall be provided in accordance with the
standards of the General Development Plan or part thereof relating to streets,
and to the standards of the Village Engineer. All rights of way within a
subdivision shall conform to the Village's adopted right-of-way Plan. Where a
subdivision includes all, or a portion of a street, existing or proposed which
is shown on the right-of-way plan, the proprietor shall dedicate sufficient
right-of-way to conform to the adopted right-of-way Plan. (Refer to pertinent
sections of Chapter 151 of this code.)
(1984 Code, § 5.554)
§ 152.069 BLOCKS.
   (A)   Blocks generally shall not be less than 500 feet or more than 1,320
feet in length as measured from centerlines of streets. No block width shall be
less than twice the normal lot depth except where lots back onto a major
street, natural feature or subdivision boundary. A block shall be designed so
as to provide 2 tiers of lots, except where the lots back into a major street,
natural feature, subdivision boundary or other feature or facility which
necessitates reverse frontage.
   (B)   In blocks exceeding 800 feet in length the Planning Commission may
require reservation of a 20-foot wide easement through the block to provide for
the crossing of underground utilities and/or pedestrian traffic where needed or
desirable, and may specify further, at its discretion, that a paved foot path,
be provided by the proprietor. Blocks intended for nonresidential uses shall be
especially designed for such purposes, and in accordance with Zoning Ordinance
provisions, In such cases the above dimensions do not apply.
(1984 Code, § 5.555)
§ 152.070 LOTS; DIMENSIONS.
   (A)   Lots shall conform to the requirements of Chapter 151 of this code in
terms of width, depth, and area, except for outlots that are provided for an
indicated and approved purpose. Lots abutting a pedestrian mid-block crosswalk
or other right-of-way shall be treated as corner lots.
   (B)   Residential lots shall not open or face directly onto a freeway right-
of-way, an arterial or collector street, shopping centers, industrial districts
or parks, and other similar nonresidential areas, In such situations, lots
shall be laid out in 1 of the following ways:
      (1)   Lots may back onto the above features, but shall be separated
therefrom by a 20-foot wide landscaped strip along the rear property line. The
20-foot wide strip shall not be considered part of the lot's minimum length,
width or area, but shall be considered part of the contiguous lot. The
landscaping shall be such as to create a screen to insure the privacy of each
lot.
      (2)   Lots may face onto a marginal access street.
      (3)   Lots may face onto intersecting local streets with driveways
opening onto the intersecting local streets. The corner lots which abut the
major street right-of-way or the non-residential area shall each have the 20-
foot wide landscaped strip as required in section
§ 152.070(B)(1), above.
      (4)   Lots may be grouped around cul-de-sac or loop streets which open
onto the major street. In such situations the corner lots abutting the major
street right-of-way shall each contain the landscaped strip required in
§ 152.070(B)(1).
   (C)   The layout of lots, whichever method is used, is intended to restrict
the number of access points to the major streets and thereby reduce the number
of traffic hazard points, to preserve the traffic carrying capacity of the
major streets; and to protect each lot's privacy and its freedom from noise,
litter, fumes, and dust.
   (D)   Any landscaped strip required above shall not be part of the normal
road right-of-way or utility easement.
(1984 Code, § 5.556)
§ 152.071 LOT FRONTAGE.
   (A)   Lots extending through a block are generally prohibited except where
they back onto a freeway right of way, an arterial or collector street, a
shopping center, an industrial district, a park, or other similar
nonresidential area. All lots shall abut by their full frontage, on a dedicated
public street, or an approved private street. Variances to this provision may
be permitted in approved comprehensive developments.
   (B)   The portion of a lot bordering on a lake, stream, open area or similar
amenity may be designated as the front, provided that a setback can be obtained
on the street side equal to the setback required for the front. In no case,
however, shall either setback be less than the front setback required in
Chapter 151 of this code.
(1984 Code, § 5.557)
§ 152.072 RESUBDIVIDING.
   Where a tract is to be subdivided into lots substantially larger than the
minimum size required in Chapter 151 of this code, the Commission may require
that streets and lots be laid out so as to permit future re-subdivision in a
logical manner and in accordance with provisions of this chapter. Lot
arrangements shall allow for ultimate extension of adjacent streets through
blocks or the splitting of lots into smaller lots. The plan for such future
resubdividing or lot-splitting shall be approved by the Planning Commission
before division of lots may be made.
(1984 Code, § 5.558)
§ 152.073 LOT LINES.
   Side lot lines shall generally be perpendicular to the right-of-way lines or
radial to curved streets. All sides and rear lot lines should be straight lines
unless natural features or street curvature so prevent. Variations in these
provisions may be made when in the opinion of the Planning Commission such
variation would result in a better arrangement of lots.
(1984 Code, § 5.559)
§ 152.074 LOTS TO BE BUILDABLE.
   (A)   The lot arrangement shall be such that in constructing a building in
compliance with Chapter 151 of this code, topography or other natural
conditions will not create difficulties in locating the building and driveway
and in providing adequate yard areas. Acute angles created by side lot lines
and odd shaped lots should be avoided.
   (B)   The size, shape, and location of each lot should have the following
qualities:
      (1)   A suitable site for placing a house without excess grading;
      (2)   A usable area for outdoor living and other outdoor activities;
      (3)   Adequate surface drainage away from the house site and outdoor
living areas;
      (4)   Reasonable driveway grades; and
      (5)   General site grading should be minimized with significant trees and
other vegetation retained.
(1984 Code, § 5.560)
§ 152.075 SETBACKS AND YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   Placement of the building on the, site shall conform to all yard
requirements of Chapter 151 of this code. However, the proprietor should vary
the placement of the building on each lot and front setback should be varied
among several adjacent lots to create a more attractive neighborhood appearance
and to relieve the monotony that results from rigid adherence to the minimum
requirements. The setbacks provided should conform to topography and natural
features of the site.
(1984 Code, § 5.561)
§ 152.076 ACCESS.
   Driveways and curbcuts shall conform to standards of the Village Engineer.
The curb section of driveways and aprons shall be designed so that excessive
breakover angle and rear bumper and exhaust pipe dragging will be eliminated.
(1984 Code, § 5.562)
§ 152.077 ACCESS FROM PRIVATE STREETS.
   Access from private streets shall be deemed acceptable only if such streets
are designed and improved in accordance with this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 5.563)
§ 152.078 LOT DIVISION.
   The division of a lot in a recorded plat is prohibited unless approved
following application to the Village Council. The application shall be filed
with the Village Clerk and shall state the reasons for the proposed division.
The Village Council may request review and comment by the Village Planning
Commission. The division to be approved by the Village Council shall have the
suitability of the land for building purposes approved by the County Health
Department for lots not served by public sewer and water. No building permit
shall be issued, or any building construction commenced, prior to the Village
Council approval. No lot in a recorded plat shall be divided into more than 4
parts and the resulting lots shall be not less in area than lots permitted by
Chapter 151 of this code. The division of a lot resulting in smaller area than
lots permitted in this chapter may be permitted, but only for the purpose of
adding to the existing building site or sites. The application shall so state
and shall be in affidavit form.
(1984 Code, § 5.564)
§ 152.079 RESERVE STRIPS.
   Privately held reserve strips controlling access to streets shall be
prohibited, except as provided in
§ 152.065.
(1984 Code, § 5.565)
§ 152.080 NONRESIDENTIAL LOTS.
   Lots intended for uses other than residential shall be identified on the
plat, and shall be specifically designed for such uses, in accordance with
provisions of this chapter and Chapter 151 of this code.
(1984 Code, § 5.566)
§ 152.081 PEDESTRIAN WAYS AND SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Pedestrian ways, other than sidewalks in street rights-of-way, shall
be at least 20 feet wide, when required. The Planning Commission and/or Village
Council may require a paved walkway to be provided for public safety and
welfare. Street rights-of-way shall be sufficient to provide for sidewalks on
both sides of the street, except in planned unit residential developments,
where variations may be permitted.
   (B)   Sidewalks and walkways in pedestrian ways shall have a minimum
pavement width of 4 feet, and shall have a minimum lateral slope of 1/4 inch
per foot of width. Sidewalks shall be placed within the street right-of-way, 1
foot away from the property line. Sidewalks shall be concrete, 4 inches thick,
with 6-inch thickness under driveways. Driveway aprons shall not break the
sidewalk level.
   (C)   The pavement of a pedestrian way shall consist of concrete, asphalt,
stone, or other surface material. Planting pockets shall be provided in
pedestrian ways for tree and shrub plantings. The planting plan and surface
treatment shall meet the approval of the Planning Commission. Fences and other
improvements may also be required if the Planning Commission and Village
Council determine such are necessary to protect the adjacent property owners or
the pedestrians. The Planning Commission and Village Council may require that
pedestrian ways be lighted, with the lighting to be located so as to adequately
illuminate the walkway but not to disturb adjacent residences.
(1984 Code, § 5.567)
§ 152.082 NATURAL FEATURES.
   The Planning Commission shall, wherever possible, require the preservation
of all natural features which add value to the proposed subdivision and to the
community at large, such as large trees or groves of trees, water courses,
vistas, historic spots and features, wildlife habitats and ecological areas,
and similar irreplaceable assets. The location, nature, and extent of such
features should be identified in the initial procedures and preliminary plat
stages and shall be made a part of the subsequent plats to the greatest
possible extent. The preservation and/or inclusion of such features may be made
a condition of tentative approval of the preliminary plat.
(1984 Code, § 5.568)
§ 152.083 UNINHABITABLE AREAS.
   Lands subject to flooding, or otherwise deemed uninhabitable in their
natural state shall not be platted for residential use, or for any other use
that might create a danger to health, safety, or property, or which might
increase the flood hazard within or outside the subdivision. Such lands shall
be set aside for recreational use or shall be retained in their natural state
as open space, provided, however, that such lands may be platted and developed
if the features making the lands uninhabitable can reasonably be removed
without destruction of adjacent or nearby property or desirable natural
features of the land, and if approval is obtained from all the plat approval
authorities required to review plats under the Subdivision Control Act and this
chapter. Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either
wholly or partly within the flood plain of a river, stream, creek, or lake, or
any other areas which are subject to flooding by storm water shall be clearly
shown on the preliminary plats and the final plat.
(1984 Code, § 5.569)
UTILITIES
§ 152.095 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   Where a subdivision is traversed by a water course, drainage way,
channel, or stream, a drain easement shall be provided in accordance with
standards of the Village Engineer. Such easements shall be placed so as not to
interfere with the use of lots and shall conform to the duly adopted and
published General Development Plan. Existing drainage ways may be rechanneled
but such rechanneling shall not increase the flow or level, or cause
impoundment, of water on properties upstream or downstream from the proposed
subdivision, Exceptions may be made if such changes conform to an overall
drainage plan for the particular drainage district.
   (B)   All natural water drainage ways and impoundment areas shall be
preserved at their natural gradient and shall not be filled or interfered with
in any way, except as approved by the Village Engineer. If, in the judgment of
the Village Engineer, a natural water drainage way or impoundment area should
be reserved in the public interest, a storm drainage easement of a width and/or
to an elevation specified by the Village Engineer shall be dedicated to the
village.
   (C)   The proprietor may be required to carry away by pipe or open ditch, in
appropriate easements, any spring or surface water that might exist either
previous to, or as a result of, the subdivision.
   (D)   A drainage facility to be provided in the proposed subdivision shall
be large enough to accommodate potential run-off from its entire upstream
drainage area, whether that area is inside or outside the subdivision. The
design and size of facility shall be based on anticipated run-off from a 10-
year storm under conditions of total potential development permitted by Chapter
151 of this code and other applicable provisions of this code, and recommended
in adopted development policies for the lands within the drainage area.
   (E)   The effect of the subdivision on existing downstream drainage
facilities outside the subdivision shall be reviewed by the proprietor and the
Village Engineer. Where it is anticipated that the additional run-off resulting
from development of the subdivision will overload an existing downstream
drainage facility during a 10-year storm, the Village Engineer shall notify the
Village Council of such potential condition. In such situations the Council
shall not approve the subdivision until provision has been made for the
improvement of said condition.
(1984 Code, § 5.581)
§ 152.096 SEWER AND WATER UTILITIES.
   Sanitary sewer and water supply facilities shall be located according to the
standards of the Village Engineer and in conformance with the duly adopted and
published General Development Plan or part thereof relating to public
utilities.
(1984 Code, § 5.582)
§ 152.097 GAS, WIRE OR CABLE UTILITIES.
   (A)   All lines for telephone, electrical, television, and other services
distributed by wire or cable shall be placed underground throughout the
subdivision. Overhead lines may be permitted upon recommendation of the
Planning Commission and approval by the Village Council at the time of
tentative approval of the preliminary plat where it is determined that such
lines will not impair the health, safety, general welfare, design, appearance,
and character of the subdivision, and only where such overhead lines are
brought to the perimeter of the subdivision. This section shall not be
construed to prohibit the construction above ground of surface equipment
associated with an underground distribution system, such as, but not limited
to, surface mounted transformers, power terminal pedestals, meters and meter
boxes, concealed wires, street lights and street light poles.
   (B)   All facilities, including those for gas distribution, shall be
installed in accordance with standards and specifications of the Michigan
Public Service Commission. The layout of such facilities shall be submitted to
the utility companies having jurisdiction in the area for their review before
filing for final approval of the preliminary plat. All said utilities placed in
public rights-of-way shall not conflict with other underground lines. Easements
shall be provided in accordance with
§ 152.098.
(1984 Code, § 5.583)
§ 152.098 EASEMENTS.
   All underground public utility installations, including lines for street
lighting systems, which traverse privately owned property, shall be protected
by easements granted by the proprietor and approved by the public utility. Such
easements shall be so located as to not interfere with the use of any lot or
other part of the subdivision. The size of, and restrictions pertaining to such
easements shall be in accordance with the standards and specifications of the
agency having jurisdiction over the utility lines and the Subdivision Control
Act, and shall be indicated on the preliminary plat submitted for tentative
approval.
(1984 Code, § 5.584)
§ 152.099 RESERVATION OF PUBLIC USE AREAS.
   (A)   Where a proposed ark, playground, open space, public school, library
or other public use area shown in the duly adopted and published General
Development Plan, or in an adopted applicable part of such plan, is located in
whole or in part in a proposed subdivision, such area or areas shall be shown
on the plat. Such area or areas may be dedicated to the Village or other
applicable public agency by the proprietor if the Village Council or other
applicable public agency approves such dedication, Such areas if not dedicated,
shall be reserved by the proprietor for future purchase by the village or other
appropriate public agency.
   (B)   The precise nature, location, and extent of the reservation shall be
determined prior to tentative approval of the preliminary plat by the Village
Council, The reservation shall be valid for a period of 1 year from the date on
which the Council approves the final plat or such longer period as might be
agreed to in writing by the proprietor. Unless during such 1-year period or
agreed longer period the Council or other public agency shall have entered into
a contract to purchase the reserved area or part thereof or instituted
condemnation proceedings according to law to acquire the fee simple or a lesser
interest in the reserved area or part thereof, the right to develop the
reserved area shall revert to the proprietor at the end of the 1-year period or
agreed longer period. The reservation shall freeze the price per acre of the
reserved area for such 1-year period at the average value per acre on the date
when the preliminary pint was first filed with the Clerk. Since the Village
Council or other public agency has the option not to purchase the reserved
property, the plat shall include provisions for incorporating the reserved area
into the overall development should the area revert to the proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.585)
SPECIAL PLATS
§ 152.110 PLANNED UNIT RESIDENTIAL DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Proposed land developments, including some or all of the
nonresidential activities, land uses, and facilities necessary to serve the
principal residential use of land in the development may be granted certain
variances from zoning and subdivision regulations. Such variances are intended
to accommodate the site planning, financial, engineering and other requirements
of large, comprehensive residential developments with associated uses. Such
variances may include, but are not limited to, time extensions, flexible
schedules for installation of improvements, security requirements for
improvements, reductions in minimum lot areas and dimensions, mixtures of
residential densities and building types, and mixtures of residential and
nonresidential structures.
   (B)   Variances shall be granted in accordance with
Chapter 151 of this code provisions regulating Planned Unit Residential
Developments hereinafter referred to as PURD and with §§
152.180 through
152.189. All required zoning changes shall be made prior to the Village
Council’s tentative approval of the preliminary plat of a Planned Unit
Residential Development.
   (C)   The plat for a PURD shall be submitted in accordance with the
procedures and standards of this chapter.
   (D)   A PURD shall be designed to produce a stable and desirable residential
community. Overall maximum densities shall not exceed those permitted under
applicable provisions of
Chapter 151 of this code. Open space areas shall meet the standards for open
space established in the duly adopted and published General Development Plan or
part thereof relating to open space, if there is such a plan, or
an ordinance duly adopted and published by the Village Council. The Council,
upon advice from the Planning Commission, shall have the right and duty to
reject a proposed such subdivision if the open space areas therein are, in its
opinion, of such size and shape as to be difficult or impossible to utilize or
maintain for appropriate open space purposes.
   (E)   Common open space provided in a PURD shall remain permanently open for
recreational and conservational purposes. The open space character of common
open space shall be secured by restrictive covenants, negative easements, or
other appropriate legal devices. Such common open space shall be set aside for
the common benefit, use, and enjoyment of the subdivision lot owners, present
and future. All common open space, including recreation areas, tree covered
areas, scenic vistas, wildlife or plant preserves, nature study areas, and
private walkways, whose acreage is used in determining the size and extent of
common open space shall be included in the restrictive covenants, negative
easements, or other legal restrictions designed to assure that such space will
remain permanently open.
   (F)   Open space in a PURD shall be laid out, to maximum feasible extents,
so as to connect with other open space, existing or proposed, in the vicinity
whether such areas are or will be public or private. In the case of 2 or more
adjacent subdivisions, proprietors may cooperatively allocate open space areas,
if such areas are coordinated in design and location to an extent acceptable to
the Planning Commission.
   (G)   PURD should be laid out so as to reduce the lineal feet of streets
that would otherwise be needed to serve the area; to economize on the cost of
utility installations; to retain and take advantage of existing natural
features and vistas; to reduce the amount of grading required; to take maximum
advantage of storage, absorption, and drainage characteristics of the natural
landscape; and to otherwise secure the objectives of a PURD. In so doing, the
minimum lot areas, lot widths, and other standards may be modified in
accordance with this chapter and Chapter 151 of this code. The PURD shall be
laid out so that its development can be staged in an efficient and economical
manner with respect to the opening and maintenance of new streets, the
provision of utilities, access to schools and other public and private service
facilities, and similar considerations. Utility easements, such as for electric
transmission or distribution lines and storm sewers, may be included in the
common open space area calculation only if they are available to residents in
the subdivision, may be landscaped and developed for recreational or other open
space uses, and are safe for use by persons engaging in recreational or other
open space activities. Unless all these conditions are satisfied, such
easements shall not be included in the common open space calculations.
   (H)   Open drainage courses, suitably graded and stabilized with sod or
other ground cover, and planted with trees, shrubs, and other landscape
materials, and made an integral part of the overall open space and recreation
system, may be acceptable, if approved by the Village Engineer.
   (I)   In PURD the proprietor shall insure the permanence of both the
existence and proper maintenance of all open space by either dedicating it to a
public agency responsible for such areas or by conveying it to a homeowners'
association to be made up of the future residents of the subdivision.
   (J)   Where a homeowners' association is to be established, the following
conditions shall be met:
      (1)   The association shall be established before dwellings are sold;
      (2)   Membership shall be mandatory for each home buyer and any
successive buyer;
      (3)   Common open space held by the homeowner's association as open space
shall be maintained as much in perpetuity;
      (4)   The homeowners' association shall be responsible for payment of
property taxes, maintenance of common open space areas and facilities,
maintenance of liability insurance, and other similar duties of ownership.
   (K)   The proprietor shall file a declaration of restrictions with the
preliminary plat when tentative approval is sought, setting forth the above
conditions and other features of the homeowners' association. He or she shall
also supply the Village Council at the same time a copy of the articles of
incorporation and a complete set of the by-laws of the homeowners' association.
   (L)   The Council may require that, in addition to the insertion of
covenants and/or provisions creating negative easements and provisions for
mandatory membership in the homeowners' association in all deeds to home
buyers, the proprietor shall grant a negative easement over all common open
space to the village to insure that the area will remain open in perpetuity.
Such negative easement is intended only to preclude development and preserve
common open space; it may not provide for public access to or use of common
open space. Areas and facilities to be served for common use of residents of
the PURD shall be maintained as provided in the Subdivision Control Act.
   (M)   Any proposed Planned Unit Residential Development shall conform to the
duly adopted and published General Development Plan, if there is such a plan,
with respect to the kind, location, extent, and density of land uses; the
character and location of streets; and the location and character of
neighborhood and community services, facilities, and utilities.
   (N)   Reservation of public use areas shall be made in accordance with
§ 152.099. The approved final plat of a planned unit residential development
shall become a part of the General Development Plan, if there is such a plan.
Common open space shall be provided and maintained as set forth in
§ 152.110.
(1984 Code, § 5.591)
§ 152.111 MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Where a mobile home development falls within the definition of
subdivision as set forth in the Subdivision Control Act, said development shall
be considered to be a subdivision and shall be platted in accordance with the
Subdivision Control Act and this chapter. All provisions of this chapter shall
apply except for, or in addition to, the provisions of this section. A mobile
home subdivision may also be platted under the Planned Unit Development
provisions of Chapter 151 of this code.
   (B)   ll streets and driveways in the subdivision shall conform to the
standards set forth in §§
152.055 through
152.083 There shall be no on-street parking of any vehicles on any collector
street within the subdivision. There shall be no residential lot access to a
collector street within the subdivision: all such access shall be provided by
minor residential streets.
   (C)   Each lot shall have direct access to a public or an approved private
street. Lots should be laid out so as to provide a variety of shapes and sizes
and to prevent a monotonous subdivision character.
   (D)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways shall be provided in accordance with
§ 152.081, except that sidewalks along streets may not be required when
pedestrian ways provide acceptable alternative means of pedestrian movement.
   (E)   All residential lots shall be suitably connected to sewer and water
services and shall meet the requirements of this chapter. All sanitary sewage
facilities, including plumbing connections to each mobile home site, shall be
constructed so that all facilities and lines are protected from freezing, from
collision, or from creating any type of nuisance or health hazard. Sewage
facilities shall be of such capacity to adequately serve all users of the park
at peak periods. Running water from a state tested and approved supply designed
for a minimum flow of 200 gallons per day per mobile home site shall be piped
to each mobile home. Sewer connections shall not exceed 10 feet in length above
ground. Any fuel oil and/or gas storage tanks shall be located in an
inconspicuous manner by placing the tanks underground if feasible. All fuel
lines leading to the subdivision and to mobile home sites shall be underground
and so designed as to conform with Chapter 153 of this code and any State Code
that is applicable.
   (F)   When a master television antenna installation is provided, all lines
extended to individual lots shall be underground. Such master antenna shall be
so placed as not to be a nuisance to subdivision residents or surrounding
areas.
   (G)   A buffer of trees and shrubs not less than 20 feet in width shall be
located and maintained along all boundaries of such subdivision, except at
established entrances and exits serving the subdivision. When necessary for
health, safety, and welfare, a fence shall be required to separate the
subdivision from adjacent property.
(1984 Code, § 5.592)
§ 152.112 COMMERCIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Where commercial developments for retail sales, wholesale sales,
business services, offices, and similar establishments fall within the
definition of subdivision as set forth in the Subdivision Control Act, such
development shall conform to the provisions of this chapter, except for
modifications provided for in this section. The development shall conform to
all Chapter 151 requirements. Streets shall conform to the requirements of §§
152.055 through
152.083. All streets in a commercial subdivision shall be paved, and shall have
curb and gutter, and underground storm drainage. Streets shall be designed and
constructed to adequately handle truck traffic. Curb side parking and loading
shall not be provided for, or permitted on, any street in a commercial
subdivision. No backing or similar maneuvering of vehicles to enter or leave a
parking or loading space shall be permitted or provided for on a commercial
subdivision street; such movements shall be adequately provided for on each
lot. Streets within the subdivision except arterial and collector streets,
shall be laid out so as to prohibit through traffic. Entry drives for the
subdivision shall be located and designed so as not to create congestion or
hazardous conditions on public streets serving the subdivision. Driveways from
parking and/or loading areas shall intersect subdivision streets at a distance
from street intersections that is large enough to permit safe and convenient
maneuvering of vehicles.
   (B)   The block sizes set forth in §§
152.055 through
152.083 shall not apply to commercial subdivisions. The blocks shall be
designed to meet the needs of the commercial uses that will occupy the
subdivision. However, block sizes shall meet the requirements of fire
protection, snow removal, and other service and emergency vehicles.
   (C)   Lots in a commercial subdivision shall have access from subdivision or
frontage streets, and shall not open directly onto an arterial or collector
street.
   (D)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways shall be required in commercial
subdivisions, except where the Planning Commission determines that such
facilities are not required for the safety and convenience of pedestrians
within or around the subdivision.
   (E)   Buffer strips shall be provided along the perimeter of a commercial
subdivision according to Chapter 151 requirements. The Planning Commission may
require provision of a fence, wall or screen if it determines such is necessary
to protect the adjacent areas from litter, trespass and other nuisances. Any
intended future expansion of the commercial development should be shown on the
preliminary plat submitted for tentative approval.
(1984 Code, § 5.593)
§ 152.113 INDUSTRIAL SUBDIVISIONS.
   (A)   Where industrial developments consisting of but not limited to,
manufacturing establishments, trucking and warehouse facilities, and similar
activities, fall within the definition of subdivision as set forth in the
Subdivision Control Act, such development shall conform to the provisions of
this chapter, except for modifications provided for in this section. The
development shall conform to all Chapter 151 requirements.
   (B)   Streets shall conform to the requirements of §§
152.055 through
152.083. All streets in an industrial subdivision shall be paved according to
standards suitable for heavy trucking activities. All streets shall have
concrete curb and gutter with enclosed underground storm drainage.
   (C)   All streets within the subdivision shall be designed and constructed
to easily and conveniently accommodate the movement of large trucks. Street
grades shall not exceed 5% and shall follow the land contours longitudinally.
Street intersections shall have a minimum curb radius of 25 feet.
   (D)   Parking and loading on all streets in an industrial subdivision shall
be prohibited. Adequate parking and loading areas, and space necessary for
maneuvering of trucks in loading and unloading operations shall be provided on
each site. Layouts which permit use of streets for turnaround and other
maneuvers shall not be acceptable. Entry drives for the subdivision shall be
located and designed so as not to create congestion or hazardous conditions on
public streets serving the subdivision. Driveways from parking and/or loading
areas shall intersect subdivision streets at a distance from street
intersections that is large enough to permit safe and convenient maneuvering of
all vehicles.
   (E)   Streets within an industrial subdivision normally shall not be
extended to the boundaries of adjacent existing or potential residential areas
or connected to streets intended for predominantly residential traffic. Streets
within the subdivision, except collector or arterial streets, shall be laid out
so as to prohibit through traffic.
   (F)   The block sizes set forth in §§
152.055 through
152.083 shall not apply to industrial subdivisions. The blocks shall be
designed to meet the needs and characteristics of the industrial operations
that will be conducted therein, and may vary considerably in size. However,
block dimensions shall meet the requirements for fire protection, snow removal,
and other service and emergency vehicles. The plat should emphasize flexibility
to accommodate various industrial needs for space and should concentrate on the
size and shape of blocks rather than on individual lots. Lots in an industrial
subdivision shall have access only from subdivision or frontage roads, and
shall not open directly onto arterial or collector streets.
   (G)   Sidewalks and pedestrian ways shall not be required in industrial
subdivisions, except where the Planning Commission determines that such
facilities are required for the safety and convenience of pedestrians within or
around the subdivision.
   (H)   Landscaped buffer strips shall be provided along the perimeter of an
industrial subdivision according to Chapter 151 requirements. The Planning
Commission may require provision of a fence, wall or screen if it determines
such is necessary to protect the adjacent areas and/or the industrial
subdivision from litter, trespass, and other nuisances.
   (I)   Any intended future expansion of the industrial development should be
shown on the preliminary plat as submitted for tentative approval.
   (J)   The proprietor's continuing interest, if any, in the subdivision shall
be clearly described.
(1984 Code, § 5.594)
§ 152.114 SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENT CONTROL.
   Since considerable erosion can take place prior to the construction of
houses and other buildings, facilities, and features in a subdivision, the
various plats for a subdivision shall contain proposed erosion and sediment
control measures. The measures shall be incorporated into the final plat and
final construction drawings. Erosion and sediment control measures shall
conform to the standards and specifications established by the Village Council.
The measures shall apply to all street and utility installations as well as to
the protection of individual lots. Measures shall also be instituted to prevent
or control erosion and sedimentation during the various stages of construction
of the subdivision.
(1984 Code, § 5.595)
§ 152.115 RESTRICTIVE COVENANTS.
   (A)   Covenants designed to preserve the character of the subdivision and to
help retain its stability, permanence, and marketability are encouraged to be
provided by the proprietor. Such covenants should be recorded with the plat and
should be blanket covenants that apply to the entire subdivision, Such
covenants are intended to complement the village's continuing regulation of the
subdivision through its zoning and building code powers.
   (B)   Blanket covenants may contain, but not be limited to, items such as
land use control; architectural control, including walls and fences as well as
buildings; yard and setback requirements; minimum lot size; prohibition of
nuisance; regulation of signs; control of type, duration, location, etc. of
temporary buildings or vehicles, such as travel trailers, etc., to be stored on
each site; scenic or open space easements; and other similar controls.
   (C)   Covenants shall be discussed with the Planning Commission during the
initial procedures and/or preliminary plat stages and shall be coordinated with
existing or anticipated public police power controls.
   (D)   Covenants should be recorded prior to the sale of any lot within the
subdivision.
(1984 Code, § 5.596)
§ 152.116 TREES.
   (A)   Trees shall be provided in the margins of both sides of all public or
private streets and shall be placed at the minimum rate of 2 per single-family
residential lot or at a maximum distance apart of 60 feet. Trees planted on
street margins, along village easements or pedestrian ways, shall be placed a
minimum of 35 feet apart from each other for deciduous trees and a minimum of
25 feet for ornamental trees. These spacing shall also be applied to trees on
street margins, easements, pedestrian ways, including new or existing trees
located on private property.
   (B)   Evergreens shall not be placed on street margins, village easements or
pedestrian ways without first conforming to the tree policy established by the
Parks Commission and obtaining a permit form the Village Clerk, who shall
collect the fee and issue the permit by and with the authority of the Village
Council.
   (C)   All trees to be installed in the street margins, along village
easements, pedestrian ways or any other landscaped areas required by this
chapter, shall conform to the tree policy established by the Parks Commission.
   (D)   Trees shall be free of deleterious insects and/or disease. Trees shall
be in accordance with the American Association of Nurserymen Standard for
Nursery Stock, (1250 I Street, N.W., Suite 500, Washington, D.C. 20005) as to
size, form and specimen quality as adopted by the Parks Commission.
   (E)   No tree of other vegetation shall be maintained on private property
which by virtue of disease, damage, or insect infestation presents a hazard to
person or vegetation on public property or adjacent private property which
would be affected.
   (F)   Trees and other vegetation on private property shall be maintained so
that no part thereof intrudes upon the public easement within the space of 8
feet above the surface of the easement, or in any way restricts pedestrian or
vehicular movement. Vegetation on private property within 25 fee of the
intersection of easement lines shall not be permitted to grow beyond the height
of 36 inches above adjacent easement surfaces. Trees may be maintained within
25 feet of the intersection, but mst have all branches trimmed to provide clear
vision for a vertical height of 8 feet above the roadway surface.
(1984 Code, § 5.597) (Am. Ord. 189, passed 4-15-1991)
§ 152.117 STREET LIGHTS.
   Street lights shall be provided at all street intersections and at
intersections of streets and pedestrian ways. Additional street lights may be
required between intersections for blocks longer than 600 feet, if recommended
by the Village Engineer, Street lights shall have underground wiring and shall
be installed prior to occupancy of structures. Light standards shall meet the
minimum specifications of the Consumer Power Co. All installations shall
conform to the requirements of the Village Engineer.
(1984 Code, § 5.598)
SUBDIVISION IMPROVEMENTS
§ 152.130 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to establish and define the
improvements which the proprietor shall provide as conditions for final plat
approval; to outline the procedures and responsibilities of the proprietor and
the various public officials and agencies concerned with the planning, design,
construction, financing, and administration of improvements; and to establish
procedures for assuring compliance with these requirements.
(1984 Code, § 5.601)
§ 152.131 STANDARDS.
   (A)   Improvements shall be provided by the proprietor in accordance with
this subchapter and/or with any other applicable standards and requirements
which may from time to time be established by the Village Council or by any of
the various village departments or county and state agencies, in the form of
ordinances or published rules.
   (B)   The improvements required under this subchapter shall be considered
the minimum acceptable improvements.
(1984 Code, § 5.602)
§ 152.132 PREPARATION OF PLANS.
   It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor to have prepared by a
registered engineer a complete set of construction plans for streets,
utilities, and other improvements required in
§ 152.140. Such construction plans shall conform to the preliminary plat as
finally approved. Construction plans are subject to approval by the responsible
public agencies and shall be prepared in accordance with their standards and
specifications.
(1984 Code, § 5.603)
§ 152.133 TIMING OF DEVELOPMENTS.
   No grading, removal of trees or other vegetation, land filling, construction
of improvements, or other material change except for that which is required by
any of the reviewing agencies for purpose of aiding in their review of the
preliminary plat, for final approval, shall commence on the subject property
until the proprietor has:
   (A)   Received a written notice from the Clerk that the Village Council has
given final approval to the preliminary plat;
   (B)   Entered into a subdivision agreement with the Village Council for
completion of all improvements required in the preliminary plat as finally
approved;
   (C)   Deposited with the Village a bond or other form of security as
required by this chapter for the provision of improvements;
   (D)   Received a certificate of approval or similar evidence of approval of
the engineering plans from the Village Engineer of each improvement to be
installed prior to approval of the final plat. Where approval of such plans
must be obtained from the County Drain Commissioner, County Health Department,
or other county or state agency, the proprietor shall provide evidence of such
approval to the Village Engineer prior to his or her report and recommendation
to the Village Council. Such plans and approvals shall include those for soil
erosion and sedimentation controls.
(1984 Code, § 5.604)
§ 152.134 STAGING.
   Where a subdivision is to be developed in stages, the provisions of this
subchapter shall apply to each stage. However, improvements, and financial
guarantees therefor may be required to extend beyond the boundaries of a
subdivision stage if such extension is necessary to insure the relative self
sufficiency of the stage pending completion of the entire subdivision. Such
extensions, schedules, and similar arrangements shall be set forth in an
agreement between the proprietor and the Village Council prior to final
approval of the preliminary plat.
(1984 Code, § 5.605)
§ 152.135 OVERSIZE FACILITIES.
   Whenever oversize facilities are required, the proprietor shall be
responsible for his or her share of costs of same, as based on land area,
population, or other appropriate measure. The amount of proprietor
responsibility shall be agreed to prior to final approval of the preliminary
plat by the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 5.606)
§ 152.136 ENGINEERING DRAWINGS OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   Engineering drawings of all required improvements shall be reviewed
and approved by the Village Engineer except for improvements to be made under
the jurisdiction of the County Drain Commissioner, or other county or state
agencies, in which case the drawings shall be submitted to the appropriate
agency for review and approval. Where review and approval of engineering
drawings is made by a county or state agency, the Village Engineer shall obtain
written confirmation of such approvals.
   (B)   No grading, land filling, removal of trees or other vegetation, or
construction of improvements shall commence until the engineering drawings of
same have been approved as provided in
§ 152.133.
(1984 Code, § 5.607)
§ 152.137 MODIFICATION DURING CONSTRUCTION.
   All installations and construction shall conform to the approved engineering
drawings. However, if the proprietor chooses to make minor modifications in
design and/or specifications during construction, he or she shall make such
changes at his own risk, without any assurance that the village or other public
agency will approve the completed facility. It shall be the responsibility of
the proprietor to notify the appropriate agency of any changes from the
approved drawings. The proprietor may be required to correct the installed
improvements so as to conform to the approved engineering drawings.
(1984 Code, § 5.608)
§ 152.138 AS BUILT DRAWINGS.
   The proprietor shall submit to the Village Engineer 1 reproducible copy of
as built engineering drawings of each of the required improvements that have
been completed prior to final plat approval. Each set of drawings shall be
certified by the proprietor's engineer. Similar drawings shall also be
submitted of improvements installed under bond, after final plat approval. This
provision does not apply to improvements made under the jurisdiction of other
public agencies.
(1984 Code, § 5.609)
§ 152.139 CONSTRUCTION SCHEDULE.
   The proprietor shall submit to the Village Engineer and to all approving
agencies and to public utility companies that will service the subdivision,
prior to final approval of the preliminary plat, a general schedule of the
timing and sequence for the construction of all required improvements. The
schedule shall meet the procedural requirements and inspection needs of the
village, county, and state agencies.
(1984 Code, § 5.610)
§ 152.140 REQUIRED IMPROVEMENTS.
   The proprietor shall be required to install the following improvements in
accordance with the conditions and specifications of this chapter.
(1984 Code, § 5.611)
§ 152.141 MONUMENTS.
   Monuments and iron pipe lot corners shall be set in accordance with the
Subdivision Control Act and the rules of the State Department of the Treasury.
(1984 Code, § 5.612)
§ 152.142 STREETS AND ALLEYS.
   All streets and alleys shall be constructed in accordance with the standards
and specifications of the Village Engineer and as provided in section
§ 152.056, and at proprietor's expense.
(1984 Code, § 5.613)
§ 152.143 UTILITIES.
   Utilities placed in street rights-of-way shall be located in accordance with
specifications of the Village Engineer and §§
152.055 through
152.083. All easements and improvements for utilities, except those owned by
private utility companies, shall be dedicated to the Village for
administration, operation, and maintenance.
(1984 Code, § 5.614)
§ 152.144 STORM DRAINAGE.
   (A)   An adequate storm drainage system, including necessary storm sewers,
drain inlets, manholes, culverts, bridges and other appurtenances, shall be
required in all subdivisions, and shall be provided by the proprietor.
   (B)   All proposed storm drainage construction plans shall be approved by
the Village Engineer, and the County Drain Commissioner where applicable.
Construction shall follow the specifications and procedures of the State Drain
Code of 1956 as amended and specifications of the County Drain Commissioner
where applicable.
(1984 Code, § 5.615)
§ 152.145 WATER SUPPLY SYSTEM.
   All subdivisions shall be serviced by a public water supply system provided
by the proprietor, in accordance with the standards of the Village Engineer.
(1984 Code, § 5.616)
§ 152.146 SANITARY SEWER SYSTEM.
   All subdivisions shall be serviced by a public sanitary sewer system
provided by the proprietor in compliance with standards of the Village
Engineer.
(1984 Code, § 5.617)
§ 152.147 GAS, WIRE AND CABLE UTILITIES.
   The proprietor shall arrange for all lines for telephone, electric,
television, and other similar services distributed by wire or cable to be
installed underground, and all gas distribution facilities throughout a
subdivided area. Overhead lines and facilities may be permitted as set forth in
§ 152.097.
(1984 Code, § 5.618)
§ 152.148 STREET NAME SIGNS.
   Street name signs shall be installed by the Department of Public Works at
the expense of the proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.619)
§ 152.149 SIDEWALKS AND PEDESTRIAN PATHS.
   Sidewalks and pedestrian paths shall be provided by the proprietor in
accordance with §§
152.055 through
152.083.
(1984 Code, § 5.620)
§ 152.150 PUBLIC USE AREAS.
   Such areas shall be provided by the proprietor as set forth in §§
152.055 through
152.083.
(1984 Code, § 5.621)
§ 152.151 TREES.
   Trees shall be provided by the proprietor in accordance with
§ 152.116.
(1984 Code, § 5.622)
§ 152.152 STREET LIGHTING.
   Street lighting shall be located and installed in accordance with public
utilities or community recommendations and
§ 152.117. Costs not borne by the utility company shall be paid by the
proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.623)
§ 152.153 DRIVEWAYS.
   All driveway openings, from the street curb line to the property line shall
be installed in conformance to standards of the Village Engineer, or, when
applicable, to standards of the Michigan Department of State Highways.
(1984 Code, § 5.624)
§ 152.154 EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL.
   Installation and maintenance of erosion and sediment control measures shall
be accomplished by the proprietor as specified in the preliminary plat as
finally approved and are subject to any financial guarantees of performance
established by the Village.
(1984 Code, § 5.625)
§ 152.155 GUARANTEE OF COMPLETION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   In lieu of the actual installation of improvements as required herein, the
village may require a financial guarantee of performance in 1 or a combination
of the following arrangements for those improvements for which performance
guarantees might not be required by County or State agencies in accordance with
the Subdivision Control Act. Such guarantees shall be required for only those
required improvements that have not been installed, and without certificates of
completion, prior to the date of application for final plat approval.
(1984 Code, § 5.626)
§ 152.156 PERFORMANCE OR SECURITY BOND.
   (A)   Accrual. The bond shall accrue to the Village Council for
administering the construction, operation and maintenance of the improvement.
   (B)   Amount. The bond shall be in an amount equal to the total estimated
cost for completing construction of the specific improvements including
contingencies as estimated by the Village Engineer.
   (C)   Term length. The term length in which the bond is in force shall be
for a period to be specified by the Village Council.
   (D)   Bonding or surety company.  The bond shall be with a surety company
authorized to do business in the State of Michigan.
(1984 Code, § 5.627)
§ 152.157 CASH DEPOSIT, CERTIFIED CHECK, OR IRREVOCABLE BAND LETTER OF CREDIT.
   (A)   Treasurer, Escrow Agent or Trust Company. A deposit by the proprietor
with the Village Clerk in the form of cash, a certified check or irrevocable
letter of credit, whichever the proprietor selects, or a surety bond acceptable
to the Village Council, shall accrue to the Village for administering the
construction, operation or maintenance of the improvement.
   (B)   Amount. The amount of the cash deposit, certified check, or
irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be equal to the total estimated cost
of construction of the improvement including contingencies as estimated by the
Village Engineer.
   (C)   Escrow time. The escrow time for the cash deposit, certified check, or
irrevocable bank letter of credit, shall be for a period to be specified by the
Village Council.
   (D)   Progressive payment. In the case of cash deposits or certified checks,
an agreement between the Village and the proprietor may provide for progressive
payment out of the cash deposit or reduction of the certified check, or
irrevocable bank letter of credit, to the extent of the estimated cost of the
completed portion of the improvement in accordance with the agreement for
financial guarantees.
(1984 Code, § 5.628)
§ 152.158 CONTINGENCY DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The Village Council may require, in addition to the security, an
amount of 10% thereof to cover such contingency expenses that might occur due
to failure, defects in construction, unforeseen costs, etc., of any improvement
required in these regulations in this chapter.
   (B)   The period covered by the contingency deposit shall not exceed 2 years
from the date of acceptance of the improvement. Excess funds, if any, shall be
returned to the proprietor at the end of the 2-year period.
(1984 Code, § 5.629)
§ 152.159 PROTECTION AND REPAIR BOND.
   The village may also require, in addition to the security and the
contingency deposit, a bond to cover damage that might occur during
construction to existing improvements, facilities, and features on or around
the construction site or to adjacent properties. This bond shall include the
costs of any cleaning of construction debris from the subdivision and from
adjacent properties that might be necessary.
(1984 Code, § 5.630)
§ 152.160 FAILURE TO COMPLETE THE CONSTRUCTION OF AN IMPROVEMENT.
   In the event the proprietor shall, in any case, fail to complete such work,
within the period of time required by the conditions of the guarantee for the
completion of improvements, it shall be the responsibility of the Village
Council to have such work completed. In order to accomplish this, the Council
shall reimburse itself for the cost and expense thereof by appropriating the
cash deposit, certified check, or irrevocable bank letter of credit, which the
proprietor may have deposited in lieu of a surety bond, or may take such steps
as might be necessary to require performance by the bonding or surety company,
and as included in the written agreement between the Council and the
proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.631)
§ 152.161 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS.
   All improvements required by this chapter shall be inspected by the Village
Engineer except for improvements made under the jurisdiction of other public
agencies. Where inspections are made by other agencies the Village Engineer
shall obtain written reports of each final inspection.
(1984 Code, § 5.632)
§ 152.162 INSPECTION SCHEDULE.
   It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor to notify the Village
Engineer or other appropriate public agency when installations are ready for
inspections.
(1984 Code, § 5.633)
§ 152.163 INSPECTION OF IMPROVEMENTS UNDER CONSTRUCTION.
   Before approving a final plat and construction plans and specifications for
the required improvements, an agreement between the proprietor and the Village
Council shall be made to provide for inspecting the construction or
installation of each improvement under its jurisdiction and its conformity to
the approved plans.
(1984 Code, § 5.634)
§ 152.164 COMPLIANCE WITH STANDARDS.
   The proprietor shall bear the final responsibility for the installation and
construction of all required improvements according to the provisions of this
chapter and to the standards and specifications of the various public agencies.
(1984 Code, § 5.635)
§ 152.165 ACCEPTANCE.
   Approval of installation and construction shall not constitute acceptance by
the village of the improvement for dedication purposes.
(1984 Code, § 5.636)
§ 152.166 FEES.
   The proprietor shall pay all Inspection costs incurred by the village
according to schedules determined by the Village Council, by deposit made at
the time of approval of the final pint. Any funds not used by the Village in
its inspection shall be refunded to the proprietor when the subdivision, or
stage thereof, is completed. The proprietor shall pay to the village an amount
by which the inspection charges exceed the deposited fee.
(1984 Code, § 5.637)
§ 152.167 SITE CLEANUP.
   The proprietor shall be responsible for removal of all equipment, material
and general construction debris from the subdivision and from any lot, street,
or public way or property therein or adjacent. Burning of debris shall not be
permitted.
(1984 Code, § 5.638)
VARIANCES
§ 152.180 GENERALLY.
   A variance from the provisions of this chapter may be obtained for one of
two reasons; first, relief from hardship; and second, to permit a large scale
development according to a comprehensive plan for the entire project. Only
those variances shall be granted which are deemed necessary to further justice
and which are necessary to and desirable for the public Interest. Variances
shall apply only to improvements, standards, and specifications set forth in
this chapter; no variances shall be granted on procedures required herein.
(1984 Code, § 5.651)
§ 152.181 HARDSHIP VARIANCE.
   Such variance may be granted if the proprietor can show that strict
compliance with the provisions of this chapter, as they apply to his property
or parts thereof, will result in extraordinary hardship or practical
difficulty. The proprietor shall make a formal request for such variance to the
Village Council, in which the reasons for the request are clearly stated.
(1984 Code, § 5.652)
§ 152.182 FINDINGS REQUIRED.
   No variance shall be granted unless the following findings are made:
   (A)   That there are such special circumstances or conditions affecting said
property that strict application of the provisions of this chapter would
clearly be impractical or unreasonable.
   (B)   That the conditions requiring the variance were not created by the
proprietor.
   (C)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment of
substantial property right of the proprietor, and is not primarily intended for
his economic gain.
   (D)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the area in which said
property is situated.
   (E)   That such variance will not have the effect of nullifying the intent
and purpose of this chapter, the adopted General Development Plan, and Chapter
151.
   (F)   That such variance will not violate the provisions of the Subdivision
Control Act.
(1984 Code, § 5.653)
§ 152.183 REPORT.
    The Village Council shall prepare a complete report of the proceedings
concerning the requested variance, containing all findings of fact and action
taken. A copy of this report shall be made part of the record of the meeting at
which action is taken and one copy of the report shall he or she transmitted to
the proprietor.
(1984 Code, § 5.654)
§ 152.184 CONDITIONS.
   In granting a variance the Village Council may attach conditions to the
variance which will substantially secure the objectives of this chapter, and
which will further the adopted policies expressed in the Village's General
Development Plan, or part or parts thereof, and in the City Code.
(1984 Code, § 5.655)
§ 152.185 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT VARIANCE.
   (A)   The Village Council may authorize variances from the provisions of
this chapter for a comprehensive development such as a residential cluster
subdivision, a commercial or industrial subdivision, or a planned unit
residential development upon written request of the proprietor. The Council
shall find that such comprehensive development is permitted by Chapter 151, and
shall have the recommendation of the Planning Commission, before action on the
request for a variance. Variances for comprehensive developments may include
but are not limited to, reduction in minimum lot area and dimensions, and
modifications in development standards.
   (B)   The Village Council shall determine on the basis of the Planning
Commission’s report that the comprehensive development plan, with the requested
variances, provides for efficient circulation, adequate light and air and other
needs, and otherwise meets the intent of this chapter and Chapter 151, and of
any duly adopted and published General Development Plan or part thereof. The
Council, in making its determination shall take into account the criteria set
forth in this subchapter.
(1984 Code, § 5.656)
§ 152.186 CRITERIA.
   (A)   That the proposed project will constitute a desirable and stable
community development.
   (B)   That the proposed project will be in harmony with the existing or
proposed development of adjacent areas.
   (C)   That the Planning Commission has reviewed the project plan and
recommended its approval as having met the standards and intent of the General
Development Plan or part thereof, as it applies to the area in and around the
subdivision.
   (D)   Any variance granted for a comprehensive development shall be valid
only so long as the plan for the comprehensive development is carried out as
approved. Any departure from the approved plan shall permit revocation by the
Village Council of the variance granted.
   (E)   The Village Council shall establish a time schedule for completion of
the various stages of a comprehensive development.
(1984 Code, § 5.657)
§ 152.187 APPLICATION REQUIRED.
   Application for any such variance shall be submitted in writing by the
proprietor to the Village Council at the time the preliminary plat is first
filed for consideration by the Planning Commission. The petition shall state
fully the grounds for the application and all the facts relied upon by the
petitioner.
(1984 Code, § 5.658)
§ 152.188 COMPREHENSIVE DEVELOPMENT VARIANCE.
   Application for any such variance shall be made in writing by the proprietor
at the time the preliminary plat is first filed for consideration by the
Planning Commission, stating fully and clearly all facts relied upon by the
proprietor and shall be supplemented with maps, plans, or other additional data
which might aid the Planning Commission and the Village Council in their
analysis of the proposed project. The plans for such development shall include
such covenants, restrictions, or other legal provisions necessary to guarantee
the full achievement of the plan. The Planning Commission shall submit a report
thereon to the Village Council, as set forth in
§ 152.185.
(1984 Code, § 5.659)
§ 152.189 RESPONSIBILITY FOR GRANTING VARIANCES.
   The Village Council shall have the authority for granting variances to this
chapter.
(1984 Code, § 5.660)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 152.200 BUILDING PERMITS.
   The Village Clerk or duly appointed agent shall not issue permits for the
building of houses or other structures intended for human occupancy or any
portion thereof until the preliminary plat has received final approval as
provided in the Subdivision Control Act, and until he has been officially
notified of such approval by the Village Council. No building permits shall be
issued for a tract of land between the time that the preliminary plat Is filed
for tentative approval and the preliminary plat has received final approval.
The Village Clerk shall immediately notify the Building Inspector that such
process has been initiated.
(1984 Code, § 5.665)
§ 152.201 OCCUPANCY PERMITS.
   The Building Inspector shall not issue permits for the occupancy of
structures or any parts thereof until all improvements required by this chapter
and agreed to in the preliminary plat as finally approved have been completed
or otherwise provided for according to this chapter and until the Building
Inspector has been notified by the Village Clerk of completion or provision of
improvements. Completion shall mean inspection, approval, and acceptance, where
applicable, by the Village. A certificate of completion shall be issued by the
Village Engineer as evidence of adequate and complete installation of
facilities.
(1984 Code, § 5.666)
§ 152.202 AMENDMENTS.
   The Village Council may, from time to time, amend, supplement, or repeal the
regulations and provisions of this chapter In the manner prescribed by law. A
proposed amendment, supplement, or repeal may be originated by the Council,
Planning Commission, or by petition. All proposals regarding changes in the
chapter not originating with the Planning Commission shall be referred to it
for a report thereon before any action is taken on the proposal by the Council.
(1984 Code, § 5.668)
§ 152.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations of this chapter shall be punishable as prescribed in
§ 10.99 of this Code.
   (B)   Nothing herein contained shall prevent the Village Council, or any
other public official or private citizen from taking such lawful action as is
necessary to restrain or prevent any violation of this chapter or of the
Subdivision Control Act.
(1984 Code, § 5.667)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 153: BUILDING REGULATIONS
Section
   
153.01   State Construction Code; enforcing agency
   
153.02   Permit fees
   
153.03   Schedule of inspections
   
153.04   Permit applications
   
153.05   Posting of permit and site plans
   
153.06   Condemnation
   
153.07   Moving buildings and the like
   
153.08   Utility clearance
   
153.09   Deposits and building fees
   
153.10   Insurance
   
153.11   Transfer of permits
   
153.12   Stop work order
   
153.13   Special permits
   
153.14   Fire limits
   
153.99   Penalty
§ 153.01 STATE CONSTRUCTION CODE; ENFORCING AGENCY.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Public Act 230 of 1972, § 9, being M.C.L.A. §
125.1502a, 125.1508a, and 125.1508b, the State Construction Code Act, the
Building Inspector, Electrical Inspector, Plumbing Inspector, and Mechanical
Inspector are hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibilities of the village under the Act. The Village of Manchester hereby
assumes responsibility for the administration and enforcement of the Act and
all construction codes, as amended, adopted by the State Construction Code
Commission, including, but not limited to, the Michigan Building Code, the
Michigan Plumbing Code, the Michigan Electrical Code, and the Michigan
Mechanical Code throughout its corporate limits.
(1984 Code, § 7.1)
§ 153.02 PERMIT FEES.
   Before receiving a building permit, the owner or his or her agent shall pay
the fees as the Village Council shall specify from time to time by appropriate
resolution, copies of which fee schedule shall be kept on file by the Village
Clerk for examination by any interested person. In applying the provisions of
the State Construction Codes in respect to new work, existing buildings,
alterations, and repairs, the physical value of the work shall be determined by
the building official on the basis of current costs and as provided in the
reference documents.
(1984 Code, § 7.2)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.03 SCHEDULE OF INSPECTIONS.
   All construction work shall be inspected before covering, including
footings, backfilling against foundation, sewers, plumbing, rough framing,
electrical wiring, heating units before operating equipment, final inspections
before occupancy, and in all other instances where required by the Building
Official. When the work is ready the holder of the permit shall so notify the
Village Building Official or his or her representative and secure approval
before continuing. Failure to do so shall constitute a violation of this code.
(1984 Code, § 7.3)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.04 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   Whenever any building or structure, except fences, is proposed to be built
closer than 3 feet to any street lot line, the application shall be accompanied
by a certificate and plot plan of a survey by a Registered Land Surveyor or
Professional Engineer.
(1984 Code, § 7.4)
§ 153.05 POSTING OF PERMIT AND SITE PLANS.
   A true copy of the building permit shall be kept on the site of operations,
open to public inspection during the entire time of prosecution of the work
until the completion of the same. The weather card issued with the permit shall
be displayed in a conspicuous spot at all times. In case of destruction, a new
card shall be applied for and posted.
(1984 Code, § 7.5)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.06 CONDEMNATION.
   (A)   No permit shall be issued for any building or other structure upon any
land which has been condemned for any public improvement, or on any land which
has been condemned by the Village Council for any public improvement until a
notice of the proposed condemnation has been fixed to the plans, application,
and permit.
   (B)   Nor shall a permit be issued for any building or structure upon which
a notice of violation of any pertinent laws or ordinances has been issued,
unless there shall be included in the application proposed work to correct the
violation at the same time.
(1984 Code, § 7.6)
§ 153.07 MOVING BUILDINGS AND THE LIKE.
   No person shall move, transport, or convey any building or other similar
bulky or heavy object, including machinery, trucks, trailers, and the like,
larger in width than 14 feet, into, across, or along any street, alley, or
other public place in the Village of Manchester, without first obtaining
village approval and/or a building permit to do so.
(1984 Code, § 7.7)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.08 UTILITY CLEARANCE.
   Before a permit is issued for moving a building or other similar bulky
object, written clearance shall be obtained from the light, telephone, gas, and
water utilities, stating that all connections have been properly cut off, and,
where necessary, all obstructions along proposed route of moving will be
removed without delaying moving operations. In addition, clearances shall also
be obtained from the Superintendent of the Village Department of Public Works,
approving the proposed route through the village streets and the time of
moving, together with an estimated cost, to the departments, due to the moving
operations. Notices shall be presented to the Building Official or
representative prior to permits being issued.
(1984 Code, § 7.8)
§ 153.09 DEPOSITS AND BUILDING FEES.
   Before a permit to move is issued, the applicant shall deposit with the
Village Clerk the total estimated cost to the various village departments as
provided for in
§ 153.08 plus a fee of as per Council resolution. The deposit shall be used to
defray all expenses to the village and any excess shall be refunded to the
applicant at the end of 6 months from date of moving. In the case where the
deposit does not cover the costs, the deficit shall be paid by the applicant.
(1984 Code, § 7.9) (Am. Ord. 143, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 153.10 INSURANCE.
   The applicant for a moving permit shall file with the village a liability
insurance policy in the amount of as per Council resolution for injury to 1
person and as per Council resolution for injury to more than 1 person and
property damage insurance in the amount of as per Council resolution. All
policies shall be approved by the Village Attorney.
(1984 Code, § 7.10) (Am. Ord. 143, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 153.11 TRANSFER OF PERMITS.
   (A)   Permits are not transferable.
   (B)   In the event that the original permit holder does not prosecute the
work contemplated by the permit, a new permit shall be obtained by anyone
desiring to continue or complete the work. This shall not, however, be
construed to prevent an owner or general contractor from subletting part of the
work as long as he or she is assuming final responsibility.
(1984 Code, § 7.11)
§ 153.12 STOP WORK ORDER.
   No person shall continue to work in or about any building after a stop work
order has been issued with reference thereto, except the work as he or she is
directed to perform to remove a violation or unsafe condition.
(1984 Code, § 7.12)
Penalty, see § 153.99
§ 153.13 SPECIAL PERMITS.
   Special permits shall be obtained for the use of public water and sewer in
connection with building operations. The storage of materials and the erection
of barricades and other structures on public property or streets shall be done
only if permission is obtained to do so and by complying with all regulations
set forth in the permission.
(1984 Code, § 7.13)
§ 153.14 FIRE LIMITS.
   Fire limits as defined and described in the State Building Code are hereby
established as follows: all of Block 31 south of the railroad, Blocks 2, 3, 4,
21, 22, and 40 of the Original Plat of the Village, and Block 1 of John W.
Cowan's Addition to the Village of Manchester lying south of the railroad.
(1984 Code, § 7.14)
§ 153.99 PENALTY.
   Any person erecting, using, moving, modifying, demolishing, occupying, or
maintaining any building or structure in violation of the State Construction
Codes or this chapter, or causing, permitting, or suffering any such violation
to be committed, shall be punished as provided in
§ 10.99. Any building or structure erected, used, moved, demolished, occupied,
or maintained in violation of the State Construction Codes is hereby declared
to be a nuisance per se. Upon application to any court of competent
jurisdiction, the court may order the nuisance abated and/or the violation, or
threatened violation, restrained and enjoined.
(1984 Code, § 7.15)
CHAPTER 154: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
   
154.01   Agency designated
   
154.02   Code Appendix enforced
   
154.03   Designation of regulated flood prone hazard areas
   
154.04   Warning; disclaimer of liability
§ 154.01 AGENCY DESIGNATED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Sections 8a and 8b of The Stille-Derossett-
Hale Single State Construction Code Act, being MCL §§ 125.1508a and MCL
125.1508b, as amended, the Village of Manchester has formerly assumed the
responsibilities for enforcement of the State Construction Code and has
previously designated the Western Washtenaw Construction Agency as the
village’s Building Code Official for fulfilling the village’s responsibilities
to administer and enforce the State Construction Code Act, Act 230 of 1972, as
amended. The assumption of responsibility for enforcement of the State
Construction Code Act within the Village of Manchester by the Building Official
and designated enforcement agency is hereby affirmed and shall continue.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-19-2012)
§ 154.02 CODE APPENDIX ENFORCED.
   For the purpose of providing flood plain management regulations consistent
with the requirements of the FEMA and for continued participation in the
National Flood Insurance Program (NFIP), and for the general purpose of
protecting public health, safety and welfare, the provisions of Appendix G of
the Michigan Building Code are hereby adopted by reference and shall be
enforced by the Village Building Official and enforcing agency for development
and construction within designated flood hazard areas in the Village of
Manchester.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-19-2012)
§ 154.03 DESIGNATION OF REGULATED FLOOD PRONE HAZARD AREAS.
   The Federal Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS)
entitled “Washtenaw County, Michigan (All Jurisdictions)” and dated April 3,
2012 and the Flood Insurance Map (FIRMS) panel numbers of 26161C, 0343E and
0344E and dated April 3, 2012 are adopted by reference for the purpose of
administration of the Michigan Construction Code, and declared to be a part of
Section 1612.3 of the Michigan Building Code, and to provide the content of the
“Flood Hazards” section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-19-2012)
§ 154.04 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the arms of special flood hazard or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the village or by any officer or
employee thereof for any flood damages that result from reliance on this
chapter or any administrative decision lawfully made hereunder.
(Ord. 283, passed 3-19-2012)
CHAPTER 155: SOIL EROSION AND SEDIMENTATION CONTROL
Section
   
155.01   Short title
   
155.02   Enforcement and agency designation
   
155.03   Effective date
§ 155.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and cited as the Village of Manchester Soil
Erosion and Sedimentation Control Ordinance.
(Ord. 249a, passed 8-2-2004)
§ 155.02 ENFORCEMENT AND AGENCY DESIGNATION.
   Pursuant to the provisions of Part 91 Soil Erosion and Sedimentation Control
of the Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Act, Public Act 451 of
1994, being M.C.L.A. §§ 324.11501 et seq., as amended, the Building Department
of the Village of Manchester is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to
discharge the responsibility of the Village of Manchester under Part 91 and all
the rules promulgated thereunder. All the rules are incorporated by reference.
The Village of Manchester assumes responsibility for the administration and
enforcement of the Act throughout its corporate limits.
(Ord. 249a, passed 8-2-2004)
§ 155.03 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall become effective 30 days after adoption and legal
publication in accordance with the provisions of the Act governing the same.
(Ord. 249a, passed 8-2-2004)
CHAPTER 156: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
Swimming Pools
   
156.01   Short title
   
156.02   Policy
   
156.03   Definitions
   
156.04   Enclosure of private swimming pools
   
156.05   Swimming pool setback
   
156.06   Electrical fixtures
   
156.07   Enforcement
   
156.08   Effective date
   
156.99   Penalty
SWIMMING POOLS
§ 156.01 SHORT TITLE.
   Sections 156.01 et seq. shall be known and cited as the Village of
Manchester Swimming Pool Ordinance.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 156.02 POLICY.
   It is hereby determined that private swimming pools may endanger the public
health and safety unless properly regulated and enclosed, and unless electrical
fixtures accessory to the pools conformed to the requirements of the applicable
state and village building codes.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 156.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of  §§ 15.01  et seq., the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ELECTRICAL FIXTURES. All wiring, lighting fixtures, heating elements, and
all devices propelled by electric motors which shall be used in conjunction
with a private swimming pool as defined below.
   PRIVATE SWIMMING POOL. Any artificially constructed, nonportable area
capable of containing water and of being used for swimming or bathing, located
on private or residential property, having a depth of 2 feet or more at any
point or having a surface area exceeding 250 square feet. This term shall not
include any swimming pool which is a PUBLIC SWIMMING POOL as defined and
regulated under the Michigan Public Health Code, being Public Act 368 of 1978,
being M.C.L.A. §§ 333.1101 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 156.04 ENCLOSURE OF PRIVATE SWIMMING POOLS.
   All private swimming pools within the village shall be enclosed by a fence
which is at least 6 feet in height. The gate shall be of a self-closing and
latching type with the latch on the inside of gate, not readily available for
children to open. If the entire premises of the residence is closed, then this
provision may be waived by the Village Building Official or his or her
authorized representative upon inspection and approval thereof. Horizontally-
woven wood fences are not considered acceptable for keeping a pool
inaccessible. Doors and gates shall be securely locked when the premises are
not being used or when the same are not being supervised by the householder or
his or her authorized attendant. A dwelling house or accessory building may be
used as a part of the fence required hereunder, provided the dwelling house or
accessory building complies with the building setback requirements set forth in
Chapter 151. Notwithstanding the above, no fence shall be required for an
above-ground private swimming pool having a height of at least 4 feet and a
retractable or removable ladder which shall be removed or retracted at all time
while the swimming pool is not in use.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
 
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.05 SWIMMING POOL SETBACK.
   (A)   All private swimming pools within the village shall be subject to and
located in compliance with the building setback requirements set forth in
Chapter 151.
   (B)   Setback requirements must be reviewed by the Zoning Inspector.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.06 ELECTRICAL FIXTURES.
   All electrical fixtures and/or wiring installed and used in conjunction with
any private swimming pool shall conform to the requirements of the applicable
state and village building codes. Electrical permits are required.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
Penalty, see § 156.99
§ 156.07 ENFORCEMENT.
   The Village Building Official or his or her authorized representative shall
have authority to inspect any private swimming pool and its enclosure and/or
accessory electrical fixtures within the village at any reasonable hour for the
purpose of determining that the swimming pool, electrical fixtures, and
enclosure are being maintained in compliance with the provisions of
§§ 156.01 et seq.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 156.08 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   Sections 156.01 et seq. shall take effect 30 days after publication.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
§ 156.99 PENALTY.
   Any person, firm, association, or corporation which violated any provision
of
§§ 156.01 et seq. shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished
by a fine of not more than $500 or by imprisonment in the County Jail for not
more than 90 days or both the fine and imprisonment. Each day that a violation
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense. This penalty provision
shall not preclude any civil action against a violator for injunctive or other
relief.
(Ord. 161, passed 9-21-1987)
CHAPTER 157: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
Special Assessments
   
157.01   Definitions
   
157.02   Special assessments; generally
   
157.03   Initiation of public improvements
   
157.04   Form of petitions
   
157.05   Investigation
   
157.06   Request for report
   
157.07   Filing of report and notice of hearing
   
157.08   Objections and modifications
   
157.09   Determination to make improvements
   
157.10   Special assessment roll
   
157.11   Notice of hearing on roll
   
157.12   Hearing on roll; revision and approval
   
157.13   Lien
   
157.14   Collection of roll
   
157.15   Assessment for abating hazards and nuisances
   
157.16   Additional procedures
   
157.17   Contested assessments
   
157.18   Reassessment for benefits
   
157.19   Combination of projects
   
157.20   Actual cost; refunds
   
157.21   Additional special assessments
   
157.22   Single-lot assessments
   
157.99   Penalty
SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
§ 157.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of
§§ 157.01 et seq., the following definitions shall apply unless the context
clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CHAPTER VIII. Public Act 3 of 1895, Ch. VIII, as added by Public Act 4 of
1974, being M.C.L.A. §§ 61.1, 67.25, 68.31 - 68.36, 69.6, 69.21 - 69.23, 69.25,
71.3, and 71.4. All provisions of Chapter VIII are incorporated herein by
reference. In case of conflict between Chapter VIII and other
provisions of this code, the provisions of Chapter VIII shall prevail.
   COST. The cost of any public improvement and shall include the cost of
surveys, plans, land, rights-of-way, spreading of rolls, notices, advertising,
financing, construction, and legal fees and all other costs incident to the
making of the improvement, the special assessments therefor and the financing
thereof.
   PUBLIC IMPROVEMENT. Any improvement upon public property, right-of-way, or
easement which results in special benefit to the real property in the vicinity
of the improvement.
(1984 Code, § 1.71)
§ 157.02 SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS; GENERALLY.
   The entire cost or any part thereof of all improvements may be defrayed by
special assessment upon the lands especially benefitted by the improvement in
the manner hereinafter provided.
(1984 Code, § 1.72)
§ 157.03 INITIATION OF PUBLIC IMPROVEMENTS.
   Proceedings for making public improvements may be initiated by resolution of
the Council or by a petition of a majority of the owners of the land liable to
be assessed in any proposed special assessment district. All public
improvements shall be made at the discretion of the Council and no petition
shall be mandatory upon the Council.
(1984 Code, § 1.73)
§ 157.04 FORM OF PETITIONS.
   All petitions for public improvements shall be on forms supplied by the
village and shall include an affidavit by 1 or more of the circulators that the
signatures appearing thereon are genuine and each signer declares himself or
herself to be the owner of the interest in the land indicated. All petitions
shall be filed with the Village Clerk, who shall record the fifing date thereon
and report the receipt of all the petitions to the Village Council at the next
regular meeting following receipt of any such petition.
(1984 Code, § 1.74)
§ 157.05 INVESTIGATION.
   All petitions for public improvements shall be investigated by the Village
Clerk to determine whether a sufficient number of valid signatures have been
obtained and, if the investigation discloses a deficiency, the petition shall
be returned to the circulator with notice of the fact. Where any lot or parcel
of land is owned by more than 1 person, each person having an interest must
join in the petition. A petition containing the required number of valid
signatures shall be acted upon by the Council either to accept, defer, or
reject the petition.
(1984 Code, § 1.75)
§ 157.06 REQUEST FOR REPORT.
   Upon acceptance of a special assessment project petition, the Council shall
refer the same to the Village Engineer directing him or her to make a survey
and report concerning the need for, desirable extent of, and probable cost of
the proposed public improvement. The Engineer shall recommend what proportion
of the cost should be paid by special assessment upon the property especially
benefitted and what proportion, if any, should be paid by the village at large.
The Council shall not order the making of any special assessment improvement
prior to the filing of the report of the Engineer and until after a public
hearing has been held for the hearing of objections to the making of the
special assessment improvements.
(1984 Code, § 1.76)
§ 157.07 FILING OF REPORT AND NOTICE OF HEARING.
   If the Council determines to proceed with the public improvement, it shall
approve the report of the Engineer as filed or as modified by the Council, and
shall order the same filed with the Clerk for public examination; it shall fix
a time and place for a hearing on objections to the proposed improvement or to
the inclusion of any property within the proposed district, at which hearing
all persons owning property within the proposed special assessment district may
be heard. No hearing on the improvement shall be required if a petition for the
public improvement is signed by all of the property owners to be assessed for
the improvement. The Clerk shall cause notice of the time and place of the
hearing to be published once in a newspaper published and circulated within the
village not less than 10 days prior to the date of the hearing. The notice
shall describe the proposed special assessment district, the nature of the
improvement, and shall also state that the Engineer's report and estimate of
costs is on file with the Village Clerk. A like 10-day notice shall also be
sent by mail as prescribed in Public Act 162 of 1962, being M.C.L.A. § 211.741.
The hearing required by this section may be held at any regular, adjourned, or
special meeting of the Council.
(1984 Code, § 1.77)
§ 157.08 OBJECTIONS AND MODIFICATIONS.
   The Council, after hearing objections, may at or after the public hearing,
modify the proposed improvement or district in any respect which they shall
deem in the best interests of the village at large; provided, that in the event
the amount of work is increased or the boundaries of the district enlarged,
then another hearing shall be held pursuant to notice required by section
§ 157.07.
(1984 Code, § 1.78)
§ 157.09 DETERMINATION TO MAKE IMPROVEMENTS.
   After completion of the hearing on the improvement, the Council may, by
resolution, determine to make the improvements and to defray the whole or any
part of the cost of the improvement by special assessment upon the property
especially benefitted in proportion to the benefits thereto. By the resolution,
the Council shall determine the necessity for the improvement; approve the
plans and specifications for the improvement; determine the estimated cost
thereof; determine what proportion of the cost shall be paid by special
assessment upon the property especially benefitted and what part, if any, shall
be a general obligation of the village; designate the district or land and
premises upon which the special assessment shall be levied; and direct the
Assessor to prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with the Council's
determination. In the event that neither the proceeds of the special assessment
nor the proceeds of bonds payable from the special assessment are required to
defray the expense of the public improvement, the Council may order the work to
be done either by contract or with Village forces. If, prior to the adoption of
the resolution authorizing the making of the public improvement, written
objections thereto have been filed by the owners of property in the district,
which, according to estimates, will be required to bear more than 50% of the
cost thereof, or by a majority of the owners of property to be assessed, no
resolution determining to proceed with the improvement shall be adopted except
by affirmative vote of 4 members of the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 1.79)
§ 157.10 SPECIAL ASSESSMENT ROLL.
   The Village Assessor shall prepare a special assessment roll of all lots or
parcels of land within the special assessment district benefitted by the
proposed improvement, as finally determined by the Council, and assess to each
lot or parcel of land, the amount benefitted thereby.
(1984 Code, § 1.80)
§ 157.11 NOTICE OF HEARING ON ROLL.
   When the special assessment roll shall have been reported to the Council,
they shall order the same filed in the office of the Village Clerk for public
examination and shall fix the time and place to review the roll, and direct the
Clerk to give notice of a public hearing thereon. The notice shall be given by
1 publication in a newspaper printed and circulated in the village at least 10
days prior to the holding of the hearing, and by mail as prescribed in Public
Act 162 of 1962, being M.C.L.A. § 211.741.
(1984 Code, § 1.81)
§ 157.12 HEARING ON ROLL; REVISION AND APPROVAL.
   (A)   The Council shall review the special assessment roll and consider all
objections thereto.
   (B)   The Council may correct or amend the roll as to any assessment or
description of property or any other matters appearing therein.
   (C)   If, after hearing all objections, the Council determines that
assessments are in proportion to benefits derived or to be derived, it shall
thereupon pass a resolution reciting the determinations, confirming the roll
and directing the Clerk to transmit the assessment roll to the Treasurer for
collection of the various amounts on the roll in accordance with Council
resolution. The resolution shall state the date upon which the special
assessment, or the first installment thereof, if installment payments be
allowed, shall be due and payable; the number of annual installments in which
the special assessment may be paid; and the rate of interest to be charged upon
each deferred installment. The roll shall have the date of confirmation
endorsed thereon by the Clerk and be final and conclusive for the purpose of
the improvement to which it pertains.
(1984 Code, § 1.82)
§ 157.13 LIEN.
   (A)   All special assessments contained in any special assessment roll,
including any part thereof to be paid in installments shall from the date of
confirmation of the roll constitute a lien upon the respective lots or parcels
of land assessed and until paid shall be a charge against the respective owners
of the several lots and parcels of land and a debt to the village from the
persons to whom they are assessed.
   (B)   The liens shall be of the same character and effect as the lien
created by the Village Charter for village taxes and shall include accrued
interest and fees.
(1984 Code, § 1.83)
§ 157.14 COLLECTION OF ROLL.
   After the Council has confirmed the roll, the Treasurer shall notify by mail
each property owner on the assessment roll that the roll has been confirmed and
filed, stating the amount assessed. Failure to receive notice shall not
invalidate any special assessment nor excuse the payment of interest or
collection fees, or both. Each property owner shall have 90 days from the date
of confirmation of the roll to pay the assessment in full or any part thereof
in a sum not less than the first installment thereof as set by the Council,
without interest, fees, or penalty. Following 90 days, the property owner may
pay all of this assessment at any time, but shall be required to pay interest
thereon as fixed by the Council. If a special assessment or the first
installment thereof remains unpaid as of the last day of February following the
date of confirmation of the roll, there shall be added interest at the rate set
by the Council beginning 90 days from the date of confirmation of the roll to
the first day of July following the last day of February and the assessment
shall be spread upon the then current tax roll for the collection of taxes in
the village and collected in the same manner and subject to the same fees and
penalties as taxes. The second and remaining installments shall be spread upon
the succeeding village tax rolls, together with interest beginning 90 days from
date of confirmation of the roll, until all installments are paid.
(1984 Code, § 1.84)
§ 157.15 ASSESSMENT FOR ABATING HAZARDS AND NUISANCES.
   (A)   In the event it shall become necessary to abate a hazard or nuisance,
the Council shall determine what amount or part of the expense shall be
charged, and designate the property upon which the same shall be levied as a
special assessment. The Council shall require that the persons chargeable
therewith be notified by the Village Clerk either by first-class mail, or if
the owner or his or her address is unknown, by posting notice upon the premises
affected. The notice shall state the basis for the assessment, the cost
thereof, and shall give a reasonable time, which shall not be less than 30
days, in which payment shall be made. In all cases where payment is not made
within the time limit, the same shall be reported by the Clerk to the Council,
which shall direct the Assessor to spread the amounts against the descriptions
of property chargeable therewith on the next general tax roll for the
collection of taxes in the village.
   (B)   This shall be known as the single lot or parcel assessment procedure
as described in Chapter VIII and may also be used to collect all or part of the
cost of construction or repair of sidewalks and similar improvements.
(1984 Code, § 1.85)
§ 157.16 ADDITIONAL PROCEDURES.
   In any case where the provisions of this Chapter may prove to be
insufficient to carry into full effect the making of any special assessment,
the Council shall provide, in the resolution authorizing the improvement, the
additional steps or procedures required.
(1984 Code, § 1.86)
§ 157.17 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted for the purpose of
contesting or enjoining the collection of any special assessments except in
conformity with § 34 of Chapter VIII (Public Act 3 of 1895, being M.C.L.A. §
68.34).
(1984 Code, § 1.87)
§ 157.18 REASSESSMENT FOR BENEFITS.
   (A)   Whenever any special assessment shall, in the opinion of the Council,
be invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the proceedings, or if
any court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge the assessment to be illegal,
the Council shall, whether the improvement has been made or not, or whether any
part of the assessments have been paid or not, have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made.
   (B)   All proceedings on the reassessment and for the collection thereof
shall be conducted in the same manner as provided for an original assessment
and, whenever any sum or part thereof, levied upon any property in the
assessment so set aside, has been paid and not refunded, the payment so made
shall be applied upon the reassessment.
   (C)   If the payments exceed the amount of the reassessment, refunds shall
be made.
(1984 Code, § 1.88)
§ 157.19 COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The Council may combine several districts into 1 project for the purpose of
effecting savings in the cost.
(1984 Code, § 1.89)
§ 157.20 ACTUAL COST; REFUNDS.
   (A)   The Village Clerk shall, within 60 days after the completion of each
local or special public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and
certify the same to the Assessor who shall adjust the special assessment roll
to correspond therewith. Should the assessment prove larger than necessary by
5% or less, the same shall be reported to the Council which may place the
excess in the village treasury or make a refund thereof pro rata according to
the assessment. If the assessment exceeds the amount necessary by more than 5%,
the entire excess shall be credited to owners of property as shown by the
village assessment roll upon which the assessment has been levied, pro rata
according to the assessment; provided, however, that no refunds of special
assessments may be made which impair, or contravene the provision of any
outstanding obligation or bond secured in whole or part by the special
assessments.
   (B)   Refunds shall first be credited against future unpaid installments and
any balance shall be paid to the person who paid the assessment, in cash.
(1984 Code, § 1.90)
§ 157.21 ADDITIONAL SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS.
   Additional pro rata assessments may be made when any special assessment roll
proves insufficient to pay for the improvement for which it was levied and the
expenses incidental thereto, or to pay the principal and interest on bonds
issued in anticipation of the special assessment. Provided, however, that any
additional pro rata assessment shall not exceed 10% of the assessment as
originally confirmed, unless a meeting of the Council be held to review the
additional assessment, for which meeting notices shall be published as provided
in the case of review of the original special assessment roll.
(1984 Code, § 1.91)
§ 157.22 SINGLE-LOT ASSESSMENTS.
   (A)   When any expense shall have been incurred by the village upon or in
respect to any single premises, which expense is chargeable against the
premises and the owner thereof and is not of the class required to be pro rated
among several lots and parcels of land in a special assessment district, an
account of the costs or labor, material, or services for which the expenses
were incurred, verified by the Village Manager, with a description of the lot
and the name of the owner, if known, shall be reported to the Village
Treasurer, who shall immediately charge and bill the owner if known. The bill
shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner of the property to be assessed
and the bill shall notify the owner of the time of the meeting of the Village
Council, not more than 10 days thereafter, when the Council will meet for the
purpose of adopting a resolution confirming a special assessment upon the
property for the charges, unless the same are paid prior to the date of the
meeting. Upon adoption of the resolution, the Village Council may establish a
due date, authorize installment payments, and establish interest collection
fees and penalties for late payment as provided for in
§§ 157.01 et seq. Immediately upon the adoption of the resolution, the
Treasurer shall give notice of the amount so determined to the persons
chargeable therewith. The notice shall be sent by first-class mail to the last
known addresses of the persons as shown on the assessment roll of the village,
or by publication. The notice shall state the basis of the assessment and the
amount thereof, and shall give a reasonable time, not less than 15 days, within
which payments shall be made to the Treasurer. In all cases where payment is
not made within the time set, the assessment shall become collectible as any
special assessment. The resolution referred to in this section shall be treated
as the confirmation of the special assessment role.
   (B)   This section shall take place upon publication.
(Ord. 148, passed 7-29-1986)
§ 157.99 PENALTY.
   Any person violating any provision of this chapter for which no specific
penalty is prescribed shall be subject to
§ 10.99.
CHAPTER 158: PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
Section
General Provisions
   
158.01   Short title
   
158.02   Definitions
   
158.03   Purposes
   
158.04   Publication; effective date
Regulations
   
158.15   Nonexclusive, revocable authorization to use public rights-of-way
   
158.16   Franchise required
   
158.17   Authorization required
   
158.18   Application procedures
   
158.19   Existing providers; application
   
158.20   Annual fees
   
158.21   Duration of permit; renewal
   
158.22   Permit terms and requirements
   
158.23   Use of public rights-of-way by permittee
   
158.24   Records of installation of a system; physical audit
   
158.25   Interconnection
   
158.26   No village liability; indemnification; insurance
   
158.27   Change in ownership or control of permittee
   
158.28   Revocation
   
158.29   Compliance with laws
   
158.30   Miscellaneous
   
158.31   Construction
   
158.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
Public Works, see
Title V
Special Assessments, see
§§ 157.01 et seq.
Haul Routes, see
Ch. 71
Streets and Sidewalks, see
Ch. 93
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 158.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the Manchester Village
Public Rights-Of-Way Ordinance.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A person or entity required to obtain a permit under this
chapter.
   APPLICATION. The document prepared by the village which is submitted by an
applicant for a permit under this chapter.
   CABLE SERVICE or TELEVISION. One-way transmission to subscribers of video
programming or other programming services and subscriber interaction for the
selection of video programming or other programming services.
   ENTITY. A corporation (public and private), partnership, association, joint
venture, unincorporated organization, municipality (other than Manchester
Village), or other business form.
   EXISTING PROVIDER. An applicant who is using the public rights-of-way on the
effective date of this chapter.
   FIXTURE or FACILITIES. Any plant, works, systems, improvements, structure,
and equipment owned, leased, or used by a person or entity, including poles,
wires, fixtures, pipes, underground circuits, conduits, and other property used
or installed in the public rights-of-way, which is necessary or convenient for
the transmission and distribution of services or energy by means of lines,
pipes, or similar structures.
   ORDINANCES. All laws enacted by the village which include, but are not
limited to, building, electrical, plumbing, mechanical, and maintenance codes,
fire code, zoning ordinances, and all duly promulgated regulations, rules, and
fee schedules.
   PERMIT or AUTHORIZATION. The document issued by the village pursuant to this
chapter which provides the village's nonexclusive, revocable consent to use the
public rights-of-way within the corporate limits of the village.
   PERMITTEE. The person or entity granted a permit.
   PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. Highways, streets, alleys, municipal easements, or
other public places within the corporate limits of the village.
   PUBLIC UTILITY DIRECTOR. A person designated by the Village Council to
review the application and run the day to day operations of the Utility
Department and oversee the use of the public rights-of-way.
   SYSTEM. An activity which is required by federal or state law to obtain the
consent of the village to use the public rights-of-way and shall include, by
way of illustration and not limitation, electricity, gas, telephone, telegraph,
potable water, sanitary and storm sewer, and cable service (television).
   TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES. Includes regulated and unregulated services
offered to customers for the transmission of 2-way interactive communication
and associated usage, but does not include cable service (television).
   VILLAGE. Manchester Village, a Michigan municipal body, situated in the
County of Washtenaw, Michigan.
   VILLAGE COUNCIL. The legislative body of the village.
   VILLAGE ENGINEER. A person designated by the Village Council to review the
application and advise the village on engineering matters.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.03 PURPOSES.
   The purpose of this chapter is to regulate access to, activities within, and
use of public rights-of-way to ensure and protect the public health, safety,
and welfare by exercising reasonable control over certain activities within the
public rights-of-way:
   (A)   To provide for the public peace and health and for the safety of
persons and property within the public rights-of-way;
   (B)   To prescribe the terms and conditions upon which a permit to use the
public rights-of-way may be granted, suspended, or revoked;
   (C)   To promote aesthetics, reliable services, and efficient, economical
use of the public rights-of-way;
   (D)   To provide for the orderly construction, installation, operation, and
removal of fixtures within the public rights-of-way;
   (E)   To minimize disruption caused by installation, operation, use, and
removal of fixtures within the public rights-of-way;
   (F)   To provide sound and reasonable engineering standards to facilitate
the present and future use of the public rights-of-way;
   (G)   To ensure the village and public are protected from liability for use
of the public rights-of-way;
   (H)   To provide bonds to ensure that the rights-of-way, municipal
easements, or public places are returned to its original condition during and
after the permittee's access and use;
   (I)   To establish reasonable classifications of uses within the public
rights-of-way;
   (J)   To require and exact payment of the reasonable sums for the permit as
deemed proper; and
   (K)   To provide information to permittee concerning the public rights-of-
way and provide for a fair and nondiscriminatory policy for permitting the use
of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.04 PUBLICATION; EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter, or a synopsis of this chapter, shall be published in a
newspaper circulated in the village within 15 days after its passage. This
chapter shall be effective on the date following its publication.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
REGULATIONS
§ 158.15 NONEXCLUSIVE, REVOCABLE AUTHORIZATION TO USE PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   The authorization granted by the village under this chapter is the
nonexclusive, revocable right of a permittee to use the public rights-of-way
within the corporate limits of the village as designated in a permit.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.16 FRANCHISE REQUIRED.
   This chapter is intended to provide authorization to use the public rights-
of-way and is not intended to grant a franchise to transact business in the
village, as required by Article VII, § 29 of the Michigan Constitution of 1963,
or provide cable service (television), as required by § 309a of the Michigan
Telecommunications Act, being M.C.L.A. § 484.2309a.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.17 AUTHORIZATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   A permittee shall not install, construct, maintain, repair, or operate
a system within the public rights-of-way or within any public place under the
control and jurisdiction of the village without authorization issued pursuant
to this chapter. These persons and entities shall include those persons or
entities required to obtain the consent of the village to use the public
rights-of-way pursuant to Article VII, § 29 of the Michigan Constitution of
1963; Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Act, Public Act
48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.1301 et seq. or other federal or state
statutes, rules, or regulations and shall include, by way of illustration and
not limitation, providers of electricity, gas, telephone, telegraph, cable
service (television), potable water, storm and sanitary sewers, other than
owned or managed by the village.
   (B)   An existing provider shall comply with the requirements of
§ 158.19.
   (C)   For purposes of this chapter, a person or entity is using the public
rights-of-way if facilities in the public rights-of-way are used by the person
or entity and federal, state, or local law requires that person or entity to
obtain the consent of the village to conduct or transact business in the
village.
   (D)   For purposes of this chapter, a person or entity is using the public
rights-of-way whether the person owns the facilities in the public rights-of-
way outright or obtains the use of the facilities from a third party under
lease, contract, or other arrangement.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
 Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.18 APPLICATION PROCEDURES.
   (A)   A permittee shall apply for a new, renewed, or amended permit to
install, construct, expand, extend, maintain, repair, or operate a system
pursuant to this chapter. The application shall be made on an application form
provided by the village. The application shall be filed in triplicate with the
Village Clerk. As used in this section, MAINTAIN and REPAIR do not include
routine or emergency repair or maintenance work on lines, wires, conduits, or
other facilities which were previously placed in the public rights-of-way under
an authorization or which were placed in the public rights-of-way by an
existing provider prior to the effective date of this chapter, provided the
work does not involve replacement of more than minimal lengths of lines, wires,
conduits, or other facilities.
   (B)   In addition to other information required by the application form or
otherwise required by the village or this chapter, the application shall
include, without limitation, the following information:
      (1)   The name and address of the applicant. If the applicant is not a
natural person, the name and address of each of its officers, directors,
stockholders beneficially holding more than 5% of its outstanding voting
shares; each general partner, and each limited partner holding an equity
interest of more than 5%;
      (2)   Copies of the most recent financial statements of the applicant;
      (3)   A description of the services to be provided, the types of wires
and other facilities to be used or located in the public rights-of-way, and a
statement whether the facilities are owned by the applicant, or if not owned by
the applicant, a copy of the agreement or legal instrument granting the
applicant the right to use the facilities;
      (4)   A map setting forth the specific public rights-of-way in which the
applicant proposes to locate its facilities or which the applicant otherwise
proposes to use. The map shall identify where facilities are proposed to be
located above ground, where facilities are proposed to be located underground,
and the side or portion of the public rights-of-way (north side, south side,
under sidewalk, and the like) on which they are proposed to be located; and
      (5)   Evidence of all required regulatory approvals, permits,
authorizations, and licenses for the offering or provision of the services from
the appropriate federal, state, and local authorities.
   (C)   The application will be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee
in an amount established from time to time by resolution of the Village
Council. The nonrefundable application fee shall be used to off-set the
villages costs to process the application and issue the permit.
   (D)   The Village Council shall approve or deny access to the public rights-
of-way within 90 days from the date a completed application for a permit is
filed with the Village Clerk. Within 30 days after the application is received
by the Village Clerk, the Public Utility Director and Village Engineer will
determine whether the application is complete, or whether additional
information is required to process the application. If additional information
is required, the applicant shall be informed in writing of the additional
information or materials requested and the 90-day application review period
provided for in Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way Act,
Public Act 48 of 2002, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3105, 484.3115, 484.3119; and this
chapter shall be tolled until the requested information and materials are
provided.
   (E)   The Public Utility Director, Village Engineer, Village President, or
Village Council may request an applicant to submit additional information
pertinent to the application and the proposed use of the public rights-of-way
which the Public Utility Director, Village Engineer, Village President, or
Village Council deems reasonably necessary or relevant to review the
application. The applicant shall comply with all the requests. If the applicant
fails to provide the requested information or materials, the incomplete
application will be returned to the applicant.
   (F)   Before acting on the application, the Village Council may hold a
public hearing in which event notice of the public hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation and mailed to the applicant not less than
10 days before the public hearing. The applicant and any other interested
parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at the hearing to submit
comments on the application.
   (G)   Before acting on the application, the Public Utility Director and
Village Engineer shall submit a report and/or proposed permit to the Village
Council for its review, a copy of which shall be mailed to the applicant. The
Village Council shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit. The
failure of the village to comply strictly with the procedural requirements of
this section shall not invalidate the decision or proceedings of the village.
   (H)   The Village Council may impose reasonable conditions on the use of the
public rights-of-way to ensure the public health, safety, and welfare. Without
limitation, these conditions may include the posting of a bond which shall not
exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after permittee's access and use. An irrevocable
letter of credit may be provided in lieu of a bond. All bonds and letters of
credit shall be in a form acceptable to the Village Attorney.
   (I)   The constructions plans submitted by the applicant shall be approved,
signed, and dated by the Public Utility Director, Village Engineer, and Village
President, filed with the Village Clerk, and incorporated by reference into the
permit.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.19 EXISTING PROVIDERS; APPLICATION.
   (A)   This chapter shall apply to all existing providers on and after the
effective date of this chapter in the same manner as those provisions apply to
permittees, except as specifically provided otherwise for existing permittees.
   (B)   All existing providers shall file an application with the Village
Clerk within 6 months after the effective date of this chapter on a form
prepared by the village.
   (C)   The application may require the information provided for in
§ 158.18(B) and the additional information and materials as the Public Utility
Director, Village Engineer, Village President, or Village Council may deem
pertinent or relevant to process the application and issue a permit.
   (D) The application will be accompanied by a nonrefundable application fee
in an amount established by resolution of the Village Council. The
nonrefundable application fee shall be used to off-set the village's costs to
process the application.
   (E)   Before acting on the application, the Village Council may hold a
public hearing in which event notice of the public hearing shall be published
in a newspaper of general circulation and mailed to the applicant not less than
10 days before the public hearing. The applicant and any other interested
parties may appear in person, by agent, or by letter at the hearing to submit
comments on the application.
   (F)   Before acting on the application, the Public Utility Director and
Village Engineer shall submit a report and/or proposed permit to the Village
Council for its review, a copy of which shall be mailed to the applicant. The
Village Council shall not unreasonably deny an application for a permit. The
failure of the village to comply strictly with the procedural requirements of
this section shall not invalidate the decision or proceedings of the village.
   (G)   The Village Council may impose reasonable conditions on the use of the
public rights-of-way to ensure the public health, safety, and welfare. Without
limitation, these conditions may include the posting of a bond which shall not
exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after permittee's access and use. An irrevocable
letter of credit may be provided in lieu of a bond. All bonds and letters of
credit shall be in a form acceptable to the Village Attorney.
   (H)   The constructions plans submitted by applicant shall be approved,
signed, and dated by the Public Utility Director, Village Engineer, and Village
President, filed with the Village Clerk and incorporated by reference into the
permit.
   (I)   Unless otherwise provided by a court of competent jurisdiction, the
village's right to deny a permit under this chapter, and the village's right to
deny renewal of a permit, shall not apply to a provider which has, either
itself or through its predecessor(s) interest, continuously engaged in
providing services within the village pursuant to Public Act 129 of 1883, being
M.C.L.A. § 484.4; since before the adoption of the Michigan Constitution of
1908, and which has a bona fide claim of entitlement under a grant of authority
by the state predating the Michigan Constitution of 1908. This division (I)
shall not limit the rights of the village to deny the entity a new or renewed
permit, or to revoke the right of the provider in accordance with applicable
state or federal law. The rights of the provider under this division (I) may
not be assigned or transferred except with the assignment or transfer of the
provider's business in the village. The rights of the provider under this
division (I) do not apply to lessees, assignees, or users of a portion of the
wires or other facilities of the provider in the village.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.20 ANNUAL FEES.
   (A)   In addition to the nonrefundable application fee set forth in  
§ 158.18(C) and fees for other permits or authorizations required by village
ordinances or other governmental units, the permittee and existing provider
shall pay an annual fee in an amount determined as set forth in division (B)
below.
   (B)   Unless otherwise provided by federal or state law, the annual fee to
be charged a permittee or existing provider under division (A) above shall not
exceed the village's fixed and variable costs to maintain the public rights-of-
way and to administer the permit granted under this chapter. The fixed and
variable costs to the village to maintain the public rights-of-way used by a
permittee and existing provider and to administer the permit granted under this
chapter may be calculated on a per foot, percentage of gross revenue, or other
appropriate basis considering the size of the wire, cable, equipment, pole,
duct, pipe, or conduit installed or used by a permittee or existing provider in
the public rights-of-way, and shall be established from time to time by
resolution of the Village Council.
   (C)   Permittees who share conduits or other similar facilities, or which
are bundled or otherwise grouped together, whether overhead or underground,
shall each pay an annual fee in full.
   (D)   For purposes of this section, each year shall begin on January 1 and
end on December 31. Annual fees shall be paid on or before February 15 of the
year for which the fee is paid. For the year in which a permit is issued, the
annual fee shall be the greater of the minimum fee or annual fee prorated for
the balance of the year. All sums not paid before February 15 shall bear
interest calculated monthly at a rate equal to 9% per annum or the other
interest rate as set by resolution of the Village Council.
   (E)   An existing provider shall also pay the annual fees established
pursuant to this chapter for its system which exists within the public rights-
of-way of the village on the effective date of this chapter as if the existing
provider had a permit covering the existing system. For the year beginning 1-1-
2000, the annual fee for existing providers shall be the greater of the minimum
fee or prorated annual fee as of the effective date of this chapter and shall
be paid within 180 days after the effective date of this chapter. In the event
the annual fee for 2000 is not paid when due, the provisions of division (D)
above governing late payments shall apply. The annual fees to be paid by an
existing provider pursuant to this chapter shall be calculated in the same
manner as for a permittee.
   (F)   In the event the permittee or existing provider has been granted a
cable service (television) franchise by the village and is paying a franchise
fee, then the annual fees provided by this chapter shall only apply to the
extent the annual fee exceeds the cable service franchise fee.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.21 DURATION OF PERMIT; RENEWAL.
   (A)   A permit and the rights, privileges, authority, and responsibilities
established by the permit shall take effect and be in force only after
acceptance by the applicant and approval by the Village Council. A permit shall
take effect and be in force for the term established in the permit if, within
30 days after the date of the Village Council's approval of the permit, the
applicant files with the Village Clerk the annual fee for the balance of the
year in which the permit is issued, application fee, and all required letters
of credit, bonds, and certificates of insurance. If the applicant fails to
comply with all the requirements of this section, including the 30-day time
limit, the permit shall be null and of no effect, and the applicant shall
acquire no rights whatsoever from the village. For purposes of this division
(A), APPLICANT means a person or entity for whom a permit has been approved by
the Village Council.
   (B)   The term of a permit granted under this chapter shall be for a period
not exceeding 2 years and end December 31 following the first 12 months
(original term). Upon expiration of the original term, the permit shall
automatically renew on a year-to-year basis (renewal periods) until the
termination date specified in the permit, provided permittee is in full
compliance with the terms of the permit, this chapter, and all sums due village
are paid in full.
   (C)   Applications to extend the term of a permit past the termination date
shall be filed in the same manner as original applications in
§ 158.18 and shall be filed with the village not more than 1 year and not less
than 120 days before the termination date stated in the permit. The village
expressly reserve all rights to approve, approve with conditions, modify, or
deny an application to extend the permit pursuant to this chapter and to impose
additional conditions. In deciding whether to deny or to approve with
conditions an application for extension, the village may consider the
applicant's history of violations of this chapter, including but not limited to
the frequency and severity of the violations, the applicant's promptness in
acting to remedy violations, and the adequacy of the applicant's remedial
actions, whether or not the village has sought revocation of the applicant's
permit as a consequence of any of the violations.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.22 PERMIT TERMS AND REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A permit shall be nonexclusive. The village expressly reserves the
right to approve, at any time, additional permits for access to, activities
within, and ongoing use of the public rights-of-way. The issuance of additional
permits shall not be deemed to amend, modify, revoke, or terminate the terms
and conditions of any permit previously issued.
   (B)   A permit approved by the Village Council shall authorize access to and
ongoing use of the public rights-of-way described in the permit, subject to
strict compliance with the conditions of the permit, the requirements of this
chapter, and any other applicable requirements of the village or applicable
state and federal law. The permittee shall not use in any way any public
rights-of-way not authorized by the permit. Any installation, construction,
maintenance, repair, operation, or removal of a system within the public
rights-of-way and any use or activity within the public rights-of-way shall be
performed only as authorized by the permit.
   (C)   A permittee shall not commence construction upon, over, across, or
under the public rights-of-way or otherwise in the village without first
obtaining all construction permits as required under the village's ordinances.
The issuance of a permit pursuant to this chapter shall not substitute for or
waive any of the requirements of any other ordinance adopted by the village, as
may be amended from time to time, including the requirements imposed by a
public agency other than the village.
   (D)   A permittee shall not lease, provide service to, or otherwise allow a
person or entity to use its facilities, if that person or entity is required to
obtain a permit pursuant to
§ 158.17. A permittee shall notify the Village Clerk in writing at least 60
days prior to the date it proposes to lease, provide services to, or otherwise
allow such a person or entity to use its system. Within 30 days after receiving
the notice, the Village Clerk shall notify the permittee in writing of the
village's determination that the person or entity does or does not require
authorization to use the public rights-of-way. For the purposes of this
section, the village may from time to time give written notice to a permittee
of a list of the entities (by proper name or by description) whom it contends
need authorization. A permittee shall abide by the terms of any court order,
injunction, or decree obtained by the village with respect to any person who
obtains (or proposes to obtain) services from a permittee or who uses (or
proposes to use) any portion of the permittee's system.
   (E)   A permittee shall not allow the property of a third party to be
overlashed, affixed, or attached to any portion of a permittee's system, and
shall not allow other actions with a similar result without the prior written
consent of the village. With respect to facilities located within the public
rights-of-way, a permittee shall notify the Village Clerk in writing at least
60 days prior to the proposed date of the action. Within 30 days after
receiving the notice, the Village Clerk shall notify the permittee in writing
of the village's decision to grant or deny consent.
   (F)   A permittee shall submit to the village as-built maps and plans for
portions of the system as soon as maps and plans are completed by the permittee
and in no event later than 90 days after completion of the construction or
reconstruction of any portion of its system.
   (G)   A permittee shall submit to the village a digital geographical
information system (GIS) layer, using a program, format, and computer media
acceptable to the village and containing the information and data as the
village may require, which accurately displays the permittee's as-built system.
The village may request that the information and data include information and
data regarding facilities within rights-of-way owned by other governmental
entities which are inside the village's geographic boundaries and in which
village owned pipes, lines, wires, cables, conduits, and other facilities are
located. Thereafter, a permittee shall update the layer, data, and information
at least quarterly, and more frequently upon request by the village. All the
GIS data, media, and information, including but not limited to, all databases,
plots, and computer disks will be provided at no cost to village and become the
property of the village. As used herein, GIS and GIS layer shall include, at
the village's option, other computer programs, data, and information which
fulfill similar functions. If requested by the village, the information and
data shall be provided in metric measurements.
   (H)   By issuing a permit, the village does not agree to restrict the number
of utilities, telecommunications, systems, cable service (television) systems,
franchises, licenses, or permits of any types in any part or all of the
village. The permission and authority granted by a permit are not intended to
limit or modify any franchise, license, or permit previously granted by the
village to any other occupant of the public rights-of-way. A permittee,
recognizing the rights of other franchisees, licensees, and permittee in the
public rights-of-way, shall exercise the authority granted it in a manner that
does not unreasonably interfere with the rights of other prior or future
franchisees, licensees, and permittee in the public rights-of-way and that does
not endanger or impair the facilities of any other the franchisee, licensee, or
permittees.
   (I)   A permittees shall have no recourse whatsoever against the village for
any loss, cost, expense, or damage arising out of the failure of the village to
exercise its authority to grant all or any part of an applicant's request to
use all or part of the public rights-of-way. A permittee expressly acknowledges
that on accepting a permit it did so relying on its own investigation and
understanding of the power and authority of the village.
   (J)   By acceptance of a permit, a permittee acknowledges that it has not
been induced to obtain a permit by any understanding or promise or other
statement, whether oral or written, by or on behalf of the village or by any
third person on behalf of the village concerning any term or condition of a
permit not expressed in this chapter.
   (K)   Permittees acknowledges by the acceptance of a permit that it has
carefully read its terms and conditions, and does accept all of the terms and
conditions.
   (L)   A permit does not establish any priority for the use of the public
rights-of-way by a permittee or any present or future permittee. In the event
of any dispute as to the priority of use of the public rights-of-way, the first
priority shall be to the public generally, the second priority to the village,
the third priority to the State of Michigan and its political subdivisions in
the performance of their various functions, and thereafter as between
permittee, as determined by the village in the exercise of its powers,
including the police power and other powers reserved to and conferred on it by
the State of Michigan.
   (M)   Permittees acknowledges that by accepting a permit, it obtains no
rights to or further use of the public rights-of-way other than those expressly
granted herein.
   (N)   Each permittees acknowledges and accepts as its own risk that the
village may make use in the future of the public rights-of-way which a
permittee is using or in which a permittee's system is located in a manner
inconsistent with permittee's use of the public rights-of-way for its placement
and use of its system and that in the event the permittees will not be entitled
to compensation from the village. Permittees intentionally, knowingly, and
voluntarily waives any such claim. In the event of the inconsistent use, the
village will use its best efforts to accommodate the permittees, including
efforts to assist the permittees in relocating its affected facilities to other
available rights-of-way and amending the permit to show the relocation.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.23 USE OF PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY BY PERMITTEE.
   (A)   No burden on public rights-of-way. A permittee shall not construct or
install its system in a manner that unduly burdens the present or future use of
the public rights-of-way. A permittee shall erect and maintain its system so as
to cause minimum interference with the use of public rights-of-way and with the
rights or reasonable convenience of property owners. In the event that the
village determines that any portion of the system, as either planned or
constructed, unduly burdens any portion of the public rights-of-way for present
or future use, a permittee shall modify its system or plans for construction of
its system and eliminate the burden within a reasonable time.
   (B)   Police powers reserved. By acceptance of a permit, a permittee
acknowledges that its rights hereunder are subject to the police power of the
village to adopt and enforce laws to protect the health, safety, and welfare of
the public, and a permittee shall comply with all ordinances, resolutions,
rules, regulations, directives, orders, memoranda, and permits enacted by or
issued by the village in accordance with the power.
   (C)   Location of system. A permittee shall install its system along those
portions of the routes as described in the permit, subject to all modifications
required by the village for purposes of issuing construction permits in
accordance with
§ 158.22(C), division (J) below, and other applicable ordinances, resolutions,
regulations, and rules of the village.
   (D)   Changes in location. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter
authorizes only the construction and use of those rights-of-way set forth in
the permit. To change or extend the location of the facilities within the
rights-of-way, permittees shall submit to the Village Clerk in triplicate the
information provided in
§ 158.18(B)(3) and (B)(4) and any other information as may be requested by the
Public Utility Director, Village Engineer, and Village Council. The request
shall be accompanied by a nonrefundable fee, established by resolution of the
Village Council, to off-set the village's costs to process the request. Within
90 days from the date permittees delivers all requested information, the Public
Utility Director, Village Engineer, and Village President shall approve the
change or extension, provided it meets the standards set forth in this chapter,
rules, and regulations of the village. Permittees, Public Utility Director,
Village Engineer, and Village President shall each sign and date a revised map
which clearly shows the present and changed or extended location of the system
and sign and date the construction plans, which documents shall be attached to,
become part of and subject to the terms and conditions of the permit. The
Village Council reserves the right to modify existing, delete, or add new
conditions to the permit to ensure public health, safety, and welfare.
   (E)   Change in permit conditions and terms. A permittee may request a
change in the terms, as opposed to a change in location, by submitting a
written request to the Village Council. The request shall set forth the
sections to be changed, deleted, or added and the reason for each change. The
Village Council may request a recommendation/report from the Public Utility
Director, Village Engineer, Village Attorney, or any other persons as it deems
advisable and may hold a public hearing in the manner provided in
§§ 158.18(F) and
158.19(E). The village shall be under no obligation to change the terms of the
permit.
   (F)   Construction. A permittee shall bear the entire cost and expense of
installing its system, and the covering and resurfacing of any excavation which
may be necessary in the public rights-of-way. A permittee shall submit to the
village its full plans and specifications for the installation. A permittee
shall not commence the installation under the plans and specifications until
the same shall have been approved by the village and all necessary construction
permits have been approved and issued, which approval shall be neither
unreasonably withheld nor unduly delayed. The installation shall be done at the
depth and in the manner so as not to interfere with other systems, such as
water, gas and sewer pipes, electric system, cable television, traffic signal,
street light and other conduits, or with any other facilities which may be
located in the public rights-of-way or other locations at the time of
installation. A permittee shall have sole responsibility for the maintenance,
repair, and upkeep of all of its installations during the term of any permit.
   (G)   Relocation of the system. A permittee shall, at its own cost and
expense, protect, support, disconnect, or remove from the public rights-of-way
any portion of its system when required to do so by the village due to street
or other public excavation, construction, repair, grading, regrading, traffic
conditions, the installation of sewers, drains, water pipes, cables,
municipally-owned power or signal lines, trackways, tracks, or other
municipally-owned facilities, or the vacation, construction, or relocation of
streets or any other type of structure or improvement of a public agency, or
any other type of improvement necessary for the public health, safety, or
welfare. The village shall endeavor to give reasonable advance notice to
permittees of any such required action.
   (H)   Emergencies. The village may remove or damage a permittee's system in
the case of fire, disaster, or other emergencies. In that event, neither the
village nor any agent, contractor, or employee thereof shall be liable to a
permittee or any of its customers for any damages caused to a permittee or the
system. The applicant waives any liability the village may have under M.C.L.A.
§§ 460.701 et seq.
   (I)   Vacation. If any public rights-of-way are vacated, eliminated,
discontinued, abandoned, or closed, all rights of a permittee under a permit to
use the same shall terminate and the permittees at its expense shall
immediately remove its system from the public rights-of-way unless the
permittees obtains easements or other written instrument evidencing permission
from the property owners to use the former public rights-of-way.
   (J)   Construction permits. No construction of a permittee's system, or any
part thereof, within the public rights-of-way shall be commenced until the
required written construction permits have been issued by the proper
departments of the village, in addition to the permit required by this chapter,
including the payment of all fees required for the issuance of the construction
permits. As a condition of any construction permits so issued, the village may
impose the conditions and regulations as required for compliance with this
chapter and may also impose the conditions and regulations as are necessary for
the purpose of protecting any structures in the public rights-of-way, proper
restoration of the public rights-of-way and structures therein, protection of
the public or the continuity of pedestrian or vehicular traffic. No
construction permit shall be issued unless the location and depth of the system
within the public rights-of-way are approved by the Public Utilities Director
and Village Engineer to avoid or minimize interference with existing or future
sewers, water lines, utilities, or other public improvements. No construction
permit may be issued if a permittee is not in compliance with the requirements
of this chapter, provided, however, that the village in its sole discretion may
waive this requirement.
   (K)   Easements. Any easements over or under private property necessary for
the construction or operations of a permittee’s system shall be arranged and
paid for by a permittee. Any use of or intrusion on private property without an
easement or other written instrument evidencing permission of the property
owner shall constitute a trespass by the permittees and a violation of this
chapter. Any easements over or under property owned by the village other than
the public rights-of-way shall be negotiated with the village. The village
shall be under no obligation to grant the easements.
   (L)   Private property. A permittee shall be subject to all laws,
ordinances, or regulations regarding private property in the course of its
operations and constructing, installing, operating, or maintaining the system
in the village. A permittee shall comply with all zoning and land use
restrictions as may exist or may hereafter be amended.
   (M)   Removal; abandonment.
      (1)   Upon the expiration, termination, or revocation of a permit, the
village shall have first right and option to purchase in place any poles,
wires, cables, conduits, fixtures, and other facilities of the system covered
by the permit, provided, that the village shall be under no obligation to
purchase all or any part of a system if renewal is denied, or upon termination
or expiration of a permit. If the village and the permittees cannot agree on a
price for the purchase of the facilities, then the village and permittees shall
submit the issue of price to arbitration by a panel of 3 appraisers. The
village and the permittees shall each select 1 appraiser, and the 2 appraisers
shall together select the third. This right and option to purchase shall not
include any facilities of the system which also are used to deliver cable or
other services pursuant to a separate permit or franchise.
      (2)   Upon the expiration, termination, or revocation of a permit if the
village determines that it does not want to purchase the system or any part
thereof, then without expense to the village and within the time as the village
may reasonably require, a permittee may either remove, in whole or in part, its
system located in the public rights-of-way and restore the public rights-of-way
to a condition reasonably satisfactory to the village, or abandon in whole or
in part the system. If a permittees removes its system, the permittees shall
not remove any underground cable or conduit which requires trenching or other
opening of public rights-of-way along the extension of cable to be removed,
except as expressly ordered or permitted by the village. If a permittee
abandons any of its system, the village, after 30 days prior written notice,
may assume control over the abandoned system as property of the village. Upon
the abandonment, the village shall have no duty to compensate a permittee for
the system. Additionally, a permittee shall have no claim for damages against
the village arising from the villages assumption of control over the abandoned
system, and a permittee by accepting a permit thereby intentionally, knowingly,
and voluntarily waives the claim. Further, a permittee shall not have any
obligation to the village or any third party for the abandonment of the system.
   (N)   Underground relocation. If a permittee has its facilities on the poles
of another entity and the other entity relocates its facilities underground,
the permittees shall relocate its facilities underground in the same location.
   (O)   Identification. All personnel of a permittee who have contact with the
general public as part of their normal duties shall wear on their clothing a
clearly visible identification card bearing their name and photograph. A
permittee shall account for all identification cards at all times. Every
service vehicle of a permittee shall be clearly identified as such to the
public.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.24 RECORDS OF INSTALLATION OF A SYSTEM; PHYSICAL AUDIT.
   (A)   Presentation of records. Without cost to the village, the permittees
shall deliver to the village, within 2 business days of an oral or written
request, a complete set of accurate and current maps, records, plans,
specifications, drawings, technical data, other documents or information as may
be reasonably necessary to enable the village to fulfill its duties under
applicable laws and regulations.
   (B)   Physical audit. The village may directly or through an engineering
firm, perform an annual physical audit of a permittee's system to review the
location of permittee system within the public rights-of-way. The audit report
shall be provided to a permittee no later than 90 days after the expiration of
the permit year for which the audit was conducted. To the extent permitted by
law, the village will maintain on a confidential basis the contents of any
audit reports and all information disclosed by a permittee, and the village
will not disclose same to any third parties without prior notice to a
permittee.
   (C)   Discrepancies. If a material discrepancy exists between the audit and
the authorized routes described in the permit, the permittees shall, within 30
days of its receipt of the audit report, either remove its system from the
public rights-of-way that are not authorized routes described in the permit, or
obtain village consent to add the public rights-of-way to the authorized
routes. The permittees also shall reimburse the village for the cost of the
audit.
   (D)   Challenges to physical audit. Within 20 days of its receipt of the
audit report, a permittee shall have the right to file a written response to
the audit and to request the review of another engineer. A permittee may retain
at its sole cost an engineer or engineering firm of its own choice (the
reviewing engineer) to perform a physical audit of its system. The reviewing
engineer's audit shall be completed within 60 days after permittees files its
request for review by a reviewing engineer. If the reviewing engineer's audit
confirms that a material discrepancy existed as of the date of the original
audit, then within 10 days of permittee's receipt of the reviewing engineer's
audit,
§ 158.23(C) shall apply.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.25 INTERCONNECTION.
   To the extent feasible, to the extent allowed by state and federal law, and
subject to reasonable availability and agreement among permittee, permittee
and/or existing permittee concerning maintenance, access, and security, the
system of a permittee shall be interconnected with other similar systems within
the village and in adjacent communities.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.26 NO VILLAGE LIABILITY; INDEMNIFICATION; INSURANCE.
   (A)   Disclaimer of liability. The village shall not at any time be liable
for injury or damage occurring to any person or property from any cause
whatsoever arising out of the construction, maintenance, repair, use,
operation, condition, or dismantling of a permittee's system or due to the act
(s) or omission(s) of any person, or entity other than the village or those
persons or entities for which the village is legally liable as a matter of law.
   (B)   Indemnification. A permittee shall, at its sole cost and expense,
indemnify and hold harmless the village, all associated, affiliated, allied,
and subsidiary entities of the village now existing or hereafter created,
including, without limitation, their respective officers, boards, commissions,
employees, agents, attorneys, and contractors (hereinafter referred to in this
chapter as “indemnities”), from and against:
      (1)   Any and all liability, obligation, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses, and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and consultants),
which may be imposed upon, incurred by or be asserted against the indemnities
by reason of any act or omission of a permittee, its personnel, employees,
agents, contractors, or subcontractors, resulting in personal injury, bodily
injury, sickness, disease, or death to any person or damage to, loss of, or
destruction of tangible or intangible property, libel, slander, invasion of
privacy, negligence, intentional torts, and unauthorized use of any trademark,
trade name, copyright, patent, service mark, or any other right of any person,
firm, or corporation, which may arise out of or be in any way connected with
the construction, installation, operation, maintenance, or condition of the
system or a permittee's failure to comply with any federal, state, or local
statute, ordinance, or regulation; and
      (2)   Any and all liabilities, obligations, damages, penalties, claims,
liens, costs, charges, losses, and expenses (including, without limitation,
reasonable fees and expenses of attorneys, expert witnesses and other
consultants), which is imposed upon, incurred by or asserted against the
indemnities by reason of any claim or lien arising out of work, labor,
materials or supplies provided or supplied to a permittee, its contractors or
subcontractors, for the installation, construction, reconstruction, operation,
or maintenance of the system and, upon the written request of the village shall
cause the claim or lien to be discharged or bonded within 15 days following the
request.
   (C)   Assumption of risk. A permittee undertakes and assumes for its
officers, agents, contractors, and subcontractors and employees, all risk of
dangerous conditions, if any, on or about any village owned or controlled
property, including public rights-of-way, and a permittee hereby agrees to
indemnify and hold harmless the indemnities against and from any claim asserted
or liability imposed upon the indemnities for personal injury or property
damage to any person arising out of the installation, operation, maintenance,
or condition of the system or a permittee's failure to comply with any federal,
state, or local statute, ordinance, or regulation.
   (D)   Defense of indemnities. In the event any action or proceeding shall be
brought against the indemnities by reason of any matter for which the
indemnities are indemnified hereunder, a permittee shall, upon notice from any
of the indemnities, at the permittee's sole cost and expenses, resist and
defend the same with legal counsel selected by the permittee and consented to
by the Village Attorney, the consent not to be unreasonably withheld; provided
further, however, that the permittee shall not admit liability in any such
matter on behalf of the indemnities without the written consent of the village
Attorney; and indemnities shall not admit liability for, nor enter into any
compromise or settlement of, any claim for which they are indemnified hereunder
without the prior written consent of the permittee.
   (E)   Notice, Cooperation, and expenses. The village shall give a permittee
prompt written notice of the making of any claim or the commencement of any
action, suite or other proceeding covered by the provisions of this section.
The village may cooperate with a permittee and participate in the defense of
any litigation by the village's own counsel. A permittee shall pay all expenses
incurred by the village in defending itself with regard to any such actions,
suits, or proceedings. These expenses shall include all out-of-pocket expenses
such as attorney fees and shall also include the reasonable value of any
services rendered by or on behalf of the Village Attorney, if the service is
determined necessary and appropriate by the Village Attorney, and the actual
expenses of the village's agents, employees, or expert witnesses, and
disbursements and liabilities assumed by the village in connection with the
suits, actions, or proceedings. No recovery by the village of any sum under a
bond required as a condition of a permit shall be any limitation upon the
liability of a permittee to the village under the terms of this section, except
that any sum so received by the village shall be deducted from any recovery
which the village might have against a permittee under the terms of this
section.
   (F)   Insurance. During the term of a permit, a permittee shall, as a
condition of its permit, maintain, or cause to be maintained, in full force and
effect and at its sole cost and expense, the following types and limits of
insurance:
      (1)   Workers' compensation insurance with Michigan statutory limits,
including and employers' liability coverage;
      (2)   Comprehensive general liability insurance with minimum limits of
$2,000,000 as the combined single limit for each occurrence of bodily injury
and personal injury, and $1,000,000 per occurrence for property damage. The
policy shall provide blanket contractual liability insurance for all written
contracts, and shall include coverage for products and completed operations
liability, independent
contractors liability, broad form general liability extensions or equivalent,
and coverage for property damage from perils of explosion, collapse or damage
to underground utilities, commonly known as XCU coverage; and
      (3)   Motor vehicle liability insurance covering all owned, hired, and
nonowned vehicles in use by a permittee, its employees and agents, with
personal protection insurance and property protection insurance to comply with
the provisions of the Michigan no fault insurance law, including residual
liability insurance with minimum limits of $1,000,000 as the combined single
limit for each occurrence for bodily injury and property damage.
   (G)   Additional insureds. All policies, except for workers' compensation
policies, shall name the “Manchester Village, a Michigan municipal body,
including all elected and appointed officials, boards, commissions, officers,
and employees” as additional insureds (herein referred to in this chapter as
the additional insureds). Each policy which is endorsed to add additional
insureds hereunder shall contain cross-liability wording, as follows: “In the
event of a claim being made hereunder by one insured for which another insured
is or may be liable, then this policy shall cover the insured against whom a
claim is or may be made in the same manner as if separate policies had been
issued to each insured hereunder.”
   (H)   Submission of certificates of insurance. Certificates showing the
permittees has, and continues to have in effect during the term of the permit,
the insurance policies required by this section, along with written evidence of
payment of required premiums, shall be filed with the village.
   (I)   Cancellation of policies of insurance. The insurance certificates for
each policy maintained pursuant to this chapter shall contain an unconditional
endorsement that the insurer will give the village at least 30-days’ prior
written notice of any intention not to renew the policy or to cancel, replace,
or materially alter the policy.
   (J)   Review of requirements. The village may annually review the insurance
coverage to be carried by a permittee. If the village determines that
additional or other insurance is necessary to protect the interests of the
village or the additional insureds, a permittee shall be so notified and shall
obtain the additional types and limits of insurance, at its sole cost and
expense.
   (K)   Insurance companies. All insurance shall be effected under valid and
enforceable policies, insured by insurers licensed to do business by the State
of Michigan or by surplus line carriers on the Michigan insurance
commissioner's approved list of companies qualified to do business in Michigan.
All insurance carriers and surplus line carriers shall be rated A or better by
A. M. Best Company.
   (L)   Deductibles; indemnification. All insurance policies may be written
with deductibles and self-insurance retentions comparable to businesses of like
character and size, if consistent herewith and approved by the village upon the
recommendation of the Village Attorney. As a condition of a permit, a permittee
agrees to indemnify and save harmless the additional insureds from and against
the payment of any deductible and from the payment of any premium on any
insurance policy required to be furnished by this chapter.
   (M)   Contractors. A permittee shall require that each and every one of its
contractors and their subcontractors carry, in full force and effect, workers'
compensation, comprehensive general liability and motor vehicle liability
insurance coverage of the type which a permittee is required to obtain under
the terms of this section.
   (N)   Notice of possible liability. A permittee shall immediately advise the
Village Attorney of any claim or litigation that may result in liability to the
village.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.27 CHANGE IN OWNERSHIP OR CONTROL OF PERMITTEE.
   (A)   Transfer of ownership and control.
      (1)   Except as provided in this section, permittees shall not sell,
transfer, assign, lease, pledge, encumber, alienate, or otherwise dispose of
substantially all of its assets, any permit under this chapter, or the system
in the village, in any manner, nor shall title thereto, either legal or
equitable, or any right, interest, or property therein pass to or vest in any
person or entity without the prior written consent of the village.
      (2)   If the person or entity in control of permittees (transferor) is
also in control of the proposed permittees (transferee), then a transfer may
occur within the controlling person's or entity's corporate, partnership, or
business structure without obtaining village consent. Provided, however, at
least 90 days before the transfer is to occur the person or entity who is in
control of both the permittees (transferor) and proposed permittees
(transferee) files a satisfactory document with the Village Clerk stating that
this transfer shall not effect the financial, legal, technical, or management
abilities of permittees to perform under the permit and ensures and guarantees
the proposed permittee's (transferee) compliance with the permit. In the
absence of such a document, there can be no change in, transfer of, or
acquisition of control of a permittee or of any entity, at whatever tier or
level which directly or indirectly controls a permittee without the prior
written consent of the village.
      (3)   The prior written consent of the village, in any of the foregoing
instances (collectively referred to in this chapter as a transfer), will not
unreasonably be withheld nor unreasonably delayed.
      (4)   For the purposes of this chapter, “ . . . change in, transfer of,
or acquisition of control of a permittee . . .” shall mean any change in
identity of the person or persons who directly or indirectly direct, or has the
power to direct, the management and policies of a permittee, whether through
the ownership of voting securities or other equity interest, by contract or
otherwise. Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, for the purposes
hereof, such a change shall be deemed to have occurred at any point in time
when there is:
         (a)    A change in the effective shareholder voting control, in
whatever manner effectuated, of a permittee;
         (b)   An agreement of the holders of voting stock of a permittee which
effectively vests or assigns policy decision-making in any person or entity
other than a permittee; or
         (c)   A sale, assignment, or transfer of any shares or interest in a
permittee which results in a change in the control of a permittee.
      (5)   Notwithstanding division (A)(4) above, the permittees may grant a
security interest in its rights under a permit in favor of a third party
qualified financial institution, as defined herein, without first obtaining the
consent of the village. QUALIFIED FINANCIAL INSTITUTION means an entity which
does not operate, and is not affiliated with any entity directly or indirectly
that operates a telecommunications, telephone, cable service (televisions), or
other communications delivery or reception system, receives over 50% of its
revenues from the provision of regulated financial services, has assets of over
$5,000,000,000, or is a manufacturer of telecommunications equipment who has
lent funds to permittees and obtained a reasonable secured interest. For
purposes of this division (A)(5), AFFILIATED means a person or entity that
directly or indirectly through 1 or more intermediaries controls, is controlled
by, or is under common control with a qualified financial institution.
      (6)   In the event a qualified financial institution must enforce its
security interest and execute on the collateral, the qualified financial
institution will assume the position of permittees with all of its rights and
responsibilities under the permit, and the terms and conditions of the permit
shall be binding on the qualified financial institution.
      (7)   Village's prior written consent shall not be required prior to the
qualified financial institution's execution on the collateral. Provided,
however, that the qualified financial institution shall give village written
notice no less than 15 days prior to taking possession on the collateral.
      (8)   The qualified financial institution will use its best efforts to
expeditiously transfer or assign the collateral within 180 days to a transferee
or assignee who is engaged in the business of providing the services defined in
the permit, which terms and conditions shall be binding upon the successors or
assigns of permittees or of a qualified financial institution.
   (B)   Applications for change in ownership; control; management or
encumbrance of the system.
      (1)   Application. In the event a permittee seeks to obtain the consent
of the village to any transactions described in division (A) above, a permittee
shall submit to the Village Clerk an application for the consent in the form
required by the village.
      (2)   Conditions to approval. For purposes of determining whether the
village will consent to any matter described in the application, the Village
Clerk may require additional reasonable information from a permittee and the
parties involved in the proposed transaction. All information requested on
behalf of the village shall be submitted to the village within 10 business days
of the request. If the
applicant fails to respond to the village's request for information within 10
business days of the request, the 60-day and 90-day periods for acting on the
transfer under division (B)(3) below shall be extended by the number of days
after the deadline that the requested information is provided to the village.
      (3)   Village approval. The Village President shall submit to the Village
Council within 60 days after the filing of the application his or her
recommendation to approve or disapprove the transfer, along with the Village
Attorney's concurrence with the recommendation. Approval or disapproval of a
transfer shall occur within 90 days after the filing of the application. Both
the 60 days and 90 days provided for in this division (B)(3) are subject to any
adjustments for delays in responding to the village's request for information
as provided in division (B)(2) above.
      (4)   Assumption of obligation. The village's consent may contain the
provisions as may be approved by the Village Attorney under which the party
involved in the transaction will assume and agree to perform and comply with
all of the provisions, terms, and conditions of the permit and all applicable
federal, state, and local laws and laws and regulations applicable to the
ownership, operation, or maintenance of the system and, further, that any party
assuming a permittee's obligations under this chapter shall be primarily liable
and obligated to the village for the performance.
   (C)   No waiver. The consent or approval of the village to a transfer shall
not constitute a waiver or release of the rights of the village in and to the
public rights-of-way and any transfer or approval of the transaction shall be
deemed to be expressly subject to the terms and conditions of this chapter. In
connection with any request for village consent to a transfer, the village
shall have the right to require the reimbursement of village's costs and the
satisfaction of reasonable conditions as a prerequisite or condition of the
approval of the transaction.
   (D)   Unauthorized transfer. Any transaction described in division (A) above
which is entered into by a permittee without the required consent of the
village shall be a violation of this section and shall be null and void. In
addition, the transaction shall make the subject permit, or permits covering
the subject assets or system, null and of no effect.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.28 REVOCATION.
   (A)   In addition to all other rights and powers reserved or pertaining to
the village, the village reserves as an additional, and as a separate and
distinct remedy, the right to revoke a permit and all rights and privileges of
a permit for any of the following reasons:
      (1)   The failure of a permittee to pay the fees on or before the due
dates specified herein;
      (2)   A permittee's violation of any provision in this chapter or
provision in a permit issued pursuant to this chapter;
      (3)   The dissolution or termination, as a matter of law, of a permittee;
and/or
      (4)   Failure of the permittees to pay any fines imposed by a court of
competent jurisdiction for violation of this chapter.
   (B)   No revocation shall be effective unless or until the Village Council
shall have adopted a resolution setting forth the reason for the revocation and
the effective date, which resolution shall not be adopted without 30 or more
days prior written notice to the permittees and an opportunity for the
permittees to be heard on the proposed resolution.
   (C)   The written notice provided for in division (B) above shall specify
the reason(s) for the proposed revocation and may specify steps which the
permittees must take to cure or otherwise remedy the reason(s) for the proposed
revocation. If the Village Council is satisfied at the time of the hearing on
the proposed revocation that the permittees has fully cured or otherwise
remedied the reason(s) for the proposed revocation in accordance with the
written notice, then the Village Council shall not adopt the resolution for
revocation. In the event the Village Council determines that the permittees has
taken substantial steps to cure or otherwise remedy the reason(s) for the
proposed revocation in accordance with the written notice, the Village Council
may postpone action on the resolution for revocation to a later date to allow
the permittees a reasonable amount of time to further cure or otherwise remedy
the reason(s) for the proposed revocation. This section shall not require the
village to specify any steps to cure or otherwise remedy the reason(s) for the
proposed revocation if the village determines that a cure or other remedy is
not possible, or if the village, in consideration of the severity of the
violation and/or the permittee's history of violations and actions or failure
to act to remedy the violations, determines that extending an opportunity for
the permittees to cure or otherwise remedy the reason(s) for the proposed
revocation would not be in the best interests of the village. If the notice
does not state any steps to cure or otherwise remedy the reason(s) for the
proposed revocation, the notice shall state the reason(s) why the opportunity
for cure or remedy is not being provided.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.29 COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS.
   (A)   Compliance with all applicable laws. At all times during the term of a
permit, a permittee shall comply with the federal and state constitutions, this
chapter, all statutes, codes, ordinances, rules and regulations of the federal,
state, and village governments and their respective agencies or commissions,
including but not limited to zoning ordinances and to any others which are now
or may be applicable hereafter to the construction, operation, or maintenance
of its system, whether or not the statutes, codes, ordinances, rules, and
regulations are expressly cited in this chapter. Further, a permittee shall
comply with all resolutions adopted by the Village Council and all other
village-issued directives, orders, memoranda, and permits applicable to it or
its business.
   (B)   Industry standards. A permittee shall comply with all applicable
construction standards, industry standards, and technical standards and in
particular shall comply with the construction codes.
   (C)   Miss Dig. A permittee shall participate in and be a member of the Miss
Dig utility notification program provided by M.C.L.A. §§ 460.701 et seq.; as it
may be amended, and following any subsequent statutes.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.30 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   No waiver. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as a waiver of
any codes, ordinances, or regulations of the village or the village's right to
require permittee or persons using a system or system services to secure
appropriate permits or authorization for the use.
   (B)   Police powers; reasonable control. The village fully reserves its
police powers to ensure and protect the public health, safety, and welfare and
fully reserves its authority and power to amend this chapter at any time. The
terms and conditions of any permit shall be subject to compliance with all
future amendments of this chapter and of other ordinances adopted by the
village. The village fully reserves its right to exercise the reasonable
control of the public rights-of-way and transaction of business pursuant to
Article 7, § 29 of the 1963 Michigan Constitution and regulate activities
pursuant to various village enabling acts presently or hereinafter adopted.
   (C)   Eminent domain. Nothing in this chapter or any permit shall limit any
right the village may have to acquire by eminent domain any property of a
permittee.
   (D)   Taxes; fees; assessments; licenses; permits. Nothing in this chapter
shall be construed to limit the authority of the village to impose a tax, fee,
or other assessment of any kind on any person. A permittee shall pay all fees
necessary to obtain all federal, state, and local licenses, permits, and
authorizations required for the construction, installation, maintenance, or
operation of its system within the public rights-of-way.
   (E)   No liability or warranty. Neither this chapter nor any act or omission
of the village shall be construed to create or hold the village responsible or
liable for any damage to persons or property by reason of any inspection or
reinspection by the village required or authorized by this chapter or failure
of the village to conduct the inspection or reinspection. The issuance of any
authorization, permit, or license by the village, or other action or
transaction of the village, shall not constitute any representation, guarantee,
or warranty by the village of any kind to any person, customer, or a permittee
and shall not be a defense against a permittee's obligation to indemnify and
hold the village harmless as provided in
§ 158.26.
   (F)   No recourse. A permittee shall have no recourse against the village
for any loss, expense, or damage resulting from the terms and conditions of
this chapter or because of the village's enforcement thereof. The village makes
no warranty as to the scope or effectiveness of the dedication of any part of
the public rights-of-way, some of which may have been taken by user and in
which the rights of a permittee, the village, and/or the public may be claimed
by adjacent property owners or others to be limited. Furthermore, the rights
granted by any permit are subject to the restrictions as may exist, now or in
the future under the laws and common law of the State of Michigan and the
United States of America. By accepting a permit, a permittee acknowledges that
it is relying upon its own investigation and understanding of the power and
authority of the village to grant a permittee its rights under this chapter and
permit.
   (G)   Availability of books and records. In addition to material required to
be furnished to the village, a permittee shall fully cooperate in making
available at reasonable times, and the village shall have the right for any
purpose specified in this chapter or in the village's other ordinances, to
inspect during normal business hours the books, records, maps, plans, and other
like materials of a permittee applicable to its system located within the
public rights-of-way or its operation.
   (H)   Interest. All sums not paid when due under this chapter shall have
interest added to the unpaid portion or portions until paid in full, with
interest calculated monthly at a rate equal to 9% per annum or the other
interest rate as set by resolution of the Village Council.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
§ 158.31 CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   A permittee, its contractors and subcontractors, may not open or
otherwise disturb the surface of any street, sidewalk, alley, public right-of-
way, or other public place for any purpose whatsoever, except emergency
repairs, without first obtaining all necessary permits in accordance with
applicable provisions of the village's ordinances, or otherwise with written
approval from the Public Utility Director. A permittee shall promptly notify
the Public Utility Director upon making emergency repairs and shall seek
approval as otherwise specifically provided in this section and the village
ordinances, accepting all risks involved.
   (B)   If a permittee fails to complete any repair or maintenance work
required by law or by the provisions of this chapter to be done in any public
rights-of-way, the Public Utility Director may cause the work to be done and
the permittee shall pay to the village its costs to perform the work.
   (C)   The Public Utility Director shall give a perminee notice of
improvements where paving, regrading or resurfacing of a permanent nature is
involved. The notice shall describe the nature and character of the
improvements, the public rights-of-way over, under, and within which they shall
be made, the extent of the improvements and the work schedule for the
improvements.
   (D)   The village shall allow the permittees a reasonable time to make the
additions, alterations, or repairs to its facilities as the permittees deems
necessary in advance of the village's commencement of the improvements so as to
allow the permittees to maintain continuity of service.
   (E)   A permittees shall coordinate its construction program and all other
work in the public rights-of-way with the state and county construction,
rebuilding, resurfacing, and repair.
   (F)   A permittees shall not endanger or interfere with the safety of
persons or property within the village. A permittee shall replace and restore
all paving, sidewalk, driveway, landscaping, or surface of any property
disturbed by construction or maintenance of its system in a good and
professional manner within 24 hours after any damage is incurred.
   (G)   All working facilities, conditions, and procedures used or occurring
during construction and operation of a system shall comply with the standards
of both the Federal and Michigan Occupational Safety and Health
Administrations.
   (H)   Construction and maintenance of a system shall be performed in an
orderly and professional manner, and in close coordination with public and
private utilities serving the village following accepted industry construction
procedures and practices and working through existing committees and
organizations.
   (I)   A permittees shall maintain all wires, conduits, cables, pipes, and
other real and personal property and facilities in good condition, order, and
repair.
   (J)   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as authorizing a permittee
to erect and maintain new poles in areas serviced by existing poles.
   (K)   A permittees shall utilize existing poles, conduits, and other
facilities wherever practicable, and shall not construct or install any new,
different, or additional poles, or other facilities unless expressly provided
for in the construction plans incorporated into the permit. Where utility or
other wiring is located underground, either at the time of initial
construction, subsequent thereto, or at the direction of the village a
permittee's system shall also be located underground unless expressly provided
for in the construction plans incorporated into the permit.
   (L)   All cable and wires shall be installed in accordance with industry
safety standards, and shall be installed, where possible, parallel with cable,
electric, or other utility lines, and multiple cable configurations shall be
arranged in parallel and bundled with due respect for engineering
consideration. All underground wire or cable shall be placed in conduits unless
and except as this requirement is specifically waived in the permit.
   (M)   Where no pole, conduit, line, or wire of a utility, cable services
provider, or other permittees already is in place, all construction shall be
underground unless expressly waived by the Village Council.
   (N)   Mini-hubs, switches, nodes, and other equipment shall be installed in
underground enclosures whenever possible. The Public Utilities Director's and
Village Engineer's approval shall be required for any buildings, mini-hubs,
switches, nodes, and other equipment installed above ground in public rights-
of-way.
   (O)   House drops shall be grounded and installed in a neat and workmanlike
manner. Buried drops shall be at least 30 inches deep within the public rights-
of-way, and shall be at least 12 inches deep in all other locations.
   (P)   A permittees who provides electrical, cable service (television), or
communication services shall identify its system and subscriber, customer drops
by color code, stamping, engraving, tags, stickers, or other appropriate method
selected by a permittee or provide in a permit to distinguish among systems,
utilities, and other services.
   (Q)   A permittees shall, at the request of any person holding a permit to
move a building, temporarily remove, raise, or lower its wires to permit the
moving of the building.
      (1)   The temporary removal, raising, or lowering of wires shall be at
the sole cost and expense of the person requesting the same, and the permittees
shall have the authority to request payment for the same in advance before
complying with the request.
      (2)   Any person making such a request from the permittees shall give not
less than 15 business days notice of the contemplated move.
      (3)   Any interruption in service caused by the temporary removal,
raising, or lowering of a permittee's wires in accordance with this division
(Q) shall not subject the permittees to any penalty. Any interruption in
service occasioned under this division (Q) shall be done, as far as is
practicable, at a time when interruption of service will be minimized.
      (4)   If temporary removal of wires is required to permit the moving of a
building, the person making the request shall be liable to the permittees for
any loss of revenues to the permittees for the interruption of service caused
by the temporary removal.
   (R)   A permittees may trim trees or other vegetation to prevent their
branches or leaves from touching or otherwise interfering with its wires,
cable, or other structures in accordance with the village's ordinances and
regulations.
      (1)   All trimming or pruning shall be at the sole cost of the
permittees.
      (2)   A person engaged by the permittees to provide tree trimming or
pruning services shall be deemed an agent of the permittees when engaged in the
activity.
      (3)   The permittees shall obtain the written permission of the owner of
any privately owned tree before it trims or prunes the same, unless otherwise
provided by the permit. The permittees shall notify the village prior to
trimming or pruning any tree located within the public rights-of-way.
      (4)   If any tree is substantially damaged or disfigured due to
permittee’s trimming, permittee, at the request of the village, shall replace
the tree with a tree of mature size.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
Penalty, see § 158.99
§ 158.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of the village's ordinances, a
violation of any provision of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction
punishable by a fine of not more than $500 plus all costs of the action. The
court may issue and enforce any judgment, writ, or order necessary to enforce
this chapter. These may include orders to restrain, prevent, or abate any
violation of this chapter, to pay overdue fees, to restore public rights-of-way
or otherwise remedy damage to public rights-of-way, to remedy damage to, or
unauthorized entry onto or intrusions into, private property, and other relief
the court deems appropriate.
   (B)   Each day on which any violation of this chapter continues constitutes
a separate infraction and shall be subject to penalties and other remedies as a
separate infraction.
   (C)   Any material, false or misleading statement or representation
knowingly made by an applicant or permittee in an application, in any report,
or in any other documents submitted to the village pursuant to this chapter, or
permit issued under this chapter, shall be a violation of this chapter and, if
made by a permittee, a material breach of its permit, and shall subject the
applicant or permittee to all penalties and remedies, legal or equitable, which
are available to the village, including but not limited to denial of the
application or revocation of the permit.
   (D)   In addition to any remedies under this chapter or available at law,
the village may bring an action for an injunction or other process against a
person to restrain, prevent, or abate any violation of this chapter.
(Ord. 236, passed 4-17-2000)
CHAPTER 159: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
159.01   Purpose
   
159.02   Application
   
159.03   Parking
   
159.04   Dangerous or obnoxious materials or equipment
   
159.05   Signs and handbills
   
159.06   Unlawful fires
   
159.07   Closing of park
   
159.08   Dogs, pets, horses and livestock
   
159.09   Preservation of property and natural resources
   
159.10   Musical instruments, radios, record or tape players and sound-
amplifying devices
   
159.11   Disorderly conduct
   
159.12   Disabled vehicles
Cross-reference:
   Disorderly conduct, see
Ch. 97
§ 159.01 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this chapter to regulate the use by all persons,
organizations, and groups thereof, of all public parks and playgrounds within
the confines of the village.
(1984 Code, § 3.1) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.02 APPLICATION.
   This chapter shall not apply to any use of parks or playgrounds operated by
the Manchester School District within the confines of the village, which use or
uses are authorized by the Manchester School District.
(1984 Code, § 3.2) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.03 PARKING.
   (A)   No persons shall park any vehicle so as to obstruct the free flow of
traffic within parks and playgrounds.
   (B)   All vehicles shall remain on the drive portion of the park and
playground.
   (C)   All vehicles shall be removed from the park or playground at the close
of the park or playground hours, as posted.
   (D)   In addition to the penalties imposed by §
10.99 of this code, the owner or operator of any vehicle in violation of this
section may have his or her vehicle town and impounded, and shall be liable for
the reasonable costs of the towing and storage.
(1984 Code, § 3.3) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.04 DANGEROUS OR OBNOXIOUS MATERIALS OR EQUIPMENT.
   (A)   No person shall deposit or abandon, in or on any lands or water areas
within the boundaries of any park or playground, any garbage, sewage, bottles,
cans, refuse, trash, waste or other obnoxious materials, except in receptacles
provided for such purposes.
   (B)   No person shall have in his or her possession or control any
slingshot, pellet gun, air rifle, fireworks, explosives or other dangerous
materials within the boundaries of any park or playground, unless such person
shall apply for and receive a written permit from the Village Council to posses
and operate such dangerous materials.
(1984 Code, § 3.4) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.05 SIGNS AND HANDBILLS.
   (A)   Handbills, newspapers or other circulars may be offered or distributed
only within the automobile parking lots of parks and playgrounds, unless the
prior written permission of the Village Council is obtained for offering or
distribution outside such automobile parking lots.
   (B)   No persons shall post, fasten, paint, or affix any placard, bill,
notice, or sign upon any structure, tree or automobile within the boundaries of
any park or playground, except that temporary directional signs for group
picnics or events may be placed on signposts designated for such purposes, and
must be removed at the conclusion of the event.
(1984 Code, § 3.5) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.06 UNLAWFUL FIRES.
   (A)   No person shall start or maintain a fire within the boundaries of any
park or playground, except in picnic stoves, fireplaces or spaces provided for
such purpose.
   (B)   No person shall dump any burning material or hot ashes into any trash
containers or elsewhere within the boundaries of any park or playground, unless
such container or locality shall be marked as a receptacle for such material.
(1984 Code, § 3.6) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.07 CLOSING OF PARK.
   (A)   No person shall enter or remain in any park between the hours as
determined by resolution of the Village Council and posted by written notice
within any park from time to time.
   (B)   No person shall use or occupy any area or facility of any park or
playground when such area or facility is closed to the use of the public by
order of the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 3.7) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.08 DOGS, PETS, HORSES AND LIVESTOCK.
   (A)    No person shall bring into or have in his or her possession or
control within the boundaries of any park or playground any dog or pet, unless
such dog or pet shall be kept on a leash not over 6 feet in length and under
the immediate control of some responsible person.
   (B)   No person shall ride or lead any horse within the boundaries of any
park or playground except in areas designated by Village Council.
(1984 Code , § 3.8) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.09 PRESERVATION OF PROPERTY AND NATURAL RESOURCES.
   (A)   No person shall injure, deface, disturb, befoul, nor in any manner
destroy or cause to be destroyed, any portion of any park or playground, or any
facility, building, sign, structure, equipment, utility or other property found
therein.
   (B)   No person shall dig for, remove, injure or destroy any tree, flower,
shrub, plant or growing thing, or any rock, mineral, artifact or other material
within the boundaries of any park or playground without written permission from
the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 3.10) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.10 MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS, RADIOS, RECORD OR TAPE PLAYERS AND SOUND-
AMPLIFYING DEVICES.
   No person shall operate or play any musical instrument, radio, mechanical
record or tape player, loudspeaker, public address system or sound-amplifying
equipment of any kind within the boundaries of any park or playground, in such
a manner as to cause the sound emanation therefrom to disturb the peace of any
other individual, or to otherwise interfere with the peaceable use and
enjoyment of the park or playground by the general public, without a written
permit issued by the Village Council.
(1984 Code, § 3.11) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.11 DISORDERLY CONDUCT.
   No person or group of persons shall engage in any drunken, loud, boisterous,
disorderly or indecent conduct, nor shall any person or group of person commit
or engage in any assault or other activity that shall endanger or annoy other
persons or disturb the peace or good order within the boundaries of any park or
playground.
(1984 Code, § 3.12) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
§ 159.12 DISABLED VEHICLES.
   No disabled vehicle shall remain within the confines of any park or
playground after notice to remove the same has been given by the Village Police
Department. No vehicle shall be repaired within the confines of any park or
playground unless such repair is necessitated by an emergency as defined by §
814 of the Michigan Vehicle Code, as amended, which is incorporated herewith by
reference.
(1984 Code, § 3.13) (Am. Ord. 261, passed 5-21-2007)
CHAPTER 160: COMPLETE STREETS
Section
   
160.01   Purpose
   
160.02   Definitions
   
160.03   Complete streets regulations
§ 160.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to establish a policy of the Village of
Manchester to provide safe, convenient, and comfortable routes for walking,
bicycling, and public transportation that encourages increased use of these
modes of transportation, enables convenient non-motorized travel routes for
daily use, improves the public welfare by addressing a wide array of health and
environmental problems, and meets the needs of all users including children,
older adults, and people with disabilities.
(Ord. 284, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 160.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLETE STREETS. Streets planned, designed, and constructed to provide
appropriate access to all legal users in a manner that promotes safe and
efficient movement of people and goods and that incorporates complete streets
infrastructure.
   COMPLETE STREETS INFRASTRUCTURE. Design features that contribute to a safe,
convenient, and comfortable travel experience for all users, including features
such as, but not limited to, sidewalks, shared use paths, bicycle lanes,
vehicle lanes, paved shoulders, street trees and landscaping, curbs, curb
ramps, crosswalks, pedestrian refuge islands, pedestrian and traffic signals,
signage, street furnishings, bicycle parking facilities, public transportation
facilities, traffic calming devices, and parking lanes.
   STREET. Any right-of-way, public or private, including arterials,
connectors, alleys, ways, lanes, and roadways by any other designation, as well
as bridges and any other portions of the transportation network.
   STREET PROJECT. The construction, reconstruction, retrofit, maintenance,
alteration, or repair of any street, and includes the planning, design,
approval, and implementation processes, except that it does not include minor
routine upkeep such as cleaning, sweeping, mowing, or spot repair.
   USER. Individuals that use streets, including pedestrians, bicyclists, motor
vehicle drivers, public transportation riders and drivers, and people of all
ages and abilities, including children, youths, families, older adults, and
individuals with disabilities.
(Ord. 284, passed 6-18-2012)
§ 160.03 COMPLETE STREETS REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The Village of Manchester shall make complete streets practices a
routine part of everyday operations, shall approach every street project as an
opportunity to improve the village public and private streets and the non-
motorized transportation network for all users, and shall work in coordination
with other agencies and jurisdictions to achieve complete streets.
   (B)   If the safety and convenience of users can be improved within the
scope of paving, resurfacing, restriping, or signalization operations on public
or private street projects, such street projects shall implement complete
streets infrastructure to increase comfort, convenience and safety for all
users.
   (C)   The Village Council shall adopt a non-motorized transportation or
Complete Streets Plan as part of the Village Parks and Recreation Master Plan.
The Complete Streets Plan shall be referenced in the Village Master Plan and
the Capital Improvements Plan. This Plan shall be approved by the Planning
Commission and the Parks Commission, in consultation with village staff
(Village Manager, Public Works, and the like).
   (D)   The Complete Streets Plan shall include, at a minimum, accommodations
for handicap accessibility, sidewalks, crosswalks, shared use pathways, and
bicycle facilities, and shall incorporate complete streets infrastructure to
maximize walkable and bikeable streets within the village. The Plan shall set
forth long-range strategies for providing complete streets in the village. The
Plan shall be reviewed every five years from the date of its initial adoption.
   (E)   The complete streets infrastructure shall be designed and built using
guidance from the most recent editions of the American Association of State
Highway Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Guide for the Development of Bicycle
Facilities, the Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MUTCD), and the
Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines (ADAAG). Methods for
providing flexibility within safe design parameters, such as context sensitive
solutions and design, will be considered.
   (F)   Every street project on public or private streets shall incorporate
complete streets infrastructure sufficient to enable reasonably safe travel
along and across the right-of-way for each category of user, except that such
infrastructure may be excluded upon recommendation by the Village Manager and
granted by the Village Council based upon a finding of one or more of the
following or similar conditions:
      (1)   Where the non-motorized use is prohibited by law;
      (2)   Where public transportation operation is not present or likely to
occur in the foreseeable future;
      (3)   Where the infrastructure would be contrary to public health and
safety;
      (4)   When the cost would be excessively disproportionate to the need or
probable future use;
      (5)   Where there is no identified current or future need;
      (6)   When the cost of the infrastructure would result in an unacceptable
diminishing of other village services;
      (7)   Where the length of the street project does not permit a meaningful
addition to the non-motorized transportation network; or
      (8)   Where reconstruction of the right-of-way is due to an emergency.
   (G)   It will be a goal of the village to fund the implementation of the
Complete Streets Plan, which shall include expending State Act 51 funds
received by the village annually in accordance with Public Act 135 of 2010, as
amended.
(Ord. 284, passed 6-18-2012)
CHAPTER 161: LAND DIVISION
Section
   
161.01   Definitions
   
161.02   Purpose
   
161.03   Prior approval requirement
   
161.04   Application for approval
   
161.05   Procedure for review of applications
   
161.06   Standards for approval
   
161.07   Consequences of noncompliance with approval requirement
§ 161.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPLICANT. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation, or
combination of any of them that holds an ownership interest in land, whether
recorded or not.
   DIVIDE and DIVISION. The partitioning or splitting of a parcel or tract of
land by the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, for the purpose
of sale or lease of more than one year, or of building development that results
in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent, and that
satisfies the requirements of M.C.L.A. §§ 560.108 and 560.109. The terms DIVIDE
and DIVISION do not include a property transfer between 2 or more adjacent
parcels, if the property taken from 1 parcel is added to an adjacent parcel;
and any resulting parcel shall not be considered a building site unless the
parcel conforms to the requirements of M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq., or the
requirements of other applicable village ordinances.
   EXEMPT SPLIT and EXEMPT DIVISION . The partitioning or splitting of a parcel
or tract of land by the proprietor thereof, or by his or her heirs, executors,
administrators, legal representatives, successors or assigns, that does not
result in one or more parcels of less than 40 acres or the equivalent.
   FORTY ACRES OR THE EQUIVALENT. Either 40 acres, a quarter-quarter section
containing not less than 30 acres, or a government lot containing not less than
30 acres.
   GOVERNING BODY. The Manchester Village Council.
   STATE LAND DIVISION ACT. Public Act No. 288 of 1967 (M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et
seq.).
(Ord. 293, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 161.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to carry out the provisions of the State Land
Division Act (Public Act No. 288 of 1967 (M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.) formerly
known as the Subdivision Control Act), to prevent the creation of parcels of
property which do not comply with applicable ordinances and with the act, to
minimize potential boundary disputes, to maintain orderly development of the
community, and otherwise provide for the health, safety and welfare of the
residents and property owners of the village by establishing reasonable
standards for prior review and approval of land divisions within the village.
(Ord. 293, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 161.03 PRIOR APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   Land in the village shall not be divided without the prior review and
approval of the Village Manager and/or other officials designated by the
Village Council, in accordance with this chapter and the State Land Division
Act, (M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.); provided that the following shall be
exempted from this requirement:
   (A)   A parcel proposed for subdivision through a recorded plat pursuant to
the village subdivision ordinance and the State Land Division Act;
   (B)   A lot in a recorded plat proposed to be divided in accordance with the
village subdivision ordinance and the State Land Division Act; and/or
   (C)   An exempt split as defined in this chapter, or other partitioning or
splitting that results in parcels of 20 acres or more if each is not accessible
and the parcel was in existence on March 31, 1997, or resulted from exempt
splitting under the state act.
(Ord. 293, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 161.04 APPLICATION FOR APPROVAL.
   An applicant for land division approval shall file all of the following with
the Village Zoning Administrator or other official designated by the Village
Council for review and approval of a proposed land division before making any
division either by deed, land contract, lease for more than one year, or for
building development:
   (A)   A completed application form provided by the village;
   (B)   Proof of fee ownership of the land proposed to be divided;
   (C)   A tentative parcel map drawn to scale including an accurate legal
description of each proposed division, and showing the boundary lines,
dimensions, and the accessibility of each division for automotive traffic and
public utilities;
   (D)   Proof that all standards of the State Land Division Act (M.C.L.A. §§
560.101 et seq.) and this chapter have been met;
   (E)   If transfer of division rights are proposed in the land transfer,
detailed information about the terms and availability of the proposed division
rights transfer; and
   (F)   A fee as may from time to time be established by resolution of the
Village Council for land division reviews pursuant to this chapter to cover the
costs of review of the application and administration of this chapter and the
State Land Division Act.
(Ord. 293, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 161.05 PROCEDURE FOR REVIEW OF APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   The village shall approve or disapprove the land division applied for
within 45 days after receipt of a complete application conforming to this
chapter’s requirements and the State Land Division Act, (M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et
seq.) and shall promptly notify the applicant of the decision, and if denied,
the reasons for denial.
   (B)   Any person or entity aggrieved by the village’s decision may, within
30 days of the decision, appeal the decision to the Village Council or such
other council or persons designated by the Village Council which shall consider
and resolve such appeal by a majority vote of the Council or by the designees
at its next regular meeting or session affording sufficient time for a 20-day
written notice to the applicant (and appellant where other than the applicant)
of the time and date of meeting and appellate hearing.
   (C)   The Village Assessor shall maintain an official record of all approved
and accomplished land divisions or transfers.
   (D)   Approved land divisions shall be recognized by the Village Assessor
and placed on the assessment roll in the year immediately following the year of
approval except for those land divisions approved on or before the first Monday
in March, which, with written request, may be placed on the immediately ensuing
assessment roll in the year approved.
   (E)   Approval of a division is not a determination that the resulting
parcels comply with other ordinances and regulations.
   (F)   The village and its officers and employees shall not be liable for
approving a land division if building permits for construction on the parcels
are subsequently denied because of inadequate water supply, sewage disposal
facilities or otherwise, and any notice of approval shall include a statement
to this effect.
(Ord. 293, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 161.06 STANDARDS FOR APPROVAL.
   A proposed land division reviewable by the village shall be approved if the
following criteria are met:
   (A)   All such parcels contain a minimum area as otherwise required by the
village zoning ordinance.
   (B)   All parcels created and remaining have existing adequate
accessibility, or an area available therefor, to a public or approved private
road for public utilities and emergency and other vehicles.
   (C)   The ratio of depth to width of any parcel created by the division does
not exceed a four-to-one ratio or as otherwise required by the village zoning
ordinance The depth of a parcel created by the land division shall be measured
within the boundaries of each parcel from the abutting road right-of-way to the
most remote boundary line point of the parcel from the point of commencement of
the measurement.
   (D)   The proposed land division complies with all requirements of this
chapter and the State Land Division Act (M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.).
(Ord. 293, passed 7-6-2015)
§ 161.07 CONSEQUENCES OF NONCOMPLIANCE WITH APPROVAL REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   Any division of land in violation of any provision of this chapter
shall not be recognized as a land division on the tax roll and no construction
thereon which requires the prior issuance of a construction or building permit
shall be allowed. The village shall further have the authority to initiate
injunctive or other relief to prevent any violation or continuance of any
violation of this chapter.
   (B)   An unlawful division or split shall also be voidable at the option of
the purchaser and shall subject the seller to the forfeiture of all
consideration received or pledged therefore, together with any damages
sustained by the purchaser, recoverable in an action at law.
(Ord. 293, passed 7-6-2015)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
   Table
      
I.   FRANCHISES
      
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
      
III.   PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND LANDS
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
124      8-5-1985    Consumers Power Company Electric Franchise
223      8-21-1995   1995 Cable Television Franchise Agreement; Clear
                     Cablevision, Inc.
285      10-1-2012   Gas franchise with Consumers Energy Company
290      2-2-2015    Consumers Energy Company Electric Franchise
                    
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
125      11-18-1985  Official Zoning Map adopted
239a     3-3-2003    Zoning map changes
239b     7-5-2004    Zoning map change
256      3-6-2006    Zoning map change
257      5-1-2006    Zoning map change
264      7-16-2007   Zoning map change
266      9-17-2007   Zoning map change
267      9-17-2007   Zoning map change
294      11-16-2015  PM-16-02-424-019 is changed from R-1B-Single Family
                     Residential (medium density) to OS Office Service District
                     PM-16-02-464-005 is changed from R-1B-Single Family
298      6-18-2018   Residential (medium density) to CBD-Central Business
                     District
                     The northern 0.843-acre portion of existing PM-16-01-318-
304      8-3-2020    007 that is combined with PM-16-01-355-01 is changed from
                     R-1B-Single Family Residential (medium density) to I-1-
                     Limited Industrial
                     PM 16-02-464-005 (121 W. Main) is changed from C2- General
305      9-21-2020   Commercial to R-1B-Single Family Residential, (medium
                     density)
317      12-19-2022  PM-16-12-401-001 (789 Hogan Road) is zoned as I-2 with a
                     marijuana overlay district
                    
 
TABLE III: PUBLIC BUILDINGS AND LANDS
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
241      7-1-2002    Private sale of former Manchester Village Hall
                     Authorizing the private sale of vacant public land owned
295      6-6-2016    by the village as part of a property swap and purchase of
                     land to be used by the village for establishing a public
                     walkway along and over the River Raison
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to 1984 Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Code Section
M.C.L.A.                  Code Section
                          92.018;
                          110.15;
15.231–15.246           110.28;
                          150.03;
                          150.04
15.243                    151.087
                          92.018;
15.261–15.275           150.03;
                          150.04;
                          151.207
24.201–24.328           70.01
61.1                      157.01
62.1                      30.15;
                          30.30
62.2                      30.45
65.8                      30.45
67.25                     157.01
68.31–68.36             157.01
68.34                     157.17
69.6                      157.01
69.21–69.23             157.01
69.25                     157.01
71.3                      157.01
71.4                      157.01
117.5b                    10.01
125.31–125.45           31.03
125.33                    31.02
125.71 et seq.            92.120
125.131 et seq.           33.01
125.525                   92.016
125.581 et seq.           151.001
125.651 et seq.           150.03;
                          150.13
125.1301 et seq.          151.007
125.1501–125.1531       150.05
125.1502a                 153.01
125.1508a                 153.01;
                          154.01
125.1508b                 155.01;
                          154.01
                          32.02–
                          32.04;
125.1651–125.1681       32.06;
                          32.25;
                          32.32
125.2301–125.2350       151.071
                          151.001;
125.3101 et seq.          151.022;
                          151.207;
                          151.209
125.3861                  33.01
125.3863                  33.01
125.3865                  33.01
125.3867                  33.01
125.3871                  33.01
141.121                   52.08
211.1–211.157           92.017
211.741                   157.07;
                          157.11
247.651 et seq.           110.24
                          10.99;
                          70.01;
257.1–257.923           70.18;
                          70.99;
                          91.04;
                          91.99
257.301–257.329         73.01
257.648                   73.02
257.951–257.954         10.99;
                          70.19
286.471–286.474         151.043
287.301–287.308         90.41
299.501–299.551         96.02
299.601                   96.05
299.831–299.850         96.02
323.1–323.5b            151.111
323.1–323.12            151.111
324.101 et seq.           151.111
324.11501 et seq.         155.02
324.20101                 50.19
325.1001–325.1023 et seq50.19
                          96.012;
333.1101 et seq.          99.02; 
                          156.03
333.2433                  96.01
333.2435                  96.01
333.2441                  96.01
333.2442                  96.01
333.2444                  96.01
333.2446                  96.01
333.2451                  96.01
333.2455                  96.01
333.2461                  96.01
333.2462                  96.01
333.2465                  96.01
333.7106                  151.007
333.12701–333.12771     50.16
333.26421 et seq.         99.01;
                          99.02
333.26423                 151.007
333.26423(h)              151.007
333.26423(i)              151.007
333.27101                 99.04
                          99.01;
333.27101 et seq.         99.02;
                          99.04;
                          151.055
333.27901 et seq.         99.01;
                          99.02
338.2301–338.2313       92.018
399.171 et seq.           150.03
399.201 et seq.           150.02;
                          150.03
399.251                   151.067
339.2501–339.2515       92.015
400.701–400.737         151.007
460.701 et seq.           158.23;
                          158.29
480.11 et seq.            70.01
484.4                     158.19
484.1301 et seq.          158.17
484.2251                  110.15
484.2309a                 158.16
484.3101 et seq.          110.01;
                          110.03
484.3102(k)               110.03
484.3105                  158.18
484.3115                  158.18
484.3119                  158.18
500.3101                  73.02
559.101–559.276         151.007
559.108                   151.007
559.148                   151.024
559.149                   151.024
559.241                   151.024
560.101 et seq.           161.01–
                          161.06
560.101–560.293         151.007
560.108                   161.01
560.109                   161.01
600.8302                  98.17
600.8396                  10.12
600.871 et seq.           10.02
600.8727                  98.17
691.1416–691.1419       51.35
722.111–722.128         151.007
764.9c                    10.10;
                          92.059
764.9f                    92.059
                          
 
REFERENCES TO 1984 CODE
1984 Code 2006 Code
1984 Code 2006 Code
1.31      30.02
1.71      157.01
1.72      157.02
1.73      157.03
1.74      157.04
1.75      157.05
1.76      157.06
1.77      157.07
1.78      157.08
1.79      157.09
1.80      157.10
1.81      157.11
1.82      157.12
1.83      157.13
1.84      157.14
1.85      157.15
1.86      157.16
1.87      157.17
1.88      157.18
1.89      157.19
1.90      157.20
1.91      157.21
2.1       54.01
2.2       54.02
2.3       54.03
2.4       54.04
2.5       54.05
2.6       54.06
2.7       54.07
2.8       54.08
3.1       159.01
3.2       159.02
3.3       159.03
3.4       159.04
3.5       159.05
3.6       159.06
3.7       159.07
3.10      159.09
3.11      159.10
3.12      159.11
3.13      159.12
3.31      31.15
3.32      31.16
3.33      31.17
3.34      31.18
3.35      31.19
3.36      31.20
3.37      31.21
3.38      31.22
3.40      31.23
3.41      31.24
3.42      31.25
3.51      31.26
3.52      33.27
3.53      31.25
3.54      31.28
3.55      31.29
3.56      31.30
4.1       93.001
4.2       93.002
4.3       93.003
4.4       93.004
4.5       93.005
4.6       93.006
4.7       93.007
4.8       93.008
4.9       93.009
4.10      93.010
4.11      93.011
4.12      93.012
4.13      93.013
4.31      93.025
4.32      93.026
4.33      93.027
4.34      93.028
4.35      93.029
4.36      93.030
4.71      93.040
4.72      93.041
4.91      93.056
4.92      93.057
4.93      93.058
4.94      93.059
4.95      93.060
4.96      93.061
4.97      93.062
5.501     152.001
5.502     152.002
5.503     152.003
5.504     152.004
5.505     152.005
5.506     152.006
5.507     152.007
5.508     152.008
5.511     152.009
5.512     152.010
5.516     152.025
5.517     152.026
5.518     152.027
5.519     152.028
5.520     152.029
5.521     152.030
5.522     152.031
5.523     152.032
5.524     152.033
5.525     152.034
5.526     152.035
5.527     152.036
5.528     152.037
5.529     152.038
5.530     152.039
5.531     152.040
5.532     152.041
5.541     152.055
5.542     152.056
5.543     152.057
5.544     152.058
5.545     152.059
5.546     152.060
5.547     152.061
5.548     152.062
5.549     152.063
5.550     152.064
5.551     152.065
5.552     152.066
5.553     152.067
5.554     152.068
5.555     152.069
5.556     152.070
5.557     152.071
5.558     152.072
5.559     152.073
5.560     152.074
5.561     152.075
5.562     152.076
5.563     152.077
5.564     152.078
5.565     152.079
5.566     152.080
5.567     152.081
5.568     152.082
5.569     152.083
5.581     152.095
5.582     152.096
5.583     152.097
5.584     152.098
5.585     152.099
5.591     152.110
5.592     152.111
5.593     152.112
5.594     152.113
5.595     152.114
5.596     152.115
5.597     152.116
5.598     152.117
5.601     152.130
5.602     152.131
5.603     152.132
5.604     152.133
5.605     152.134
5.606     152.135
5.607     152.136
5.608     152.137
5.609     152.138
5.610     152.139
5.611     152.140
5.612     152.141
5.613     152.142
5.614     152.143
5.615     152.144
5.616     152.145
5.617     152.146
5.618     152.147
5.619     152.148
5.620     152.149
5.621     152.150
5.622     152.151
5.623     152.152
5.624     152.153
5.625     152.154
5.626     152.155
5.627     152.156
5.628     152.157
5.629     152.158
5.630     152.159
5.631     152.160
5.632     152.161
5.633     152.162
5.634     152.163
5.635     152.164
5.636     152.165
5.637     152.166
5.638     152.167
5.651     152.180
5.652     152.181
5.653     152.182
5.654     152.183
5.655     152.184
5.656     152.185
5.657     152.186
5.658     152.187
5.659     152.188
5.660     152.189
5.665     152.200
5.666     152.201
5.667     152.999
5.668     152.202
5.701     31.01
5.702     31.02
5.703     31.03
6.1       113.01
6.2       113.02
6.3       113.03
6.4       113.04
6.5       113.05
6.6       113.06
6.7       113.07
6.8       113.08
6.9       113.09
6.10      113.10
6.11      113.11
6.12      113.12
6.13      113.13
6.14      113.14
6.15      113.15
6.16      113.16
6.17      113.17
6.18      113.18
6.19      113.19
6.20      113.20
6.21      113.21
6.31      113.35
6.32      113.36
6.33      113.37
6.71      112.01
6.72      112.02
6.73      112.03
6.74      112.04
6.75      112.05
6.76      112.06
6.77      112.07
6.81      112.20
6.82      112.21
6.83      112.22
6.84      112.23
6.85      112.24
6.91      112.35
6.92      112.36
6.95      112.37
6.111     112.50
6.112     112.51
6.113     112.52
6.114     112.53
6.115     112.54
6.171     114.01
6.172     114.02
6.173     114.03
6.174     114.04
6.175     114.05
6.176     114.06
6.177     114.07
6.178     114.08
6.179     114.09
6.180     114.10
6.181     114.11
6.182     114.12
6.201     115.01
6.202     115.02
6.203     115.03
6.204     115.04
6.205     115.05
6.206     115.06
6.207     115.07
6.208     115.08
6.209     115.09
6.210     115.10
6.211     115.11
6.212     115.12
6.231     115.25
6.232     115.26
6.233     115.27
6.234     115.28
6.281     115.40
6.282     115.41
6.283     115.42
6.284     115.43
7.1       153.01
7.2       153.02
7.3       153.03
7.4       153.04
7.5       153.05
7.6       153.06
7.7       153.07
7.8       153.08
7.9       153.09
7.10      153.10
7.11      153.11
7.12      153.12
7.13      153.13
7.14      153.14
7.15      153.99
8.1       92.001
8.7       92.035
8.25      92.075
8.28      92.090
8.29      92.091
8.41      92.120
8.42      92.121
8.43      92.999
8.91      97.01
8.92      97.02
8.131     90.01
8.132     90.02
8.133     90.03
8.201     95.01
8.202     95.02
8.203     95.03
8.204     95.04
8.205     95.99
9.21      72.01
9.22      72.02
9.23      72.03
9.24      72.04
9.25      72.05
9.26      72.06
          
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No. Date Passed        Code Section
98       - -                152.004
124      8-5-1985           TSO I
125      11-18-1985         TSO II
128      4-7-1986           31.02
129      4-21-1986          31.03
137      7-29-1986          31.26
138      7-29-1986          93.006;
                            93.007
140      7-29-1986          152.006
141      - -                113.37
142      7-29-1986          114.07
143      7-29-1986          153.09;
                            153.10
148      7-29-1986          157.22
149      7-29-1986          113.22–
                            113.24
151      11-3-1986          30.65–
                            30.68
152      11-19-1986         92.135–
                            92.139
153      11-17-1986         92.999
                            92.050–
154      11-17-1986         92.060;
                            92.999
158      2-2-1987           90.15;
                            90.21
161      9-21-1987          156.01–156.18;
                            156.99
164      2-15-1988          92.121
                            91.01–
168      11-3-1986          91.05;
                            91.99
                            70.15–
169      8-1-1988           70.20;
                            70.99
170      9-19-1988          10.99
173      8-7-1989           116.01–
                            116.10
                            150.02;
                            150.04-
                            150.06;
175      10-16-1989         150.08-
                            150.10;
                            150.14;
                            150.99
176      10-16-1989         92.136;
                            92.138
181      2-19-1990          30.02
186      8-6-1990           152.058
187      4-15-1991          93.040;
                            93.041
189      4-15-1991          152.116
                            53.01–
190      8-5-1991           53.08;
                            53.99
192      10-21-1991         93.040
193      11-4-1991          53.02;
                            53.07
195      12-2-1991          72.01–
                            72.06
196      8-1-1988           72.07
198      1-13-1992          30.02
200      5-18-1992          93.055;
                            93.062
201      7-6-1992           71.01–
                            71.09
202      7-6-1992           93.040;
                            93.041
204      10-19-1992         30.02
                            92.015–
207      2-1-1993           92.021;
                            92.99
209      3-1-1993           93.040
213      9-7-1993           111.01–
                            111.19
214      10-18-1993         92.135;
                            92.136
215      10-18-1993         31.04
                            96.01–
218      1-5-1995           96.05;
                            96.99
223      8-21-1995          TSO I
                            90.16–
224      9-18-1995          90.20;
                            90.65;
                            90.66
225      6-3-1996           70.15
                            92.105;
228      6-16-1997          92.106;
                            92.999
229      4-20-1998          30.02
230      9-21-1998          91.01
231      11-2-1998          30.45–
                            30.52
233      9-20-1999          90.20
                            158.01–
                            158.04;
236      4-17-2000          158.15-
                            158.31;
                            158.99
237      8-18-2000          30.30–
                            30.33
238      8-18-2000          30.15–
                            30.18
239      3-5-2001, § 1.1   151.001
239      3-5-2001, § 1.2   151.002
239      3-5-2001, § 1.3   151.003
239      3-5-2001, § 1.5   151.004
239      3-5-2001, § 1.6   151.005
239      3-5-2001, § 2.1   151.006
239      3-5-2001, § 2.2   151.007;
                            Ch. 151, App. A
239      3-5-2001, § 3.1   151.020
239      3-5-2001, § 3.2   151.021
239      3-5-2001, § 3.3   151.022
239      3-5-2001, § 3.4   151.023
239      3-5-2001, § 3.5   151.024
239      3-5-2001, § 3.6   151.025
239      3-5-2001, § 3.7   151.026
239      3-1-2005, § 3.8   151.027
239      3-5-2001, § 3.9   151.999
239      3-5-2001, § 4.1   151.040
239      3-5-2001, § 4.2   151.041
239      3-5-2001, § 4.3   151.042
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.1 151.043
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.2 151.044
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.3 151.045
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.4 151.046
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.5 151.047
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.6 151.048
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.7 151.049
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.8 151.050
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.9 151.051
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.10151.052
239      3-5-2001, § 4.4.11151.053
239      3-5-2001, § 4.5   Ch. 151, App. B
239      3-5-2001, § 5.1   151.065
239      3-5-2001, § 5.2   151.066
239      3-5-2001, § 5.3   151.067
239      3-5-2001, § 5.4   151.068
239      3-5-2001, § 5.5   151.069
239      3-5-2001, § 5.6   151.070
239      3-5-2001, § 5.7   151.071
239      3-5-2001, § 5.8   151.072
239      3-5-2001, § 5.9   151.073
239      3-5-2001, § 5.10  151.074
239      3-5-2001, § 5.11  151.075
239      3-5-2001, § 5.12  151.076
239      3-5-2001, § 5.13  151.077
239      3-5-2001, § 5.14  151.078
239      3-5-2001, § 5.15  151.079
239      3-5-2001, § 5.16  151.080
239      3-5-2001, § 5.17  151.081
239      3-5-2001, § 5.18  151.082
239      3-5-2001, § 5.19  151.083
239      3-5-2001, § 5.20  151.084
239      3-5-2001, § 5.21  151.085
239      3-5-2001, § 5.22  151.086
239      3-5-2001, § 5.23  151.087
239      3-5-2001, § 6.1   151.100
239      3-5-2001, § 6.2   151.101
239      3-5-2001, § 6.3   151.102
239      3-5-2001, § 6.4   151.103
239      3-5-2001, § 6.5   151.104
239      3-5-2001, § 6.6   151.105
239      3-5-2001, § 6.7   151.106
239      3-5-2001, § 6.8   151.107
239      3-5-2001, § 6.9   151.108
239      3-5-2001, § 6.10  151.109
239      3-5-2001, § 6.11  151.110
239      3-5-2001, § 6.12  151.111
239      3-5-2001, § 6.13  151.112
239      3-5-2001, § 7.1   151.125
239      3-5-2001, § 7.2   151.126
239      3-5-2001, § 7.3   151.127
239      3-5-2001, § 7.4   151.128
239      3-5-2001, § 7.5   151.129
239      3-5-2001, § 7.6   151.130
239      3-5-2001, § 7.7   151.131
239      3-5-2001, § 8.1   151.145
239      3-5-2001, § 8.2   151.146
239      3-5-2001, § 8.3   151.147
239      3-5-2001, § 8.4   151.148
239      3-5-2001, § 8.5   151.149
239      3-5-2001, § 8.6   151.150
239      3-5-2001, § 8.7   151.151
239      3-5-2001, § 8.8   151.152
239      3-5-2001, § 8.9   151.153
239      3-5-2001, § 9.1   151.165
239      3-5-2001, § 9.2   151.166
239      3-5-2001, § 9.3   151.167
239      3-5-2001, § 9.4   151.168
239      3-5-2001, § 9.5   151.169
239      3-5-2001, § 9.6   151.170
239      3-5-2001, § 9.7   151.171
239      3-5-2001, § 9.8   151.172
239      3-5-2001, § 10.1  151.185
239      3-5-2001, § 10.2  151.186
239      3-5-2001, § 10.3  151.187
239      3-5-2001, § 10.4  151.188
239      3-5-2001, § 10.5  151.189
239      3-5-2001, § 10.6  151.190
239      3-5-2001, § 10.7  151.191
239      3-5-2001, § 10.8  151.192
239      3-5-2001, § 11.1  151.205
239      3-5-2001, § 11.2  151.206
239      3-5-2001, § 11.3  151.207
239      3-5-2001, § 11.4  151.208
239      3-5-2001, § 11.5  151.209
239a     3-3-2003           TSO II
239b     7-5-2004           TSO II
241      7-1-2002           TSO III
242      8-19-2002          112.20
                            110.01–
243      10-21-2002         110.04;
                            110.15-
                            110.31
244      2-17-2003          94.01;
                            94.99
245      5-5-2003           70.01 
                            70.99
                            50.01–
246      2-2-2004           50.18;
                            50.99
                            51.01–
                            51.05;
247      2-2-2004           51.20-
                            51.40;
                            51.99
248      2-2-2004           52.01–
                            52.13
249a     8-2-2004           155.01–
                            155.03
250      12-6-2004          30.01
                            32.01–
251      3-21-2005          32.11;
                            Ch. 32, App. A
252      12-5-2005          70.01
253      12-19-2005, 13.1   151.220
253      12-19-2005, 13.2   151.221
253      12-19-2005, 13.3   151.222
253      12-19-2005, 13.4   151.223
253      12-19-2005, 13.5   151.224
254      2-20-2006, 13.6    151.225
256      3-6-2006           TSO II
257      5-1-2006           TSO II
                            116.03;
258      5-1-2006           116.07;
                            116.11
259      5-18-2006          32.25—
                            32.33
260      6-4-2007           151.054
                            31.15–
261      5-21-2007          31.30;
                            159.01-
                            159.12
                            150.01–
                            150.14;
262      8-6-2007           150.99;
                            Ch. 150, Apps. A–
                            C 
                            151.049;
263      8-20-2007          151.050;
                            151.101
264      7-16-2007          TSO II
266      9-17-2007          TSO II
267      9-17-2007          TSO II
269      4-7-2008           151.150
270      12-15-2008         54.01–
                            54.08
271      12-15-2008         90.35–
                            90.52
                            90.15;
272      4-20-2009          90.20;
                            90.21
275      12-20-2010, § 1   151.007
275      12-20-2010, § 2   151.068
276      7-7-2011           90.35;
                            90.39
277      7-18-2011          31.01–
                            31.14
                            151.001;
                            151.007;
278      9-19-2011          151.022;
                            151.205;
                            151.207–
                            151.209
279      9-19-2011          151.088
280      11-21-2011         92.121;
                            92.136
282      2-6-2012           151.007;
                            151.089
283      3-19-2012          154.01–
                            154.04
284      6-18-2012          160.01 -
                            160.03
285      10-1-2012          TSO I
286      3-18-2013          92.053
287      12-16-2013         31.02
288      12-16-2013         151.007,
                            151.083
289      6-2-2014           151.145–
                            151.147
290      2-2-2015           TSO I
292      6-15-2015          33.01
293      7-6-2015           161.01–
                            161.07
294      11-16-2015         TSO II
295      6-6-2016           TSO III
296      12-19-2016         151.102
297      5-21-2018          151.050
298      6-18-2018          TSO II
                            117.01 -
299      12-3-2018          117.03,
                            117.99
300      8-5-2019           151.007,
                            151.090
301      10-21-2019         31.02
302      4-20-2020          151.068
303      7-20-2020          90.15
304      8-3-2020           TSO II
304      8-3-2020           TSO II
305      9-21-2020          TSO II
306      - -                30.46;
                            30.47
307      4-5-2022           50.19
308      8-15-2022          73.01–
                            73.03
310      8-1-2022           98.01–
                            98.18
311      8-1-2022           10.12
312      9-6-2022           112.35–
                            112.39
313      12-5-2022          31.15
314      12-19-2022         151.007;
                            151.052
315      12-19-2022         99.01–
                            99.09
316      12-19-2022         151.055
317      12-19-2022         TSO II
318      2-20-2023          151.028
319      4-3-2023           98.02;
                            98.14
320      6-19-2023          52.07
321      7-5-2023           92.136
                           
 
