MARINE CITY, MICHIGAN
CODE OF ORDINANCES
2025 S-8 Supplement contains:
Local legislation current through Ordinance 25-002, passed 1-23-2025
 
Published by:
American Legal Publishing
525 Vine Street, Suite 310
Cincinnati, Ohio 45202
Tel: (800) 445-5588
Internet: http://www.amlegal.com
ADOPTING ORDINANCE
ORDINANCE NO. 07-05
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MARINE CITY, ST. CLAIR COUNTY, MICHIGAN, ADOPTING
AND ENACTING A NEW CODE FOR THE CITY OF MARINE CITY; PROVIDING FOR THE REPEAL
OF CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT INCLUDED THEREIN; PROVIDING A PENALTY FOR THE
VIOLATION THEREOF; PROVIDING FOR THE MANNER OF AMENDING SUCH CODE; AND
PROVIDING WHEN SUCH CODE AND THIS ORDINANCE SHALL BECOME EFFECTIVE.
THE CITY OF MARINE CITY ORDAINS:
   Section 1.   The Code entitled "City of Marine City, Michigan Code of
Ordinances" published by American Legal Publishing Corporation consisting of
Titles I through XV, each inclusive, and Tables I and II, is adopted.
   Section 2.   All ordinances of a general and permanent nature enacted on or
before October 1, 2007, and not included in the Code or recognized and
continued in force by reference therein, are repealed.
   Section 3.   The repeal provided for in Section 2 hereof shall not be
construed to revive any ordinance or part thereof that has been repealed by a
subsequent ordinance that is repealed by this ordinance.
   Section 4.   Unless another penalty is expressly provided, every person
convicted of a violation of any provision of the Code or any ordinance, rule or
regulation adopted or issued in pursuance thereof, shall be punished by a fine
not to exceed $500.00 or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both fine
and imprisonment. Each act of violation and each day upon which any such
violation shall occur shall constitute a separate offense. The penalty provided
by this section, unless another penalty is expressly provided shall apply to
the amendment of any Code section whether or not such penalty is reenacted in
the amendatory ordinance. In addition to the penalty prescribed above, the city
may pursue other remedies such as abatement of nuisances, injunctive relief,
and revocation of licenses or permits.
   Section 5.   Additions or amendments to the Code when passed in the form as
to intention of the City Commission to make the same a part of the Code shall
be deemed to be incorporated in the Code, so that reference to the Code
includes the additions and amendments.
   Section 6.   Ordinances adopted after October 1, 2007, that amend or refer
to ordinances that have been codified in the Code, shall be construed as if
they amend or refer to like provisions of the Code.
   Section 7.   This ordinance shall be published in accordance with the terms,
provisions and requirements of the City Charter of the City of Marine City,
Michigan, and in accordance with and to the extent required by the statutes of
the State of Michigan.
   Section 8.   This ordinance shall become effective November 15, 2007. Passed
and adopted by the City Commission this first day of November, 2007.
ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED
George S. Bukowski /s/
George S. Bukowski
Mayor
City of Marine City, Michigan
The foregoing is a true and complete copy of an ordinance adopted by the City
Commission of the City of Marine City, County of St. Clair, State of Michigan,
at a regular meeting held on the first day of November, 2007, and public notice
of said meeting as given pursuant to and in accordance with the requirements of
Act No. 267 of the Public Acts of 1976, as amended, being the Open Meetings
Act, and the minutes of said meeting have been or will be made available as
required by said Act.
Members Present: Mayor Bukowski; Commissioners Hoyer, McKenzie, Menchaca,
Micoff, Treusch-Pelzer and Wren
Members Absent: None
   It was moved by Commissioner Wren and supported by Commissioner Menchaca to
adopt the ordinance.
Ayes: Bukowski, Hoyer, McKenzie, Menchaca, Micoff, Treusch-Pelzer, Wren
Nays: None
   The ordinance was declared adopted by the Mayor and has been recorded in the
Ordinance Book.
Diana S. Kade /s/
Diana S. Kade
City Clerk
City of Marine City, Michigan
INTRODUCED:   October 18, 2007
ADOPTED:      November 1, 2007
PUBLISHED:      November 14, 2007
EFFECTIVE:      November 15, 2007
ORDINANCE NO. 2017-01
CITY OF MARINE CITY
COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR, MICHIGAN
AN ORDINANCE OF THE CITY OF MARINE CITY, ST. CLAIR COUNTY, MICHIGAN TO ENACT
AND ADOPT A SUPPLEMENT TO THE CODE OF ORDINANCES FOR THE CITY OF MARINE CITY,
MICHIGAN, AND DECLARING AN EMERGENCY
WHEREAS, American Legal Publishing Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, has
completed the 2017 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the City of
Marine City, Michigan, which supplement contains all ordinances of a general
and permanent nature enacted since the prior supplement to the Code of
Ordinances of the City of Marine City, Michigan; and
WHEREAS, it is necessary to provide for the usual daily operation of the
municipality and for the immediate preservation of the public peace, health,
safety and general welfare of the municipality that this ordinance take effect
at an early date;
THE CITY OF MARINE CITY ORDAINS:
   Section 1.   That the 2017 S-5 supplement to the Code of Ordinances of the
City of Marine City, Michigan as submitted by American Legal Publishing
Corporation of Cincinnati, Ohio, and as presented, be and the same is hereby
adopted by reference as if set out in its entirety.
   Section 2.   Such supplement shall be deemed published as of the day of its
adoption and approval by the Legislative Authority and the Clerk of the City of
Marine City, Michigan is hereby authorized and ordered to insert such
supplement into the copy of the Code of Ordinances kept on file in the Office
of the Clerk.
   Section 3.   This ordinance is declared to be an emergency measure necessary
for the immediate preservation of the peace, health, safety and general welfare
of the people of this municipality, and shall take effect at the earliest date
provided by law.
ORDINANCE DECLARED ADOPTED.
                                                                                                   
                                             Dave Vandenbossche, Mayor
                                             City of Marine City, Michigan
CERTIFICATION
The foregoing is a true and complete copy of an Ordinance adopted by the City
Commission of the City of Marine City, County of St. Clair, State of Michigan,
at a regular meeting of the City Commission held on the 15th day of June, 2017,
and public notice of said meeting was given pursuant to and in accordance with
the requirements of Act No. 267 of the Public Acts of 1976, as amended, being
the Open Meetings Act, and the Minutes of said meeting have been or will be
made available as required by said Act.
Members Present: Vandenbossche, Avery, Hendrick, Klaassen, Simpson, Turner
Members Absent: Lepley
   It was moved by and supported by to adopt the Ordinance.
Members voting yes: Vandenbossche, Avery, Hendrick, Klaassen, Simpson, Turner
Members voting no: None   
   The Ordinance was declared adopted by the Mayor and has been recorded in the
Ordinance Book of the City of Marine City.
                                             ________________________________
                                             Kristen Baxter, City Clerk
                                             City of Marine City, Michigan
INTRODUCED:      06-01-2017
ADOPTED:         06-15-2017
PUBLISHED:         06-24-2017
EFFECTIVE:         06-25-2017
CHARTER
Section
   
Ch. 1.   Name and Boundaries, §§ 1.1, 1.2
   
Ch. 2.   Municipal Powers, §§ 2.1—2.3
   
Ch. 3.   Plan of Government, §§ 3.1—3.20
   
Ch. 4.   Elections, §§ 4.1—4.18
   
Ch. 5.   General Provisions Regarding Officers and Personnel of the City, §§
5.1—5.17
   
Ch. 6.   The Commission: Procedure and Miscellaneous Powers and Duties, §§
6.1—6.9
   
Ch. 7.   Legislation, §§ 7.1—7.14
   
Ch. 8.   General Finance—Budget, Audit, Purchasing, §§ 8.1—8.7
   
Ch. 9.   Taxation, §§ 9.1—9.19
   
Ch. 10.   Borrowing Power, §§ 10.1—10.5
   
Ch. 11.   Special Assessments, §§ 11.1—11.10
   
Ch. 12.   Municipally Owned Utilities, §§ 12.1—12.6
   
Ch. 13.   Purchasing—Contracts—Leases, §§ 13.1—13.3
   
Ch. 14.   Public Utility Franchises, §§ 14.1—14.5
   
Ch. 15.   Supervisors, §§ 15.1—15.4
   
Ch. 16.   Court, §§ 16.1—16.15
   
Ch. 17.   Miscellaneous, §§ 17.1—17.13
   
Ch. 18.   Schedule, §§ 18.1—18.8
Editor’s note:
   The city’s Home Rule Charter was adopted by the electors on December 10,
1951, and is included herein for the convenience of the users of this code. The
original arrangement, numbering system, chapter headings and section catchlines
have been retained. Obvious mistakes in spelling were corrected. Other changes
are indicated by brackets [ ] for added material and editor’s notes for
clarification. References have also been added at the end of certain sections.
State constitutional reference:
   Power to adopt and amend Charter, see Mich. Const. of 1963, Art. VII, § 22.
Statutory references:
   Charter amendment procedure, see M.C.L.A. §§ 117.21 et seq.
   Home rule cities generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 117.1 et seq.
   Restrictions on submission of Charter to electors, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5
PREAMBLE
We, the people of the City of Marine City, St. Clair County, Michigan, by
virtue of the authority of the Constitution of the State of Michigan and Act
279 of 1909 of the Public Acts of Michigan [M.C.L.A. §§ 117.1 et seq.], do
hereby ordain and establish this home rule charter for the City of Marine City.
CHAPTER 1. NAME AND BOUNDARIES
Section 1.1. Name and boundaries.
   The name of this organized city is “City of Marine City”. It is a body
corporate, and embraces the following described territory in the County of St.
Clair constituting the present City of Marine City together with such territory
as may from time to time be attached thereto, and less such territory as may
from time to time be detached therefrom, in accordance with law:
Commencing at the northeast corner of fractional section number six in township
number three north, of range seventeen east, at the northeast corner of said
township (in the middle of the St. Clair river); thence west on the north line
of said township to a point eighty rods east of the northeast corner of section
number two, in township number three north, of range sixteen east; thence
directly south on a straight line to a point between lands of (formerly owned
by) Mary Garry and the Toledo Salt Company, (being the line between lots 1 and
2, Supervisor's Nickel Plat as recorded in Liber 51 of plats on pages 29 and
30, St. Clair County Records); thence southeasterly on the line between lands
of Mary Garry and the Toledo Salt Company, (being the line between said lots 1
and 2) to the middle of the St. Clair River; thence northeasterly up the St.
Clair River to the place of beginning.
Section 1.2. Alteration of boundaries.
   Territory may be added to or detached from the city in the manner provided
in Act 279 of the Public Acts of 1909 [M.C.L.A. §§ 117.1 et seq.], as amended.
In addition to the procedures for the annexation and detachment of territory
provided by said act and under the authority granted by the provisions of
Section 18 thereof, as amended by Act No. 86 of the Public Acts of 1941
[M.C.L.A. § 117.18], permitting any city which revises its charter to include
in such revised charter any power, limitation or provision granted or passed by
the legislature for the government of such city and contained in the charter to
be revised, and providing further, that when any such power, limitation or
provision is contained in any such revised charter, the same shall continue
with the same force and effect as when granted or passed by the legislature in
the first instance; there is hereby expressly included and continued in this
charter Section 1 of Chapter II of Act 215 of the Public Acts of 1895 [M.C.L.A.
§ 82.1], which constitutes a part of the charter of Marine City which was
granted or passed by the legislature for the government of said city, which
retained section reads as follows:
“Whenever the Council of any city shall determine by resolution to alter the
boundaries of such city, either by taking in lands and premises adjoining
thereto, or by taking out any lands and premises included in such city, or
both, they shall petition the Board of Supervisors of the county in which such
lands and premises affected thereby are situated to make such change. Such
petition shall contain a description by metes and bounds of the lands and
premises proposed to be added to or taken out of such city and be accompanied
by a map of said lands, and set forth the reasons for the proposed change, and
shall contain a copy of the resolution of the Council in relation thereto, and
shall be certified to by the Clerk under the official seal of such city. Before
such petition shall be presented to the Board of Supervisors, notice shall be
given by the City Clerk of the time and place when the same will be presented
for consideration, by publishing the same in one or more newspapers published
in such city for at least three weeks immediately preceding the presentation of
the same. Such notice shall also contain a description of the premises proposed
to be taken in or out of the boundaries of such city. At the time of presenting
such petition all parties interested may appear before such Board of
Supervisors and be heard touching the proposed boundaries of such city, and
after such hearing and due consideration of such petition, it shall be the duty
of the Board of Supervisors to order and determine as to whether the prayer
contained in the petition or any part thereof shall be granted, and they shall
make an order of such determination, which order shall be entered upon their
records, and thereupon, if a change of boundaries shall be ordered, then such
boundaries of the city shall be fixed and shall exist as provided in such
order, and a certified copy thereof shall be transmitted to the Clerk of such
city and to the Secretary of State, and such order shall be prima facie
evidence of such change of boundaries of such city and of the regularity of
such proceedings in all courts and places: Provided, That the Board of
Supervisors shall not change the boundaries of any city in such a manner as to
affect the boundaries of a representative district at a time when changes in
the boundaries of representative districts are prohibited; Provided further,
that excepting totally uninhabited territory and state owned lands, the Board
of Supervisors shall not so change the boundaries of any such city until such
change shall have been approved by a majority vote of the duly qualified
electors of the territory proposed to be added to or taken out of such city,
voting at a special election called for that purpose. Such election shall be
called and conducted by the clerk of the city, village or township in which
such territory lies, within 60 days after receiving notification from the Board
of Supervisors. If such notification be given within 40 days of any general
election, the special election shall be held at the same time as such general
election. Any such special election shall be advertised and conducted in
accordance with the election laws of this state.”
CHAPTER 2. MUNICIPAL POWERS
Section 2.1. Continuation of powers of former Charter.
   All powers, privileges and immunities not inconsistent with the provisions
of this charter possessed by the City of Marine City by virtue of its
incorporation as such and enumerated in Act 215 of the Public Acts of 1895
[M.C.L.A. §§ 81.1 et seq.], the charter of the city, including all amendments
thereto in effect on the day preceding the effective date of this charter, are
hereby expressly retained by the city and shall constitute a part of the powers
of the city even though not expressly enumerated herein.
Section 2.2. General powers.
   Unless otherwise provided or limited in this charter, the city and its
officers shall possess and be vested with any and all powers, privileges and
immunities, expressed or implied, which cities and their officers are, or
hereafter may be, permitted to exercise or to provide for in their charters
under the Constitution and statutes of the State of Michigan, including all
powers, privileges and immunities which cities are, or may be, permitted to
provide in their charters by Act No. 279 of the Public Acts of 1909 [M.C.L.A.
§§ 117.1 et seq.], as fully and completely as though these powers, privileges,
and immunities were specifically enumerated in and provided for in this
charter, and in no case shall any enumeration of particular powers, privileges
or immunities herein be held to be exclusive.
   The city and its officers shall have power to exercise all municipal powers
in the management and control of municipal property and in the administration
of the municipal government, whether such powers be expressly enumerated herein
or not; to do any act to advance the interests of the city, the good government
and prosperity of the municipality and its inhabitants, and through its
regularly constituted authority, to pass and enforce all laws, ordinances, and
resolutions relating to its municipal concerns, subject to the Constitution and
general laws of the state and the provisions of this charter.
Section 2.3. Further definition of powers.
   In addition to the powers possessed by the city under the Constitution and
statutes of the State of Michigan, and those set forth throughout this charter,
the city shall have power with respect to and may by ordinance and other lawful
acts of its officers provide for the following, subject to any specific limits
placed thereon by this charter:
   (a)   The acquisition by purchase, gift, condemnation, lease, construction,
or in any manner permitted by statute, of private property of every type and
nature for public use, which property may be located within or without the
County of St. Clair and which may be required for or incidental to the present
or future exercise of the purposes, powers and duties of the city, either
proprietary or otherwise;
   (b)   The maintenance, development, operation, leasing and disposal of city
property subject to any restrictions placed thereon by statute or this charter;
   (c)   The refunding of money advanced or paid on special assessments for
water main extensions;
   (d)   The installation and connection of conduits for the service of
municipally owned and operated electric lighting plants;
   (e)   The purchase or condemnation of the franchises and of the property
used in the operation of companies or individuals engaged in the cemetery,
hospital, almshouse, electric light, gas, heat, water and power business;
   (f)   The establishment and vacation of streets, alleys, public ways and
other public places and the use, regulation, improvement and control of the
surface of such streets, alleys, public ways and other public places and of the
space above and beneath them, whether such be located within or without the
limits of the city;
   (g)   The use, by others than the owner, of property located in streets,
alleys and public places, in the operation of a public utility, upon the
payment of a reasonable compensation to the owners thereof;
   (h)   A plan of streets and alleys within and for a distance of not more
than three miles beyond the municipal limits;
   (i)   The use, control and regulation of streams, waters and water courses
within its boundaries, subject to any limitations imposed by statute;
   (j)   The securing by condemnation, by agreement or purchase, or by any
other means, of an easement in property abutting or adjacent to any navigable
stream, for the purpose of securing the privilege and right to construct, own
and maintain along or adjacent to any navigable stream an elevated structure of
one or more levels for use as a vehicular or pedestrian passageway, or for any
other municipal purpose;
   (k)   The acquiring, establishment, operation, extension and maintenance of
facilities for the storage and parking of vehicles within its corporate limits,
including the fixing and collection of charges for services and use thereof on
a public utility basis, and for such purpose to acquire by gift, purchase,
condemnation or otherwise, the land necessary therefor;
   (l)   The acquiring, constructing, establishment, operation, extension and
maintenance of facilities for the docking of water craft, hydroplanes and
seaplanes, within its corporate limits, including the fixing and collection of
charges for use thereof, and for such purpose or purposes, to acquire by gift,
purchase, condemnation, or otherwise, the land necessary therefor;
   (m)   Regulating, restricting and limiting the number and locations of oil
and gasoline stations;
   (n)   The establishing of districts or zones within which the use of land
and structures, the height, the area, the size and location of buildings and
required open spaces for light and ventilation of such buildings, and the
density of population may be regulated by ordinance in accordance with
statutory provisions governing zoning;
   (o)   The regulating of trades, occupations and amusements within the city,
not inconsistent with state and federal laws, and for the prohibition of such
trades, occupations, and amusements as are detrimental to the health, morals or
welfare of its inhabitants;
   (p)   Licensing, regulating, restricting and limiting the number and
locations of advertising signs or displays and billboards within the city;
   (q)   The preventing of injury or annoyance to the inhabitants of the city
from anything which is dangerous, offensive, or unhealthful, and for preventing
and abating nuisances and punishing those occasioning them or neglecting or
refusing to abate, discontinue or remove the same;
   (r)   The prescribing of the terms and conditions upon which licenses may be
granted, suspended or revoked; requiring payment of reasonable sums for
licenses; and requiring the furnishing of a bond to the city for the faithful
observance of the conditions under which licenses are granted and otherwise
conditioning such licenses as the Commission may prescribe;
   (s)   The regulating of airports located within its boundaries, and, for the
purpose of promoting and preserving the public peace, safety and welfare,
controlling and regulating the use of the air above the city by aircraft of all
types;
   (t)   The prohibiting or regulating the use, occupancy, sanitation and
parking of house trailers within the city, and the right of the city to so
regulate any house trailer shall not be abrogated because of any detachment
thereof from its wheels or because of placing it on, or attaching it to, the
ground by means of any temporary or permanent foundation, or in any manner
whatsoever;
   (u)   The requiring of an owner of real property within the city to
construct and maintain sidewalks abutting upon such property, and if the owner
fails to comply with such requirements or if the owner is unknown, to construct
and maintain such sidewalks and assess the cost thereof against the abutting
property in accordance with Section
11.9;
   (v)   The requiring of an owner of real property within the city to abate
public hazards and nuisances which are dangerous to the health or safety of
inhabitants of the city within a reasonable time after the Commission notifies
him that such hazard or nuisance exists, and if the owner fails to comply with
such requirements, or if the owner is unknown, to abate such hazard or nuisance
and assess the cost thereof against such property in accordance with Section
11.9.
   (w)   The compelling of owners of real property within the city to keep
sidewalks abutting upon their property clear from snow, ice or other
obstructions, and if the owner fails to comply with such requirements, to
remove such snow, ice or other obstructions and assess the cost thereof against
the abutting property in accordance with Section
11.9;
   (x)   The requiring, as a condition of approving plats of lands or premises
hereafter laid out, divided, or platted into streets and alleys within the
city, that all streets shown on said plat be graded and graveled or otherwise
improved, that all ditches, drains and culverts necessary to make such streets
usable be constructed, and that cement sidewalks be constructed in the proper
places, all in accordance with city specifications. The Commission may accept a
bond conditioned upon the installation of such of the foregoing improvements as
it requires within such time as it determines.
CHAPTER 3. PLAN OF GOVERNMENT
Section 3.1. Commission-manager government.
   The purpose of this charter is to provide for the commission-manager form of
government.
Section 3.2. The city commission.
   The electors of the City shall elect a Mayor and a City Commission of six
members. The Mayor and City Commission shall constitute the legislative and
governing body of the City and which shall have power and authority, except as
in this charter or by statute otherwise provided, to exercise all powers
conferred upon or possessed by the City, and shall have the power and authority
to adopt such laws, ordinances and resolutions as it shall deem proper in the
exercise thereof. In all cases where the word “Commission” is used in this
charter, the same shall be synonymous with the word “Council” or any other term
used in any state or federal law in referring to municipal legislative or
governing bodies. (
Amended August 8, 1972)
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory election of certain officers, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(a)
Section 3.3. Compensation of Commissioners.
   Each Commissioner and the Mayor shall receive, as payment for services to
the City, an annual amount to be determined by a City Ordinance. The payment
shall be issued semi-annually and shall be the only payment made to each
Commissioner and the Mayor for the discharge of all official duties during the
elected term of office. Under no circumstance shall the annual amount of
payment to a Commissioner or the Mayor be reduced from the payment amount
established by City Ordinance at the time a Commissioner or the Mayor takes
elected office. Upon an approved motion of the Commission, a Commissioner or
the Mayor may be paid a necessary bona fide expense incurred in service of the
City provided that expense is authorized and itemized. Any City Ordinance
establishing the compensation under this Section may be amended by the
Commission subject to the provisions of this Section. Any increase, after
initiated by Ordinance shall not exceed a 10% increase in any four year term.
(Amended 11-3-1964; amended by Proposal 1, adopted 11-5-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Provision for compensation of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(d)
Section 3.4. Election of mayor and mayor pro tem.
   The Commission shall, at its first meeting following each regular City
election, after the newly elected members take office, elect one of its members
to serve as Mayor Pro Tem who shall serve during the term of the Mayor.
(Amended 8-8-72)
Section 3.5. Duties of mayor.
   (a)   Insofar as required by statute and for all ceremonial purposes, the
Mayor shall be the executive head of the city. He shall be considered to be a
Commissioner for all purposes but shall have no veto power. He shall be the
presiding officer of the Commission.
   (b)   He shall be a conservator of the peace and may exercise within the
city the powers conferred upon sheriffs to suppress riot and disorder, and
shall have the power to command the assistance of all able-bodied citizens to
aid in the enforcement of the ordinances of the city and to suppress riot and
disorder.
   (c)   He shall authenticate by his signature such instruments as the
Commission, this charter or the laws of the State of Michigan or of the United
States shall require.
   (d)   He shall exercise only such powers as statute, this charter or the
Commission shall specifically confer upon or require of him.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for duties of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(d)
Section 3.6. Duties of mayor pro tem.
   The Mayor Pro Tem, shall perform the duties of the Mayor when, because of
absence from the city, disability, or otherwise, the Mayor is temporarily
unable to perform the duties of his office.
Section 3.7. Administrative service.
   The administrative officers of the city shall be the City Manager, Assessor,
Attorney, Clerk, Treasurer, Chief of Police (who shall also serve as Harbor
Master without additional compensation), Fire Chief, Superintendent of Public
Works, Librarian, and if the Commission deems necessary a Health Officer and an
Engineer. The Commission may by ordinance create additional administrative
offices and may by resolution combine any administrative offices in any manner
it deems necessary or advisable for the proper and efficient operation of the
city, but the Commission may not diminish the duties or responsibilities of the
office of City Manager.
   The City Manager and Attorney shall be appointed by the Commission for an
indefinite period, shall be responsible to and serve at the pleasure of the
Commission and shall have their compensation fixed by the Commission. All
administrative officers of the city except the City Manager and Attorney shall
be appointed or selected by the City Manager with the approval of the
Commission for an indefinite period and shall be responsible to the City
Manager.
   The City Manager shall have the power to discharge without the confirmation
of the Commission such administrative officers as he appoints. Any
administrative officer who has been discharged may within ten days thereafter
petition the Commission to hear the facts regarding such discharge, and in any
such case the commission shall hold a hearing and inquire into such facts and
may make the final determination regarding the discharge.
   The compensation of administrative officers appointed by the City Manager
shall be fixed by the City Manager in accordance with budget appropriations and
any pay plan adopted by the Commission.
   Except as may be otherwise required by statute or this charter, the
Commission may establish by ordinance such departments of the city as it deems
necessary or advisable and shall prescribe therein the functions of each
department and the duties, authorities and responsibilities of the officers of
each department. The City Manager may prescribe such duties and
responsibilities of the officers of those departments responsible to him which
are not inconsistent with this charter or with any ordinance or resolution.
   All personnel employed by the city who are not elected officers of the city
or declared to be administrative officers or deputies by, or under the
authority of this charter or who are not otherwise declared by this charter to
be officers, shall be deemed to be employees of the city. The head of each
department shall have the power to hire and discharge the employees of such
department without confirmation by the Commission. Any employee who has been
discharged may within ten days thereafter petition the Commission to hear the
facts regarding such discharge, and in any such case the Commission may, in its
sole discretion, hold a hearing and inquire into such facts and may make such
recommendations in the matter as it considers proper.
(Amended 8-5-80)
Section 3.8. City manager: Appointment and qualifications.
   The Commission shall appoint a City Manager within ninety days after any
vacancy exists in such position. The City Manager shall be chief administrative
officer of the city government. He shall be selected on the basis of his
executive and administrative qualifications and must have special training in
the field or previous experience as a City Manager or as an assistant to a City
Manager. The first City Manager shall not be a resident of the city at the time
of his appointment. The City Manager shall be selected without regard to his
political or religious preferences. No member of the Commission shall be
eligible for the position of City Manager from the time of his election to a
date two years after the expiration of his term on the Commission. The City
Manager shall hold office at the pleasure of a majority of the Commission, but
he shall not be removed from office during a period of thirty days following
any regular city election except by the affirmative vote of five members of the
Commission.
Section 3.9. City manager: Functions and duties.
   The City Manager shall be the chief administrative officer of the city. His
functions and duties shall be:
   (a)   To be responsible to the Commission for the efficient administration
of all administrative departments of the city government except the Attorney's
department;
   (b)   To see that all laws and ordinances are enforced;
   (c)   To appoint with the approval of the Commission the heads of the
several city departments whose appointment is not otherwise specified herein;
and to remove such department heads subject to the provisions of Section
3.7;
   (d)   To see that all terms and conditions imposed in favor of the city or
its inhabitants in any public utility franchise, or in any contract, are
faithfully kept and performed;
   (e)   To recommend an annual budget to the Commission, and to administer the
budget as finally adopted under policies formulated by the Commission and to
keep the Commission fully advised at all times as to the financial condition
and needs of the city;
   (f)   To recommend to the Commission for adoption such measures as he may
deem necessary or expedient; and to attend Commission meetings with the right
to take part in discussions but not to vote;
   (g)   To exercise and perform all administrative functions of the city that
are not imposed by this charter or ordinances upon some other official;
   (h)   To perform such other duties as may be prescribed by this charter or
as may be required of him by ordinance or by direction of the Commission.
Section 3.10. Acting city manager.
   The Commission may appoint or designate an Acting City Manager during the
period of vacancy in the office or during the absence of the City Manager from
the city and shall fix his compensation. Such Acting Manager shall, while he is
in such office, have all the responsibilities, duties, functions and authority
of the City Manager.
Section 3.11. Relationship of Commissionn to Administrative Service.
   The City Manager shall be responsible to the Commission for the complete and
efficient administration of all City departments of the City government under
the jurisdiction of the City Manager. The City Commission, its elected members
and its committees as established from time to time, shall not interfere with,
obstruct or prevent the City Manager from exercising City Manager discretion in
the administration of City services. The Commission, its elected members,
committees, City Boards and Commissions shall deal with City Administrative
Services solely and exclusively through the City Manager and shall not direct,
issue orders, instruct, evaluate or in any way obstruct the subordinates of the
City Manager. Any and all questions or concerns about City Administrative
services shall be presented through the City Manager only. (Amended by Proposal
2, adopted 11-5-2024)
Section 3.12. City assessor: Functions and duties.
   The Assessor shall possess all the powers vested in and shall be charged
with all the duties imposed upon assessing officers by the general laws of the
state. He shall make and prepare all regular and special assessment rolls in
the manner prescribed by this charter and the general laws of the state.
   He shall perform such other duties in connection with his office as may be
prescribed for him by this charter, by resolution or ordinance of the
Commission or by the City Manager.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for duties of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(d)
Section 3.13. Attorney: Functions and duties.
   (a)   The Attorney shall act as legal advisor to, and be attorney and
counsel for, the Commission and shall be responsible solely to the Commission.
He shall advise any officer or department head of the city in matters relating
to his official duties when so requested and shall file with the Clerk a copy
of all written opinions given by him.
   (b)   He shall prosecute such ordinance violations and he shall conduct for
the city such cases in court and before other legally constituted tribunals as
the Commission may request. He shall file with the Clerk copies of such records
and files relating thereto as the Commission may direct.
   (c)   He shall prepare or review all ordinances, contracts, bonds and other
written instruments which are submitted to him by the Commission and shall
promptly give his opinion as to the legality thereof.
   (d)   He shall call to the attention of the Commission and the City Manager
all matters of law, and changes or developments therein, affecting the city.
   (e)   He shall at all times cooperate with the City Manager and shall
provide such information and reports and perform such duties as are requested
by the City Manager so long as they are not inconsistent with the duties of his
office as herein provided.
   (f)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him by
this charter or by the Commission.
   (g)   Upon the recommendation of the Attorney, or upon its own initiative,
the Commission may retain special legal counsel to handle any matter in which
the city has an interest, or to assist and counsel with the Attorney therein.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for duties of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(d)
Section 3.14. Compensation of attorney and of special counsel.
   The compensation set by the Commission for the Attorney shall be in
contemplation of the normal duties of that office. Special compensation may be
provided at the discretion of the Commission for appeals to, or litigation
commenced in, the Federal Courts, the Circuit Court or State Supreme Court; for
work requiring extensive hearings before quasi-judicial or administrative
tribunals; for legal work in connection with the issuance of bonds of the city;
for condemnation proceedings or for other matters outside the scope of his
normal duties. No such special compensation, nor any compensation to any
special legal counsel, shall be paid except in accordance with an agreement
between the Commission and the Attorney or special counsel made before the
service for which such special compensation is to be paid has been rendered.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for compensation of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(d)
Section 3.15. Clerk: Functions and duties.
   (a)   The Clerk shall be the Clerk of the Commission and shall attend all
meetings of the Commission and shall keep a permanent journal of its
proceedings in the English language.
   (b)   He shall be custodian of the city seal, and shall affix it to all
documents and instruments requiring the seal, and shall attest the same. He
shall also be custodian of all papers, documents, and records pertaining to the
city the custody of which is not otherwise provided for. He shall give to the
proper department or officials ample notice of the expiration or termination of
any franchise, contracts, or agreements.
   (c)   He shall certify by his signature all ordinances and resolutions
enacted or passed by the Commission.
   (d)   He shall provide and maintain in his office a supply of forms for all
petitions required to be filed for any purpose by the provisions of this
charter.
   (e)   He shall be responsible, unless otherwise provided by ordinance, for
the maintenance of a system of accounts of the city which shall conform to any
uniform system required by law and by the Commission and to generally accepted
principles and procedures of governmental accounting.
   (f)   He shall have power to administer oaths of office.
   (g)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him by
this charter, by resolution or ordinance of the Commission or by the City
Manager.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for duties of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(d)
Section 3.16. Treasurer: Functions and duties.
   (a)   The Treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys of the city, and
bond pertaining solely to the Clerk and all evidences of indebtedness belonging
to the city or held in trust by the city.
   (b)   He shall collect all moneys of the city the collection of which is not
provided for elsewhere by charter or ordinance. He shall receive from other
officers and employees of the city all money belonging to and receivable by the
city that may be collected by such officers and employees, including fines,
license fees, taxes, assessments, and all other charges. All money shall be
turned over to the Treasurer after collection or receipt and he shall in all
cases give a receipt therefor.
   (c)   He shall disburse all city funds in accordance with the provisions of
state law, this charter and procedures to be established by the Commission.
   (d)   He shall keep and deposit all moneys or funds in such manner and only
in such places as the Commission may determine and shall report the same in
detail to the accounting officer of the city.
   (e)   He shall have such powers and duties in regard to the collection and
custody of state, county, school district and city taxes and moneys as may be
conferred upon him by this charter or by statute.
   (f)   He shall perform such other duties as may be prescribed for him by
this charter, by resolution or ordinance of the Commission or by the City
Manager.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for duties of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(d)
Section 3.17. Deputy administrative officers.
   The Clerk, Treasurer and Assessor may designate their own deputies subject
to the written approval of the Commission, and may terminate the status of
their deputies at their pleasure, upon written notice to the City Manager. Such
deputies shall, in each case, possess all the powers and authorities of their
superior officers except as the same may be from time to time limited by their
superiors or by the Commission.
Section 3.18. Independent boards and commissions.
   The Commission may not create any board or commission, other than those
provided for in this charter, to administer any activity, department or agency
of the city government except (a) those activities which by statute are
required to be so administered, (b) a municipal hospital, and (c) recreation.
The Commission may, however, establish (a) quasi-judicial appeal boards and (b)
boards or commissions to serve solely in an advisory capacity. The Library
Board of the city existing prior to the effective date of this charter is
hereby abolished on the effective date of this charter.
Section 3.19. Zoning.
   The Commission shall enact and maintain a zoning ordinance in accordance
with, and under the authority of statute, and having the powers and duties
prescribed by statute, and the Board of Zoning Appeals shall consist of five
persons, two of whom shall be members of the Commission.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for zoning regulations permissible, see M.C.L.A. § 117.4i
§ 3.20 Required City Policies and Procedures.
   At all times, the Commission shall cause to be developed, implemented, and
maintained the following City of Marine City Policies and Procedures which
shall be developed and approved by a majority vote of the Commission and which
may be amended, from time to time, by a majority vote of the Commission.
   A City Commission Meeting Procedures and Policy.
   An Open Meetings Act Compliance Policy.
   A Freedom Of Information Act Compliance Policy.
   A Record Retention Compliance Policy.
   An Ethics/Code of Conduct Policy
   A Personnel Procedure Policy
   An annual General Manager Review Policy.
   Any established violation of any policy under this Section may, after
review, be considered misconduct and a violation of the Charter. Each Policy
established under this Section shall become effective only by a resolution of
the Commission. Each Policy shall apply, as applicable, to all elected and
appointed officials, all Department heads and all City employees. Any policy
under this Section may be amended by the Commission by Resolution. (Amended by
Proposal 3, adopted 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 4. ELECTIONS*
Section 4.1. Officers to be elected and terms.
   The elective officers of the City shall be the Mayor and six Commissioners,
all of whom shall be elected from the City at large. The Mayor and three
Commissioners shall be elected at each regular city election. The Mayor shall
be elected for a two year term and the Commissioners for four year terms. The
term of office of the Mayor and the Commissioners elected at each regular city
election shall commence as provided by law.
(Amended August 8, 1972)
Statutory reference:
   Mandatory election of certain officers, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(a)
   Michigan election laws, see M.C.L.A. §§ 168.1 et seq.
   Provision for time, manner and means of holding election mandatory, see
M.C.L.A. § 117.3(c)
Section 4.2. Wards and precincts.
   The City of Marine City shall consist of one ward. The Commission shall from
time to time by ordinance establish convenient election precincts, but until
the Commission shall do so, there shall be two precincts as follows: Precinct
Number One shall be all that territory east of Belle River; Precinct Number Two
shall be all that territory west of Belle River.
Statutory references:
   Mandatory establishment of one or more wards, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(e)
   Election precincts generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 168.654 et seq.
Section 4.3. Qualifications of electors.
   The inhabitants of the city having the qualifications of electors in the
State of Michigan, and no others, shall be electors of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Qualifications for registration as elector, see M.C.L.A. § 168.492
Section 4.4. Election date.
   A regular city election shall be held on the first Monday in April of 1953
and of each odd-numbered year thereafter, but if some other date in the months
of March, April or May is fixed by law for the holding of the state biennial
spring election, then the regular city election shall be held on the date so
fixed.
Editor’s note:
   This section has been superseded by Code of Ordinances, which was adopted
pursuant to the odd-year general election provisions of M.C.L.A. §§ 168.644a.
et seq.
Section 4.5. Election procedure.
   The election of all city officers shall be on a non-partisan basis. The
general election laws of the state shall apply to and control, as near as may
be, all procedures relating to registration and city elections, except as such
general laws relate to political parties or partisan procedure, or require more
than one publication of notice, and except as otherwise provided in this
charter.
Statutory reference:
   Michigan election laws, see M.C.L.A. §§ 168.1 et seq.
Section 4.6. Special elections.
   Special city elections shall be held when called by resolution of the
Commission at least forty days in advance of such election, or when required by
this charter or by statute. Any resolution calling a special election shall set
forth the purpose of such election. No more special city elections shall be
called in any one year than the number permitted by statute.
Statutory reference:
   Approval of special elections by county election scheduling committee, see
M.C.L.A. § 168.639
Section 4.7. Notice of election.
   Notice of the time and place of holding any city election and of the
officers to be nominated or elected and the questions to be voted upon, shall,
except as herein otherwise provided, be given by the Clerk in the same manner
and at the same time as provided by statute for the giving of notice by city
clerks.
Statutory reference:
   Public notice of election, see M.C.L.A. § 168.653
Section 4.8. Voting hours.
   The polls of all elections shall be opened and closed at the time prescribed
by statute for the opening and closing of polls at state elections.
Statutory reference:
   Opening and closing of polls, see M.C.L.A. § 168.720
Section 4.9. Election commission.
   An Election Commission is hereby created, consisting of the Clerk, the
Attorney and one member of the City Commission who shall not be a candidate for
elective office at the election for which he serves as a member of the Election
Commission, such member to be appointed by the City Commission not less than
fifteen days before each election. The members shall serve without
compensation. The Clerk shall be chairman. The Election Commission shall
appoint the Board of Election Inspectors for each precinct and have charge of
all activities and duties required of it by statute and this charter relating
to the conduct of elections in the city. The compensation of election personnel
shall be determined in advance by the City Commission. In any case where
election procedure is in doubt, the Election Commission shall prescribe the
procedure to be followed.
Section 4.10. Non-partisan primary election.
   A regular non-partisan city primary election shall be held on the third
Monday in February of each year in which a regular city election is to be held,
but if some other date in the months of February, March or April is fixed by
law for the holding of the primary for the state biennial spring election, then
the city primary election shall be held on the date so fixed.
   If, upon the expiration of the time for filing nomination petitions for any
elective city office, valid and sufficient petitions have been filed for no
more than twice the number of candidates for such office to be elected at the
following regular city election, then no primary election shall be held in
respect to such office, and the Clerk shall publish notice of this fact as part
of, or at the time provided for, the publication of notices for such primary
election. Candidates equal in number to twice the number of persons to be
elected to each city office at the following regular city election who receive
the highest number of votes at any such primary election shall be declared the
nominees for election to the respective offices. The names of such nominees,
together with the names of persons for whom valid and sufficient petitions have
been filed for offices with respect to which no primary election was held,
shall be certified by the Clerk to the Election Commission to be placed upon
the ballot for the next subsequent regular city election.
Editor’s note:
   The city now holds an odd-year primary election under the provisions of Code
of Ordinances, which was adopted pursuant to the odd-year general election
provisions of M.C.L.A. §§ 168.644a. et seq.
Section 4.11. Nominations.
   The method of nomination of all candidates for primary elections shall be by
petition. Such petitions for each candidate shall be signed by not less than
twenty-five nor more than fifty registered electors of the city. No person
shall sign his name to a greater number of petitions for any one office than
there are persons to be elected to said office at the following regular city
election. Where the signature of any individual appears on more petitions than
he is so permitted to sign, such names shall be counted only to the extent he
is permitted to sign in the order of the respective dates of filing the
petitions containing such signatures.
   Nomination petitions shall be filed with the Clerk between the thirty-fifth
day prior to, and 5:00 P. M. on the twenty-fifth day prior to, the date of
holding the regular city primary election or any special election for the
filling of vacancies in office.
   The Clerk shall, prior to every primary election, publish notice of the last
day permitted for filing nomination petitions and of the number of persons to
be nominated or elected to each office at least one week and not more than
three weeks before such day.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for nomination of elective officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. §
117.3(b)
Section 4.12. Form of petition.
   The form of petition shall be substantially as that designated by the
Secretary of State for the nomination of non-partisan judicial officers. A
supply of official petition forms shall be provided and maintained by the
Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Non-partisan nominating petitions, see M.C.L.A. § 168.544a.
Section 4.13. Approval of petition.
   The Clerk shall accept only nomination petitions which conform with the
forms provided and maintained by him, and which, considered together, contain
the required number of valid signatures for candidates having those
qualifications required for elective city office by this charter. All petitions
shall be accompanied by the affidavit of qualifications provided for in Section
5.1. When a petition is filed by persons other than the person whose name
appears thereon as a candidate, it may be accepted only when accompanied by the
written consent of the candidate. The Clerk shall, forthwith after the filing
of a petition, notify in writing any candidate whose petition is then known not
to meet the requirements of this section, but the failure to so notify any
candidate shall in no way prevent a final determination that the petition does
not meet such requirements. Within three days after the last date for filing
petitions, the Clerk shall make his final determinations as to the validity and
sufficiency of each nomination petition and whether or not the candidate has
the qualifications required for elective city office by this charter and shall
write his determinations thereof on the face of the petition. No petition shall
be determined to be valid unless the affidavit of qualifications provided for
in Section
5.1 shall be filed with such petition.
   The Clerk shall immediately notify in writing the candidate whose name
appears thereon of his determinations. Such notice to any candidate whose
petition is found invalid or insufficient or who is found not to be qualified
shall be delivered by personal messenger if possible. Any candidate whose
petition is so found invalid or insufficient shall be allowed to file
supplementary or replacement petitions by 5:00 p. m. on the fifth day after the
last date for filing original petitions; thereafter no further petitions may be
filed.
Statutory reference:
   Certification of nominating petitions, see M.C.L.A. § 168.552
Section 4.14. Public inspection of petitions.
   All nomination petitions filed shall be open to public inspection in the
office of the Clerk.
Statutory reference:
   Public record of nominating petitions, see M.C.L.A. § 168.555
Section 4.15. Form of ballot.
   The form, printing and numbering of ballots or the preparation of the voting
machines used in any city election shall conform as nearly as may be to the
provisions of statute except that no party designation or emblem shall appear.
In all city elections, the names of qualified candidates for each office shall
be listed under a separate heading and shall be alternated systematically in
the manner prescribed by statute for alternation of names in primary elections.
   If two or more candidates or nominees for the same office have the same or
similar surnames, the Election Commission shall print the occupation -and
residence address under the respective names of each of such candidates or
nominees on the ballots (or on labels or slips to be placed on voting machines
when used), provided, that for any of such candidates or nominees who is an
incumbent of such office, the occupation shall be designated as "Incumbent."
Except as provided in this section there shall be no supplementary
identification of candidates on the ballot.
Statutory reference:
   Arrangement of ballot, see M.C.L.A. § 168.706
Section 4.16. Canvass of votes.
   The Clerk and the members of the City Commission shall be the board of
canvassers to canvass the votes at all city elections, except that if any of
such persons are candidates for nomination or for office at the election to be
canvassed such person shall not serve as a canvasser at such election.
   The board of canvassers shall convene on the day following each city
election at the usual time and place of meeting of the Commission and determine
the results of the city election upon each question and proposition voted upon
and what persons are duly nominated or elected to the several offices
respectively at said election, and shall notify in writing the successful
candidates or nominees of their nomination or election.
   The Clerk shall make under the corporate seal of the city duplicate
certificates of the determinations of the board and shall file one certificate
with the County Clerk and the other in his own office.
Section 4.17. Recount.
   A recount of the votes cast at any city election for any office or upon any
proposition may be had in accordance with election statutes. Unless otherwise
required by statute (a) the petition for a recount of the votes cast at any
city election shall be filed with the Clerk by 5:00 p. m. on the second full
day after the board of canvassers has made its official report of the results
of the election at which such votes were cast, (b) any counter petition shall
be filed by 5:00 p. m. of the next full day thereafter and (c) no officer shall
be qualified to take office until final determination of any recount of the
votes cast for such office.
Statutory reference:
   Recounts generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 168.861 et seq.
Section 4.18. Recall.
   Any elected official may be recalled from office by the electors of the city
in the manner provided by statute. A vacancy created by such recall shall be
filled in the manner prescribed by statute.
Statutory reference:
   Recall generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 168.951 et seq. See also Mich. Const. of
1963, Art. II, § 8
CHAPTER 5. GENERAL PROVISIONS REGARDING OFFICERS AND PERSONNEL OF THE CITY
Section 5.1. Eligibility for office and employment in city.
   No person shall hold any elective office of the city unless he has been a
resident of the city for at least two years immediately prior to the last day
for filing original petitions for such office and is also a qualified and
registered elector of the city on such day and throughout his tenure of office.
   No person shall be eligible for any elective or appointive city office who
is in default to the city. The holding of office by any person who is in such
default shall create a vacancy unless such default shall be eliminated within
thirty days after written notice thereof by the Commission or unless such
person shall in good faith be contesting the liability for such default.
   Each candidate for elective office shall file with his petition his
affidavit that he possesses the qualifications for such office provided in this
section. Failure to file such affidavit shall invalidate his petition.
   The Commission shall be the sole judge of the election and qualification of
its own members.
   Each member of a city board or commission shall have been a resident of the
city for at least two years prior to the day of his appointment and shall be a
qualified and registered elector of the city on such day and throughout his
tenure of office.
   All administrative officers shall be United States citizens.
   All officers of the city except the Attorney, if they do not reside within
the geographical area serviced by the Marine City postal zone at the time of
their appointment shall locate their residence within the geographical area
serviced by the Marine City postal zone within six months thereafter and shall
so remain while so serving.
   Except in the case of appointment of Supervisors, no elective officer may he
appointed to any city office or be employed by the city during the term of
office for which he was elected or for two years thereafter, provided that
after the expiration of his term of office he may be appointed as a member of
an independent board or commission or to fill a vacancy in the position of
Commissioner.
(Amended 11-6-90)
Statutory reference:
   Provision for qualifications of officers mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § I17.3(d)
Section 5.2. Vacancies in elective office.
   Any elective city office shall be declared vacant by the Commission before
the expiration of the term of such office:
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute or by this charter as creating a
vacancy in office;
   (b)   If no person is elected to, or qualifies for, the office at the
election at which such office is to be filled;
   (c)   If the officer shall he found guilty by a competent tribunal of any
act constituting misconduct in office under the provisions of this charter;
   (d)   If the officer shall absent himself continuously from the city for
more than thirty consecutive days in any One year without the permission of the
Commission;
   (e)   In the case of any members of the Commission, if such officer shall
miss four consecutive regular meetings of the Commission or twenty-five per
cent of such meetings in any fiscal year of the city, unless such absences
shall be excused by the Commission and the reason therefor entered in the
proceedings of the Commission at the time of each absence;
   (f)   If the officer is removed from office by the Commission in accordance
with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
Section 5.3. Vacancies in boards and commissions.
   The office of any member of any board or commission created by, or pursuant
to, this charter shall be declared vacant by the Commission before the
expiration of the term of such office:
   (a)   For any reason specified by statute or by this charter as creating a
vacancy in office;
   (b)   If the officer shall be found guilty by a competent tribunal of any
act constituting misconduct in office under the provisions of this charter;
   (c)   If such officers shall miss four consecutive regular meetings of such
board or commission, or twenty-five percent of such meetings in any fiscal year
of the city, unless such absences shall be excused by such board or commission
and the reason therefor entered in the proceedings of such board or commission
at the time of each absence;
   (d)   If the officer is removed from office by the Commission in accordance
with the provisions hereinafter set forth.
Section 5.4. Removal from Office.
   A removal by the Commission of an elected official or members of City Boards
or Commissions shall only be made for a reason then set forth by state statute
for removals by the Governor or for misconduct in office by actions in
violation of the Charter. Any Commissioner may initiate the removal process by
placing the proposed removal on a Commission agenda and receiving a majority
vote of the Commission to proceed. In order to proceed, the Commission shall
adopt a resolution supporting the proposed removal which identifies each basis
to support the removal with all applicable evidence attached to the resolution.
If the resolution supporting removal is adopted by the Commission by a majority
vote, the Commission shall cause the resolution to be hand delivered to the
person subject to the removal process.
   Any hearing on the proposed removal shall be conducted by the Commission
after a minimum of 10 calendar days after written notice is hand delivered to
the person subject to the removal process. A10 calendar day extension shall be
granted upon the written request by the person subject to the removal process.
   At the hearing, the Commissioner that initiated the removal process shall
set forth the factual basis to support each removal reason presented in the
resolution supporting the removal. The person subject to the removal hearing
shall have the right to be present, the right to be represented, the right to
present arguments, the right to present documents, the right to call witnesses
and the right to respond to each removal reason as presented. A majority vote
of the Commission, exclusive of any member whose removal is the subject of the
hearing, shall be required for any removal. An approved removal shall take
effect immediately. (Amended by Proposal 4, adopted 11-5-2024)
Statutory reference:
   Removal of officers by the governor, see M.C.L.A. § 168.327
Section 5.5. Resignations.
   Resignations of elective officers and of members of boards and commissions
shall be made in writing and filed with the Clerk and shall be acted upon by
the Commission at its next regular meeting following receipt thereof by the
Clerk. Resignations of appointive officers shall be made in writing to the
appointing officer or body and shall be acted upon immediately.
Section 5.6. Filling vacancies in appointive offices.
   Vacancies in appointive offices shall be filled in the manner provided for
making the original appointment. In the case of members of boards or
commissions appointed for a definite term, such appointments shall be for the
unexpired term.
Section 5.7. Filling vacancies in the office of mayor and commissioner.
   (a)   Vacancies occurring in the office of Mayor shall, within sixty days be
filled for the balance of the unexpired term of the Mayor by appointment by a
majority vote of the members of the Commission then in office of a member of
the Commission. Such appointment shall not alter such appointee's term as a
Commissioner, but shall create a vacancy in the office of Commissioner for the
unexpired term as a Commissioner of the person previously holding the office of
Mayor.
   (b)   Except as provided in paragraph (d) of this section, any vacancy in
the office of Commissioner which occurs more than fifty-nine days before the
next regular city primary election may be filled within sixty days by a
majority vote of the remaining members of the Commission for the unexpired
term.
   (c)   Any vacancy which occurs within fifty-nine days of the next regular
city primary election in the office of a Commissioner whose term expires on the
Monday following the next regular city election may not be filled.
   (d)   If any vacancy in the office of Commissioner which the Commission is
authorized to fill is not so filled within sixty days after such vacancy
occurs, or if four or more vacancies exist simultaneously in the office of
Commissioners, such vacancies shall be filled for the respective unexpired
terms at a special election. Such special election and a special primary
election preceding it shall be called by the Clerk within ten days after the
expiration of said sixty-day period, or the occurrence of four or more
simultaneous vacancies, as the case may be. The special election shall be held
not less than fifty days nor more than sixty days after the date on which it is
called. In connection with any special election to fill a vacancy or vacancies
in any elective office no primary election shall be held; candidates shall be
nominated by petitions in a manner identical to that provided in Sections
4.11 to
4.13 inclusive; the names of all qualified candidates who file sufficient and
valid nomination petitions twenty-five days before such special election shall
be certified to the Election Commission and placed on the ballot; and all other
provisions of this charter, not inconsistent with this Section shall govern. In
any such special election a number of candidates equal to the number of
vacancies for the longer unexpired term receiving the highest, number of votes
shall be elected to fill such vacancies, and the candidates equal to the number
of vacancies for the shorter unexpired term (if any) receiving the next highest
number of votes in order shall be elected to fill such vacancies.
   (e)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the filling of
vacancies resulting from recall.
Section 5.8. Filling vacancies in the office of municipal judge (justice of the
peace).
   (a)   Vacancies in the office of Municipal Judge (justice of the peace)
occurring in the period beginning on July 5, 1953, and ending on the sixtieth
day before the regular city primary election in 1955 or in the corresponding
period beginning in any fourth year after 1953, shall be filled by appointment
by a majority vote of the members of the Commission then in office for a term
expiring on the Monday following the next regular city election. At such
election such vacancy shall be filled for the unexpired term of office through
the regular election procedure as provided in Chapter 4, and the Judge so
elected shall take office on the Monday following such election.
   (b)   Vacancies in the office of Municipal Judge (justice of the peace)
occurring (1) in the period beginning on the effective date of this charter and
ending on the fourth day of July, 1953, or (2) in the period beginning on the
fifty-ninth day before the regular city primary election in 1955 and ending on
the fourth day of July, 1957, or in the corresponding period beginning in any
fourth year after 1955, shall he filled by appointment by a majority vote of
the members of the Commission then in office for the unexpired term.
   (c)   The provisions of this section shall not apply to the filling of
vacancies resulting from recall.
Editor’s note:
   The municipal court was abolished by M.C.L.A. § 600.9921
Section 5.9. No change in term of office or compensation.
   Except by procedures provided in this charter, the terms of office of the
elective officers and of members of boards and commissions appointed for a
definite term shall not be shortened. The terms of elective officers shall not
be extended beyond the period for which any such officer was elected except
that an elective officer shall, after his term has expired, continue to hold
office until his successor is elected and has qualified. Where several terms of
Commissioners expire simultaneously, that Commissioner who was elected by the
highest number of votes (or the appointee who filled his position) shall be
deemed to be succeeded by the nominee who received the highest number of votes,
etc. The Commission shall not grant or authorize extra compensation to any
officer or employee after his service has been rendered.
   The salary of any elective officer shall not be increased or decreased from
the time of his election until the end of the term of office for which he was
elected.
Statutory reference:
   Term of officer not to be shortened or extended, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5
Section 5.10. Oath of office and bond.
   Every officer, elective or appointive, before entering upon the duties of
his office, shall take the oath of office prescribed for public officers by the
Constitution and shall file the oath with the Clerk together with any bond
required by statute, this charter or by the Commission. In case of failure to
comply with the provisions of this section within ten days from the date he is
notified in writing of his election or appointment, such officer shall be
deemed to have declined the office and such office shall thereupon become
vacant unless the Commission shall by resolution extend the time in which such
officer may qualify as above set forth.
Section 5.11. Surety bonds.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, all officers of the city whose
duties involve the custody of public property or the handling of public funds,
either by way of receipt or disbursement or both, and all other officers and
employees so required by the Commission, shall, before they enter upon the
duties of their respective offices, file with the city an official bond, in
such form and amount as the Commission shall direct and approve. Such official
bond of every officer and employee shall be conditioned that he will faithfully
perform the duties of his office, and will on demand deliver over to his
successor in office, or other proper officer or an agent of the city, all
books, papers, moneys, effects and property belonging thereto, or appertaining
to his office, which may be in his custody as an officer or employee; and such
bonds may be further conditioned as the Commission shall prescribe. The
official bond of every officer whose duty it may be to receive or pay out
money, besides being conditioned as above required, shall be further
conditioned that he will, on demand, pay over or account for to the city, or
any proper officer or agent thereof, all moneys received by him as such officer
or employee. The requirements of this paragraph may be met by the purchase of
one or more appropriate blanket surety bonds covering all, or a group of, city
employees and officers.
   All official bonds shall be corporate surety bonds and the premiums thereon
shall be paid by the city. All bonds of all officers or employees shall be
filed with the Clerk, except that any bond pertaining solely to the Clerk shall
be filed with the Treasurer.
Section 5.12. Delivery of office.
   Whenever any officer or employee shall cease to hold such office or
employment for any reason whatsoever, he shall within five days, and sooner on
demand, deliver to his successor in office or to his superior all the books,
papers, moneys and effects in his custody as such officer or employee.
   Any officer or former officer violating this provision may be proceeded
against in the same manner as public officers generally for a like offense
under statute. Any employee or former employee found guilty of violating this
provision by a court of competent jurisdiction may be punished by a fine of not
to exceed five hundred dollars or imprisonment for not to exceed ninety days,
or both, in the discretion of the court.
Section 5.13. Financial interest prohibited.
   (a)   Except as permitted by this section no contract or purchase involving
an amount in excess of one hundred dollars shall be made by that city in which
any officer or any member of his family has any financial interest, direct or
indirect. A “contract” shall for the purposes of this section include any
arrangement or agreement pursuant to which any material, service or other thing
of value is to be furnished to the city for a valuable consideration to be paid
by the city, or is to be sold or transferred by the city, except the furnishing
of personal services as an officer or employee of the city; and the term
“member of his family” shall include only spouse, child, grandchild, father,
mother, sister, brother and the spouse of any of them.
   (b)   Without limiting the generality of paragraph (a) of this section, an
officer shall be deemed to have a financial interest in a contract if he or any
member of his family is an employee, partner, officer, director or sales
representative of the person, firm or corporation with which such contract is
made or of a sales representative of such person, firm or corporation.
Ownership, individually or in a fiduciary capacity, by an officer or member of
his family of securities, or of any beneficial interest in securities, of any
corporation with which a contract is made or which is a sales representative of
any person, firm or corporation with which such contract is made, shall not be
deemed to create a financial interest in said contract unless the aggregate
amount of such securities, or interest in such securities, so owned by such
officer and the members of his family, shall amount to ten per cent of any
class of the securities of such corporation then outstanding.
   (c)   A contract in which an officer or member of his family has a financial
interest may be made by the city if the members of the Commission having no
such interest shall unanimously determine that the best interests of the city
will be served by the making of such contract and if either such contract is
made after comparative prices are obtained or if the members of the Commission
having no such interest shall unanimously determine that the obtaining of
comparative prices is not feasible in such particular case. Any Commission
member may evidence his participation in either determination required by this
paragraph by vote at a Commission meeting or by written instrument filed with
the Clerk.
   (d)   Any officer who knowingly permits the city to enter into any contract
or purchase in which he has a financial interest without disclosing such
interest to the Commission prior to the action of the Commission in authorizing
such contract, shall be guilty of misconduct in office. Except in the instances
specified in paragraph (c) of this section, the unanimous determination (by
vote or written instrument) of all members of the Commission that in a
particular case an officer or member of his family will not have a financial
interest in any contract or purchase to be entered into by the city shall be
final and conclusive in the absence of fraud or misrepresentation.
   (e)   No officer shall stand as surety on any bond to the city or give any
bail for any other person which may be required by the charter or any ordinance
of the city. Any officer of the city who violates the provisions of this
paragraph shall be guilty of misconduct in office.
Section 5.14. Compensation of employees and officers.
   (a)   The compensation of all employees and officers of the city whose
compensation is not provided for herein shall be fixed by the appointing
officer or body within the limits of budget appropriations and in accordance
with any pay plan adopted by the Commission.
   (b)   The respective salaries and compensation of officers and employees as
fixed by, or pursuant to this charter shall be in full for all official
services of such officers or employees and shall be in lieu of all fees,
commissions and other compensation receivable by such officers or employees for
their services.
   Such fees, commissions and compensation shall belong to the city and shall
be collected and accounted for by such officers or employees, and be paid into
the city treasury and a statement thereof filed periodically with the Clerk.
The provisions of paragraph (b) of this section shall not apply to fees,
commissions or other compensation paid by the County of St. Clair to any
officer or employee serving as a city representative on the Board of
Supervisors who is not a full-time officer or employee of the city.
   (c)   Nothing contained in this section shall prohibit the payment of
necessary bona fide expenses incurred in service in behalf of the city.
Section 5.15. Employee welfare benefits.
   The Commission shall have the power to adopt and make available to the
administrative officers and employees of the city and its departments and
boards any recognized standard plan of group life, hospital, health or accident
insurance, either independently of, or as a supplement to, any retirement plan
provided for such employees and officers.
Section 5.16. Merit system: Civil service.
   Appointments, removals, promotions and demotions of officers and employees
of the city shall be based upon the qualifications of the officers and
employees and upon their performance of duties without any reference to their
political or religious preferences. The Commission may provide for a system of
civil service for city employees.
Section 5.17. Antinepotism.
   Unless the City Commission shall by the affirmative vote of two-thirds of
the members of the commission, which vote shall be recorded as part of its
official proceedings, determine that the best interests of the city shall be
served by waiving their disqualification, the following relatives and their
spouses (a) of any elective official or his spouse or (b) of the City Manager
or of his spouse are disqualified from holding any appointive office or
employment during the term for which said elective or appointive officer was
elected or appointed: Spouse, child, parent, grandchild, grandparent, brother,
sister, half brother, half sister or the spouses of any of them. All
relationships shall include those arising from adoption. This section shall in
no way disqualify such relatives or their spouses who are bona fide appointive
officers or employees of the city at the time of the election or appointment of
said official.
(Amended 11-7-89)
CHAPTER 6. THE COMMISSION: PROCEDURE AND MISCELLANEOUS POWERS AND DUTIES
Section 6.1. Regular meetings.
   The Commission shall provide by resolution for the time and place of its
regular meetings and shall hold at least one regular meeting each month. A
meeting shall be held at 8:00 p.m. on the Monday following each regular city
election.
Section 6.2. Special meetings.
   Special meetings shall be called by the Clerk on the written request of
Mayor; the City Manager or any two members of the Commission on at least
twenty-four hours written notice to each member of the Commission, served
personally or left at his usual place of residence; but a special meeting may
be held on shorter notice if all members of the Commission are present or have
waived notice thereof in writing.
Section 6.3. Business at special meetings.
   No business shall be transacted at any special meeting of the Commission
unless the same has been stated in the notice of such meeting. However, any
specific business, other than the enactment of an ordinance, which may lawfully
come before a regular meeting may be transacted at a special meeting if all the
members of the Commission present consent thereto and the members absent file
their written consent.
Section 6.4. Meetings to be public.
   All regular and special meetings of the Commission shall be open to the
public and citizens shall have a reasonable opportunity to be heard under such
rules as the Commission may prescribe.
Statutory reference:
   Public meetings mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(1)
Section 6.5. Quorum; adjournment of meeting.
   A majority of the members of the Commission in office shall be a quorum for
the transaction of business at all meetings of the Commission, but in the
absence of a quorum a lesser number may adjourn any meeting to a later date,
and in the absence of all members the Clerk may adjourn any meeting to a date
not later than one week thence.
Section 6.6. Compulsory attendance and conduct at meetings.
   Any three or more members of the Commission may by vote either request or
compel the attendance of its members and other officers of the city at any
Commission meeting. Any member of the Commission or other officer who when
notified of such request for his attendance fails to attend such meeting for
reasons other than confining illness or absence from the County of St. Clair
shall be deemed guilty of misconduct in office unless excused by the
Commission. The presiding officer shall enforce orderly conduct at meetings and
any member of the Commission or other officer who shall fail to conduct himself
in an orderly manner at any meeting shall be deemed guilty of misconduct in
office.
   Any police officer designated by the presiding officer of the meeting shall
serve as Sergeant-at-Arms of the Commission in the enforcement of the
provisions of this section.
Section 6.7. Rules and organization of the commission.
   The Commission shall determine its own organization, rules and order of
business subject to the following provisions:
   (a)   A journal of the proceedings of each meeting in the English language
shall be kept by the Clerk and shall be signed by the presiding officer and
clerk of the meeting.
   (b)   A vote upon all ordinances and resolutions shall be taken by “Yes” and
“No” vote and entered upon the records, except that where the vote is unanimous
it shall only be necessary to so state.
   (c)   No member of the Commission shall vote on any question in which he has
a financial interest, other than the common public interest, or on any question
concerning his own conduct, but on all other questions each member who is
present shall vote when his name is called unless excused by unanimous consent
of the remaining members present. Any member refusing to vote except when not
so required by this paragraph shall be guilty of misconduct in office.
   (d)   In all roll call votes the names of the members of the Commission
shall be called in alphabetical order, and the name to be called first shall be
advanced one position alphabetically in each successive roll call.
   (e)   There shall be no standing committees of the Commission.
Section 6.8. Investigations.
   The Commission or any person or committee authorized by it for the purpose,
shall have power to inquire into the conduct of any department, office or
officer and to make investigations as to municipal affairs, and for that
purpose the Commission may summon witnesses, administer oaths and compel the
attendance of witnesses and the production of books, papers and other evidence.
Failure on the part of any officer to obey such summons or to produce books,
papers or other evidence as ordered under the provisions of this section shall
constitute misconduct in office. Failure on the part of any employee to obey
such summons or to produce books, papers or other evidence as ordered under the
provisions of this section shall constitute a violation of this charter and
such employee when found guilty of such violation by a court of competent
jurisdiction may be punished by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars or
imprisonment not to exceed ninety days, or both, in the discretion of the
court.
   It is provided further that, in case of failure on the part of any person to
obey such summons or to produce such books, papers and other evidence as so
ordered, the Commission may invoke the aid of the Circuit Court of St. Clair
County in requiring obeyance of such summons or production of such books,
papers and other evidence. The Circuit Court of St. Clair County, in case of
contumacy or refusal to obey such summons or to produce such books, papers and
other evidence, may issue an order requiring such person to obey such summons
or to produce such books, papers and other evidence and to give evidence
touching the matter in question, and any failure to obey such order of the
Court may be punished by such Court as contempt thereof.
Section 6.9. Providing for public health and safety.
   The Commission shall see that provision is made for the public peace and
health, and for the safety of persons and property. The Commission shall
constitute the Board of Health of the city, and it and its officers shall
possess all powers, privileges and immunities granted to boards of health by
statute.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for public peace, health, etc., mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(j)
CHAPTER 7. LEGISLATION
Section 7.1. Prior city legislation.
   All by-laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city
which are not inconsistent with this charter and which are in force and in
effect on the effective date of this charter shall continue in full force and
effect as by-laws, ordinances, resolutions, rules and regulations of the city
until repealed or amended. If any such ordinance, resolution, rule or
regulation provides for the appointment of any officers or any members of any
board or commission by the Mayor, such officers or members of any board or
commission shall, after the effective date of this charter, be appointed by the
Commission.
   Those provisions of any effective valid by-law, ordinance, resolution or
rule or regulation which are inconsistent with this charter, are hereby
repealed.
Section 7.2. Ordinances and resolutions.
   All official action of the Commission shall be by ordinance, resolution,
motion, or order. Action by resolution, motion or order. Action by resolution,
motion, or order shall be limited to matters required or permitted to be done
by resolution by this charter or by state or federal law or pertaining to the
internal affairs or concerns of the city government. All other acts of the
Commission, and all acts carrying a penalty for the violation thereof, shall be
by ordinance. Each ordinance shall be identified by a number and short title
and by a code section number as soon as a codification of city ordinances
exists.
   Each proposed ordinance shall be introduced in written or printed form. The
style of all ordinances passed by the Commission shall be “The City of Marine
City ordains:”.
State constitutional law reference:
   General authority relative to adoption of ordinances, Mich. Const. of 1963,
Art. VII, § 22
Statutory reference:
   Provision for adoption of ordinances mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k)
Section 7.3. Enactment, amendment, repeal and effective date of ordinances.
   Subject to the exceptions which follow hereafter, (a) ordinances may be
enacted by the affirmative vote of not less than four members of the
Commission, (b) no ordinance shall be amended or repealed except by an
ordinance adopted as aforesaid, (c) no ordinance shall be enacted at the
meeting at which it is introduced nor until after publication of the proposed
ordinance, or summary thereof, and (d) the effective date of all ordinances
shall be prescribed therein but the effective date shall not be earlier than
ten days after enactment nor before publication thereof. It is provided,
however, that an ordinance which is declared therein to be an emergency
ordinance which is immediately necessary for the preservation of the public
peace, health or safety may be enacted at the meeting at which it is introduced
or before publication of the proposed ordinance or summary thereof, and may be
given earlier effect than ten days after its enactment by the affirmative votes
of five members of the Commission if six or seven members are present at the
meeting at which it was enacted or by the affirmative votes of four members if
four or five members of the Commission are present at the meeting at which it
is enacted.
   In case an ordinance is given effect earlier than ten days after its
enactment, the requirements for publication before such ordinance becomes
operative may be met by posting copies thereof in conspicuous locations in
three public places in the city, other provisions of this charter
notwithstanding, and the Clerk shall, immediately after such posting, enter in
the Ordinance Book under the record of the ordinance a certificate under his
hand stating the time and place of such publication by posting, which
certificate shall be prima facie evidence of such publication by posting of the
ordinance, but the failure to so record and authenticate such ordinance shall
not invalidate it or suspend its operation. Such ordinance shall also be
published in accordance with Section
7.4 but not as a requirement for the effectiveness thereof.
   No ordinance granting any public utility franchise shall be enacted except
in accordance with the provisions of Section
14.2.
   No ordinance shall be amended by reference to the title only, but the
amended section or sections of the ordinance as amended shall be re-enacted and
published. However, an ordinance or section thereof may be repealed by
reference to its title and ordinance or code number only.
Section 7.4. Publication and recording of ordinances.
   Each ordinance shall be published within fifteen days after its enactment by
one of the following two methods: (a) the full text thereof may be published in
a newspaper as defined in Section
17.5 either separately or as part of any published Commission proceedings, or
summary thereof, or (h) in cases of ordinances over five hundred words in
length a digest, summary or statement of purpose of the ordinance approved by
the Commission may be published in a newspaper as defined in Section
17.5 including with such newspaper publication a notice that printed copies of
the full text of the ordinance are available for inspection by the distribution
to the public at the office of the Clerk; if method (h) is used, then printed
copies shall promptly be so made available as stated in such notice.
   All ordinances shall be recorded by the Clerk in a book to be called "The
Ordinance Book," and it shall be the duty of the Mayor and Clerk to
authenticate such records by their official signatures thereon, but the failure
to so record and authenticate such ordinance shall not invalidate it or suspend
its operation.
Section 7.5. Penalties for violations of ordinances.
   Any ordinance may provide for the punishment of those who violate its
provisions. The punishment for the violation of any city ordinance shall not
exceed a fine of five hundred dollars or imprisonment for ninety days, or both,
in the discretion of the court.
Statutory reference:
   Limitations on penalties, see M.C.L.A. § 117.4i(10)
Section 7.6. Special requirements for certain commission actions.
   (a)   Action to vacate, discontinue or abolish any highway, street, lane,
alley or other public place, or part thereof, shall be by resolution. After the
introduction of such resolution and before its final adoption, the Commission
shall appoint a time when it shall meet and hear objections thereto; and notice
of the time, place and purpose of such meeting shall be published either
separately or as part of any published proceedings of the Commission.
   (b)   The following actions shall require the affirmative vote of four
members of the Commission for the effectiveness thereof:
      (1)   Vacating, discontinuing or abolishing any highway, street, lane,
alley or other public place or part thereof;
      (2)   Leasing, selling or disposing of any city-owned real estate or
interest therein;
      (3)   Authorizing the condemnation of private property for public use;
      (4)   Creating or abolishing any office;
      (5)   Appropriating any money;
      (6)   Imposing any tax or assessment;
      (7)   Reconsidering or rescinding any vote of the Commission.
   (c)   The Commission shall not have power to engage in any business
enterprise requiring an investment of money in excess of the amount permitted
to be so invested by statute unless approved by a three-fifths vote of the
electors voting thereon at any general or special election.
Section 7.7. Technical codes adopted by reference.
   Subject to the provisions of this section, there may be adopted as a city
ordinance or code, by reference thereto in an adopting ordinance, in whole or
part, provisions of (a) any Michigan statute or (b) any detailed technical
regulations promulgated or enacted by (1) any state or federal agency, or (2)
by any municipality, or (3) by any organization or association which has
developed a recognized standard code or set of such technical regulations. Such
adopting ordinance shall clearly identify and state the purpose of the
provisions or regulations so adopted. Where any ordinance or code, or amendment
thereto, adopting provisions by reference is enacted, all requirements for its
publication may be met, other provisions of this charter notwithstanding, by
(a) publishing the ordinance citing such provisions in the manner provided by
this charter for the publication of other ordinances, and including as part of
such publication a notice that printed copies of the provisions so referred to
are available for inspection by and distribution to the public at the office of
the Clerk and (b) by so making copies available for public inspection and for
distribution to the public at a reasonable charge.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to adopt technical codes by reference, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(k)
Section 7.8. Severability of ordinances.
   Unless an ordinance shall expressly provide to the contrary, if any portion
of an ordinance or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall
be found to be invalid by a court, such invalidity shall not affect the
remaining portions or applications of the ordinance which can he given effect
without the invalid portion or application, provided such remaining portions or
applications are not determined by the court to be inoperable, and to this end
ordinances are declared to be severable.
Section 7.9. Codification of ordinances.
   Within two years after the adoption of this charter the Commission shall
direct and complete the codification of all ordinances of the city, in printed
loose-leaf form, and shall cause such codification to be maintained thereafter
in current form. Any such codification may originally include provisions not
previously contained in ordinances of the city.
   The Commission shall provide for making copies of the codification available
for public inspection and for distribution to the public at a reasonable charge
therefor and shall publish notice of the printing and availability of such
codification before the effective date thereof. Such printing and making
available of the codification and notice thereof shall constitute publication
of any such codification, other provisions of this charter for publication
notwithstanding.
   The copies of the ordinances and of the codification thereof, and of
provisions adopted by reference in accordance with Section 7.7 may be certified
by the Clerk and, when so certified, shall be competent evidence in all courts
and other legally established tribunals as to the matter contained therein.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to codify ordinances, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
Section 7.10. Initiative and referendum.
   An ordinance may be initiated by petition, or a referendum on an ordinance
enacted by the Commission may be had by petition, as hereinafter provided.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for initiative and referendum permissive, see M.C.L.A. § 117.4i(6)
Section 7.11. Initiatory and referendary petitions.
   An initiatory or a referendary petition shall be signed by not less than ten
per cent of the registered electors of the city, as of the last regular city
election, and all signatures on said petition shall be obtained within sixty
days before the date of filing the petition with the Clerk. Any such petition
shall be addressed to the Commission. No such petition need be on one paper,
but may be the aggregate of two or more petition papers identical as to
contents and simultaneously filed by one person. An initiatory petition shall
set forth in full the ordinance it proposes to initiate, and no petition shall
propose to initiate more than one ordinance. A referendary petition shall
identify the ordinance or part thereof or sections of the code it proposes to
have repealed.
   Each signer of a petition shall sign his name, and shall place thereon after
his name, the date and his place of residence by street and number, or by other
customary designation. To each petition paper there shall be attached a sworn
affidavit by the circulator thereof, stating the number of signers thereof and
that each signature thereon is the genuine signature of the person whose name
it purports to be, and that it was made in the presence of the affiant. Such
petition shall he filed with the Clerk who shall, within fifteen days, canvass
the signatures thereon. If the petitions do not contain a sufficient number of
signatures of registered electors of the city, the Clerk shall notify forthwith
the person filing such petition and fifteen days from such notification shall
be allowed for the filing of supplemental petition papers. When petitions with
sufficient signatures are filed within the time allowed by this section, the
Clerk shall present the petition to the Commission at its next regular meeting.
Section 7.12. Commission procedure on initiatory and referendary petitions.
   Upon receiving an initiatory or referendary petition from the Clerk, the
Commission shall, within thirty days, unless otherwise provided by law, either,
   (a)   Enact the ordinance as submitted by an initiatory petition;
   (b)   Repeal the ordinance referred to by a referendary petition; or
   (c)   Determine to submit the proposal provided for in the petition to the
electors.
Section 7.13. Submission of initiatory and referendary ordinances to electors.
   Should the Commission decide to submit the proposal to the electors, it
shall be submitted at the next election held in the city for any other purpose,
or, in the discretion of the Commission, at a special election called therefor.
In the case of an initiatory petition, if no election is to be held in the city
for any other purpose within one-hundred-fifty days from the time the petition
is presented to the Commission and the Commission does not enact the ordinance,
then the Commission shall call a special election to be held within sixty days
from such date of presentation, for the submission of the initiative proposal.
The result of all elections held pursuant to this section shall be determined
by a majority vote of the electors voting thereon, except in cases where
otherwise required by the general laws of the state of Michigan.
Section 7.14. Ordinance suspended: Miscellaneous provisions on initiatory and
referendary petitions.
   The presentation to the Commission by the Clerk of a valid and sufficient
referendary petition containing a number of signatures equal to twenty per cent
of the regular electors of the city, as of the date of the last regular city
election, all of which signatures have been obtained within sixty days before
the date of filing the petition with the clerk, shall automatically suspend the
operation of the ordinance in question pending repeal by the Commission or
final determination by the electors.
   An ordinance adopted by the electorate through initiatory proceedings may
not be amended or repealed by the Commission for a period of one year after the
date of the election at which it was adopted, and an ordinance repealed by the
electorate may not be reenacted by the Commission for a period of two years
after the date of the election at which it was repealed. It is provided however
that any ordinance may be adopted, amended or repealed at any time by
appropriate referendary or initiatory procedure in accordance with the
foregoing provisions of this chapter or if submitted to the electorate by the
Commission on its own motion.
   If two or more ordinances adopted at the same election shall have
conflicting provisions, the provisions in the ordinance receiving the highest
number of affirmative votes shall govern.
CHAPTER 8. GENERAL FINANCE—BUDGET, AUDIT, PURCHASING
Section 8.1. Fiscal year.
   The fiscal year of the city and of all its agencies shall begin on the first
day of July of each year and end on the thirtieth day of June of the following
year.
Section 8.2. Budget procedures.
   The City Manager shall prepare and submit to the Commission, on or before
the first regular meeting in April of each year, a recommended budget covering
the next fiscal year, and shall include therein at least the following
information:
   (a)   Detailed estimates with supporting explanations of all proposed
expenditures for each agency, department and office of the city showing the
expenditures for corresponding items for the last preceding fiscal year in
full, and for the current fiscal year to March 1 and estimated expenditures for
the balance of the current fiscal year;
   (b)   Statements of the bonded and other indebtedness of the city, showing
the debt redemption and interest requirements, the debt authorized and
unissued, and the condition of sinking funds, if any;
   (c)   Detailed estimates of all anticipated revenues of the city from
sources other than taxes with a comparative statement of the amounts received
by the city from each of the same or similar sources for the last preceding
fiscal year in full, and for the current fiscal year to March 1, and estimated
revenues for the balance of the current fiscal year;
   (d)   A statement of the estimated balance or deficit for the end of the
current fiscal year;
   (e)   An estimate of the amount of money to be raised from current and
delinquent taxes and the amount to be raised from bond issues which, together
with any available unappropriated surplus and revenues from other sources will
be necessary to meet the proposed expenditures;
   (f)   Such other supporting information as the Commission may request.
Section 8.3. Budget hearing.
   A public hearing on the proposed budget shall be held before its final
adoption, at such time and place as the Commission shall direct. Notice of such
public hearing, a summary of the proposed budget, and notice that the proposed
budget is on file in the office of the Clerk shall be published at least one
week in advance of the hearing. The complete proposed budget shall be on file
for public inspection during office hours at the office of the Clerk for a
period of not less than one week prior to such hearing.
Section 8.4. Adoption of budget.
   In May of each year the Commission shall by resolution adopt a budget for
the next fiscal year and shall appropriate the money needed for municipal
purposes during the next fiscal year and shall provide for a levy of the amount
necessary to be raised by taxes upon real and personal property for municipal
purposes subject to the limitations in Section
9.1.
Section 8.5. Budget control.
   Except for purposes which are to be financed by the issuance of bonds or by
special assessment, or for other purposes not chargeable to a budget
appropriation, no money shall be drawn from the treasury of the city except in
accordance with an appropriation thereof for such specific purpose, nor shall
any obligation for the expenditure of money be incurred without an
appropriation covering all payments which will be due under such obligation in
the current fiscal year. The Commission by resolution may transfer any
unencumbered appropriation balance, or any portion thereof from one account,
department, fund or agency to another.
   The Commission may make additional appropriations during the fiscal year for
unanticipated expenditures required of the city, but such additional
appropriations shall not exceed the amount by which actual and anticipated
revenues of the year are exceeding the revenues as estimated in the budget
unless the appropriations are necessary to relieve an emergency endangering the
public health, peace or safety.
   Except in those cases where there is no other logical account to which an
expenditure can be charged, expenditures shall not be charged directly to the
contingency fund (or other similar fund). Instead, the necessary part of the
appropriation for the contingency fund (or other similar fund) shall be
transferred to the logical account and the expenditure then charged to such
account.
   At the beginning of each quarterly period during the fiscal year, and more
often if required by the Commission, the City Manager shall submit to the
Commission data showing the relation between the estimated and actual revenues
and expenditures to date; and if it shall appear that the revenues are less
than anticipated, the Commission may reduce appropriations, except amounts
required for debt and interest charges, to such a degree as may be necessary to
keep expenditures within the revenues.
   The balance in any budget appropriation which has not been encumbered at the
end of the fiscal year shall revert to the general fund.
Section 8.6. Depository.
   The Commission shall designate depositories for city funds, and shall
provide for the regular deposit of all city moneys. The Commission shall
provide for such security for city deposits as is authorized or permitted by
statute, except that personal surety bonds shall not be deemed proper security.
Section 8.7. Independent audit; annual report.
   An independent audit shall be made of all city accounts at least annually,
and more frequently if deemed necessary by the Commission. Such audit shall be
made by Certified Public Accountants experienced in municipal accounting
selected by the Commission.
   The City Manager shall prepare an annual report of the affairs of the city
including a financial report. Copies of such audit as submitted by the
accountants and of such annual report after approval by the Commission shall be
promptly made available for public inspection at the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 9. TAXATION
Section 9.1. Power to tax; tax limit.
   The city shall have the power to assess taxes and levy and collect rents,
tolls and excises. Exclusive of any levies authorized by statute to be made
beyond charter tax rate limitations, the annual ad valorem tax levy shall not
exceed two per cent of the assessed value of all real and personal property
subject to taxation in the city.
State constitutional law reference:
   Limitation on taxation, Mich. Const. of 1963, Art. VII, § 21
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on taxation, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5(a)
Section 9.2. Subjects of taxation.
   The subjects of ad valorem taxation for municipal purposes shall be the same
as for state, county and school purposes under the general law. Except as
otherwise provided by this charter city taxes shall be levied, collected and
returned in the manner provided by statute.
Statutory reference:
   General property tax act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 211.1 et seq.
   Mandatory provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(f), (i)
Section 9.3. Exemptions.
   No exemptions from taxation shall be allowed, except as expressly required
or permitted by statute. In the case of exemptions made to persons who, in the
opinion of the Assessor and Board of Review, by reason of poverty are unable to
contribute toward the public charges, there shall be required as a condition to
the grant of exemption a trust deed or assignment to the city of all or any
part of the real or personal property of the beneficiary of such exemption.
Such trust deed or assignment shall be in such form as to be recordable in the
office of the Register of Deeds of St. Clair County and shall be so recorded.
Such deed shall state the amount at which the property would have been assessed
if it had not been exempted. No such trust deed or assignment shall deprive the
owner of the property to whom tax exemption is granted of his right to freely
occupy and use the property, but shall give the city in the event that the
ownership of such property is transferred to another in any manner whatsoever
such an interest therein as will provide for the payment to the city of an
amount equal to all taxes, exclusive of interest, penalties and collection
fees, which would have been levied by the city against the property of such
owner had such exception not been granted.
Statutory reference:
   Tax exemptions, M.C.L.A. §§ 211.7 et seq.
Section 9.4. Tax day.
   Subject to the exceptions provided or permitted by statute, the taxable
status of persons and property shall be determined as of the first day of
January, which shall be deemed the tax day.
Statutory reference:
   Tax day, see M.C.L.A. § 211.2
Section 9.5. Preparation of the assessment roll.
   On or before the first Monday in March in each year the Assessor shall
prepare and certify an assessment roll of all property in the city subject to
taxation. Such roll shall be prepared in accordance with statute and this
charter. Values shall be estimated according to recognized methods of
systematic assessment. The records of the assessor shall show separate figures
for the value of the land and of the building improvements. On or before the
first Monday in March the Assessor shall give by first class mail a notice of
any increase over the previous year in the assessed value of any property or of
the addition of any property to the roll to the owner as shown by such
assessment roll. The failure to give any such notice or of the owner to receive
it shall not invalidate any assessment roll or assessment thereon.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for preparation of the assessment roll mandatory, M.C.L.A. § 117.3
(i)
Section 9.6. Board of review.
   The Board of Review shall be composed of three freeholders who shall meet
the eligibility requirements contained in Section
5.1 and who are qualified and registered electors of the city, who during their
term of office shall not be city officers or employees or be nominees or
candidates for elective city office. The filing by a member of the Board of
Review of his nomination petition for an elective city office or the filing of
a consent thereto shall constitute a resignation from the Board of Review. One
member of the Board shall be appointed by the Commission annually in January,
1953 and each year thereafter for a term of three years, to replace the member
whose term expires that year. The Commission shall fix the compensation of the
members of the Board. The Board of Review shall annually in February select its
own chairman for the ensuing year, and the Assessor shall be clerk of the Board
and shall be entitled to be heard at its sessions but shall have no vote.
Section 9.7. Meeting of board of review.
   The Board of Review shall convene in its first session on the second Monday
in March of each year at such time of day and place as shall be designated by
the Commission and shall remain in session for at least eight hours for the
purpose of considering and correcting the roll. In each case in which the
assessed value of any property is increased over the amount shown on the
assessment roll as prepared by the Assessor or any property is added to the
roll by the Board, or the Board has resolved to consider at its second session
the increasing of an assessment or the adding of any property to the roll, the
Assessor shall give notice thereof to the owners as shown by such roll by first
class letter mailed not later than the day following the end of the first
session of the Board. Such notice shall state the date, time, place and purpose
of the second session of the Board. The failure to give any such notice or of
the owner to receive it shall not invalidate any assessment roll or assessment
thereon.
   The Board of Review shall convene in its second session on the fourth Monday
in March of each year at such time of day and place as shall be designated by
the Commission and shall continue in session until all interested persons have
had an opportunity to be heard, but in no case for less than six hours. At the
second session, the Board may not increase any assessment except in those cases
in which the Board resolved in its first session to consider such increase or
addition at its second session.
Statutory reference:
   Provision for meeting of board of review mandatory, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(i)
Section 9.8. Notice of meetings.
   Notice of the time and place of the sessions of the Board of Review shall be
published by the Clerk at least ten days prior to the first session of the
Board.
Section 9.9. Duties and functions of board of review.
   For the purpose of revising and correcting assessments, the Board of Review
shall have the same powers and perform like duties in all respects as are by
the general tax laws conferred upon and required of boards of review in
townships, except as otherwise provided in this charter. It shall hear the
complaints of all persons considering themselves aggrieved by assessments, and
if it shall appear that any person or property has been wrongfully assessed or
omitted from the roll, the Board shall correct the roll in such manner as it
deems just. In all cases the roll shall be reviewed according to the facts
existing on the tax day and no change in the status of any property after said
day shall be considered by the Board in making its decisions. Except as
otherwise provided by statute, no person other than the Board of Review shall
make or authorize any change upon, or additions or corrections to, the
assessment roll. It shall be the duty of the Assessor to keep a permanent
record of all proceedings and to enter therein all resolutions and decisions of
the Board.
Section 9.10. Endorsement of roll.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
and not later than the first Monday in April, the majority of its members shall
endorse thereon and sign a statement to the effect that the same is the
assessment roll of the city for the year in which it has been prepared. The
omission of such endorsement shall not affect the validity of such roll.
State law references:
   Provision for confirmation of assessment roll mandatory, see M.C.L.A. §
117.3(i) date for review of assessments, see M.C.L.A. § 211.30a
Section 9.11. Clerk to certify tax levy.
   Within three days after the Commission has adopted the budget for the
ensuing year, the Clerk shall certify to the Assessor the total amount which
the Commission determines shall be raised by general ad valorem tax. He shall
also certify all amounts of current or delinquent special assessments and all
other amounts which the Commission requires to be assessed, reassessed or
charged upon any property or against any person.
Section 9.12. City tax roll.
   After the Board of Review has completed its review of the assessment roll,
the Assessor shall prepare a copy of the assessment roll to be known as the
“City Tax Roll,” and upon receiving the certification of the several amounts to
be raised, as provided in Section
9.11, the Assessor shall spread upon said tax roll the several amounts
determined by the Commission to be charged, assessed or reassessed against
persons or property. He shall also spread the amounts of the general ad valorem
city tax according to and in proportion to the several valuations set forth in
said assessment roll. To avoid fractions in computation on any tax roll, the
Assessor may add to the amount of the several taxes to be raised not more than
the amount prescribed by statute. Any excess created thereby on any tax roll
shall belong to the city.
Section 9.13. Tax roll certified for collection.
   After spreading the taxes the Assessor shall certify the tax roll, and the
Mayor shall annex his warrant thereto directing and requiring the Treasurer to
collect prior to March first of the following year from the several persons
named in said roll the several sums mentioned therein opposite their respective
names as a tax or assessment and granting to him, for the purpose of collecting
the taxes, assessments and charges on such roll, all the statutory powers and
immunities possessed by township treasurers for the collection of taxes. On
June fifteenth the roll shall be delivered to the Treasurer for collection.
Section 9.14. Tax lien on property.
   On July first, the taxes thus assessed shall become a debt due to the city
from the persons to whom they are assessed, and the amounts assessed on any
interest in real property shall become a lien upon such real property, for such
amounts and for all interest and charges thereon, and all personal taxes shall
become a first lien on all personal property of such persons so assessed. Such
lien shall take precedence over all other claims, encumbrances and liens to the
extent provided by statute and shall continue until such taxes, interest and
charges are paid.
Section 9.15. Taxes due; notification thereof.
   City taxes shall be due on July first of each year. The Treasurer shall not
be required to call upon the persons named in the city tax roll, nor to make
personal demand for the payment of taxes, but he shall (a) publish between June
fifteenth and July first, notice of the time when said taxes will be due for
collection and the penalties and fees for late payment of same, and (b) mail a
bill to each person named in such roll, but in cases of multiple ownership of
property, only one bill need be mailed.
   Failure on the part of the Treasurer to give said notice or mail such bills
shall not invalidate the taxes on said tax roll nor release the person or
property assessed from the fees provided in this chapter in case of late
payment or non-payment of the same.
Section 9.16. Collection fees.
   All taxes paid on or before August thirty-first of each year shall be
collected by the Treasurer without collection fee. On September first he shall
add to all taxes paid thereafter a collection fee of four per cent of the
amount of said taxes. Such collection fee shall belong to the city and
constitute a charge, and shall be a lien against the property to which the
taxes themselves apply, collectible in the same manner as the taxes to which
they are added.
   It is provided, however, that if delivery of the tax roll to the Treasurer,
as provided in Section 9.13, is delayed for any reason by more than thirty days
after June fifteenth, the application of the collection fee provided herein
shall be postponed thirty days for the first thirty days of such delay and
shall be postponed an additional thirty days for each additional thirty days,
or major fraction thereof, of such delay.
Section 9.17. Failure or refusal to pay tax.
   If any person, firm or corporation shall neglect or refuse to pay any tax
assessed to him or them, the Treasurer shall collect the same by seizing the
personal property of such person, firm or corporation, to an amount sufficient
to pay such tax, fees and charges for subsequent sale, wherever the same may be
found in the state, and from which seizure no property shall be exempt. He may
sell the property seized to an amount sufficient to pay the taxes and all
charges in accordance with statutory provisions. The Treasurer may, if
otherwise unable to collect a tax on personal property, sue the person, firm or
corporation to whom it is assessed in accordance with statute.
Section 9.18. Delinquent tax roll to county treasurer.
   All city taxes on real property remaining uncollected by the treasurer on
the first day of March following the date when said roll was received by him
shall be returned to the County Treasurer in the manner and with like effect as
provided by statute for returns by township treasurers of township, school and
county taxes. Such returns shall include all the additional assessments,
charges and fees hereinbefore provided, which shall be added to the amount
assessed in said tax roll against each property or person. The taxes thus
returned shall be collected in the same manner as other taxes returned to the
County Treasurer are collected in accordance with statute, and shall be and
remain a lien upon the property against which they are assessed until paid.
Section 9.19. State, county and school taxes.
   For the purpose of assessing and collecting taxes for state, county and
school purposes, the city shall be considered the same as a township, and all
provisions of statute relative to the collection of and accounting for such
taxes shall apply. For these purposes the Treasurer shall perform the same
duties and have the same powers as township treasurers under statute.
CHAPTER 10. BORROWING POWER
Section 10.1. Grant of authority to borrow.
   Subject to the applicable provisions of statute and Constitution the
Commission may borrow money and issue bonds and other evidences of indebtedness
therefor, for any purpose within the scope of powers vested in the city. Such
bonds or other evidence of indebtedness shall include, but not be limited to,
the following types:
   (a)   General obligation bonds which pledge the full faith, credit the
resources of the city for the payment of such obligations, including bond for
the city's portion of public improvements;
   (b)   Notes issued in anticipation of the collection of taxes, but the
proceeds of such notes may be spent only in accordance with appropriations as
provided by Section
8.5;
   (c)   In case of fire, flood or other calamity, emergency obligations due in
not more than five years for the relief of the inhabitants of the city and for
the preservation of municipal property;
   (d)   Bonds issued in anticipation of special assessments, which bonds may
be the obligation of the special assessment district, or may be both an
obligation of such district and a general obligation of the city; provided that
bonds may be issued in anticipation of the special assessments levied in
respect to two or more public improvements, but no special assessment district
shall be compelled to pay the obligation of any other special assessment
district.
   (e)   Mortgage bonds for the acquiring, owning, purchasing, constructing or
operating of any public utility as provided in Article 8, Sections 23 and 24,
of the State Constitution; provided such bonds shall not impose any liability
upon the city but shall be secured only upon the property and revenues of such
public utility, including a franchise, stating the terms upon which, in case of
foreclosure, the purchaser may operate the same, which franchise shall in no
case extend for a longer period than twenty years from the date of the sale of
such utility and franchise on foreclosure. Such mortgage bonds shall be sold to
yield not to exceed six per cent per annum. A sinking fund shall be created in
the event of the issuance of such bonds, by setting aside such percentage of
the gross or net earnings of the public utility as may be deemed sufficient for
such payment.
   (f)   Bonds issued for refunding money advanced or paid on special
assessments imposed, for water main extensions, on the faith and credit of the
city, to provide for such refunding from time to time as buildings shall be
connected with such water main extensions, in an amount not to exceed one
hundred thousand dollars and at a rate of interest not to exceed six per cent
per annum;
   (g)   Bonds for the refunding of funded indebtedness of the city;
   (h)   Revenue bonds as authorized by statute which are secured only by the
revenues from a public improvement and do not constitute a general obligation
of the city.
Statutory reference:
   Authority to borrow money, see M.C.L.A. § 117.4a
Section 10.2. Limits of borrowing powers.
   The net bonded indebtedness incurred for all public purposes shall not at
any time exceed ten per cent of the assessed value of all the real and personal
property in the city, provided that in computing such net bonded indebtedness
there shall be excluded money borrowed under the following sections:
10.1 (b) (tax anticipation notes),
10.1 (d) (special assessment bonds even though they are also a general
obligation of the city[)],
10.1 (e) (mortgage bonds),
10.1 (f) (bonds issued for refunding money advanced or paid on special
assessments imposed for water main extensions),
10.1 (h) (revenue bonds), and any other obligations excluded by statute or
Constitution from such limitation. The resources of the sinking fund pledged
for the retirement of any outstanding bonds shall also be deducted from the
amount of the bonded indebtedness.
   The amount of emergency loans which the Commission may make under the
provisions of Section
10.1 (c) may not exceed the maximum amount permitted by statute.
   The total amount of such special assessment bonds issued under Section
10.1 (d) which are a general obligation of the city shall at no time by reason
of future issues, other than issues of refunding bonds, exceed the statutory
limitation thereon, nor shall such bonds be issued in any calendar year in
excess of the amount so permitted by statute to be so issued unless authorized
by a majority vote of the electors in the manner requested by statute.
Statutory reference:
   Limit on net bond indebtedness, see M.C.L.A. § 117.4a
Section 10.3. Applicability of other statutory restrictions.
   The issuance of any bonds shall be subject to applicable requirements of
statute with regard to public notice in advance of the authorization of such
issues, filing of petitions for a referendum on such issuance, holding of such
referendum and other applicable procedural requirements.
Section 10.4. Preparation and record of bonds.
   Every bond issued by the city shall contain on its face a statement
specifying the object for which the same is issued. It shall be unlawful for
any officer of the city to sign or issue any such bond unless such statement is
set forth on the face of the same, or to use such bonds or the proceeds from
the sale thereof for any object other than that mentioned on the face of such
bond. Any officer who shall violate any of the provisions of this section shall
be deemed guilty of misconduct in office.
   Bonds and all other evidences of indebtedness issued by the city shall be
signed by the Mayor and Clerk under the seal of the city. The coupons
evidencing the interest upon said bonds may be executed with the fascimile
signatures of the Mayor and the Clerk. A complete and detailed record of all
bonds shall be kept by the Clerk.
   Upon the payment of any bond or other evidence of indebtedness, the same
shall be cancelled.
Section 10.5. Unissued bonds.
   Any authorization by the electors for the issuance of bonds by the city
shall be void if such bonds shall not be issued within five years from the date
of authorization.
CHAPTER 11. SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section 11.1. General power relative to special assessments.
   The Commission shall have the power to determine by resolution that the
whole or any part of the expense of any public improvement be defrayed by
special assessment upon the property especially benefitted in proportion to the
benefits derived or to be derived.
Section 11.2. Detailed procedure to be fixed by ordinance.
   The Commission shall prescribe by ordinance the complete special assessment
procedure governing the initiation of projects, preparation of plans and cost
estimates, creation of districts, making and confirming of assessment rolls,
correction of errors in the rolls, collection of assessments and any other
matters concerning the making of improvements by the special assessment method.
   Such ordinance shall be subject to the following provisions:
   (1)   No resolution finally determining to proceed with establishing any
special assessment district for the making of any public improvement shall be
passed until cost estimates have been prepared and a public hearing has been
held on the advisability of so proceeding, which hearing shall be held not less
than ten days after notice thereof has been published and sent by first class
mail to all property owners in the proposed district as shown by the current
assessment roll of the city.
   (2)   No special assessment roll shall be finally confirmed until after a
meeting of the Commission has been held for the purpose of reviewing such roll,
which meeting shall be held not less than ten days after notice thereof has
been published and sent by first class mail to all property owners in the
proposed district as shown by the current assessment roll of the city.
   (3)   No original special assessment roll shall be confirmed except by the
affirmative vote of five members of the Commission if prior to such
confirmation written objections to the proposed improvement have been filed by
the owners of property which will be required to bear more than fifty per cent
of the amount of such special assessment.
   (4)   No public improvement to be financed in whole or part by special
assessment shall be made before the confirmation of the special assessment roll
for such improvement.
Statutory reference:
   Powers re: special assessments, see M.C.L.A. §§ 117.4a, 117.4b, 117.4d,
117.5
Section 11.3. Special assessment powers.
   In addition to the other improvements which the city may make and finance in
whole or in part by special assessments, the city may:
   (a)   Construct, establish and extend facilities for the storage and parking
of vehicles within its corporate limits as a public improvement and finance the
same in whole or in part by special assessments;
   (b)   Install a boulevard lighting system on any street and finance the same
in whole or in part by special assessment upon lands abutting thereon; provided
that property owners of a majority of the frontage on such street or part
thereof to be so improved shall petition therefor;
   (c)   Install and connect sewers and waterworks on and to property within
the city and finance the same in whole or part by special assessments.
Section 11.4. Disposition of excessive special assessments.
   The excess by which any special assessment proves larger than the actual
cost of the improvement and expenses incidental thereto, and principal and
interest on bonds or other evidences of obligation issued therefor, may be
placed in the general fund of the city if such excess is five per cent or less
of the assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than necessary by
more than five per cent the entire excess shall be refunded on a pro rata basis
to the owners of the property assessed as shown by the current assessment roll
of the city (and to the city to the extent it has been assessed for such
improvement). Such refund shall be made by credit against future unpaid
installments to the extent such installments then exist and the balance of such
refund shall be in cash. No refunds may be made which contravene the provisions
of any outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured in whole or part by such
special assessment.
Section 11.5. Additional assessments; corrections of invalid special
assessments.
   Additional pro rata assessments may be made when any special assessment roll
proves insufficient to pay for the improvement for which it was levied and the
expenses incident thereto, or to pay the principal and interest on bonds or
other evidences of obligation issued therefor; provided that the additional pro
rata assessment shall not exceed twenty-five per cent of the assessment as
originally confirmed unless a meeting of the Commission be held to review such
additional assessment, for which meeting notices shall be published and mailed
as provided in the case of review of the original special assessment roll.
   Whenever any special assessment shall, in the opinion of the Commission, be
invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the proceedings, or if any
court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge such assessment to be illegal,
the Commission shall, whether the improvement has been made or not, or whether
any part of the assessments have been paid or not, have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made. All proceedings on such reassessment and for the collection thereof shall
be conducted in the same manner as provided for the original assessment, and
whenever any sum or part thereof levied upon any property in the assessment so
set aside has been paid and not refunded, the payment so made shall be applied
upon the reassessment or if the payments exceed the amount of the reassessment
refunds shall be made.
   No judgment or decree nor any act of the Commission vacating a special
assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of the city upon the premises
assessed for such amount of the assessment as may be equitably charged against
the same or as by regular mode of proceeding might have been lawfully assessed
thereupon.
Section 11.6. Contested assessments.
   No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the
purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any special assessment (a)
unless within thirty days after the confirmation of the special assessment roll
written notice is given to the Commission of intention to file such suit or
action stating the grounds on which it is claimed such assessment is illegal,
and (b) unless such suit or action shall be commenced within sixty days after
confirmation of the roll.
Section 11.7. Lien and collection of special assessments.
   Lien. Upon the confirmation of each special assessment roll the special
assessments shall become a debt to the city from the persons to whom they are
assessed and shall until paid be a lien upon the property assessed for the
amount of such assessments and all interest and charges thereon. Such lien
shall be of the same character and effect as created by this charter for city
taxes.
   Due date. Special assessments shall become due on such date as the
Commission shall prescribe.
   Installment payments. Any assessment may be made payable in yearly
installments not to exceed forty (40) in number. The initial installment shall
be due on such date as the Commission shall prescribe. Subsequent yearly
installments shall be spread on the annual city tax roll. The second
installment shall be collected as part of the first city tax roll which becomes
due six months or more after the due date of the initial installment. All
unpaid installments, from such date as the Commission shall prescribe, shall
bear interest at a rate not exceeding six per cent per annum,* which interest
computed to the following September first shall be spread yearly upon the city
tax roll together as one item with the amount of the installment then being
spread. The Commission may provide for advance payment of unpaid installments
with interest computed to such date as the Commission prescribes.
   Collection fees. Each special assessment, or the initial installment of such
assessment when installment payments are provided for, shall be collected by
the Treasurer without collection fee for a period ending on the last day of the
second month following the due day thereof. On the first day of the third month
following such due date, the Treasurer shall add to such assessment or initial
installment paid thereafter a collection fee of four percent of the amount
thereof, and on the first day of each succeeding month that the installment
remains unpaid, he shall add an additional one-half of one per cent collection
fee. All collection fees shall belong to the city and be collectible in the
same manner as are collection fees on city taxes.
   Delinquent assessments. Special assessments or initial installments which
become due other than on July first shall, if unpaid for thirty days or more on
May first of any year, be certified as delinquent to the Commission by the
Treasurer and the Commission shall place such delinquent assessments on the tax
roll for that year together as one item with accrued collection fees thereon to
the following September first and such interest and penalties as may be
provided in said ordinance.
   Collection when part of tax roll. Special assessments, or installments
thereof which become due on July first of any year, and delinquent assessments
together with accrued collection fees, interest and penalties thereon which
have been placed upon the city tax roll, shall be collected in all respects as
are city taxes due on such date and shall be returned to the County Treasurer
with such taxes if uncollected on the following March first. (Amended 8-5-80)
Statutory reference:
   * Higher interest permitted when there are obligations in anticipation of
special assessments, see M.C.L. 133.9
Section 11.8. Special assessment accounts.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, moneys raised by special
assessment for any public improvement shall be credited to a special account
and shall be used only to pay for the costs of the improvement for which the
assessment was levied and expenses incidental thereto or to repay principal and
interest on any money borrowed therefor.
Section 11.9. Assessments for removal of hazards, etc.
   The assessment for the cost of the construction or maintenance of any
sidewalk or the abatement of any hazard or nuisance to be made pursuant to
Section
2.3(u) or Section
2.3(v), or for the cost of removing snow, ice or other obstructions from
sidewalks to be made pursuant to Section
2.3(w), shall be made by resolution of the Commission. Notice of the time at
which the Commission will act thereon shall be given by first class mail to the
owner of the property to be assessed as shown by the current tax roll of the
city except that no notice shall be necessary in the case of assessments for
the removal of weeds or snow or ice. For the purposes of collection of such
assessment, the adoption of such resolution shall be equivalent to the
confirmation of a special assessment roll. The amount of any such assessment
shall become a debt due to the city upon adoption of such resolution, be due at
such time as the Commission shall prescribe, and shall be subject to the
collection fees and become a lien as provided in Section
11.7. Every such assessment shall also be subject to Sections
11.4,
11.5 and
11.6.
Section 11.10. Failure to mail notice.
   The requirement for mailing any notice required to be so mailed by this
chapter or by ordinance shall not be a jurisdictional requirement for the
making of any special assessment or any special assessment roll. Failure to
mail any notice required to be so sent by this chapter or by ordinance shall
not invalidate any special assessment or special assessment roll.
CHAPTER 12. MUNICIPALLY OWNED UTILITIES
Section 12.1. General powers respecting utilities.
   The city shall possess and hereby reserves to itself all the powers granted
to cities by the Constitution and statute to acquire, construct, own, operate,
improve, enlarge, extend, repair and maintain, either within or without its
corporate limits, including, but not by the way of limitation, public utilities
for supplying water, light, heat, power, gas, sewage treatment and garbage
disposal facilities, or any of them, to the municipality and the inhabitants
thereof; and also to sell and deliver water, light, heat, power, gas and other
public utility services, without its corporate limits to an amount not to
exceed the limitations set by statute and Constitution.
State constitutional law reference:
   Authority to operate utilities, Mich. Const. of 1963, Art. VII, § 24
Statutory reference:
   Authority to operate utilities, see M.C.L.A. §§ 117.4c, 117.4f
Section 12.2. Management of municipal utilities.
   All municipally owned or operated utilities shall be administered as a
regular department of the city government under the management and supervision
of the City Manager.
Section 12.3. Rates.
   The Commission shall have the power to fix from time to time such just and
reasonable rates as may be deemed advisable for supplying the inhabitants of
the city and others with such utility services as the city may provide. There
shall be no discrimination in such rates within any classification of users
thereof nor shall free service be permitted.
Section 12.4. Utility rates and charges—Collections.
   The Commission shall provide by ordinance for the collection of all public
utility rates and charges of the city. Such ordinance shall provide:
   (a)   That the city shall have as security for the collection of such
utility rates and charges a lien upon the real property supplied by such
utility, which lien shall become effective immediately upon the supplying of
such utility service and shall be enforced in the manner provided in such
ordinance.
   (b)   The terms and conditions under which utility services may be
discontinued in case of delinquency in paying such rates or charges.
   (c)   That suit may be instituted by the city in any court of competent
jurisdiction for the collection of such rates or charges.
   With respect to the collection of rates charged for water the city shall
have all the powers granted to cities by Act 11 of the Public Acts of 1939 of
the State of Michigan [M.C.L.A. § 123.161 et seq.].
Section 12.5. Disposal of utility plants and property.
   Unless approved by a three-fifths majority vote of the electors voting
thereon at a regular or special election, the city shall not sell, exchange,
lease or in any way dispose of any property, easements, equipment, privilege or
asset belonging to and appertaining to any municipally owned public utility
which is needed to continue operating such utility. All contracts,
negotiations, licenses, grants, leases or other forms of transfer in violation
of this section shall be void and of no effect as against the city. The
restrictions of this section shall not apply to the sale or exchange of any
articles of machinery or equipment of any city owned utility which are worn out
or useless or which have been or could with advantage to the service be
replaced by new and improved machinery or equipment, to the leasing of property
not necessary for the operation of the utility, or to the exchange of property
or easements for other needed property or easements.
Section 12.6. Utility accounts.
   Transactions pertaining to the ownership and operation by the city of each
public utility shall be recorded in a separate group of accounts under an
appropriate fund caption, which accounts shall be classified in accordance with
generally accepted utility accounting practice. Charges for all service
furnished to, or rendered by, other city departments or agencies shall be
recorded. An annual report shall be prepared to show fairly the financial
position of the utility and the results of its operations, which report shall
be available for inspection at the office of the Clerk.
CHAPTER 13. PURCHASING—CONTRACTS—LEASES
Section 13.1. Contracts and Purchase and Sale of Property.
   The City Manager shall be responsible for the purchase and the sale of City
property, including all materials, supplies, and public improvements. All
purchases and sales under this section shall be subject to a comprehensive and
governing City Ordinance that shall be developed, implemented and maintained
subject only to an ordinance amendment by the Commission. (Amended 8-5-1980;
amended by Proposal 5, adopted 11-5-2024)
Section 13.2. Contracts.
(Repealed by Proposal 5, adopted 11-5-2024)
Section 13.3. Restriction on powers to lease property.
(Repealed by Proposal 5, adopted 11-5-2024)
CHAPTER 14. PUBLIC UTILITY FRANCHISES  
Section 14.1. Franchises remain in effect.
   All franchises to which the city is a party on the effective date of this
charter shall remain in full force and effect in accordance with their
respective terms and conditions.
Section 14.2. Granting of public utility franchises.
   Public utility franchises and all renewals and extensions thereof and
amendments thereto shall be granted by ordinance only. No exclusive franchise
shall ever be granted. No franchise shall be granted for a longer period than
thirty years.
   No franchise ordinance which is not subject to revocation at the will of the
Commission shall be enacted nor become operative until the same shall have
first been referred to the people at a regular or special election and received
the affirmative vote of three-fifths of the electors voting thereon. No such
franchise ordinance shall be approved by the Commission for referral to the
electorate before thirty days after application therefor has been filed with
the Commission, nor until a public hearing has been held thereon, nor until the
grantee named therein has filed with the Clerk his unconditional acceptance of
all terms of such franchise. No special election for such purpose shall be
ordered by the Commission unless the expense of holding such election, as
determined by the Commission, shall have first been paid to the Treasurer by
the grantee.
   A franchise ordinance or renewal or extension thereof or amendment thereto
which is subject to revocation at the will of the Commission may be enacted by
the Commission without referral to the voters, but shall not be enacted nor
become operative unless it shall have been complete in the form in which it is
finally enacted and shall so remain on file with the Clerk for public
inspection for at least four weeks after publication of notice that such
ordinance is so on file.
State constitutional law references:
   Term limited to thirty years, Mich. Const. of 1963, Art. VII, § 30;
submittal to electors required if irrevocable, Mich. Const. of 1963, Art. VII,
§ 25
Statutory reference:
   Expenses of special election to be paid by grantee, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5(i)
Section 14.3. Conditions of public utility franchise.
   All public utility franchises granted after the adoption of this charter,
whether it be so provided in the granting ordinance or not, shall be subject to
the following rights of the city:
   (a)   To repeal the same for misuse, non-use or failure to comply with the
provisions thereof;
   (b)   To require proper and adequate extension of plant and service and
maintenance thereof at the highest practicable standard of efficiency;
   (c)   To establish reasonable standards of service and quality of products
and prevent unjust discrimination in service or rates;
   (d)   To require continuous and uninterrupted service to the public in
accordance with the terms of the franchise throughout the entire period
thereof;
   (e)   To impose such other regulations as may be determined by the
Commission to be conducive to the safety, welfare and accommodation of the
public;
   (f)   To use, control and regulate the use of its streets, alleys, bridges
and public places and the space above and beneath them.
   The above enumeration shall not be exclusive or impair the right of the
Commission to insert in such franchise any provision within the power of the
city to impose or require.
Section 14.4. Regulation of rates.
   All public utility franchises shall make provision therein for fixing rates,
fares and charges and may provide for readjustments thereof at periodic
intervals. The value of the property of this utility used as a basis for fixing
such rates, fares and charges shall in no event include a value predicated upon
the franchise, goodwill or prospective profits.
Section 14.5. Use of public places by utilities.
   Every public utility whether it has a franchise or not shall pay such part
of the cost of improvement or maintenance of streets, alleys, bridges and
public places as shall arise from its use thereof and shall protect and save
the city harmless from all damages arising from said use. Every such public
utility may be required by the city to permit joint use of its property and
appurtenances located in the streets, alleys and other public places of the
city by the city and by other utilities insofar as such joint use may be
reasonably practicable and upon payment of reasonable rental therefor. In the
absence of agreement and upon application by any public utility, the Commission
shall provide for arbitration of the terms and conditions of such joint use and
the compensation to be paid therefor, and the arbitration award shall be final.
CHAPTER 15. SUPERVISORS
Section 15.1. Number of supervisors.
   The city shall have the maximum number of representatives on the County
Board of Supervisors to which it is entitled by statute.
Section 15.2. Appointment of supervisors.
   The representative or representatives of the city on the Board of
Supervisors shall be appointed by the Commission for an indefinite period and
shall serve at the pleasure of the Commission. Such representatives shall be
qualified electors of the city, shall have been residents of the city for at
least two years immediately prior to their appointment and may hold other
elective or appointive city office or employment. In case any representative of
the city on the Board of Supervisors shall be unable to perform the duties of
his office for any reason, the Commission may appoint another qualified person
to serve temporarily in his stead.
Section 15.3. Duties of supervisors.
   Except as otherwise provided in this charter, the representatives of the
city on the Board of Supervisors shall perform the statutory duties of
Supervisors. In the performance of his duties, each Supervisor shall represent
the city, its inhabitants and its government to the best of his ability.
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of this chapter have been superseded by M.C.L.A. §§ 46.401 et
seq. which provides for election at large of all supervisors.
Section 15.4. Compensation of supervisors.
   Representatives of the city on the Board of Supervisors who are not full-
time city officers or employees shall be entitled to retain any compensation
and expense allowances paid to them by the county as members of the Board of
Supervisors, but shall receive no compensation from the city for their work as
Supervisors. In the case of representatives on the Board of Supervisors who are
full-time officers or employees of the city, the compensation and expense
allowances received from the county for their duties as members of the Board of
Supervisors shall be paid into the city treasury in accordance with Section
5.14 of this charter. Allowances for expenses directly incurred by these
officers or employees for their work as members of the Board of Supervisors
shall, however, be paid to them by the city.
CHAPTER 16. COURT
Section 16.1. Establishment of court.
   There is hereby established a Court in the city. The presiding officer of
such Court shall be a justice of the peace elected in accordance with the
provisions of this charter. This Court is created under the authority of
Section 28 of Public Act 279 of 1909 of the State of Michigan [M.C.L.A. §
117.28]. On the effective date of this charter the previously existing Justice
of the Peace courts of the city are hereby abolished and the powers,
jurisdiction and duties of said courts are consolidated into the single court
provided for herein.
Section 16.2. Title of court.
   (a)   The Court shall be entitled “Municipal Court.”
   (b)   The justice Of the peace shall be entitled “Municipal Judge” and shall
be so designated in nominating petitions, on election ballots and in all other
election procedures.
   (c)   The Court shall be referred to in all process, pleadings and
proceedings therein as the Municipal Court of the City of Marine City, and the
justice of the peace thereof shall be referred to in such process, pleadings
and proceedings as the Municipal Judge of the City of Marine City.
Editor’s note:
   The provisions of this chapter have been superseded by the abolishment of
the municipal court under M.C.L.A. § 600.9921.
Section 16.3. Pending litigation.
   The Municipal Judge shall be empowered to receive and take from the offices
of the Justices of the Peace herein abolished, all files, records and documents
kept therein, appertaining to said offices. The Municipal Judge shall be
empowered to issue executions according to law, upon any judgment appearing
upon said dockets with the same effect as if said judgment had been rendered by
him. The Municipal Judge shall have transferred to him any and all actions or
proceedings pending in the Justice of the Peace Courts abolished herein and he
shall have full jurisdiction to proceed with such actions or proceedings in the
same manner as if they had been brought before him originally.
Section 16.4. Compensation of presiding officer.
   The presiding officer of the Court shall receive such annual compensation as
shall be fixed by ordinance, but not less than one thousand dollars nor more
than three thousand dollars per year. The ordinance fixing his salary may not
be amended less than sixty days before the next primary election at which a
person is to be nominated for the office nor may his compensation be changed
during the term of office for which he was elected or appointed. Until
otherwise provided by ordinance the salary of the office shall be twelve
hundred dollars per year.
   The salary for the office provided by charter or ordinance shall be in lieu
of all fees, both in civil and criminal cases, to which the presiding officer
might be entitled but for the provisions of this section, except those for the
performance of marriage ceremonies and for administering oaths in matters not
connected with suits and proceedings in his court.
   The compensation paid to any Judge or justice to whom a case is transferred
under the provisions of Section
16.11 shall be deducted from the compensation of the presiding officer of the
Court; provided, however, that such deductions shall not be made because of
disqualification because of interest in the case or because of absence from the
city on official business of the Court.
Section 16.5. Bond.
   The presiding officer of the Court shall, before entering upon the duties of
his office, give a bond to the Treasurer of the county of St. Clair, each in
such sum as is provided by statute and to the City of Marine City in like
amount. Such bonds shall be subject to the provisions of Section
5.11.
Section 16.6. Jurisdiction of court.
   (a)   General jurisdiction. The Court shall have and exercise within the
City of Marine City and County of St. Clair the same jurisdiction, powers and
duties as are or may be conferred upon or required of Justices of the Peace in
cities and townships by statute and shall be subject to such statutes with
respect to such Justices except as otherwise provided in this charter. The
Court shall have concurrent jurisdiction with other justices in St. Clair
County as to all crimes, offenses and misdemeanors alleged to have been
committed within St. Clair County, whether within or without the city. The
proceedings in all suits and actions before the Court shall except as otherwise
provided in this charter be according to and governed by the statutes
applicable to Justice Courts and to the proceedings before such courts.
   (b)   Charter and ordinance cases. The Court shall have authority to hear,
try and determine all suits and prosecutions for the recovery and enforcing of
fines, penalties and forfeitures imposed by this charter and the ordinances of
the city, and to punish offenders for the violation of such charter and
ordinances as in the charter or ordinances prescribed and directed.
   (c)   Extended jurisdiction. The Court shall also have jurisdiction to the
amount of five hundred dollars in all civil matters ex contractu and ex delicto
with such exceptions and restrictions as are provided by law.
   (d)   Setting aside verdicts. The Court shall have the same power and
authority to set aside a verdict or judgment and grant a new trial therein,
upon legal cause shown therefor, as the circuit courts of the state possess;
provided, however, that a motion in writing be made and filed with the Judge
before whom such cause was tried, within five days after the rendition of the
verdict or judgment in said cause, which said motion shall briefly and plainly
set forth the reasons and grounds upon which it is made and shall be supported
by affidavits setting forth the facts relied upon to be filed at the time of
filing the said motion, and notice of hearing of such motion, with copy of the
motion and affidavits, filed as aforesaid, shall be served upon the adverse
party or his attorney at least two days before the hearing thereof, and such
motion shall be determined within two days after the same shall have been heard
and submitted and such motion shall be submitted and heard within one week
after the same shall have been filed, and the time for taking an appeal from
judgment, in case such motion be not granted, shall begin to run from the time
when such motion shall be overruled and in no case shall the pendency of such
motion stay the issuing and levy of an execution in such case, but in case of a
levy under execution pending such motion, no sale of the property so levied on
shall be advertised or made until the final determination of such motion.
   (e)   Additional authority. The Court shall have additional jurisdiction,
powers and duties as may now or hereafter be conferred upon such courts by
statute.
Section 16.7. Fees and costs.
   The Commission shall by ordinance establish and fix the fees and costs which
may be taxed by the Court in all civil matters and in all cases for the
violations of the charter or city ordinances, and shall fix fees and costs not
inconsistent with statute in criminal matters. Such ordinance shall be
originally enacted within ninety days after the effective date of this charter.
Section 16.8. Disposition of fees, cost and fines; fees in state criminal
cases.
   (a)   Civil cases. All fees in civil cases shall be collected by the Court
and turned over to the City Treasurer on or before the first day of the next
month after collection or receipt thereof and shall be credited to the general
fund of the city.
   (b)   State criminal cases.
      (1)   All fees in state criminal cases shall be charged and presented to
and audited by the Board of Supervisors of St. Clair County, in the same manner
and amounts as provided by law in the cases of justices of the peace in
townships, and upon allowance by said Board, shall be paid monthly by said
county to the City Treasurer for the use and benefit of the city and shall be
credited to the general fund of the city. The expenses of prosecution before
the Court for violations of criminal laws of the state and in punishing the
offenders shall be paid by the County of St. Clair.
      (2)   All fees, costs, penalties and forfeitures imposed by the Court in
state criminal cases shall be paid over by the Court to the County Treasurer
within thirty days after the receipt thereof.
   (c)   Charter and ordinance violations. All fines, costs, penalties,
forfeitures and moneys collected or received by the Court on account of
violations of any provisions of the charter or ordinances of the city shall be
paid over by the Court to the City Treasurer on or before the first day of the
next month after collection or receipt thereof and shall be credited to the
general fund of the city.
   (d)   Failure to comply. Failure of the presiding officer of the Court to
comply with the provisions of this section shall constitute misconduct in
office.
Section 16.9. Place and conduct of court; annual report.
   The Commission shall furnish necessary supplies and a suitable place for
conducting Court. It may regulate the hours of Court and may make other
necessary and proper rules and regulations for the conduct of the business of
the Court which are not inconsistent with this charter or statute.
   The presiding officer of the Court shall file with the Commission promptly
after the end of the fiscal year an annual report of the Court in such detail
as the Commission shall prescribe.
Section 16.10. Docket.
   There shall be kept at the place of holding court a docket in the manner
required by statute. Failure of the presiding officer of the court to make
provision for the maintenance of such a docket shall constitute misconduct in
office.
Section 16.11. Transfer of cases.
   In case of the absence, disability or disqualification of the presiding
officer of the Court, any other justice of the peace or Municipal Judge in the
County of St. Clair shall be qualified to act in his place and for him in the
performance of any of the duties imposed upon him by statute or this charter;
and shall so act when called upon in the manner and under the conditions herein
set forth. The Commission shall by ordinance fix the compensation to be paid
Justices or Judges for such services and the procedure to be followed in
calling upon them so to act. Unless the Commission shall so provide by
ordinance, no such Justice or Judge shall so act or be entitled to compensation
therefor.
Section 16.12. Court clerk.
   The Commission may by ordinance provide for a court clerk and one or more
deputy clerks to perform such duties as shall be therein prescribed. Such clerk
and deputy clerks shall also, by virtue of their office, have the statutory
powers to administer oaths to persons making affidavits for writs in civil
causes and to issue all process and test the same in the name of the presiding
officer of the Court and shall be required to collect all fees, costs, fines
and other moneys paid into court and to keep a record book of the same and to
pay over all such moneys to the authorities of the city or county or other
persons entitled to the same as directed by this charter, by the proper
authorities or by law, and the Commission shall cause such book to be audited
annually.
Section 16.13. Court officer.
   The City Manager upon request of the presiding officer of the Court, may
assign a police officer of the city to the Court who shall have all the duties
and powers of court officers of the Circuit Courts of the state and shall serve
in such capacity during the pleasure of the City Manager. Such officer shall
receive no compensation except such as he may be entitled to as a police
officer. All fees and mileage allowances received by such officer in the
performance of the duties imposed upon him shall be paid into the city treasury
in accordance with Section
5.14.
Section 16.14. Constables.
   The City Manager shall appoint one or more police officers of the city as
Constables. Such Constables shall have like powers and authority in matters of
civil and criminal nature, and in relation to the service of process, civil and
criminal, as are conferred by law on Constables in townships. They shall have
power also to serve all process issued for breaches of ordinances of the city.
The bond of Constables shall be that required of Constables in townships, and
shall otherwise be subject to the provisions of Section
5.11. The statutory fees received by such Constables shall be paid into the
city treasury in accordance with Section
5.14.
16.15. Violations bureau.
   The Commission shall have power and authority to establish by ordinance a
Violations Bureau within the Court for the handling of such violations of
ordinances and regulations of the city, or parts thereof, as prescribed in the
ordinance establishing such Bureau. Any person who has received any notice to
appear in answer to a charge of violating any of such ordinances may within the
time specified in the notice of such charge answer at the Violations Bureau to
the charges set forth in such notice by paying a fine prescribed by ordinance
which cannot be waived by the Bureau, and in writing pleading guilty to the
charge, waiving a hearing in court and giving power of attorney to make such a
plea and pay such fine in court. Acceptance of the prescribed fine and the
power of attorney by the Bureau shall be deemed to be complete satisfaction for
the violation, and the violator shall be given a receipt which so states. The
creation of such a Bureau shall not operate so as to deprive any person of a
full and impartial hearing in Court should such person so choose.
CHAPTER 17. MISCELLANEOUS
Section 17.1. City liability.
   The city shall not be liable for damages sustained by any person either to
his person or property by reason of the negligence of the city, its officers or
employees, nor by reason of any defective condition of or obstruction in any
public place unless such person shall serve or cause to be served upon the
Clerk within sixty days after the injury resulting in such damages shall have
occurred a notice in writing, which notice shall set forth substantially the
time and place of such injury, the manner in which it occurred, the extent of
such damages as far as the same has become known, the names and addresses of
the witnesses known at the time by the claimant, and a statement that the
person sustaining such damages intends to hold the city liable for such damages
as may have been sustained by him.
   The city shall not be liable for any damages to person or property arising
out of any such injury unless there shall have been first presented to the
Clerk a claim in writing and under oath setting forth particularly the time,
place, nature and extent of such injury and the amount of damages claimed by
reason thereof. No person shall bring any action against the city for any such
damages until such claim shall have been filed with the Clerk and until the
Commission shall have been given opportunity to act thereon either by allowing
or refusing to allow the claim.
   It shall be a sufficient bar and answer in any court to any action or
proceeding for the collection of any demand or claim against the city under
this section that the notice of injury and the verified proof of claim as in
this section required were not presented and filed within the time and in the
manner as herein provided.
Statutory reference:
   City liability for injury on public ways, see M.C.L.A. §§ 242.1 et seq.
Section 17.2. Vested rights and liabilities continued.
   After the effective date of this charter, the city shall be vested with all
property, moneys, contracts, rights, credits, effects and the records, files,
books and papers belonging to it under and by virtue of the previous charter.
No right or liability, either in favor of or against the city, existing at the
time this charter becomes effective, and no suit or prosecution of any
character, shall in any manner be affected by any change resulting from the
adoption of this charter, but the same shall stand or proceed as if no change
had been made. All debts and liabilities of the city shall continue to be its
debts and liabilities, and all fines and penalties imposed at the time of such
change shall be collected by the city.
Section 17.3. Trusts.
   All trusts established for any municipal purpose shall be used and continued
in accordance with the terms of such trust, subject to the cy pres doctrine.
The Commission may in its discretion receive and hold any property in trust for
any municipal purpose and shall apply the same to the execution of such trust
and for no other purpose except in cases where the cy pres doctrine shall
apply.
Section 17.4. Records to be public.
   All records of the city shall be public, shall be kept in the city office
except when required for official reasons or for purposes of safekeeping to be
elsewhere, and shall be available for inspection at all reasonable times.
Statutory reference:
   Records to be public, see M.C.L.A. § 117.3(l)
Section 17.5. Definition of publication, mailing of notices.
   Any requirement contained in this charter for the publishing or publication
of notices and ordinances shall be met by publishing an appropriate insertion
in a newspaper published in the English language for the dissemination of news
of a general character which newspaper shall have had a general circulation at
regular intervals in the City of Marine City for at least two years immediately
preceding the time that it is used for such publication purposes. The affidavit
of the printer or publisher of such newspaper, or his foreman or principal
clerk, annexed to a printed copy of such notice, ordinance or proceeding taken
from the paper in which it was published and specifying the times of
publication shall be prima facie evidence of such publication.
   It is provided, however, that if at any future date there be no newspaper
designed primarily for circulation in the City of Marine City, then any
requirement contained in this charter for the publishing or publication of
notices or ordinances shall be met by posting a copy thereof in one conspicuous
place in each precinct of the city. The affidavit of the person publishing the
same shall be prima facie evidence of such publication by posting.
   In any case in which this charter requires the mailing of notices, the
affidavit of the officer or employee responsible for such mailing that such
notice was mailed shall be prima facie evidence of such mailing.
Section 17.6. Sundays and holidays.
   Whenever the date fixed by this charter for the doing or completion of any
act falls on a Sunday or legal holiday, such act shall be done or completed on
the next succeeding day which is not a Sunday or legal holiday.
Section 17.7. Chapter and section headings.
   The chapter, section and sub-section headings used in this charter are for
convenience only and shall not be considered as part of the charter.
Section 17.8. Interpretations.
   Except as otherwise specifically provided or indicated by the context,
   (a)   All words indicating the present tense shall not be limited to the
time of the adoption of this charter but shall extend to and include the time
of the happening of any event or requirement for which provision is made
herein.
   (b)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular, and the masculine gender shall extend to and include the
feminine gender and the neuter.
   (c)   The word “person” may extend and be applied to bodies politic and
corporate and to partnerships as well as to individuals.
   (d)   The words “printed” and “printing” shall include reproductions by
printing, engraving, stencil duplicating, lithographing or any similar method.
   (e)   Except in reference to signatures, the words “written” and “in
writing” shall include printing and typewriting.
   (f)   The word “officer” shall include the members of the Commission, the
administrative officers, deputy administrative officers, members of city boards
and commissions, the Municipal Judge and a Court Clerk if one be appointed.
   (g)   All references to statutes shall be considered to be references to
such Public Acts of the State of Michigan as are in effect at the time the
reference to such acts is to be applied.
   (h)   The words “statute” and “Constitution” shall denote the Public Acts of
the State of Michigan and Constitution, respectively, as in effect at the time
the provision of the charter containing the words "statute" and “Constitution”
is to be applied.
   (i)   All references to specific Public Acts shall be to such acts as in
effect at the time the reference to such act is to be applied.
   (j)   The words “law” or “general laws of the state” shall denote the
Constitution and the Public Acts of the State of Michigan as in effect at the
time the provision of the charter containing the words “law” or “general laws
of the state” is to be applied, and applicable common law.
   (k)   All references to chapter and section numbers shall refer to chapter
and section numbers of this charter.
Section 17.9. Restriction on subdivision of lands.
   No lands or premises shall hereafter be laid out, divided and platted into
streets and alleys within the city except by permission and approval of the
Commission by resolution passed for that purpose, nor until the proprietor
shall file with the Clerk a correct survey, plan and map of the proposed
subdivision platted and subdivided as approved by the Commission, which plat
shall show the location of all such lots, streets and alleys, and other
proposed improvements with respect to the adjacent lots and streets of the
city.
Section 17.10. Penalties for misconduct in office.
   Any officer of the city found guilty by a court of competent jurisdiction of
any act declared by this charter to constitute misconduct in office may be
punished by a fine of not to exceed five hundred dollars or imprisonment for
not to exceed ninety days or both in the discretion of the court. The
punishment provided in this section shall be in addition to that of having the
office declared vacant as provided in Section
5.2.
Section 17.11. Quorum.
   Except where otherwise provided in this charter, a quorum of any city board
or commission shall be a majority of the members of such board or commission in
office at the time, but not less than two members.
Section 17.12. Amendments.
   This charter may be amended at any time in the manner provided by statute.
Should two or more amendments adopted at the same election have conflicting
provisions the one receiving the largest affirmative vote shall prevail as to
those provisions.
Section 17.13. Severability of Charter provisions.
   If any provision, section, article or clause of this charter or the
application thereof to any person or circumstances shall be found to be invalid
by a court, such invalidity shall not affect any remaining portion or
application of the charter which can be given effect without the invalid
portion or application, provided such remaining portions or applications are
not determined by the court to be inoperable, and to this end this charter is
declared to be severable.
CHAPTER 18. SCHEDULE
Section 18.1. Status of schedule chapter.
   The purpose of this schedule chapter is to inaugurate the government of the
city under this charter and to accomplish the transition from the old to the
new charter, and it shall constitute a part of this charter only to the extent
and for the time required to accomplish this end.
Section 18.2. Election to adopt this Charter.
   This charter shall be submitted to a vote of the qualified electors of the
City of Marine City at a special election to be held on Monday, December 10,
1951. This election shall be conducted by the officers under the existing
charter charged with the conduct and supervision of elections, and shall follow
the election procedure and be canvassed in the manner provided in the existing
city charter. For this election the existing wards and polling places shall
remain unchanged.
Section 18.3. Form of ballot.
   The form of the ballot for the submission of this charter shall be as
follows:
   Instructions: A cross (x) in the square before the word “Yes” is in favor of
the proposed charter, and a cross (x) in the square before the word “No” is
against the proposed charter.
   Before leaving the booth, fold the ballot so that the initials of the
inspector may be seen on the outside.
   Shall the proposed charter for the City of Marine City drafted by the
Charter Commission elected on November 7, 1950, be adopted?
^ Yes 1:1 No
Section 18.4. First election of city officers under this Charter.
   (a)   Election. The first election of officers provided for in this charter
shall be held on December 10, 1951, in conjunction with the election on the
adoption of this charter. At this election the voters shall be entitled to vote
for not more than seven candidates for Commission and not more than one
candidate for Municipal Judge (justice of the peace).
   (b)   Terms. The three candidates for Commission who receive the three
highest number of votes shall be declared elected for a term beginning at 8:00
P. M. on Monday, December 17, 1951, and ending at 8:00 P. M. on the Monday
following the regular city election in 1955. The four candidates for Commission
who receive the fourth, fifth, sixth, and seventh highest number of votes
respectively shall be declared elected for a term beginning at 8:00 P. M. on
Monday, December 17, 1951 and ending at 8:00 P. M. on the Monday following the
regular city election in 1953. The Municipal Judge (justice of the peace) who
receives the highest number of votes shall be declared elected for a term
beginning on Monday, December 17, 1951, and ending on the fourth day of July,
1953. Thereafter the provisions contained in this charter relative to elections
and terms of office of elective officers shall govern.
   (c)   Nomination. There shall be no primary election for the first election
of officers under this charter. Candidates shall be nominated by petition in a
manner identical to that provided for in Sections
4.11 to
4.14 inclusive, except that petitions shall be filed not before Monday,
November 19, 1951, nor after 12 Noon on Saturday, December 1, 1951, and there
shall be no opportunity for the filing of supplementary petitions, other
provisions of this charter notwithstanding. The names of those candidates who
file valid and sufficient nomination petitions and have the qualifications for
elective office shall be certified to the Election Commission and placed on the
ballot for the first election of city officers.
   (d)   Other election procedures. The first election of officers under this
charter shall be conducted by the officers under the now existing city charter
charged with the conduct and supervision of elections, using the ward and
polling places now existing in the city; however, the provisions of this
charter with regard to nominations, form of ballot and other methods of voting
shall govern. The City Clerk shall publish the various notices required by
Chapter 4 of this charter, and shall make available a supply of petition forms
as provided therein.
Section 18.5. Effective date of this Charter.
   For the purpose of initiating and completing the procedure for the election
on the adoption of this charter and for nominating and electing the first city
officers, this charter shall take effect on October 25, 1951, on which date
there shall be published the first notice of the last day of registration for
the December 10, 1951, election. For all other purposes this charter shall take
effect on December 17, 1951, at 8:00 P. M. At such time, the City Commission
first elected under this charter shall assemble in the existing City Council
Chambers. It shall be called to order by the former Mayor, and when it shall
have elected one of its members Mayor or temporary Chairman, the previously
existing City Council shall cease to be and the office of each and every member
thereof shall terminate.
   The term of office of the Clerk, Treasurer, Justices of the Peace,
Supervisors, Constables and all other officers of the city by virtue of
election under the former charter of the city shall terminate and their offices
cease to exist at the same time as the previously existing City Council ceases
to exist. All other officers and employees of the city, except as otherwise
provided in this charter, shall continue in their respective offices and
employment as though they had been appointed or employed in the manner provided
in this charter and shall in all respects be subject to the provisions of this
charter. Any officer or employee who so holds a position which under this
charter is held at the pleasure of the appointing officer or body shall hold
such position only at such will or pleasure regardless of the term for which
originally appointed.
Section 18.6. First board of review.
   The terms of all members of the Board of Review existing under the previous
charter of the city shall expire on December 31, 1951. In January, 1952, the
Commission shall appoint a Board of Review of three freeholders who meet the
qualifications for such office provided in this charter, and shall fix their
compensation. One such member shall be designated to serve for a term expiring
in January, 1953, one for the term expiring in January, 1954, and one for a
term expiring in January, 1955.
Section 18.7. Interim financial provisions.
   The period from the first Monday of October, 1951, to June 30, 1952, shall
constitute a special interim fiscal period to accomplish the transition from
the previously existing fiscal year to the fiscal year provided for in this
charter. The appropriations made by the Council under the previous charter for
the fiscal year beginning on the first Monday of October, 1951, shall be
continued in full force and effect without change. However, such appropriations
shall terminate on June 30, 1952, and the balances of such appropriations shall
then revert to the general fund.
   An audit of this special fiscal period shall be made in accordance with the
provisions of Section
8.7.
Section 18.8. Rearrangement of registration records.
   Immediately after the effective date of this charter the Clerk shall
rearrange the registration records of the city to comply with the precincts
provided for in Section
4.2 and all persons who are registered voters of the city shall thereafter be
registered voters in the newly established precinct in which they reside.
RESOLUTION OF ADOPTION
   At a regular meeting of the Charter Commission of the City of Marine City
held on the 4th day of October 1951 the following resolution was offered by
Commissioner George I. Duddy.
   RESOLVED, that the Charter Commission of the City of Marine City does hereby
adopt the foregoing proposed charter for the City of Marine City and the Clerk
of the Commission is directed (1) to transmit a copy of this charter to the
Governor of the State of Michigan for his approval in accordance with statute,
(2) to this day file with the City Clerk a copy of this charter, and (3) to
cause this proposed charter to be published in the Marine City Independent on
November 15th, 1951.
   The resolution was seconded by Commissioner James T. Corden and adopted by
the following vote:
   YEAS: Commissioners: McLouth, Roll, Pfingst, Scharnweber, Duddy, Fanslow,
Arnold, Finsterwald, and Corden.
   NAYS: None.
   ABSENT: None.
   The chairman declared the foregoing resolution carried and requested the
members of the Charter Commission to authenticate said resolution and also
copies of the charter to be presented to the Governor and filed with the City
Clerk by attesting their names thereto in the following manner:
Peirce McLouth
Bernard J. Roll
Ralph A. Pfingst
Arnold H. Scharnweber George I. Duddy
Herman Fanslow, Jr. Alvin R. Arnold
Carlton Finsterwald James T. Corden
   All of the Commissioners having attested as to said resolution and also
having attested the copies to be signed by the Governor and filed with the City
Clerk, the meeting adjourned subject to the call of the Chairman.
STATE OF MICHIGAN   )
COUNTY OF ST. CLAIR   )   SS.
   Herman Fanslow, Jr., Secretary (Clerk) of the Charter Commission of the City
of Marine City being duly sworn says that at an election duly called and held
in the City of Marine City on the 7th day of November, 1950, the following
named persons were duly elected as the Charter Commission to frame a revised
charter for the city, namely: Peirce McLouth, Bernard J. Roll, Ralph A.
Pfingst, Arnold Scharnweber, George I. Duddy, Herman Fanslow, Jr., Alvin R.
Arnold, Carlton Finsterwald, and James Corden, and that the annexed and
foregoing charter was duly adopted by said Charter Commission by the foregoing
resolution which is a true and correct copy thereof, and that the said Charter
Commission directed that said charter be presented to the electors of the City
of Marine City in accordance with the requirements of this charter and the laws
of the State of Michigan.
   Further deponent sayeth not.
   HERMAN FANSLOW, JR.
   Secretary (Clerk) of the Charter Commission of the City of Marine City
   Dated: October 4, 1951.
   Subscribed and sworn to before me this 4th day of October, 1951.
   EDWIN J. STEINMETZ,
   Notary Public, St. Clair County, Michigan
   My commission expires March 12, 1954.
   I do hereby approve the above and foregoing charter of the City of Marine
City.
   Approved:   G. MENNEN WILLIAMS, Governor of the State of Michigan
   Dated: October 16, 1951.
TITLE I: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Chapter
   
10.   RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
CHAPTER 10: RULES OF CONSTRUCTION; GENERAL PENALTY
Section
   
10.01   How code designated and cited
   
10.02   Definitions
   
10.03   Section catchlines and other headings
   
10.04   Certain ordinances not affected by code
   
10.05   Continuation of ordinances
   
10.06   Prior rights, offenses and the like
   
10.07   Ordinances repealed not reenacted
   
10.08   Amendments to code
   
10.09   Supplementation of code
   
10.10   Appearance tickets
   
10.11   Separability of provisions
   
10.12   Notice
   
10.13   Master fee resolution
   
10.99   General penalty
§ 10.01 HOW CODE DESIGNATED AND CITED.
   This code, by and for Marine City, Michigan, shall constitute and be
designated as the Marine City Code.
Statutory reference:
   Codification authority, see M.C.L.A. § 117.5b
§ 10.02 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   Terms used in this code, unless otherwise specifically defined, have
the meanings prescribed by the statutes of the state for the same terms.
   (B)   All words used in this code indicating the present tense shall not be
limited to the time of adoption of this code but shall extend to and include
the time of the happening of any event or requirement for which provision is
made herein.
   (C)   The singular number shall include the plural, the plural number shall
include the singular, and the masculine gender shall extend to the feminine
gender and the neuter.
   (D)   All references to section numbers shall refer to section numbers of
this code.
   (E)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      CHARTER. The Charter of the City of Marine City, and shall include any
amendment thereto, or any revision thereof.
      CITY.  The City of Marine City, Michigan.
      CITY COMMISSION or COMMISSION.  The City Commission of the City of Marine
City.
      CLERK. The Clerk of the City of Marine City.
      CODE.  The Marine City Code, as designated in §
10.01.
      COMPUTATION OF TIME.  The time within which an act is to be done, as
provided in this code or in any order issued pursuant to this code, when
expressed in days, shall be computed by  excluding the first day and including
the last, except that if the last day be Sunday or a legal holiday it shall be
excluded; and when the time is expressed in hours, the whole of Sunday or a
legal holiday, from midnight to midnight, shall be excluded.
      COUNTY. St. Clair County, Michigan.
      JUVENILE. Any person under 17 years of age.
      LAW or GENERAL LAWS OF THE STATE. The Constitution and Public Acts of
Michigan in effect at the time the provision of the code containing the
reference is to be applied.
      MINOR. A person under 21 years of age.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION. An act or omission that is prohibited by this
code or any ordinance of the city, but which is not a crime under this code or
any other ordinance of the city, and for which civil sanctions, including
without limitation, fines, damages, expenses and costs may be ordered, as
authorized by Public Act 236 of 1961, Ch. 87, as amended. A MUNICIPAL CIVIL
INFRACTION is not a lesser included offense of any criminal offense in this
code.
      OFFICER, DEPARTMENT, BOARD AND THE LIKE. Whenever any officer,
department, board or other public agency is referred to by title only, the
reference shall be construed as if followed by the words “of the City of Marine
City, Michigan.” Whenever, by the provisions of this code, any officer of the
city is assigned any duty or empowered to perform any act or duty, reference to
the officer shall mean and include the officer or his or her deputy or
authorized subordinate.
      ORDINANCES. The ordinances of the City of Marine City and all amendments
thereto.
      PERSON. Any natural individual, firm, trust, partnership, association or
corporation. Whenever the word PERSON is used in any section of this code
prescribing a penalty or fine, as applied to partnerships or associations, the
word includes the  partners, or members thereof, and as applied to corporations
the word includes officers, agents or employees thereof who are responsible for
any violations of the section. The singular includes the plural. The masculine
gender includes the feminine and neuter genders.
      PUBLIC PLACE. Any street, alley, park, canal, waterway, beach, public
building or any place of business or assembly open to the public or frequented
by the public.
      STATE. The term THE STATE or THIS STATE shall be construed to mean the
State of Michigan.
      STATUTE. The Public Acts of Michigan in effect at the time the provisions
of the code containing the reference is to be applied. All references to
specific Public Acts shall be to the acts as are in effect at the time the
reference to the act is to be applied.
      TIME STANDARD. Whenever certain hours are named in this code, they shall
mean standard time or daylight saving time as may be in current use in the
city.
      WRITTEN or IN WRITING. Includes any representation of words, letters or
figures, whether by printing or otherwise.
(Ord. 95-11, passed 2-1-1996)
§ 10.03 SECTION CATCHLINES AND OTHER HEADINGS.
   The catchlines of the several sections of this code printed in boldface type
are intended as mere catchwords to indicate the contents of the sections and
shall not be deemed or taken to be the titles of the sections, nor as any part
of the sections, nor, unless expressly so provided, shall they be so deemed
when any of the sections, including the catchlines, are amended or reenacted.
No provision of this code shall be held invalid by reason of deficiency in any
such catchline or in any heading or title to any chapter, subchapter, section
or division.
§ 10.04 CERTAIN ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED BY CODE.
   Nothing in this code or the ordinance adopting this code shall affect any
ordinance not in conflict with or inconsistent with this code:
   (A)   Promising or guaranteeing the payment of money for the city, or
authorizing the issuance of any bonds of the city or any evidence of the city’s
indebtedness, or any contract or obligations assumed by the city;
   (B)   Containing any administrative provisions of the City Commission;
   (C)   Granting any right or franchise;
   (D)   Dedicating, naming, establishing, locating, relocating, opening,
paving, widening, vacating and the like, any street or public way in the city;
   (E)   Making any appropriation;
   (F)   Levying or imposing taxes;
   (G)   Establishing or prescribing grades in the city;
   (H)   Providing for local improvements and assessing taxes therefor;
   (I)   Dedicating or accepting any plat or subdivision in the city;
   (J)   Extending or contracting the boundaries of the city;
   (K)   Prescribing the number, classification or compensation of any city
officers or employees;
   (L)   Prescribing specific parking restrictions, no-parking zones; specific
speed zones; parking meter zones; and specific stop or yield intersections or
other traffic ordinances pertaining to specific streets;
   (M)   Pertaining to rezoning;
   (N)   Any other ordinance, or part thereof, which is not of a general and
permanent nature; and all the ordinances are hereby recognized as continuing in
full force and effect to the same extent as if set out at length in this code.
The ordinances are on file in the City Clerk’s office.
(Ord. passed 6-25-1957)
§ 10.05 CONTINUATION OF ORDINANCES.
   The provisions of this code, so far as they are the same in substance as
those of heretofore existing ordinances, shall be construed as a continuation
of the ordinances and not as new enactments.
§ 10.06 PRIOR RIGHTS, OFFENSES AND THE LIKE.
   Any act done, offense committed or right accruing, accrued or acquired, or
liability, penalty, forfeiture or punishment incurred prior to the time of
adoption of this code shall not be affected by the adoption, but may be
enjoyed, asserted, enforced, prosecuted or inflicted as fully and to the same
extent as if the adoption had not been effected.
§ 10.07 ORDINANCES REPEALED NOT REENACTED.
   No ordinance or part of any ordinance heretofore repealed shall be
considered reordained or reenacted by virtue of this code, unless specifically
reenacted. The repeal of any curative or validating ordinances shall not impair
or affect any cure or validation already effected thereby.
§ 10.08 AMENDMENTS TO CODE.
   (A)   Amendments to any of the provisions of this code shall be made by
amending the provisions by specific reference to the section number of this
code in the following language: “That section _____ of the Marine City Code, is
hereby amended to read as follows:...” The new provisions shall then be set out
in full as desired.
   (B)   If a new section not heretofore existing in the code is to be added,
the following language shall be used: “That the Marine City Code is hereby
amended by adding a section, to be numbered _____, which said section reads as
follows:...” The new section shall then be set out in full as desired.
§ 10.09 SUPPLEMENTATION OF CODE.
   (A)   By contract or by city personnel, supplements to this code shall be
prepared and printed whenever authorized or directed by the City Commission. A
supplement to the code shall include all substantive permanent and general
parts of ordinances adopted during the period covered by the supplement and all
changes made thereby in the code. The pages of a supplement shall be so
numbered that they will fit properly into the code and will, where necessary,
replace pages which have become obsolete or partially obsolete, and the new
pages shall be so prepared that, when they have been inserted, the code will be
current through the date of the adoption of the latest ordinance included in
the supplement.
   (B)   In preparing a supplement to this code, all portions of the code which
have been repealed shall be excluded from the code by the omission thereof from
reprinted pages.
   (C)   When preparing a supplement to this code, the codifier (meaning the
person, agency or organization authorized to prepare the supplement) may make
formal, nonsubstantive changes in ordinances and parts of ordinances included
in the supplement, insofar as it is necessary to do so to embody them into a
unified code. For example, the codifier may:
      (1)   Organize the ordinance material into appropriate subdivisions;
      (2)   Provide appropriate catchlines, headings and titles for sections
and other subdivisions of the code printed in the supplement, and make changes
in the catchlines, headings and titles;
      (3)   Assign appropriate numbers to sections and other subdivisions to be
inserted in the code and, where necessary to accommodate new material, change
existing section or other subdivision numbers;
      (4)   Change the words “this ordinance” or words of the same meaning to
“this chapter,” “this subchapter,” “this division” and the like, as the case
may be, or to “sections _____ to _____” (inserting section numbers to indicate
the sections of the code which embody the substantive sections of the ordinance
incorporated into the code); and
      (5)   Make other nonsubstantive changes necessary to preserve the
original meaning of ordinance sections inserted into the code; but in no case
shall the codifier make any change in the meaning or effect of ordinance
material included in the supplement or already embodied in the code.
§ 10.10 APPEARANCE TICKETS.
   The following public servants are hereby authorized to issue and serve
appearance tickets with respect to ordinances of the city, as provided by
M.C.L.A. § 764.9c, as amended, when the public servant has reasonable cause to
believe that a person has committed an offense in violation of a city
ordinance:
   (A)   Health Officer;
   (B)   Building Inspector;
   (C)   Fire Marshal; and
   (D)   Fire Chief.
§ 10.11 SEPARABILITY OF PROVISIONS.
   Each section, division, sentence, clause and provision of this code is
separable and, if any provision shall be held unconstitutional or invalid for
any reason, the decision shall not affect the remainder of this code, or any
part thereof, other than that part affected by the decision.
§ 10.12 NOTICE.
   (A)   Any notice due any person or required to be served by this code shall
be served:
      (1)   By delivering the notice to the owner personally or by leaving the
same at his or her residence, office, or place of business with some person of
suitable age and discretion;
      (2)   By mailing the notice by registered mail to the owner at his or her
last known address; or
      (3)   If the owner is unknown, by posting the notice in some conspicuous
place on the premises 5 days prior to the date set therein for compliance.
   (B)   No person shall interfere with, obstruct, mutilate, conceal or tear
down any official notice or placard posted by the city unless permission is
given to remove the notice.
   (C)   The Clerk shall maintain a separate file of notices given hereunder,
including a record of the date upon which the notice was delivered, mailed or
posted.
§ 10.13 MASTER FEE RESOLUTION.
   All fees, penalties, refunds, reimbursements and charges of any kind
collected by the city shall be specified in the master fee schedule designated
in the master fee resolution, as amended by the city commission from time to
time. Whenever applicable throughout the code, reference shall be made to the
master fee resolution in lieu of any reference to specific fee amounts.
Wherever applicable throughout the code that specific fees, penalties, refunds,
reimbursements and charges of any kind are set forth, the amounts are hereby
amended to conform to the master fee schedule then in effect.
(Ord. 94-15, passed 6-16-1994)
§ 10.99 GENERAL PENALTY.
   (A)   (1)   Unless a violation of this code or any ordinance of the city is
specifically designated in the code or ordinance as a municipal civil
infraction, the violation shall be deemed to be a misdemeanor.
      (2)   The penalty for a misdemeanor violation shall be a fine not
exceeding $500 (plus cost of prosecution), or imprisonment not exceeding 90
days, or both, unless a specific penalty is otherwise provided for the
violation by this code or any ordinance.
      (3)   The sanction for a violation which is a municipal civil infraction
shall be a civil fine in the amount as provided by this code or any ordinance,
plus any costs, damages, expenses and other sanctions, as authorized under
M.C.L.A. §§ 600.8701 through 600.8735, as amended, and other applicable laws.
         (a)   Unless otherwise specifically provided for a particular
municipal civil infraction violation by this code or any ordinance, the civil
fine for a violation shall be not less than $50, plus costs and other
sanctions, for each infraction.
         (b)   1.   Increased civil fines may be imposed for repeated
violations by a person of any requirement or provision of this code or any
ordinance. As used in this section, REPEAT OFFENSE means a second (or any
subsequent) municipal civil infraction violation of the same requirement or
provision:
               a.   Committed by a person within any 12-month period (unless
some other period is specifically provided by this code or any ordinance); and
               b.   For which the person admits responsibility or is determined
to be responsible.
            2.   Unless otherwise specifically provided by this code or any
ordinance for a particular municipal civil infraction violation, the increased
fine for a repeat offense shall be as follows:
               a.   The fine for any offense which is a first repeat offense
shall be no less than $250, plus costs.
               b.   The fine for any offense which is a second repeat offense
or any subsequent repeat offense shall be no less than $500, plus costs.
      (4)   A violation includes any act which is prohibited or made or
declared to be unlawful or an offense by this code or any ordinance; and any
omission or failure to act where the act is required by this code or any
ordinance.
      (5)   Each day on which any violation of this code or any ordinance
continues constitutes a separate offense and shall be subject to penalties or
sanctions as a separate offense.
      (6)   In addition to any remedies available at law, the city may bring an
action for an injunction or other process against a person to restrain, prevent
or abate any violation of this code or any city ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 1-7) (Ord. 95-11, passed 2-1-1996)
   (B)   For the purpose of this code, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. Act No. 236 of the Public Acts of 1961, being M.C.L.A. Chapter 600,
as amended.
      AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIAL. A police officer or other personnel of the city
authorized by this code or any ordinance to issue municipal civil infraction
citations or municipal civil infraction notices.
      BUREAU. The City of Marine City Municipal Ordinance Violations Bureau, as
established hereby.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION ACTION. A civil action in which the defendant
is alleged to be responsible for a municipal civil infraction.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION CITATION. A written complaint or notice
prepared by an authorized city official, directing a person to appear in court
regarding the occurrence or existence of a municipal civil infraction violation
by the person cited.
      MUNICIPAL CIVIL INFRACTION VIOLATION NOTICE. A written notice prepared by
an authorized city official, directing a person to appear at the city municipal
ordinance violations bureau and to pay the fine and costs, if any, prescribed
for the violation by the schedule of civil fines adopted by the city, as
authorized under §§ 8396 and 8707(6) of the Act.
(Prior Code, § 16.5-1)
      (2)   A municipal civil infraction action may be commenced upon the
issuance by an authorized city official of:
         (a)   A municipal civil infraction citation directing the alleged
violator to appear in court; or
         (b)   A municipal civil infraction violation notice directing the
alleged violator to appear at the city municipal ordinance violations bureau.
(Prior Code, § 16.5-2)
      (3)   Municipal civil infraction citations shall be issued and served by
authorized city officials as follows:
         (a)   The time for appearance specified in a citation shall be within
a reasonable time after the citation is issued.
         (b)   The place for appearance specified in a citation shall be the
district court.
         (c)   Each citation shall be numbered consecutively and shall be in a
form approved by the state’s Court Administrator. The original citation shall
be filed with the district court. Copies of the citation shall be retained by
the city and issued to the alleged violator as provided by § 8705 of the Act.
         (d)   A citation for a municipal civil infraction signed by an
authorized city official shall be treated as made under oath if the violation
alleged in the citation occurred in the presence of the official signing the
complaint and if the citation contains the following statement immediately
above the date and signature of the official: “I declare under the penalties of
perjury that the statements above are true to the best of my information,
knowledge, and belief.”
         (e)   An authorized city official who witnesses a person commit a
municipal civil infraction shall prepare and subscribe, as soon as possible and
as completely as possible, an original and required copies of a citation.
         (f)   An authorized city official may issue a citation to a person if:
            1.   Based upon investigation, the official has reasonable cause to
believe that the person is responsible for a municipal civil infraction; or
            2.   Based upon investigation of a complaint by someone who
allegedly witnessed the person commit a municipal civil infraction, the
official has reasonable cause to believe that the person is responsible for an
infraction and if the prosecuting attorney or city attorney approves in writing
the issuance of the citation.
         (g)   Municipal infraction citations shall be served by an authorized
city official as follows:
            1.   Except as provided by division (B)(3)(g)2. below, an
authorized city official shall personally serve a copy of the citation upon the
alleged violator.
            2.   If the municipal civil infraction action involves the use or
occupancy of land, a building or other structure, a copy of the citation does
not need to be personally served upon the alleged violator, but may be served
upon an owner or occupant of the land, building or structure by posting the
copy on the land or attaching the copy to the building or structure. In
addition, a copy of the citation shall be sent by first-class mail to the owner
of the land, building, or structure at the owner's last known address.
(Prior Code, § 16.5-3)
      (4)   (a)   A municipal ordinance citation shall contain the name and
address of the alleged violator, the municipal civil infraction alleged, the
place where the alleged violator shall appear in court, the telephone number of
the court, and the time at or by which the appearance shall be made.
         (b)   Further, the citation shall inform the alleged violator that he
or she may do one of the following:
            1.   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by
mail, in person, or by representation, at or by the time specified for
appearance.
            2.   Admit responsibility for the municipal civil infraction “with
explanation” by mail by the time specified for appearance or, in person, or by
representation.
         (c)   Deny responsibility for the municipal civil infraction by doing
either of the following:
            1.   Appearing in person for an informal hearing before a judge or
district court magistrate, without the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney, unless a formal hearing before a judge is requested by the city.
            2.   Appearing in court for a formal hearing before a judge, with
the opportunity of being represented by an attorney.
            3.   The citation shall also inform the alleged violator of all of
the following:
               a.   That, if the alleged violator desires to admit
responsibility “with explanation” in person or by representation, the alleged
violator must apply to the court in person, by mail, by telephone, or by
representation within the time specified for appearance and obtain a scheduled
date and time for an appearance;
               b.   That, if the alleged violator desires to deny
responsibility, the alleged violator must apply to the court in person, by
mail, by telephone, or by representation within the time specified for
appearance and obtain a scheduled date and time to appear for a hearing, unless
a hearing date is specified on the citation;
               c.   That a hearing shall be an informal hearing unless a formal
hearing is requested by the alleged violator or the city;
               d.   That, at an informal hearing, the alleged violator must
appear in person before a judge or district court magistrate, without the
opportunity of being represented by an attorney; and
               e.   That, at a formal hearing, the alleged violator must appear
in person before a judge with the opportunity of being represented by an
attorney.
            4.   The citation shall contain a notice in boldfaced type that the
failure of the alleged violator to appear within the time specified in the
citation or at the time scheduled for a hearing or appearance is a misdemeanor
and will result in entry of a default judgment against the alleged violator on
the municipal civil infraction.
(Prior Code, § 16.5-4)
      (5)   (a)   Bureau established. The city hereby establishes a municipal
ordinance violations bureau (Bureau) as authorized under § 8396 of the Act to
accept admissions of responsibility for municipal civil infractions in response
to municipal civil infraction violation notices issued and served by authorized
city officials, and to collect and retain civil fines and costs as prescribed
by this code or any ordinance.
         (b)   Location; supervision; employees; rules and regulations. The
bureau shall be located at Marine City city hall, and shall be under the
supervision and control of the City Treasurer. The City Treasurer, subject to
the approval of the City Commission, shall adopt rules and regulations for the
operation of the bureau and appoint any necessary qualified city employees to
administer the Bureau.
         (c)   Disposition of violations. The Bureau may dispose only of
municipal civil infraction violations for which a fine has been scheduled and
for which a municipal civil infraction violation notice (as compared with a
citation) has been issued. The fact that a fine has been scheduled for a
particular violation shall not entitle any person to dispose of the violation
at the Bureau. Nothing in this division (B) shall prevent or restrict the city
from issuing a municipal civil infraction citation for any violation or from
prosecuting any violation in a court of competent jurisdiction. The
unwillingness of any person to dispose of any violation at the Bureau shall not
prejudice the person or in any way diminish the person’s rights, privileges and
protection accorded by law.
         (d)   Bureau limited to accepting admissions of responsibility. The
scope of the Bureau’s authority shall be limited to accepting admissions of
responsibility for municipal civil infractions and collecting and retaining
civil fines and costs as a result of those admissions. The Bureau shall not
accept payment of a fine from any person who denies having committed the
offense or who admits responsibility only with explanation, and in no event
shall the Bureau determine, or attempt to determine, the truth or falsity of
any fact or matter relating to an alleged violation.
         (e)   Municipal civil infraction violation notices. Municipal civil
infraction violation notices shall be issued and served by authorized city
officials under the same circumstances and upon the same persons as provided
for citations as provided in divisions (B)(3)(f) and (g). In addition to any
other information required by this code or other ordinance, the notice of
violation shall indicate the time by which the alleged violator must appear at
the bureau, the methods by which an appearance may be made, the address and
telephone number of the Bureau, the hours during which the Bureau is open, the
amount of the fine scheduled for the alleged violation, and the consequences
for failure to appear and pay the required fine within the required time.
         (f)   Appearance; payment of fines and costs. An alleged violator
receiving a municipal civil infraction violation notice shall appear at the
bureau and pay the specified fine and costs at or by the time specified for
appearance in the municipal civil infraction violation notice. An appearance
may be made by mail, in person, or by representation.
         (g)   Procedure where admission of responsibility not made or fine not
paid. If an authorized city official issues and serves a municipal ordinance
violation notice and if an admission of responsibility is not made the civil
fine and costs, if any, prescribed by the schedule of fines for the violation
are not paid at the Bureau, a municipal civil infraction citation may be filed
with the district court and a copy of the citation may be served by first-class
mail upon the alleged violator at the alleged violator’s last known address.
The citation filed with the court does not need to comply in all particulars
with the requirements for citations as provided by §§ 8705 and 8709 of the Act,
but shall consist of a sworn complaint containing the allegations stated in the
municipal ordinance violation notice and shall fairly inform the alleged
violator how to respond to the citation.
(Prior Code, § 16.5-5)
      (6)   Schedule of civil fines established.
         (a)   A schedule of civil fines payable to the Bureau for admission of
responsibility by persons served with municipal ordinance violations notice is
hereby established. The fines for violations listed below shall be as follows:
Offense (Violation)                                                Fine
Posting signs on public or private property                        $75
Any violations of the provisions of Chapter 6 (animal control)     $75
Any violation of the provisions of the blight prevention ordinance $75
Any violation of garage sale regulations                           $75
Any violation of snow removal regulations                          $75
Jostling                                                           $75
Sudden acceleration                                                $75
Any violation of posted parking                                    $75
Prohibited operation of amplified sound system                     $75
 
         (b)   A copy of the schedule, as amended from time to time, shall be
posted at the Bureau.
         (c)   The civil fines set forth above may be amended from time to time
by resolution of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 16.5-6)
(Ord. 95-14, passed 2-1-1996; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 11-1-2007; Am. Ord. 09-08,
passed 12-3-2009)
Charter reference:
   Limitation on penalties, §
7.5
Statutory reference:
   Limitation on penalties, M.C.L.A. § 117.4i
TITLE III: ADMINISTRATION
Chapter
   
30.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
31.   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
   
32.   RETIREMENT SYSTEM
   
33.   POST-RETIREMENT HEALTH CARE BENEFITS PLAN AND TRUST
   
34.   PURCHASING, CONTRACTS AND SALE/DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
CHAPTER 30: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
Administrative Services
   
30.01   Creation of additional offices; supervision by Manager
   
30.02   Department of Water; Superintendent
   
30.03   Department of Waste Water; Superintendent
   
30.04   Department of Recreation; Director
   
30.05   Accounting Manager
City Commission and Mayor Compensation
   
30.20   Enabling provision
   
30.21   City Commissioner compensation
   
30.22   City Mayor compensation
   
30.23   Payment
   
30.24   Expenses
   
30.25   Amendments
Elections
   
30.40   Odd-year elections adopted
   
30.41   Commencement of office
Law Enforcement
   
30.55   Minimum employment standards; adoption
   
30.56   Conflicting ordinances
Charter references:
   Administrative service, §
3.7
   General finance,
Ch. 8
   General provisions regarding officers and personnel to the city,
Ch. 5
   Municipal powers generally,
Ch. 2
   Plan of government,
Ch. 3
   Taxation,
Ch. 9
ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES
§ 30.01 CREATION OF ADDITIONAL OFFICES; SUPERVISION BY MANAGER.
   (A)   Pursuant to §
3.7 of the Charter, additional administrative offices in the administrative
service are hereby created and shall be divided into the following offices and
departments, each of which shall be the responsibility of and under the control
of a head as listed opposite the office or department:
 
Office or Department         Official Head
Department of recreation     Recreation Director
Department of water          Water Superintendent
Department of waste water    Waste Water Superintendent
Office of Accounting Manager Accounting Manager
 
   (B)   The administrative offices of the city shall be under the supervision
and direction of the City Manager, except as otherwise provided by the Charter.
(Prior Code, § 2-20) (Ord. 80-1, passed 3-20-1980; Am. Ord. 96-3, passed 4-18-
1996)
§ 30.02 DEPARTMENT OF WATER; SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Department of Water shall be headed by the Water Superintendent
who shall be responsible for the construction, operation and maintenance of the
water plant, including treatment and pumping.
   (B)   He or she shall coordinate efforts and cooperate with the Public Works
Superintendent in the operation and maintenance of the water distribution
system.
(Prior Code, § 2-21) (Ord. 80-1, passed 3-20-1980)
§ 30.03 DEPARTMENT OF WASTE WATER; SUPERINTENDENT.
   (A)   The Department of Waste Water shall be headed by the Waste Water
Superintendent who shall be responsible for the construction, operation and
maintenance of the waste water plant.
   (B)   He or she shall coordinate efforts and cooperate with the Public Works
Superintendent in the operation and maintenance of the storm and sanitary waste
water collection systems.
(Prior Code, § 2-22) (Ord. 80-1, passed 3-20-1980)
§ 30.04 DEPARTMENT OF RECREATION; DIRECTOR.
   (A)   (1)   The Department of Recreation shall plan, promote, organize and
supervise a comprehensive municipal recreation program and administer the same
in the interest of the entire community.
      (2)   This Department shall constantly evaluate the recreational
interests and needs of the community and be responsible for effective
communication of the recreation program to the citizens of the city.
   (B)   The Department of Recreation shall be headed by the Recreation
Director who shall be responsible for all matters pertaining to the
administrative and professional duties involved in planning, developing and
directing a recreation program, so that the community recreational needs,
interests and facilities are continuously being met, maintained and improved
upon.
(Prior Code, § 2-23) (Ord. 80-1, passed 3-20-1980)
§ 30.05 ACCOUNTING MANAGER.
   The Accounting Manager shall be responsible for the maintenance of a system
of accounts which shall conform to any uniform system required by law and by
the Commission and to generally accepted principles and procedures of
governmental accounting. (Prior Code, § 2-24) (Ord. 96-3, passed 4-18-1996)
CITY COMMISSION AND  MAYOR COMPENSATION
§ 30.20 ENABLING PROVISION.
   This subchapter is required under Charter Provision 3.3, as amended.
(Ord. 24-011, passed 12-19-2024)
§ 30.21 CITY COMMISSIONER COMPENSATION.
   The annual compensation for each sitting City Commissioner shall be $2,000.
(Ord. 24-011, passed 12-19-2024)
§ 30.22 CITY MAYOR COMPENSATION.
   The annual compensation for each sitting City Mayor shall be $3,000.
(Ord. 24-011, passed 12-19-2024)
§ 30.23 PAYMENT.
   The annual compensation for each sitting City Commissioner and each sitting
City Mayor shall be paid semi-annually and shall be the only payment made to
each sitting Commissioner and to each sitting City Mayor for all official
duties during the election term of office. The annual compensation set forth
herein shall not, under any circumstance, be reduced from the established
annual amount at the time a City Commissioner or a City Mayor takes elected
office.
(Ord. 24-011, passed 12-19-2024)
§ 30.24 EXPENSES.
   Following an approved motion of the City Commission by a majority vote, a
City Commissioner or the City Mayor may be paid a necessary bona fide expense
incurred in service of the city provided the expense is authorized and
itemized.
(Ord. 24-011, passed 12-19-2024)
§ 30.25 AMENDMENT S.
   The City Commission, upon a motion and a majority vote, may amend this
subchapter. After January 9, 2025, no amendment shall increase the annual
compensation amounts set forth herein by more than 10% in any four-year term.
(Ord. 24-011, passed 12-19-2024)
ELECTIONS
§ 30.40 ODD-YEAR ELECTIONS ADOPTED.
   There is hereby adopted the provisions of Public Act No. 239, Public Acts of
Michigan of 1970 [M.C.L.A. §§ 168.642a et seq.], which provides for odd-year
elections.
(Prior Code, § 9-1)
§ 30.41 COMMENCEMENT OF OFFICE.
   The term of office of the Commissioners shall commence at 7:00 p.m. on the
third Thursday of November in the year in which they are elected.
(Prior Code, § 9-2) (Ord. 61, passed 3-18-1971)
Charter reference:
   Elections generally,
Ch. 4
LAW ENFORCEMENT
§ 30.55 MINIMUM EMPLOYMENT STANDARDS; ADOPTION.
   The minimum employment standards for law enforcement officers as established
and adopted by the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training Council in
accordance with Act No. 203, Public Acts of 1965 (M.C.L.A. §§ 28.601 et seq.)
are hereby adopted as follows:
   (A)   Be a citizen of the United States;
   (B)   Minimum age of 21 years;
   (C)   Graduation from high school or equivalent; equivalent defined as
having attained a passing score on the general education development test
indicating high school graduation level;
   (D)   Fingerprinting of applicants with a search of local, state and
national fingerprint files to disclose any criminal record;
   (E)   The applicant shall not have been convicted of a felony offense;
   (F)   Good moral character as determined by a favorable report following a
comprehensive background investigation covering school and employment records,
home environment, personal traits and integrity; consideration will be given to
any and all law violations, including traffic and conservation law convictions
as indicating a lack of good character;
   (G)   Acceptable physical, emotional and mental fitness as established by a
licensed physician following examination to determine the applicant is free
from any physical, emotional or mental condition which might adversely affect
his or her performance of duty as a police officer;
   (H)   The trainee shall possess normal hearing and normal color vision; (He
or she shall be free from any impediments of the senses. He or she must possess
normal visual functions and visual acuity in each eye correctable to 20/20. The
trainee must be physically sound; well developed physically, with height and
weight in relation to each other and to age as indicated by accepted medical
standards and in possession of his or her extremities. He or she shall be free
from any physical defects, chronic diseases, organic diseases, organic or
functional conditions or mental instabilities which may tend to impair
efficient performance of duty to which might endanger the lives of others or
himself or herself if he or she lacks these qualifications.)
   (I)   A declaration of the applicant’s medical history shall become a part
of the background investigation; (The information shall be available to the
examining physician.)
   (J)   An oral interview shall be held by the hiring authority or his or her
representative, to determine the applicant’s acceptability for a police officer
position and to assess background and ability to communicate; and
   (K)   Recruitment and employment practices and standards shall be in
compliance with existing state statutes governing this activity.
(Prior Code, § 22-16) (Ord. 49, passed 11-2-1967)
§ 30.56 CONFLICTING ORDINANCES.
   The standards of the Michigan Law Enforcement Officers Training Council are
recognized as minimum standards and higher standards are recommended by the
Training Council when qualified applicants are available. Any portion of any
ordinance not meeting the minimum standards is hereby repealed. Any portion of
any ordinance which meets the minimum standards or exceeds those standards
shall remain in effect.
(Prior Code, § 22-17) (Ord. 49, passed 11-2-1967)
CHAPTER 31: EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT
Section
   
31.01   Short title
   
31.02   Definitions
   
31.03   Emergency Management Office; Emergency Management Coordinator
   
31.04   Emergency Management Coordinator; duties
   
31.05   Mayor, City Manager and Emergency Management Coordinator; powers,
duties
   
31.06   Local state of emergency
   
31.07   Governor declaration request
   
31.08   Municipal Department; liaison; duties
   
31.09   Disaster Contingency Fund
   
31.10   Volunteers; appointment
   
31.11   Right or disaster relief force
   
31.12   Temporary seat of government
   
31.13   Liability
   
31.14   Real estate
   
31.15   Incident command systems
§ 31.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as Emergency Management Ordinance.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The Michigan Emergency Management Act, Act No. 390 of the Public Acts
of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 30.401 et seq., as amended.
   DISASTER. An occurrence or threat of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property resulting from a natural or human made cause,
including but not limited to fire, flood, snowstorm, ice storm, tornado,
windstorm, wave action, oil spill, water contamination, utility failure,
hazardous peacetime radiological incident, major transportation, accident,
hazardous materials incident, epidemic, air contamination, blight, drought,
infestation, explosion or hostile military action or paramilitary action, or
similar occurrences resulting from terrorist activities, riots or civil
disorders.
   DISTRICT COORDINATOR. The Michigan Department of State Police District
Emergency Management Coordinator. The District Coordinator serves as liaison
between local emergency management programs and the Michigan State Police,
Emergency Division in all matters pertaining to the mitigation, preparedness,
response and recovery in emergency and disaster situations.
   DISASTER RELIEF FORCE. All agencies of the City of Marine City, private or
volunteer personnel, public officers and employees, and all other persons or
groups of persons identified in the City of Marine City Emergency Operations
Plan as having duties to perform or those called into duty or working at the
direction of a party identified in the plan to perform a specific disaster or
emergency related task during a local state of emergency.
   EMERGENCY. Any situation requiring emergency actions of a lesser nature than
a disaster, to include civil disturbances, labor strikes, visits by national or
international dignitaries, evacuation and build-up activities prior to
disaster.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR. The person appointed to coordinate all
matters pertaining to emergency management within the municipality.
   EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT PROGRAM. A program established to coordinate
mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities for all emergency or
disaster situations within a given geographic area made up of one or several
political subdivisions. Such a program has an appointed emergency management
coordinator and meets the program standards and requirements as established by
the Department of State Police, Emergency Management Division. The City of
Marine City has established an emergency management program.
   EMERGENCY OPERATIONS PLAN. The plan developed and maintained by the City of
Marine City for the purpose of responding to all disaster situations by
identifying and organizing the disaster relief force.
   GOVERNOR’S STATE OF DISASTER. An executive order or proclamation by the
Governor that implements the disaster response and recovery aspect of the
Michigan Emergency Management Plan and applicable local plans of the county or
municipal programs affected.
   GOVERNOR’S STATE OF EMERGENCY. An executive order or proclamation by the
Governor that implements the emergency response and recovery aspects of the
Michigan Emergency Management Plan and applicable local plans of the county or
municipal programs affected.
   LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY. A proclamation or declaration by the Mayor
pursuant to the act and this resolution which activates the response and
recovery aspects of the City of Marine City Emergency Operations Plan and
authorizes certain actions as described in this resolution.
   VITAL RECORDS. Those records that contain information needed to continue the
effective functioning of a government entity and for the  protection of the
rights and interests of persons under emergency conditions in the event of an
emergency or disaster situation.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.03 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT OFFICE; EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR.
   There is created an Office of Emergency Management for the purpose of
coordinating all mitigation, preparedness, response and recovery activities
within the City of Marine City. The Marine City City Commission established the
position of Emergency Management Coordinator to staff this office and the City
Manager, with the approval of the City Commission, shall appoint a person to
fill the position. The City Manager shall appoint a minimum of 2 persons as
successors to the position of the Emergency Management Coordinator. The line of
succession shall be listed in the Emergency Operations Plan.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.04 EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR; DUTIES.
   The Emergency Management Coordinator shall comply with the standards and
requirements as established by the Department of State Police, Emergency
Management Division, under the authority of the Act in accomplishing the
following:
   (A)   Direct and coordinate the development of the City of Marine City
Emergency Operations Plan, which shall be consistent with the Michigan
Emergency Management Plan;
   (B)   Specify departments or agencies which must provide an annex to the
plan or otherwise cooperate in its development;
      (1)   City Manager’s Office;
      (2)   Assessing Department;
      (3)   City Clerk/Finance Department;
      (4)   Department of Public Works;
      (5)   Department of Public Safety;
      (6)   Fire Division;
      (7)   Department of Parks and Recreation;
      (8)   St. Clair County Health Department; and
      (9)   St. Clair County Department of Social Services.
   (C)   Identify departments and agencies to be included in the Emergency
Operations Plan as the disaster relief force;
   (D)   Develop and maintain a City of Marine City resource manual;
   (E)   Coordinate the recruitment and utilization of volunteer personnel;
   (F)   Assure the Emergency Operations Plan meets eligibility requirements
for State and Federal aid;
   (G)   Coordinate and conduct training and exercise programs for the disaster
relief force within the City of Marine City and to test the adequacy of the
Emergency Operations Plan;
   (H)   Through public information programs, educate the population as to
actions necessary for the protection of life and property in an emergency or
disaster;
   (I)   Assist in the development of mutual aid agreements;
   (J)   Oversee the implementation of all functions necessary during an
emergency;
   (K)   Coordinate the City of Marine City Emergency Management Program
activities with those of the county, state and adjacent jurisdictions;
   (L)   Coordinate all emergency preparedness activities, including
maintaining primary and alternative emergency operations centers; and
   (M)   Identify mitigation opportunities within the City of Marine City and
encourage departments/agencies to implement mitigation measures.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.05 MAYOR, CITY MANAGER AND EMERGENCY MANAGEMENT COORDINATOR; POWERS,
DUTIES.
   (A)   The City Manager shall supervise the activities of the Emergency
Management Office on a continuous basis. With the advice and consent of the
City Commission, the City Manager, shall formulate, review and approve policy
and operational guidelines for this office as needed.
   (B)   On an annual basis, the City Manager shall review the eligibility and
performance of the Emergency Management Coordinator and make recommendations to
the City Commission.
   (C)   The Mayor shall, once every 2 years, review the Emergency Operations
Plan and upon deeming it adequate, shall certify the Plan to be current and
adequate for the ensuing 2 years.
   (D)   When circumstances with the City of Marine City indicate that the
occurrence or threat of occurrence of widespread or severe damage, injury or
loss of life or property from natural or human made cause exists, the Mayor may
declare a local state of emergency. Such a declaration shall be promptly filed
with the Department of State Police, Emergency Management Division. This
declaration shall not be continued or renewed for a period in excess of 7 days
except with the consent of the City Commission.
   (E)   If the Mayor invokes such power and authority, the Mayor shall, as
soon as reasonably expedient, convene the City Commission for one or more
emergency meetings in accordance with the open Meetings Act, being M.C.L.A. §§
15.261 through 15.275, to perform its normal legislative and administrative
duties as the situation demands, and will report to that body relative to
emergency activities. Nothing in this chapter shall be construed as abridging
or curtailing the powers of the City Commission unless specifically provided
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.06 LOCAL STATE OF EMERGENCY.
   (A)   The City Manager, subject to approval of the City Commission, may do
one or more of the following under a local state of emergency:
      (1)   Direct the Emergency Management Coordinator to implement the
Emergency Operations Plan;
      (2)   Issue directives as to travel restrictions on local roads within
the municipality;
      (3)   Relieve City of Marine City employees of normal duties and
temporarily reassign them to other duties;
      (4)   Activate mutual aid agreements;
      (5)   Direct the overall disaster relief effort, including the disaster
relief force, in accordance with the Emergency Operations Plan; and
      (6)   Notify the public and recommend in-place shelter or evacuation
protective measures.
   (B)   When obtaining normal approvals would result in further injury or
damage, the City Manager may, until the City Commission convenes, waive
procedures and formalities otherwise required pertaining to the following:
      (1)   For a period of up to 7 days, send the disaster relief force and
resources to the aid of other communities as provided by mutual aid agreements;
      (2)   For a period of up to 7 days, appropriate and expend funds from the
Disaster Contingency Fund created in §
31.09 up to $5,000;
      (3)   For a period of up to 7 days, make contracts, obtain/distribute
equipment, materials and supplies for disaster purposes;
      (4)   Employ temporary workers;
      (5)   Purchase and distribute supplies, materials and equipment;
      (6)   Make, amend or rescind ordinances or rules necessary for emergency
management purposes which supplement a rule, order or directive issued by the
Governor or a state agency. Such an ordinance or rule shall be temporary and,
upon the state agency or Governor’s declaration that a state of disaster or
state of emergency is terminated, shall no longer be in effect; and
      (7)   If a state of disaster or emergency is declared by the Governor,
assign and make available for duty the employees, property or equipment of the
City of Marine City within or without the geographical limits of the City of
Marine City as ordered by the Governor or the Director of the Michigan State
police in accordance with the Act.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.07 GOVERNOR DECLARATION REQUEST.
   If a disaster or emergency occurs that has not yet been declared to be a
state of emergency by the Governor, and the Mayor determines that the situation
is beyond the control of the municipality, he or she may request the Governor
to declare that a state of disaster or state of emergency exists in the
municipality. The Emergency Management Coordinator shall immediately contact
the District Coordinator. The District Coordinator, shall assess the nature and
scope of the disaster or emergency, and shall, determine what state personnel,
services and equipment are needed for its prevention, mitigation or relief.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.08 MUNICIPAL DEPARTMENT; LIAISON; DUTIES.
   (A)   Each department or agency of the City of Marine City identified by the
Emergency Management Coordinator shall appoint an emergency management liaison
who shall coordinate the emergency management activities of the Department or
agency and the Emergency Management Office on all matters pertaining to
emergency management.
   (B)   Each department identified shall appoint a minimum of 2 people to
serve as successors in the event the emergency management liaison is not
available or requires assistance. Successors shall be listed in the appropriate
annex to the Emergency Operations Plan.
   (C)   Each department liaison shall be responsible for the following:
      (1)   Prepare and continuously update and annex to the City of Marine
City Emergency Operations plan providing for delivery of emergency management
activities by that agency or department. The annex shall be in the form
prescribed by the Emergency Management Coordinator;
      (2)   Recruit, appoint and organize private, volunteer and other
personnel to be part of the disaster relief force to perform specific duties as
assigned in the Emergency Operations Plan;
      (3)   Coordinate the Agency’s or Department’s emergency management
efforts with those of other City of Marine City agencies;
      (4)   Attend training courses relevant to the function of the agency or
department and ensure staff is trained so as to be able to implement assigned
emergency functions;
      (5)   Participate in periodic exercises to enhance the adequacy of the
respective agency’s or department’s response capability;
      (6)   Develop internal Standard Operating Procedures (SOPs) to accomplish
emergency notification and assigned emergency tasks;
      (7)   Provide the Emergency Management Coordinator with a list of
personnel and resources available within the agency or department and provide a
list of those which may be needed by the department during times of emergency;
      (8)   Identify and provide for the protection of vital records; and
      (9)   Implement the directives of the City Manager or the City Manager’s
designee under a local state of emergency.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.09 DISASTER CONTINGENCY FUND.
   A disaster contingency fund shall be created in the city’s annual budget of
$5,000. Money may be expended from the Fund when a local state of emergency has
been declared for the purpose of paying the disaster relief force, purchase of
supplies and services, repair costs or other needs required specifically for
the mitigation of the effects of, or in response to the emergency disaster.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.10 VOLUNTEERS; APPOINTMENT.
   Each department or agency is authorized to appoint volunteers to augment its
personnel in time of emergency to implement emergency functions assigned in the
Emergency Operations Plan. Such individuals are part of the disaster relief
force and shall be subject to the rules and operational control set forth by
the respective department or agency through which the appointment was made, and
may be reimbursed for all actual and necessary travel and subsistence expenses.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.11 RIGHT OR DISASTER RELIEF FORCE.
   In accordance with the Act, personnel of the disaster relief force, while on
duty, shall have the following rights:
   (A)   If they are employees of the municipality or other governmental
agency, regardless of where serving, have the powers, duties, rights,
privileges and immunities and receive the compensation incidental to their
employment; and
   (B)   If they are not employees of the municipality or other government
agency, be entitled to the same rights and immunities as are provided by law.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.12 TEMPORARY SEAT OF GOVERNMENT.
   The Mayor shall provide for the temporary movement and reestablishment of
essential government offices in the event that existing facilities cannot be
used.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.13 LIABILITY.
   As provided for in the Act and this chapter, the municipality or the agents
or representatives of the municipality shall not be liable for personal injury
or property damage sustained or caused by the disaster relief force. In
addition, any member of the disaster relief force engaged in disaster relief
activity shall not be liable in a civil action for damages resulting from an
act or omission arising out of and in the course of the person’s good faith
rendering of that activity, unless the person’s act or omission was the result
of that person’s gross negligence or willful misconduct. The right of a person
to receive benefits or compensation to which he or she may otherwise be
entitled to under the workers compensation lay, any pension law, or act of
Congress shall not be effected as a result of the activity.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.14 REAL ESTATE.
   A person owning or controlling real estate or other premises who voluntarily
and without compensation grants to the state or a political subdivision a
license or privilege or otherwise permits the state or a political subdivision
to inspect, designate, and use the whole or any part or parts of the real
estate or other premises for the purpose of sheltering persons during an
actual, impending, mock or practice disaster, together with his or her
successors in interest, if any, shall not be civilly liable for negligently
causing the death of or injury to any person on or about the real estate or
premises under the license, privilege or permission or for loss of damage to
the property of the person.
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
§ 31.15 INCIDENT COMMAND SYSTEMS.
   Emergency and disaster situations shall be handled under the incident
command system as set forth:
Situation Incident Command
Situation                       Incident Command
Airplane Accident               Police Department
Emergency Warning               Emergency Management Coordinator
Enemy Attack/Terrorist Activity Police Department
Fire                            Fire Division
Flood Rescue                    Fire Division
Flood Fight                     Department of Public Works
Hazardous Materials             Fire Division
Major Crimes Incident           Police Department
Major Storm Damage              Police Department
Mass Casualty Accident          Fire Division/EMS
Public Health Incident          Emergency Management Coordinator, County Health
                                Department
Snow Emergency                  Department of Public Works
Structure Evacuation            Fire Division
 
(Ord. 01-03, passed - -)
CHAPTER 32: RETIREMENT SYSTEM
Section
   
32.01   Establishment; purpose; name; effective date; transfer provisions
   
32.02   Definitions
   
32.03   Membership of retirement system
   
32.04   Credited service
   
32.05   Loss of credited service
   
32.06   Reinstatement of credited service
   
32.07   Military service credit
   
32.08   Michigan Municipal Employees Retirement System credited service
   
32.09   Benefit groups
   
32.10   Voluntary retirement conditions
   
32.11   Minimum required distributions
   
32.12   Vested termination of membership (deferred retirement)
   
32.13   Amount of level straight life pension
   
32.14   Optional forms of pension payment
   
32.15   Terminal payment
   
32.16   Death while in city employment - elective beneficiary survivor pension
   
32.17   Disability retirement - general conditions for eligibility
   
32.18   Disability retirement - special conditions for duty connected
disability
   
32.19   Disability retirement - continuation subject to re-examination; return
to employment
   
32.20   Disability retirement - effect of gainful employment
   
32.21   Worker’s compensation benefits offset - unemployment compensation
benefits offset
   
32.22   Refund of member’s accumulated contributions
   
32.23   Reserve for employee contributions
   
32.24   Reserve for retired benefit payments
   
32.25   Reserve for employer contributions; city contribution
   
32.26   Reserve for undistributed investment income; expenses
   
32.27   Board of Trustees: responsibilities and duties; composition of
   
32.28   Board of Trustees: term of office; oath of office
   
32.29   Board of Trustees: vacancy on Board; filling of vacancy
   
32.30   Board of Trustees: meetings; quorum; voting; compensation
   
32.31   Allowance of regular interest
   
32.32   Investment of retirement system assets
   
32.33   Board of Trustees: actuarial data; report to City Commission
   
32.34   Board of Trustees: officers; administrative services
   
32.35   Assets not segregated
   
32.36   Method of making payments
   
32.37   Assignments prohibited
   
32.38   Correction of errors
   
32.39   Subrogation
   
32.40   Internal Revenue Code requirements
Cross-reference:
   Post-Retirement Health Care Benefits Plan and Trust, see Chapter 33
§ 32.01 ESTABLISHMENT; PURPOSE; NAME; EFFECTIVE DATE; TRANSFER PROVISIONS.
   (A)   The City of Marine City Retirement System is hereby established for
the purpose of providing retirement income to certain employees of the city and
survivor benefits to their beneficiaries, and to replace the benefits provided
by the city's participation in the Michigan Municipal Employees Retirement
System. This chapter may be cited as the retirement system ordinance for city
employees. The effective date of this chapter is July 1, 1980.
   (B)   All assets attributable to the city and employees and now held by the
Michigan Municipal Employees Retirement System shall eventually be transferred
to and become assets of the retirement system established by this chapter,
subject to the fulfillment of all obligations to the Michigan Municipal
Employees Retirement System. When transferred, the Board of Trustees shall
credit the assets to the various reserves and accounts provided for in this
chapter.
   (C)   All service credited members under the Michigan Municipal Employees
Retirement System shall be credited as service under the retirement system
established by this chapter, to the extent such credited service is in force at
the end of the day preceding the effective date of this chapter.
   (D)   Each person being paid or with entitlement to a pension or other
benefit under the provisions of the Michigan Municipal Employees Retirement
System at the end of the day preceding the effective date of this chapter shall
continue to be paid or shall continue to be entitled to the same pension or
other benefit under the Michigan Municipal Employees Retirement System. Payment
of such pension or other benefit shall not become an obligation of the
retirement system established by this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Ord. 09-01, passed 2-05-2009)
§ 32.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACCUMULATED CONTRIBUTIONS. The sum of all amounts credited to a member's
individual account in the reserve for employee contributions, including regular
interest.
   ACTUARIAL EQUIVALENT. Of equal pension reserve (present value). Except as
otherwise provided in §
32.15(C), actuarial equivalency shall be computed on the basis of the 1971
Group Annuity Mortality Table, set back no years for males and 5 years for
females, and the interest rate published monthly by the Pension Benefit
Guaranty Corporation for use in converting a series of monthly annuity payments
into a lump sum value. Section
32.15 (C) prescribes a separate actuarial equivalency rule where a member
elects to receive a refund of accumulated contributions (excluding regular
interest).
   BENEFICIARY. Any person who is being paid or who has entitlement to future
payment of a pension or other benefit by the retirement system for a reason
other than the person's membership in the retirement system.
   BOARD. The Board of Trustees provided in this chapter for the administration
and management of the retirement system.
   CITY. The City of Marine City, Michigan, and shall include its officers,
boards, departments and instrumentalities.
   COMMISSION. The City Commission of the city.
   COMPENSATION.
      (1)   The amount of money paid a member for personal service rendered the
city while a member of the retirement system. COMPENSATION shall include:
         (a)   Base salary or wages;
         (b)   Overtime salary or wages;
         (c)   Longevity pay;
         (d)   Pay while absent from work on account of illness, holiday or
vacation; and
         (e)   Worker's compensation benefits, except for medical expenses,
during periods the city supplements worker's compensation payments.
      (2)   COMPENSATION shall not include:
         (a)   Allowances for clothing, equipment, travel and similar items;
         (b)   Reimbursement of expenses;
         (c)   The value of work equipment furnished by the city;
         (d)   Termination or severance pay;
         (e)   The value of any fringe benefit unless specifically included;
         (f)   Payments in consideration of unused holiday and vacation time;
         (g)   Payments in consideration of unused sick leave; and/or
         (h)   Any other payment or benefit not specifically included.
      (3)   (a)   Annual compensation in excess of the following amounts shall
not be taken into account for any purpose of the retirement system:
            1.   $200,000 for plan years beginning after June 30, 1989 but
before July 1, 1994;
            2.   $150,000 for plan years beginning after June 30, 1994 but
before July 1, 2002; and
            3.   $200,000 for plan years beginning after June 30, 2002.
         (b)   The limitations in 1, 2 and 3 above shall be adjusted for cost-
of-living in such manner as the Secretary of the Treasury may prescribe
pursuant to §401(a)(17) of the United States Internal Revenue Code.
         (c)   If the period for determining compensation used in calculating a
member's accrual for a determination period is less than a full year (shorter
than 12 months), the annual adjusted limitation is an amount equal to the
otherwise applicable annual limitation multiplied by a fraction, the numerator
of which is the number of months in the short determination period, and the
denominator of which is 12. In determining the compensation of a member for
purposes of this limitation for plan years beginning before July 1, 1997, the
family aggregation rules under § 414(q)(6) of the United States Internal
Revenue Code shall apply, except that in applying such rules, the term FAMILY
shall include only the spouse of the member and any lineal descendants of the
member who have not attained age 19 before the close of the calendar year. If,
as a result of the application of such rules, the adjusted limitation is
exceeded, then the limitation shall be prorated among the affected individuals
in proportion to each such individual's compensation as determined under this
section prior to the application of this limitation. Effective for plan years
beginning on or after July 1, 1997, the family aggregation rules under § 414(q)
of the United States Internal Revenue Code shall not apply in determining a
member's compensation for purposes of this limitation.
   CONTRACTUAL EMPLOYMENT. Any organization or individual not normally employed
by the city who performs services on a fee basis per written agreement.
   CREDITED SERVICE. The service credited a member as provided in §
32.04.
   FINAL AVERAGE COMPENSATION.
      (1)   For members other than members who are employees of the City Police
Department, one fifth of the aggregate amount of compensation paid a member
during the period of 5 consecutive years of the member's credited service in
which the aggregate amount of compensation paid the member is greatest. The 5
consecutive years of credited service shall be contained within the member's
last 10 years of credited service. If a member has less than 5 years of
credited service, final average compensation means the aggregate amount of
compensation paid the member divided by the member's credited service.
      (2)   For members who are employees of the City Police Department, final
average compensation means:
         (a)   For any such member who terminates city employment before
December 11, 2002, final average compensation means one fifth of the aggregate
amount of compensation paid the member during the period of 5 consecutive years
of the member's credited service in which the aggregate amount of compensation
paid the member is greatest. The 5 consecutive years of credited service shall
be contained within the member's last 10 years of credited service. If a member
has fewer than 5 years of credited service, final average compensation means
the aggregate amount of compensation paid the member divided by the member's
credited service.
         (b)   For any such member who terminates city employment between
December 11, 2002 and December 10, 2012, final average compensation means the
greater of:
            1.   Final average compensation as defined in (a) above, or
            2.   One fifth of the aggregate amount of compensation paid such
member during the period of 60 consecutive months of the member's credited
service immediately preceding the member's termination of city employment;
provided, however, that if a member is absent from work during such 60-month
period on account of a city approved leave of absence or a disability related
worker's compensation claim, any month or months during which the member was
absent for at least 16 days shall be excluded from such 60-month period and
replaced by an equal number of non-excluded months of credited service,
starting with the first month immediately preceding the beginning of such 60-
month period and going chronologically backward to the next preceding month
until the total number of months of the member's credited service being counted
equals 60. If a member has fewer than 60 months of credited service, final
average compensation means the aggregate amount of compensation paid the member
divided by the member's credited service.
         (c)   For any such member who terminates city employment on or after
December 11, 2012, final average compensation means final average compensation
as defined in (b)2. above.
   MEMBER. Any person who is a member of the retirement system.
   PENSION. An annual amount paid in monthly installments by the retirement
system throughout the future life of a retirant or beneficiary, or for a
temporary period, as provided in this chapter.
   PENSION RESERVE. The present value of all payments likely to be made on
account of a pension. The present value shall be computed on the basis of such
mortality and other tables of experience and regular annual compound interest
as the actuary appointed by the Board of Trustees shall from time to time
determine.
   PLAN YEAR. A fiscal year ending June 30, to correspond with the city's
fiscal year. Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, the ordinance's
books, records, finances, and actuarial valuations shall be maintained on the
plan year basis.
   REGULAR INTEREST. Such rate or rates of interest per annum, compounded
annually, as the Board shall from time to time adopt.
   RETIRANT. Any person who is being paid a pension by the retirement system on
account of the person's membership in the retirement system.
   RETIREMENT SYSTEM or SYSTEM. The City of Marine City Retirement System
established by this chapter.
   SERVICE. Personal service rendered the city while a member of the retirement
system.
   WORKER'S COMPENSATION PERIOD. The period for which worker's compensation is
paid a retirant or beneficiary on account of disability or death arising out of
and in the course of employment by the city, as determined by the Board of
Trustees. In no case shall a worker's compensation period include any period
from and after attainment of age 60 years. In the event periodic worker's
compensation benefits are redeemed or a settlement of a worker's compensation
claim is made, WORKER'S COMPENSATION PERIOD means the period, if any, during
which periodic worker's compensation benefits are paid plus the period obtained
by dividing the redemption or  settlement by the applicable worker's
compensation periodic benefit, as determined by the Board of Trustees. Payments
in consideration of medical expenses shall be disregarded in the determination
of worker's compensation period.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 00-04, passed 5-4-2000; Am. Ord. 02-01,
passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02, passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 03-01, passed 2-6-
2003; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.03 MEMBERSHIP OF RETIREMENT SYSTEM.
   (A)   A person who is in the employ of the city in a membership position
shall be a member of the retirement system. A membership position is a city
position normally requiring 1,000 or more hours of work in a calendar year,
except as provided in division (B). For employees hired on or after October 1,
2008, a membership position is a city position normally requiring 2,080 or more
hours of work in a calendar year, except as provided in division (B).
   (B)   The following types of city employment are not membership positions:
      (1)   Contractual employment;
      (2)   Employment compensated on a fee basis; or
      (3)   The position of City Manager, Director of Public Works, and Police
Chief, unless within 30 days after the date such person has qualified for
membership he or she files with the Board and City Commission a written request
to be included as a member of the retirement system; or
      (4)   Part-time employment to the extent said employment is excluded
under the employee’s collective bargaining agreement.
   (C)   A member who ceases to be employed by the city in a membership
position shall thereupon cease to be a member.
   (D)   The Board of Trustees shall decide all questions concerning the
membership status of any person.
   (E)   Persons who elect to become members of the I.C.M.A. pension program in
accordance with the terms of their employment and/or their respective
employment contracts shall not be included in the coverage of this chapter.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 00-04, passed 5-4-2000; Am. Ord. 09-01,
passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.04 CREDITED SERVICE.
   Service rendered by a member shall be credited to the member's individual
credited service account in accordance with rules the Board of Trustees shall
from time to time prescribe. In no case shall more than 1 year of credited
service be credited on the account of all service rendered by a member in any 1
calendar year. A total of 1,000 hours or more shall be considered 1 year of
service. For any member who may work less than 1,000 hours, the partial year
will be the total hours worked divided by 1,000. For employees hired on or
after October 1, 2008, a total of 2,080 hours or more shall be considered 1
year of service. For any member who may work less than 2,080 hours, the partial
year will be the total hours worked divided by 2,080.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 02-01, passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02,
passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.05 LOSS OF CREDITED SERVICE.
   Except as provided under the terms of §
32.15(C), a person's credited service shall be forfeited and no longer in force
in the event the person's accumulated contributions are withdrawn from the
reserve for employee contributions and paid to the person.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 91-9, passed 9-19-1991; Ord. 09-01, passed 2-
5-2009)
§ 32.06 REINSTATEMENT OF CREDITED SERVICE.
   A member may have forfeited credited service restored to his or her
individual service account upon satisfaction of each of the following
conditions:
   (A)   Membership recommenced within 10 years from and after the last date of
termination of membership;
   (B)   The retirement system is paid the total amount of accumulated
contributions previously withdrawn plus regular interest from the date(s) of
withdrawal to the date(s) of repayment. Repayment shall be made in accordance
with such rules as the Board of Trustees shall from time to time prescribe; and
   (C)   Effective for transfers of benefits after December 31, 2001, a member
who wishes to have forfeited credited service reinstated may make a direct
trustee-to-trustee transfer of benefits, as permitted by §§ 413(b)(13)(B) and
457(e)(17)(B) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, from:
      (1)   An annuity contract described in § 403(b) of the United States
Internal Revenue Code; or
      (2)   An eligible plan under § 457(b) of the United States Internal
Revenue Code which is maintained by a state, political subdivision of a state,
or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state
to repay to the retirement system the accumulated contributions previously
withdrawn by the member, plus regular interest required to restore credited
service.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 02-01, passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02,
passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.07 MILITARY SERVICE CREDIT.
   A person's periods of duty with the Armed Forces of the United States shall
be credited as city service as follows:
   (A)   For periods of military service before December 12, 1994, a person who
leaves or left city employment to enter any armed service of the United States
during time of war, period of compulsory military service, or period of
national emergency recognized by the City Commission shall have required
periods of active duty credited as city service, subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The person is re-employed by the city within 90 days from and after
the date of termination of required active duty;
      (2)   The person becomes a member and repays to the retirement system the
total amount of accumulated contributions previously withdrawn, if any, plus
regular interest from the date(s) of withdrawal to the date(s) of repayment;
and
      (3)   In no case shall more than 6 years of service be credited on
account of all military service.
   (B)   For periods of military service on or after December 12, 1994, a
person who leaves or left city employment to enter the Armed Forces of the
United States for service that satisfies the requirements of qualified military
service under the Uniformed Services Employment and Re-employment Rights Act of
1994 ("USERRA") shall have the period of such service credited as city service,
subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   The person is re-employed by the city within the period prescribed
by USERRA.
      (2)   The person becomes a member and repays to the retirement system the
accumulated contributions previously withdrawn, if any, plus regular interest
from the date(s) of withdrawal to the date(s) of repayment. Such repayment must
be made during the period beginning with the member's date of re-employment and
ending with the shorter of:
         (a)   Five years; or
         (b)   Three times the period of the member's military service.
      (3)   Repayment of such accumulated contributions may, at the discretion
of the Board of Trustees, be made by regular deduction from the member's pay
and be paid to the retirement system. If, at the time a benefit is first
payable to the member or the member's beneficiary, the full amount of
accumulated contributions has not been repaid by the member (or by a
beneficiary), pro rata city service shall be provided in the ratio of the
principal amount of accumulated contributions which have been repaid, over the
total principal amount of accumulated contributions which were to be repaid.
      (4)   Effective for transfers of benefits after December 31, 2001, a
member who wishes to have military service credited as city service may make a
direct trustee-to-trustee transfer of benefits, as permitted by §§ 413(b)(13)
(B) and 457(e)(17)(B) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, from:
         (a)   An annuity contract described in § 403(b) of the United States
Internal Revenue Code; or
         (b)   An eligible plan under § 457(b) of the United States Internal
Revenue Code which is maintained by a state, political subdivision of a state,
or any agency or instrumentality of a state or political subdivision of a state
to repay to the retirement system the accumulated contributions previously
withdrawn by the member.
      (5)   In no case shall the amount of military service credited as city
service be less than the amount required by USERRA and § 414(u) of the United
States Internal Revenue Code.
   (C)   The Board of Trustees shall determine the amount of service to be
credited to a person under the provisions of this section.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 02-01, passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02,
passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.08 MICHIGAN MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES RETIREMENT SYSTEM CREDITED SERVICE.
   Credited service in force under the Michigan Municipal Employees Retirement
System at the end of the day preceding the effective date of this chapter shall
be recognized as credited service under this retirement system.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.09 BENEFIT GROUPS.
   (A)   The following benefit groups are hereby designated for the purpose of
determining benefit eligibility conditions and benefit amount:
      (1)   Benefit group general shall consist of all persons not included in
one of the benefit groups which follow.
      (2)   There are no additional benefit groups as of July 1, 1980.
   (B)   Benefit eligibility conditions shall be based on the member's benefit
group at the time of termination of city employment. Benefit amounts shall be
based on the amount of credited service acquired in each benefit group.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.10 VOLUNTARY RETIREMENT CONDITIONS.
   (A)   A person may retire upon satisfaction of each of the following
requirements:
      (1)   The person has filed written application for retirement with the
Board of Trustees setting forth the date retirement is to be effective; said
application shall be filed not less than 180 days nor more than 270 days before
the retirement is to be effective;
      (2)   The person terminates all city employment prior to the date
retirement is to be effective; and
      (3)   The person has met an applicable age and service condition for
retirement.
   (B)   The age and service conditions for voluntary retirement are as
follows. Benefit group general:
      (1)   Age 60 years or older with 10 or more years of credited service in
force; or
      (2)   Age 55 years or older with 25 or more years of credited service in
force.
   (C)   Upon retirement as provided in this section, a person shall be paid a
pension computed according to §
32.13.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.11 MINIMUM REQUIRED DISTRIBUTIONS.
   Notwithstanding anything in this chapter to the contrary:
   (A)   (1)   Distribution of a member's benefits hereunder shall be made or
commence to be paid not later than April 1 of the year following the year in
which the later of the following occurs:
         (a)   The member attains age 70-1/2; or
         (b)   The member retires.
      (2)   The later of these events shall be the member's "required
distribution date."
      (3)   If a member retires in a calendar year after the calendar year in
which he or she attains age 70-1/2, the member's retirement benefit shall be
actuarially increased to take into account any period after attainment of age
70-1/2 in which the member was not receiving any benefits under the retirement
system. The actuarial increase shall begin on April 1 following the calendar
year in which the member attains age 70-1/2 (January 1, 1997 in the case of a
member who attained age 70-1/2 prior to 1996), and shall end on the date on
which benefits commence after retirement in an amount sufficient to satisfy §
401(a)(9) of the United States Internal Revenue Code.
   (B)   Minimum distribution requirements - pension.
      (1)   Effective date. The provisions of this section will apply for
purposes of determining required minimum distributions for calendar years
beginning with the 2003 calendar year.
      (2)   Precedence. The requirements of this section will take precedence
over any inconsistent provisions of the Retirement System Ordinance.
      (3)   Requirements of Treasury Regulations Incorporated. All
distributions required under this section will be determined and made in
accordance with the Treasury regulations under section 401(a)(9) of the
Internal Revenue Code.
      (4)   TEFRA Section 242(b)(2) Elections. Notwithstanding the other
provisions of this section, other than division (B)(3), distributions may be
made under a designation made before January 1, 1984, in accordance with
section 242(b)(2) of the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act (TEFRA) and
the provisions of the plan that relate to section 242(b)(2) of TEFRA.
      (5)   Required beginning date. The member's entire interest will be
distributed, or begin to be distributed, to the member no later than the
member's required beginning date.
      (6)   Death of member before distributions begin. 
         (a)   If the member dies before distributions begin, the member's
entire interest will be distributed, or begin to be distributed, no later than
as follows:
            1.   If the member's surviving spouse is the member's sole
designated beneficiary, then, except as provided in the adoption agreement,
distributions to the surviving spouse will begin by December 31 of the calendar
year immediately following the calendar year in which the member died, or by
December 31 of the calendar year in which the member would have attained age 70
1/2, if later.
            2.   If the member's surviving spouse is not the member's sole
designated beneficiary, then, except as provided in the adoption agreement,
distributions to the designated beneficiary will begin by December 31 of the
calendar year immediately following the calendar year in which the member died.
            3.   If there is no designated beneficiary as of September 30 of
the year following the year of the member's death, the member's entire interest
will be distributed by December 31 of the calendar year containing the fifth
anniversary of the member's death.
            4.   If the member's surviving spouse is the member's sole
designated beneficiary and the surviving spouse dies after the member but
before distributions to the surviving spouse begin, this division (6), other
than division (6)(a)1., will apply as if the surviving spouse were the member.
         (b)   For purposes of this division (6) and divisions (13) through
(15), distributions are considered to begin on the member's required beginning
date (or, if division (6)(a)4. applies, the date distributions are required to
begin to the surviving spouse under division (6)(a)1.). If annuity payments
irrevocably commence to the member before the member's required beginning date
(or to the member's surviving spouse before the date distributions are required
to begin to the surviving spouse under division (6)(a)1.), the date
distributions are considered to begin is the date distributions actually
commence.
      (7)   Form of distribution. Unless the member's interest is distributed
in the form of an annuity purchased from an insurance company or in a single
sum on or before the required beginning date, as of the first distribution
calendar year distributions will be made in accordance with divisions (12)
through (15) of this section. If the member's interest is distributed in the
form of an annuity purchased from an insurance company, distributions
thereunder will be made in accordance with the requirements of section 401(a)
(9) of the Code and the Treasury regulations. Any part of the member's interest
which is in the form of an individual account described in section 414(k) of
the Code will be distributed in a manner satisfying the requirements of section
401(a)(9) of the Code and the Treasury regulations that apply to individual
accounts.
      (8)   General annuity requirements. If the member's interest is paid in
the form of annuity distributions under the retirement system, payments under
the annuity will satisfy the following requirements:
         (a)   The annuity distributions will be paid in periodic payments made
at intervals not longer than one year;
         (b)   The distribution period will be over a life (or lives) or over a
period certain not longer than the period described in divisions (11) and (12)
or paragraphs (13) through (15);
         (c)   Once payments have begun over a period certain, the period
certain will not be changed even if the period certain is shorter than the
maximum permitted;
         (d)   Payments will either be non-increasing or increase only as
follows:
            1.   By an annual percentage increase that does not exceed the
annual percentage increase in a cost-of-living index that is based on prices of
all items and issued by the Bureau of Labor Statistics;
            2.   By the increase in compensation for a position held by the
employee at the time of retirement;
            3.   By the amount of a variable or fixed rate paid directly from
the trust. A fixed rate increase may be provided if the rate of increase is
less than 5%. A variable rate increase, based solely on better than assumed
investment performance, is permitted but only if the assumed interest rate for
calculating the initial level of payments is at least 3%;
            4.   To the extent of the reduction in the amount of the member's
payments to provide for a survivor benefit upon death, but only if the
beneficiary whose life was being used to determine the distribution period
described in divisions (11) or (12) dies or is no longer the member's
beneficiary pursuant to a qualified domestic relations order within the meaning
of section 414(p);
            5.   To provide cash refunds of employee contributions upon the
member's death; or
            6.   To pay increased benefits that result from a plan amendment.
      (9)   Amount required to be distributed by required beginning date. The
amount that must be distributed on or before the member's required beginning
date (or, if the member dies before distributions begin, the date distributions
are required to begin under division (6)(a)1. or division (6)(a)2.) is the
payment that is required for one payment interval. The second payment need not
be made until the end of the next payment interval even if that payment
interval ends in the next calendar year. Payment intervals are the periods for
which payments are received, e.g., bimonthly, monthly, semi-annually, or
annually. All of the member's benefit accruals as of the last day of the first
distribution calendar year will be included in the calculation of the amount of
the annuity payments for payment intervals ending on or after the member's
required beginning date.
      (10)   Additional accruals after first distribution calendar year. Any
additional benefits accruing to the member in a calendar year after the first
distribution calendar year will be distributed beginning with the first payment
interval ending in the calendar year immediately following the calendar year in
which such amount accrues.
      (11)   Joint life annuities where the beneficiary is not the member's
spouse. If the member's interest is being distributed in the form of a joint
and survivor annuity for the joint lives of the member and a nonspouse
beneficiary, annuity payments to be made on or after the member's required
beginning date to the designated beneficiary after the member's death must not
at any time exceed the applicable percentage of the annuity payment for such
period that would have been payable to the member using the table set forth in
Q&A-2 of section 1.401(a)(9)-6T of the Treasury regulations. If the form of
distribution combines a joint and survivor annuity for the joint lives of the
member and a nonspouse beneficiary and a period certain annuity, the
requirement in the preceding sentence will apply to annuity payments to be made
to the designated beneficiary after the expiration of the period certain.
      (12)   Period certain annuities. Unless the member's spouse is the sole
designated beneficiary and the form of distribution is a period certain and no
life annuity, the period certain for an annuity distribution commencing during
the member's lifetime may not exceed the applicable distribution period for the
member under the Uniform Lifetime Table set forth in section 1.401 (a)(9)-9 of
the Treasury regulations for the calendar year that contains the annuity
starting date. If the annuity starting date precedes the year in which the
member reaches age 70, the applicable distribution period for the member is the
distribution period for age 70 under the Uniform Lifetime Table set forth in
section 1.401(a)(9)-9 of the Treasury regulations plus the excess of 70 over
the age of the member as of the member's birthday in the year that contains the
annuity starting date. If the member's spouse is the member's sole designated
beneficiary and the form of distribution is a period certain and no life
annuity, the period certain may not exceed the longer of the member's
applicable distribution period, as determined under this division (12), or the
joint life and last survivor expectancy of the member and the member's spouse
as determined under the Joint and Last Survivor Table set forth in section
1.401(a)(9)-9 of the Treasury regulations, using the member's and spouse's
attained ages as of the member's and spouse's birthdays in the calendar year
that contains the annuity starting date.
      (13)   Member survived by designated beneficiary. If the member dies
before the date distribution of his or her interest begins and there is a
designated beneficiary, the member's entire interest will be distributed,
beginning no later than the time described in division (6)(a)1. or (6)(a)2.,
over the life of the designated beneficiary or over a period certain not
exceeding:
         (a)   Unless the annuity starting date is before the first
distribution calendar year, the life expectancy of the designated beneficiary
determined using the beneficiary's age as of the beneficiary's birthday in the
calendar year immediately following the calendar year of the member's death; or
         (b)   If the annuity starting date is before the first distribution
calendar year, the life expectancy of the designated beneficiary determined
using the beneficiary's age as of the beneficiary's birthday in the calendar
year that contains the annuity starting date.
      (14)   No designated beneficiary. If the member dies before the date
distributions begin and there is no designated beneficiary as of September 30
of the year following the year of the member's death, distribution of the
member's entire interest will be completed by December 31 of the calendar year
containing the fifth anniversary of the member's death.
      (15)   Death of surviving spouse before distributions to surviving spouse
begin. If the member dies before the date distribution of his or her interest
begins, the member's surviving spouse is the member's sole designated
beneficiary, and the surviving spouse dies before distributions to the
surviving spouse begin, this section will apply as if the surviving spouse were
the member, except that the time by which distributions must begin will be
determined without regard to division (6)(a)1.
      (16)   Payments to children. Payments made to a member's child are
treated as payments to the surviving spouse if they cease after the child
reached the age of majority (or upon the death of the child) and are payable to
the surviving spouse thereafter.
      (17)   Designated beneficiary. The individual who is designated as the
beneficiary under this Retirement System Ordinance and is the designated
beneficiary under section 401(a)(9) of the Internal Revenue Code and section
1.401(a)(9)- 1, Q&A-4, of the Treasury regulations.
      (18)   Distribution calendar year. A calendar year for which a minimum
distribution is required. For distributions beginning before the member's
death, the first distribution calendar year is the calendar year immediately
preceding the calendar year which contains the member's required beginning
date. For distributions beginning after the member's death, the first
distribution calendar year is the calendar year in which distributions are
required to begin pursuant to division (20).
      (19)   Life expectancy. Life expectancy as computed by use of the Single
Life Table in section 1.401 (a)(9)-9 of the Treasury regulations.
      (20)   Required beginning date. The date specified in division (A) above
of this section.
(Am. Ord. 02-01, passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02, passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord.
09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.12 VESTED TERMINATION OF MEMBERSHIP (DEFERRED RETIREMENT).
   (A)   A person who ceases to be a member, for a reason other than retirement
or death, on or after satisfaction of an applicable age and credited service
condition specified in division (B) shall be entitled to retire upon
satisfaction of the conditions for voluntary retirement specified in §
32.10. Upon retirement the person shall be paid a pension computed according to
§
32.13, as the section provided at the time of last termination of membership.
   (B)   The age and service conditions for vested termination of membership
are as follows: benefit group general - 10 years of credited service without
regard to age.
   (C)   Withdrawal of a person's accumulated contributions and loss of
credited service as provided in §
32.05 shall constitute a forfeiture of all rights in and to retirement and the
pension otherwise provided in this section.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 91-9, passed 9-19-1991; Am. Ord. 02-01,
passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02, passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-
2009)
§ 32.13 AMOUNT OF LEVEL STRAIGHT LIFE PENSION.
   (A)   Benefit group general. The amount of level straight life pension shall
be equal to the retiring person's benefit group general credited service
multiplied by:
      (1)   For retiring persons other than persons who are employees of the
City Police Department or members of the International Union of Operating
Engineers bargaining unit, 2.0% of the retiring person's final average
compensation; and
      (2)   For retiring persons who are employees of the City Police
Department or members of the International Union of Operating Engineers
bargaining unit:
         (a)   For any such person who retires before December 11, 2002, 2.0%
of the retiring person's final average compensation; and
         (b)   For any such person who retires on or after December 11, 2002,
2.25% of the retiring person's final average compensation.
   (B)   If the retiring person has less than 25 years credited service, the
pension shall be reduced by one-half percent (.005) for each month or fraction
thereof, by which the date of benefit commencement precedes the person's
attainment of age 60.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 85-4, passed 7-18-1985; Am. Ord. 90-8, passed
7-5-1990; Am. Ord. 03-01, passed 2-6-2003; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.14 OPTIONAL FORMS OF PENSION PAYMENT.
   A retirant may elect this option in combination with Option A or B. Under
this option, a reduced retirement allowance is payable during the joint
lifetime of the retirant and his/her beneficiary nominated under Option A or B.
Upon the death of the retirant, the beneficiary will receive a retirement
allowance for life equal to the percentage specified by Option A or B of the
reduced retirement income payable during the joint lifetime of the retirant and
his or her beneficiary. Upon the death of the beneficiary, the retirant will
receive a retirement allowance for his or her remaining lifetime equal to 100%
of the straight life allowance for which the retirant was eligible at his or
her retirement. The reduced retirement allowance payable during the joint
lifetime of the retirant and his or her beneficiary, together with the
retirement allowance payable to one upon the death of the other, will be
computed at retirement as the actuarial equivalent of the retirement allowance
provided by §32.13 as a straight life benefit.
   (A)   Option A - 100% survivor pension. Under Option A, a retirant shall be
paid a reduced pension for life with the provision that upon the retirant's
death the reduced pension shall be continued throughout the future lifetime of
and paid to such person, having an insurable interest in the retirant's life,
as the retirant shall have nominated by written designation duly executed and
filed with the Board of Trustees at the time of election of the optional form
of payment.
   (B)   Option B - 50% survivor pension. Under Option B a retirant shall be
paid a reduced pension for life with the provision that upon the retirant's
death 1/2 of the reduced pension shall be continued throughout the future
lifetime of and paid to such person, having an insurable interest in the
retirant's life, as the retirant shall have nominated by written designation
duly executed and filed with the Board of Trustees at the time of election of
the optional form of payment.
   (C)   Option C - Social security coordinated pension. Under Option C a
retirant shall be paid an increased pension to attainment of unreduced social
security normal retirement age and a reduced pension thereafter. The increased
pension paid to attainment of unreduced social security normal retirement age
shall approximate the sum of the reduced pension payable thereafter and the
retirant's estimated social security primary insurance amount.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 96-11, passed 12-19-1996; Am. Ord. 98-7,
passed 8-20-1998; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.15 TERMINAL PAYMENT.
   (A)   In the event all level straight life or Option C pension payments
terminate before there has been paid an aggregate amount equal to the
retirant's accumulated contributions at the time retirement was effective
reduced by any amounts paid under division (C) of this section, the difference,
if any, between the retirant's accumulated contributions reduced by any amounts
paid under division (C) of this section and the aggregate amount of pension
payments made shall be paid to such person or persons as the retirant shall
have designated in writing and filed with the Board of Trustees. If there be no
such person surviving the retirant, the difference, if any, shall be paid to
the legal representative of the retirant.
   (B)   Purchase of annuities. In the event the city determines that the
purchase of annuity contracts to fund retirees benefits is advantageous, the
city may purchase said annuities. The annuities shall be purchased from a legal
reserve life insurance company licensed to conduct business in the State of
Michigan and with an A.M. Best rating of "A" or better.
   (C)   (1)   Annuity withdrawal.
         (a)   A member retiring after age 55 with 25 or more years of service
or after age 60 with 10 or more years of service may, at the member's option,
elect to receive a refund of a percentage, up to 100%, of the member's
accumulated contributions excluding interest on the effective date of his or
her retirement.
         (b)   The member's lifetime pension otherwise payable, as calculated
under §
32.13, shall be reduced by an amount which is the actuarial equivalent of the
refunded accumulated contributions excluding interest. The actuarial equivalent
amount shall be computed on the basis of the mortality and interest rates used
by the Pension Benefit Guaranty Corporation for valuing benefits of non-multi-
employer pension plans terminating during the month of the member's retirement,
using a unisex factor based on an 85% male/15% female mix, as provided by the
Actuary for the retirement system.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided, the following provisions concerning
direct rollovers shall apply to distributions made on or after January 1, 1993:
         (a)   Application. Notwithstanding any provision of this chapter to
the contrary that would otherwise limit a distributee's election under this
section, a distributee may elect, at any time and in the manner prescribed by
the Board of Trustees, to have any portion of an eligible rollover distribution
paid directly to an Eligible Retirement Plan specified by the distributee in a
direct rollover.
         (b)   Definitions. For purposes of this section, the following
definitions shall apply.
         DIRECT ROLLOVER. A payment by the retirement system to the Eligible
Retirement Plan specified by the distributee.
         DISTRIBUTEE. Includes an employee or former employee. In addition, the
employee's or former employee's surviving spouse are distributees with regard
to the interest of the spouse or former spouse.
         ELIGIBLE RETIREMENT PLAN. Means as follows:
            1.   An individual retirement account described in § 408(a) of the
United States Internal Revenue Code;
            2.   An individual retirement annuity (other than an endowment
contract) described in §408(b) of the United States Internal Revenue Code;
            3.   A qualified plan described in § 401(a) of the United States
Internal Revenue Code if it is a defined contribution plan which permits the
acceptance of rollover distributions;
            4.   An annuity plan described in § 403(a) of the United States
Internal Revenue Code;
            5.   Effective January 1, 2002, an annuity contract described in §
403(b) of the United States Internal Revenue Code; or
            6.   Effective January 1, 2002, an eligible plan under § 457(b) of
the United States Internal Revenue Code which is maintained by a state,
political subdivision of a state, or any agency or instrumentality of a state
or political subdivision of a state and which agrees to separately account for
amounts transferred into such plan from this retirement system.
            7.   Effective January 1, 2002, the definition of an Eligible
Retirement Plan shall also apply in the case of a distribution to a surviving
spouse.
         ELIGIBLE ROLLOVER DISTRIBUTION.
            1.   Any distribution of all or any portion of the balance to the
credit of the distributee, except that an ELIGIBLE ROLLOVER DISTRIBUTION does
not include:
               a.   Any distribution that is one of a series of substantially
equal periodic payments (paid not less frequently than annually) paid over any
1 of the following periods: the life of the member (or the joint lives of the
member and the member's designated beneficiary), the life expectancy of the
member (or the joint life and last survivor expectancy of the member and the
member's designated beneficiary), or a specified period of 10 years or more;
               b.   Any distribution to the extent the distribution is required
under § 401(a)(9) of the United States Internal Revenue Code relating to the
minimum distribution requirements;
               c.   Except as provided below, the portion of any distribution
that is not includable in gross income (the part of a member's distribution
which is related to after-tax contributions made prior to April 1, 1979); and
               d.   Similar items designated in revenue rulings, notices, and
other guidance from the Treasury Department of general applicability.
            2.   Effective January 1, 2002, a portion of a distribution shall
not fail to be an eligible rollover distribution merely because the portion
consists of after-tax employee contributions which are not includable in gross
income. However, such portion may be paid only to an individual retirement
account or annuity described in § 408(a) or (b) of the United States Internal
Revenue Code, or to a qualified defined contribution plan described in § 401(a)
or 403(a) of the United States Internal Revenue Code that agrees to separately
account for amounts so transferred, including separately accounting for the
portion of such distribution which is includable in gross income and the
portion of such distribution which is not so includable.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 91-9, passed 9-19-1991; Am. Ord. 02-01,
passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02, passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-
2009)
§ 32.16 DEATH WHILE IN CITY EMPLOYMENT - ELECTIVE BENEFICIARY SURVIVOR PENSION.
   (A)   A member who satisfies an applicable age and credited service
condition specified in division (B) may nominate a beneficiary. A member may
revoke a nomination of beneficiary at any time and again nominate a
beneficiary. The nomination of beneficiary shall be in writing and filed with
the Board of Trustees. If no nomination is on file with the Board of Trustees,
the member's spouse shall be assumed to be an automatic nomination. The
nomination or automatic nomination of beneficiary shall be null and void upon
the member's retirement or prior termination of city employment. Upon the death
of a member who has a nomination of beneficiary in force, the beneficiary, if
living, shall be paid a level straight level pension computed according to §
32.13 in the same manner in all respects as if the member had elected Option A
provided in §
32.14 and retired the day preceding his or her death, notwithstanding that the
member may not have satisfied the conditions for retirement.
   (B)   The age and credited service conditions for nomination of a
beneficiary as provided in division (A) are as follows: benefit group general -
10 years of credited service without regard to age.
   (C)   In lieu of a monthly pension described in division (A), the
beneficiary may elect to receive a lump sum payment equal to the larger of:
      (1)   The actuarial equivalent computed on the basis of the 1971 Group
Annuity Mortality Table, setback no years for males and 5 years for females,
and the interest rate published monthly by the Pension Benefit Guaranty
Corporation for use in converting a series of monthly annuity payments into a
lump sum value; or
      (2)   The deceased member's accumulated contributions. Upon receipt of
such lump sum payment, the beneficiary shall have no further claims against the
retirement system.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.17 DISABILITY RETIREMENT - GENERAL CONDITIONS FOR ELIGIBILITY.
   (A)   Upon the application of a person or the person's department head, a
person in the employ of the city who becomes totally and permanently
incapacitated for employment by the city by reason of a personal injury or
disease and who has in force the applicable period of credited service
specified in division (B) may be retired by the Board subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The person is medically examined by or under the direction of the
medical director;
      (2)   The Medical Director certifies to the Board of Trustees that the
person is mentally or physically totally incapacitated for continued employment
by the city, that such incapacity will probably be permanent, and the person
should be retired;
      (3)   The Board of Trustees concurs with the certification of the Medical
Director. An opinion of 2 physicians shall be binding on all parties.
   (B)   The age and credited service requirements for disability retirement
are as follows: benefit group general - 10 years of credited service without
regard to age.
   (C)   Upon disability retirement a person shall be paid a pension computed
according to §
32.13. The disability retirement shall be subject to §
32.19.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.18 DISABILITY RETIREMENT - SPECIAL CONDITIONS FOR DUTY CONNECTED
DISABILITY.
   A person with less than the applicable period of credited service specified
in §
32.17 for disability retirement shall have his or her credited service
increased to the applicable specified period for the sole and exclusive purpose
of qualifying for disability retirement and computation of the disability
retirement pension, subject to the following conditions:
   (A)   The Board of Trustees finds the person's total and permanent
incapacity for continued city employment to be the natural and proximate result
of a personal injury or disease arising out of and in the course of the
person's actual performance of duties in the employ of the city;
   (B)   The person is paid Worker's Compensation on account of the incapacity.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.19 DISABILITY RETIREMENT - CONTINUATION SUBJECT TO RE-EXAMINATION; RETURN
TO EMPLOYMENT.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees may require a disability retirant to undergo
periodic medical examination by or under the direction of the Medical Director
if the disability retirant has not attained the following applicable age:
      (1)   Benefit group general. Age 60 years.
      (2)   If a disability retirant refuses to submit to a medical
examination, payment of the disability pension may be suspended by the Board of
Trustees until withdrawal of the refusal. Should refusal continue for 1 year
all the disability retirant's rights in and to a disability pension may be
revoked by the Board of Trustees. A disability retirant shall be restored to
active employment with the city and the disability pension discontinued if
following a medical examination the Medical Director certifies that the
disability retirant is mentally and physically able and capable of resuming
employment with the city, and the Board of Trustees concurs in the
certification of the Medical Director. The city shall be allowed reasonable
latitude in placing the returned disability retirant in a position commensurate
with the position held at time of disability retirement.
   (B)   A disability retirant who has been restored to employment with the
city as provided in division (A) shall again become a member of the retirement
system. The disability retirant's credited service at time of retirement shall
be restored to full force. Service shall be credited for the period the
disability retirant was being paid a disability pension if within the period
the disability retirant was paid worker's compensation on account of the same
disability which caused retirement; otherwise credited service shall not be
given for the period of disability retirement.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.20 DISABILITY RETIREMENT - EFFECT OF GAINFUL EMPLOYMENT.
   If a disability retirant, who has not attained 60 years, is or becomes
engaged in a gainful occupation, business, or employment, paying him or her
more than the difference between his or her monthly rate of compensation at
time of disability retirement and his or her disability pension, his or her
disability pension shall be reduced to an amount which is the difference
between his or her monthly compensation at time of disability retirement and
the amount so earned by him or her. Should his or her earnings be later
changed, his or her disability pension shall be correspondingly adjusted.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.21 WORKER'S COMPENSATION BENEFITS OFFSET - UNEMPLOYMENT COMPENSATION
BENEFITS OFFSET.
   (A)   The amount of any benefits, except payments for medical care, paid a
retirant or beneficiary pursuant to the worker's compensation law, or any
similar law, of the State of Michigan or pursuant to a settlement of any claim
for worker's compensation benefits, on account of the person's employment by
the city, shall be offset against and payable in lieu of benefits provided by
the retirement system.
   (B)   The amount of any benefits paid a retirant, who has not attained age
70 years, pursuant to the unemployment compensation law of the State of
Michigan, on account of the person's prior employment by the city, shall be
offset against and payable in lieu of benefits provided by the retirement
system.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.22 REFUND OF MEMBER'S ACCUMULATED CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   Except as otherwise provided in this chapter, a person who ceases to
be a member for any reason except retirement or death, prior to satisfying the
age and service requirements for retirement provided in §
32.10, shall be paid his or her accumulated contributions upon written request
filed with the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   If a person dies and no pension becomes or will become payable by the
retirement system on account of the death, the deceased person's accumulated
contributions shall be paid to such person or persons as the deceased person
shall have nominated by written designation duly executed and filed with the
Board of Trustees. If there be no such designated person surviving the deceased
person, the accumulated contributions shall be paid to the deceased person's
estate.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.23 RESERVE FOR EMPLOYEE CONTRIBUTIONS.
   (A)   The reserve for employee contributions shall be the account in which
shall be accumulated, at regular interest, the contributions deducted from the
compensation of members and from which shall be made refunds and transfers of
accumulated contributions as provided in this chapter.
   (B)   A member's contributions to the retirement system shall be the
applicable following amounts: benefit group general - 5% of compensation.
   (C)   (1)   The person or persons responsible for preparing the city payroll
shall cause the contributions provided for in division (B) to be deducted from
the compensation of each member on each and every payroll. The deducted
contributions shall be paid to the retirement system and shall be credited to
the member's individual accounts in the reserve for employee contributions.
      (2)   Members' contributions shall be made notwithstanding that the
minimum compensation provided by law for any member shall be changed thereby.
Every member shall be deemed to consent and agree to the deductions made and
provided herein. Payment of compensation less the deduction shall be a full and
complete discharge and acquittance of all claims and demands whatsoever for
services rendered by the member during the period covered by such payment,
except as to benefits provided by the retirement system. The person or persons
responsible for preparing the city payroll shall certify to the City Auditor
and the Board the amount of contribution deducted from the compensation of each
member on each and every payroll.
   (D)   The accumulated contributions of a member shall be transferred from
the reserve for employee contributions to the reserve for retired benefit
payments upon retirement. At the expiration of a period of 3 years from the
date a person without entitlement to a vested termination pension provided in §
32.12 ceases to be a member, any balance in the reserve for employee
contributions unclaimed by the person or the person's legal representative
shall be transferred to the reserve for undistributed investment income.
   (E)   (1)   The city shall pick up the member contribution required by
division (B) of this section for all compensation earned after the effective
date of this section. The contributions so picked up shall be treated as
employer contributions in determining tax treatment under the United States
Internal Revenue Code. The city shall pick up the member contributions from
funds established and available in the salaries account, which funds would
otherwise have been designated as member contributions and paid to the
retirement system. Member contributions picked up by the city pursuant to this
section shall be treated for all other purposes of this and other laws of the
city in the same manner and to the same extent as member contributions made
prior to the effective date of this section.
      (2)   The effective date of this section shall be the first day of the
first pay period beginning at least 60 days after the city has received
notification from the Internal Revenue Service that, pursuant to § 414(h) of
the United States Internal Revenue Code, the member contributions so picked up
shall not be included in gross income for tax purposes until such time as they
are distributed by refund or benefit payment.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 86-7, passed 12-4-1986; Am. Ord. 09-01,
passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.24 RESERVE FOR RETIRED BENEFIT PAYMENTS.
   The reserve for retired benefit payments shall be the account from which
shall be paid all pensions and residual refunds, as well as amounts paid under
§
32.15(C), as provided in this retirement system.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 91-9, passed 9-19-1991; Am. Ord. 09-01,
passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.25 RESERVE FOR EMPLOYER CONTRIBUTIONS; CITY CONTRIBUTION.
   (A)   The reserve for employer contributions shall be the account to which
shall be credited contributions made by the city to the retirement system and
from which shall be made transfers as provided in this section.
   (B)   Each year following receipt of the report of the annual actuarial
valuation, the excess, if any, of the reported value of pensions being paid and
likely to be paid retirants and beneficiaries over the balance in the reserve
for retired benefit payments shall be transferred from the reserve for employer
contributions to the reserve for retired benefit payments.
   (C)   (1)   The financial objective of this section is to require city
contributions to the retirement system each fiscal year which together with the
contributions made by members during the fiscal year shall be sufficient to:
         (a)   Fully fund the cost of benefits likely to be paid on account of
service rendered by members during the year; and
         (b)   Finance unfunded costs of benefits likely to be paid on account
of service rendered by members prior to the current year over a period of not
more than 40 years.
      (2)   Such contributions shall be computed by the actuary as level
percents of member payroll in accordance with generally accepted actuarial
principles. The city shall also contribute the anticipated cost of any
retirement system insurance coverage provided retirants and beneficiaries, to
the extent such costs cannot be covered by the unencumbered balance in the
reserve for undistributed investment income. The Board shall annually certify
to the City Commission the contributions determined according to this section,
and the Commission shall appropriate and pay to the retirement system the
contributions so certified.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 94-13, passed 5-5-1994; Am. Ord. 09-01,
passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.26 RESERVE FOR UNDISTRIBUTED INVESTMENT INCOME; EXPENSES.
   The reserve for undistributed investment income shall be the account to
which shall be credited all interest, dividends, and other income from the
investment of retirement system assets, all gifts and bequests received by the
retirement system, all unclaimed accumulated contributions and pensions, all
appropriations for administrative expenses, and all other monies received by
the retirement system the disposition of which is not specifically provided.
There shall be transferred from the reserve for undistributed investment income
all amounts required to credit regular interest to the reserve for employee
contributions, reserve for employer contributions, and the reserve for retired
benefit payments, and to pay administrative expenses of the retirement system
(to the extent monies are appropriated for this purpose). Whenever the Board of
Trustees determines the balance in the reserve for undistributed investment
income is more than sufficient to cover current charges to the account, the
excess or any part thereof may be used to provide contingency reserves or to
meet special requirements of the other reserve accounts of the retirement
system. Whenever the balance in the reserve for undistributed investment income
is insufficient to meet the current charges to the account, the amount of the
insufficiency shall be transferred from the reserve for employer contributions.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.27 BOARD OF TRUSTEES: RESPONSIBILITIES AND DUTIES; COMPOSITION OF.
   (A)   The general administration, management and responsibility for the
proper operation of the retirement system, and for construing and making
effective the provisions of the retirement system are vested in a Board of
Trustees.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of the following 5 persons:
      (1)   One City Commissioner, inclusive of the Mayor, to be selected by
the City Commission and to serve at the pleasure of the City Commission;
      (2)   The City Manager, by virtue of his or her position;
      (3)   A person who is an elector of the city and who is not a member,
spouse of a member, or child of a member; to be nominated and approved by a
majority of the remaining members of the Board;
      (4)   Two members of the retirement system, one an active member and one
a retired member, to be elected by the members of each respective group, i.e.
the active member shall be elected by the active members and the retired member
shall be elected by the retired members of the System. Representation shall not
be exclusively from any one city department unless all existing candidates are
from the same department. In the event there are no longer any active members,
both positions shall be filled by retired members. Elections of member trustees
shall be held in accordance with rules adopted by the Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Alternate members of the Board of Trustees shall be selected in
accordance with this section and shall have the power of a voting member in the
absence of their respective representative. The alternates shall consist of the
following:
      (1)   One alternate City Commissioner to be selected by the City
Commission for a 2-year term.
      (2)   One alternate elector of the City who shall be nominated and
approved by a majority of the remaining members of the Board who shall possess
the same qualifications as the elector described in division (B)(3) above. The
elector shall be approved by the Board for a 4-year term.
      (3)   Two alternate members of the retirement system as classified in
division (B)(4) above to be nominated in accordance with the rules adopted by
the Board of Trustees, each for a 4-year term. Alternates approved by the Board
may be from the same city department as an elected Board of Trustee member,
however, an alternate shall have no official power when a regular Board member
from said alternate member's department is present.
   (D)   Quasi-judicial body. The Board shall be a quasi-judicial body and its
actions shall be reviewable by writ of superintending control only.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-003,
passed 2-21-2019)
§ 32.28 BOARD OF TRUSTEES: TERM OF OFFICE; OATH OF OFFICE.
   The regular term of office of a member elected trustee and the citizen
trustee shall be 4 years, 1 such term to expire every year. Each trustee shall,
before assuming the duties of trustee and within 10 days of election or
appointment, qualify by taking an oath of office to be administered by the City
Clerk. Effective July 1, 1980, all member elected trustees and the citizen
trustee shall be elected. The initial term of the citizen trustee shall be 1
year. The initial terms of the 2 member trustees shall be 2, 3 or 4 years in
order of increasing vote count in the initial election.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-003,
passed 2-21-2019)
§ 32.29 BOARD OF TRUSTEES: VACANCY ON BOARD; FILLING OF VACANCY.
   (A)   A vacancy shall occur on the Board of Trustees if:
      (1)   Any member elected trustee ceases to be a member;
      (2)   Any Commissioner trustee or the City Manager ceases to hold the
position of Commissioner or City Manager;
      (3)   The citizen trustee ceases to be an elector and freeholder of the
city; and/or
      (4)   Any trustee resigns or is removed from office.
   (B)   In the event a vacancy occurs on the Board of Trustees, the Mayor of
the city, within 30 days of the vacancy, shall fill the vacancy, for the
unexpired term when applicable, by appointment to be made by and with the
consent of the City Commission.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-003,
passed 2-21-2019)
§ 32.30 BOARD OF TRUSTEES: MEETINGS; QUORUM; VOTING; COMPENSATION.
   The Board of Trustees shall hold meetings regularly, at least 1 in each
calendar quarter, and shall designate the time and place of each meeting. All
meetings of the Board shall be open to the public. The Board shall adopt its
own rules of procedure and shall keep a record of its proceedings. Three (3)
trustees shall constitute a quorum at any meeting of the Board and at least 3
concurring votes shall be necessary for a decision by the Board. Each trustee
shall be entitled to 1 vote on each question before the Board. Trustees shall
serve without compensation for their services as trustee but shall be entitled
to their expenses actually and necessarily incurred in attending meetings of
the Board and in performing required duties as trustees.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009; Am. Ord. 2019-003,
passed 2-21-2019)
§ 32.31 ALLOWANCE OF REGULAR INTEREST.
   The Board of Trustees shall, at the end of each fiscal year, credit regular
interest on the individual balances in the reserve for employee contributions
at the beginning of the year; and on the mean balances in the reserve for
employer contributions and the reserve for retired benefit payments. The
amounts so credited shall be charged to the reserve for undistributed
investment income.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.32 INVESTMENT OF RETIREMENT SYSTEM ASSETS.
   The Board of Trustees shall be the trustees of the monies and assets of the
retirement system. The City Commission shall have full power and authority to
invest and reinvest such monies and assets subject to all terms, conditions,
limitations and restrictions imposed by the State of Michigan on the
investments of public employee retirement systems. The City Commission may
employ outside investment counsel to advise the City Commission in the making
and disposition of investments. If at any time the City Commission chooses to
employ different or additional outside investment counsel, the City Commission
shall first employ a qualified outside consultant to assist in the selection of
the new outside investment counsel. All monies and assets of the retirement
system shall be held for the sole purpose of meeting disbursements authorized
in accordance with the provisions of this retirement system and shall be used
for no other purposes.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.33 BOARD OF TRUSTEES: ACTUARIAL DATA; REPORT TO CITY COMMISSION.
   The Board shall keep or cause to be kept, in convenient form, such data as
shall be recommended by the actuary as necessary for the operation of the
retirement system on an actuarial basis. The Board shall keep or cause to be
kept, in convenient form, such additional data as is required to properly
report the operations of the system. The Board shall render a report to the
City Commission on or before the first day of December of each year showing the
fiscal transactions of the retirement system for the year ended the preceding
thirtieth day of June, the assets of the retirement system as of the preceding
thirtieth day of June, and a copy of the most recent actuarial report.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.34 BOARD OF TRUSTEES: OFFICERS; ADMINISTRATIVE SERVICES.
   The officers and employed services of the retirement system shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Chairperson. The Board shall annually elect a Chairperson and a Vice-
Chairperson from its members;
   (B)   Secretary. The City Clerk shall be Secretary to the Board and the
administrative officer of the retirement system;
   (C)   Treasurer. The City Treasurer shall be treasurer of the retirement
system. The Treasurer shall be custodian of the assets of the retirement system
except as to such assets as the Board may from time to time place in the
custody of a nationally chartered bank;
   (D)   Legal advisor. The City Attorney shall be legal advisor to the Board;
   (E)   Actuary. The City Commission shall appoint an actuary who shall be the
technical advisor to the Board regarding the operation of the retirement system
on an actuarial basis, and who shall perform such services as are required in
connection therewith. The term ACTUARY as used in this section shall mean a
member of the American Academy of Actuaries or a person who has demonstrated an
educational background necessary for the practice of actuarial science and has
at least 5 years of relevant actuarial experience. A partnership or corporation
may be appointed actuary if the duties of actuary are performed by or under
direct supervision of a person who meets the preceding qualifications;
   (F)   Medical Director. The Board shall appoint as medical director a
physician who is not a member, retirant or beneficiary and who has not filled
any other city position within the 5 years preceding appointment. The Medical
Director shall arrange for and pass upon all medical examinations required in
the administration of the retirement system and shall investigate all
statements and certificates of a medical nature which are presented in
connection with the operation of the retirement system. The Medical Director
shall report his or her conclusions and recommendations in writing;
   (G)   Services. The City Commission is authorized and empowered to employ
such professional and other services as are required for the proper
administration of the retirement system. Such services, other than actuarial
and medical, shall be obtained and the compensation for such services shall be
fixed in accordance with city operating procedures.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.35 ASSETS NOT SEGREGATED.
   All assets of the retirement system shall be held for the sole purpose of
meeting disbursements for pensions and other payments authorized by the Board
pursuant to the provisions of the retirement system, and shall be used for no
other purpose. The description of the various reserves of the system shall be
interpreted to refer to the accounting records of the system and not to the
segregation of monies or assets in the reserves of the system.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.36 METHOD OF MAKING PAYMENTS.
   All payments from monies of the retirement system shall be made by the City
Treasurer according to Charter provisions upon city vouchers signed by the City
Manager or approved at the next regular Pension Board meeting. No voucher shall
be drawn unless it shall have been previously authorized by a specific or
continuing resolution of the Board.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 00-04, passed 5-4-2000; Am. Ord. 09-01,
passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.37 ASSIGNMENTS PROHIBITED.
   Benefits under this chapter shall be subject to the Michigan Public Employee
Retirement Benefit Protection Act (the "Benefit Protection Act"), M.C.L.A. §§
38.1681 - 38.1689.
   (A)   Neither the principal of the Trust Fund nor any of the income
therefrom, nor interest in the Trust whatever, shall be subject to any
conveyance, transfer or assignment by any member or beneficiary, nor shall the
same be pledged as collateral by any member or beneficiary, nor shall the same
be subject to any claim of any creditor of any member or beneficiary through
legal process or otherwise. The preceding sentence shall also apply to the
creation, assignment, or recognition of a right to any benefit payable with
respect to a member pursuant to a domestic relations order, except as
specifically provided for eligible domestic relations orders ("EDROs") pursuant
to the M.C.L.A. §§ 38.1701 - 38.1711 and except as provided for domestic
relations orders described in the Benefit Protection Act which comply with the
requirements set forth in division (C) below. It is the intention to place the
absolute title to all property which shall constitute the assets of the trust
in the trustee, with power to pay out the same and distribute the trust assets
as provided in this chapter. Any attempted sale, conveyance, assignment or
pledge of any of the funds or properties held in trust, or any part thereof, or
of any income from the trust, by any member or beneficiary shall be null and
void, and shall not be recognized by the Board of Trustees.
   (B)   Notwithstanding division (A) above, a member who is convicted of or
enters a plea of nolo contendere accepted by the court for a felony as defined
in P.A. No. 350 of 1994, as amended, and which arises out of his or her service
as a public employee may, by order of the court, have all or part of his or her
pension forfeited. If a court orders such a forfeiture, the order shall comply
with the legal requirements of P.A. No. 350 of 1994, as amended, which are
incorporated by reference.
   (C)      (C)   Benefits under the retirement system may be assigned pursuant
to an EDRO under the Eligible Domestic Relations Order Act of 1991, M.C.L.A.
§§38.1701 et seq., or pursuant to a domestic relations order which meets the
requirements of the Public Employee Retirement Benefit Protection Act of 2002,
M.C.L.A. §§ 38.161 et seq.
      (1)   If a member has already started to receive his or her benefits, the
form of payment may not be changed and, if the form of payment is a joint and
survivor annuity, the joint annuitant may not be changed. However, the domestic
relations order may order that all or any portion of the annuity payments be
paid to the alternate payee, and may specify that any amounts not paid to the
alternate payee may be paid to the member or the member's subsequent spouse
after the member's death, but only over the life of the joint annuitant named
at the commencement of the member's benefits, for a joint and survivor annuity.
      (2)   An order shall not be acceptable unless it includes directions with
respect to the member's accumulated contributions. An order shall:
         (a)   Direct that all, any, or no portion of the accumulated
contributions be awarded to the alternate payee; and
         (b)   Direct the form of payment of the alternate payee's share of the
accumulated contributions, which may only be as an annuity if the order is an
EDRO, but which may be an annuity or a lump sum otherwise permitted under this
chapter, if the order is submitted under the Benefit Protection Act.
      (3)   The retirement system may, in the Board’s sole discretion, charge
for the cost to review the order by the retirement system's actuary or
attorney. An order shall not be acceptable unless it includes directions on who
will pay such charges. In the event a portion of a member's benefit is assigned
to an alternate payee pursuant to an EDRO or an order meeting the requirements
of the Benefit Protection Act, the alternate payee's choice of a form of
payment shall not affect the right of the member to independently elect a form
of payment of the remainder of benefits, unless the alternate payee is
designated as the member's surviving spouse in an EDRO or unless the member's
benefits are already in pay status (in which case the form of payment is
already fixed).
   (D)   If a member is covered by a group insurance or prepayment plan
participated in by the city, and should he or she be permitted to, and elect
to, continue such coverage as a retirant, he or she may authorize the Board to
have deducted from his or her pension the payments required of him or her to
continue coverage under such group insurance or prepayment plan. The city shall
have the right of setoff for any claim arising from embezzlement by or fraud of
a member, retirant, or beneficiary.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 02-01, passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02,
passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.38 CORRECTION OF ERRORS.
   Should any change in the records result in any member, retirant, or
beneficiary receiving from the retirement system more or less than he or she
would have been entitled to receive had the records been correct, the Board
shall correct such error, and as far as practicable shall adjust the payment in
such manner that the actuarial equivalent of the benefit to which the said
member, retirant, or beneficiary was correctly entitled shall be paid.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.39 SUBROGATION.
   In the event a person becomes entitled to a pension or other benefit payable
by the retirement system as a result of an accident or injury caused by the act
of a third party, the city shall be subrogated to the rights of the said person
against such third party to the extent of the city financed benefits to which
the retirement system pays or becomes liable to pay.
(Ord. passed 11-20-1980; Am. Ord. 09-01, passed 2-5-2009)
§ 32.40 INTERNAL REVENUE CODE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   This section is enacted pursuant to federal law that imposes certain
legal requirements on qualified governmental plans. The city intends that the
retirement system be a qualified pension plan under § 401 of the United States
Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and that the trust be an exempt organization
under § 501 of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as amended. The Board
of Trustees shall administer the retirement system to fulfill this intent.
   (B)   The retirement system and trust have been created for the exclusive
benefit of members and beneficiaries as set forth herein. No part of the
principal and income of any funds of the retirement system and trust shall
revert to or be returned to the city prior to the satisfaction of all
liabilities hereunder to all members, beneficiaries, and persons claiming by or
through them.
   (C)   In the event of termination of, or complete discontinuance of
contributions to, the retirement system, the rights of all the members, vested
former members, retirants, beneficiaries, or any other person having an
interest in the retirement system, to benefits accrued to the date of such
termination or discontinuance, shall be nonforfeitable to the extent funded as
prescribed by § 411(e)(2) of the United States Internal Revenue Code, as
amended, and related Internal Revenue Service regulations applicable to
governmental plans.
   (D)   The retirement system shall not pay any benefit that would exceed the
benefit limitations for governmental plans as set forth in § 415 of the United
States Internal Revenue Code, as amended, and related Internal Revenue Service
regulations applicable to governmental plans which is hereby incorporated by
reference.
      (1)   For purposes of Section 415 of the Internal Revenue Code,
compensation shall mean compensation actually paid during the limitation year
and the limitation year shall be the plan year or such other consecutive 12-
month period over which compensation is otherwise determined under the plan.
      (2)   For purposes of adjusting any benefit or limitation under Section
415 of the Internal Revenue Code, the mortality table used shall be the table
prescribed by the United States Secretary of the Treasury in accordance with
Section 415(b)(2)(E)(v) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (3)   For limitation years beginning on and after January 1, 2001, for
purposes of applying the limitations described herein, compensation paid or
made available during such limitation years shall include elective amounts that
are not includible in the gross income of the member by reason of Section 132
(f)(4) of the Internal Revenue Code.
      (4)   For limitation years beginning after December 31, 1997, for
purposes of applying the limitations of Section 415 of the Internal Revenue
Code, compensation paid or made available during such limitation years shall
include any elective deferral (as defined in Section 402(g)(3) of the Internal
Revenue Code), and any amount which is contributed or deferred by the employer
at the election of the employee and which is not includable in the gross income
of the employee by reason of Section 125 or 457 of the Code.
   (E)   (1)   If the annual benfit under this chapter to a member is in a form
other than a straight life annuity, the maximum permissible amount shall be
adjusted to the actuarial equivalent of a straight life annuity beginning at
the same age. The interest rate assumption used for determining the actuarial
equivalent of such other forms of benefits will be the greater of:
         (a)   5%; or
         (b)   The rate specified in §
32.02 (ACTUARIAL EQUIVALENT) for determining Actuarial Equivalence.
      (2)   For distributions with an annuity starting date between July 1,
1989 and June 30, 1995, the applicable mortality table shall be the mortality
table set forth in §
32.02 definition of ACTUARIAL EQUIVALENT of this chapter. For distributions
with an annuity starting date between July 1, 1995 and June 30, 2003, the
applicable mortality table shall be the mortality table set forth in Internal
Revenue Service Revenue Ruling 95-6. For distribution with an annuity starting
date on or aafter July 1, 2003, the applicable mortality table shall be the
mortality table set forth in IRS Revenue Ruling 2001-62.
(Ord. 02-01, passed 6-27-2002; Am. Ord. 02-02, passed 6-30-2002; Am. Ord. 09-
01, passed 2-5-2009)
CHAPTER 33: POST-RETIREMENT HEALTH CARE BENEFITS PLAN AND TRUST
Section
General Provisions
   
33.01   Purpose
   
33.02   Short title
   
33.03   Interpretation and law; construction
   
33.04   Collective bargaining agreements
   
33.05   Definitions
   
33.06   Notice
   
33.07   Reporting and disclosure
   
33.08   Amendments
Post-Retirement Health Care Benefits Plan
   
33.20   Eligibility
   
33.21   Commencement of benefits
   
33.22   Enrollment
   
33.23   Termination of participation
   
33.24   COBRA continuation coverage
   
33.25   Conversion privilege
   
33.26   Health care benefits
   
33.27   Alternative policies or programs
   
33.28   Duplicate coverage disallowed
   
33.29   Medicare eligibility
   
33.30   Coordination of benefits
   
33.31   Plan administration, city duties.
   
33.32   Plan administration, insurance carrier duties
   
33.33   Plan administration, plan administrator duties
   
33.34   Plan administration, Board of Trustee duties
   
33.35   Claims procedure
Trust of the City of Marine City  Post-Retirement Health Care Benefits Plan
   
33.50   Establishment of trust
   
33.51   Use of trust assets
   
33.52   Funding
   
33.53   Board of Trustees
   
33.54   Alternate Trustees
   
33.55   Trustees’ terms of office
   
33.56   Officers and administration
   
33.57   Board of Trustees’ meetings
   
33.58   Compensation
   
33.59   Trustees’ powers and responsibilities
   
33.60   Trust liabilities
   
33.61   Termination of the trust
   
33.62   Amendments to the trust
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 33.01 PURPOSE.
   (A)   The purpose of the Plan and Trust is to provide health care benefits
or such other benefits approved by the city (which may include hospitalization,
medical, optical, dental and life insurance) for the welfare of certain
retirees of the city who are eligible to receive a retirement benefit from the
City of Marine City retirement system and the spouses and eligible dependents
of such retirees through a prefunded group health and insurance benefits plan.
Benefits under the plan are provided pursuant to insurance plans administered
by commercial insurance carriers designated by the city and/or a self-funded
health insurance plan.
Note: Employees hired or recalled from layoff on or after January 1, 2008 shall
not be permitted to participate in this retiree health care plan.
   (B)   The Plan and Trust is intended to be tax exempt under § 115 of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and is created for the exclusive
purpose of providing benefits through policies issued by duly licensed
commercial insurance companies, through a fund of self-insurance, or through
any other lawful means of providing group health, hospitalization, dental,
optical, and life insurance in accordance with city resolutions, for the
benefit of City of Marine City retirement system retirees and beneficiaries who
are eligible to participate in accordance with the plan for such insurance
benefits under the rules and regulations established by the trustees. The city
intends the benefits to be provided by the establishment and maintenance of a
trust fund in conformance with all applicable federal statutes and regulations,
state and local law.
   (C)   The city reserves the right to enter into contracts with commercial
insurance carriers or with health maintenance organizations or preferred
provider organizations in order to provide benefits under the plan.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.02 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter may be known and cited as the City of Marine City Post-
Retirement Health Care Benefits Plan and Trust ("Plan and Trust").
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.03 INTERPRETATION AND LAW; CONSTRUCTION.
   (A)   The plan is intended to qualify as an accident and health plan and a
group health plan under applicable provisions of the current Internal Revenue
Code, (§§ 105, 106 and 162), the regulations promulgated under each, and
applicable Federal and Michigan law. Where not governed by Michigan law, the
plan shall be construed and enforced according to the applicable federal laws,
and all provisions hereof shall be administered according to such federal laws.
If any provisions of the plan and trust shall be for any reason invalid or
unenforceable, the remaining provisions nevertheless shall be carried into
effect.
   (B)   Neither the establishment of the plan nor the trust nor any
modification thereof, nor the creation of any fund or account, nor the payment
of any benefits, shall be construed as giving to any person covered under the
plan and trust or other person any legal or equitable right against the city,
its elected or appointed officials or employees, the trustees or any individual
trustee, except as may otherwise be provided in this chapter.
   (C)   Neither the city nor the trustees shall be responsible for the
validity of any contract of insurance issued in connection with the plan or
trust or for the failure on the part of the insurance carrier to make payments
provided by such contract, or for the action of any person which may delay
payment or render a contract null and void or unenforceable in whole or in
part.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.04 COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS.
   (A)   The benefit provisions of this plan are subject to relevant provisions
of applicable collective bargaining agreements between the city and the various
collective bargaining associations of the city. The provisions of a collective
bargaining agreement relative to retiree health care benefits are controlling
in the event of a conflict between the terms of the collective bargaining
agreement and the plan and trust.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall be deemed to modify or limit in any way
the rights that the parties to the collective bargaining agreements may have,
any supplements or memoranda thereto, or any arbitrator's award to enforce
collection of any amounts due to the trust, including the right of the parties
to sue for same.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.05 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BASE PLAN. The benefits in effect at the time of an employee's retirement as
provided by the policy or the comprehensive program in place at the time of the
employee's retirement or by a substantially equivalent policy or program at the
election of the city.
   CITY. The City of Marine City, Michigan.
   CODE. The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. Reference to any
section or subsection of the Code includes reference to any comparable or
succeeding provision of any legislation, which amends or replaces such section
or subsection.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING AGREEMENTS. Any written agreement, supplemental
agreement, memorandum of understanding, final arbitrator's decision, judicial
decision or decision of any public board or agency, by and between applicable
collective bargaining associations and the city, and any amendments,
continuations, or renewals, which require the city or any other entity to make
payments into group life, health, dental, and/or optical insurance programs for
participants who are members of the retirement system of the City of Marine
City.
   COLLECTIVE BARGAINING ASSOCIATIONS. Those associations, which participate in
the plan and trust.
   CONTRACT. Any health insurance plan administered by a third party
administrator or a commercial insurance carrier and any amendment thereto.
However, the city retains the right to terminate such contract and to enter
into a substitute contract with a commercial insurance carrier or with a health
maintenance organization or preferred provider organization for the purpose of
providing benefits under the plan, and any such substitute contract shall be
included within the definition of “contract” herein.
   CONTRIBUTIONS. The payment required to be made to the trust by the city
under the terms of the plan and trust or under authority such as ordinance or
City Commission resolution for the purpose of providing group health, dental
and optical insurance for retirees and beneficiaries covered by the plan.
   DEPENDENT. A retiree participant's unmarried child as “child” is defined in
Code § 151(c)(3). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the term DEPENDENT shall not
include a child of a retiree participant after the last day of the calendar
year during which the child attains the age of 19 years unless such child:
      (1)   Is permanently disabled, either mentally or physically, provided
that the disability arose before the child attained the age of 19 years;
      (2) Is incapable of self-sustaining employment;
      (3)   Is unmarried and dependent on the retiree participant for his or
her main support and care; and
      (4)   Such child's disability has been certified by a physician.
Note: all stipulations set forth in (1) through (4) above must be met to
provide dependent coverage beyond the last day of the calendar year during
which the child attains the age of 19.
   EFFECTIVE DATE. September 17, 2008.
   EMPLOYEE. A person employed by the city.
   HEALTH CARE BENEFITS. Group health care benefits as currently provided and
any other future health care related benefits as may be determined to be part
of the plan pursuant to decisions by the city.
   INSURANCE CARRIER. A commercial health insurance carrier, health maintenance
organization or preferred provider organization or other qualified entity
designated by the city to provide benefits under the plan.
   PARTICIPANT. Any person meeting the following requirements:
      (1)   Who was a full-time employee of the City of Marine City on or
before December 31, 2007, and who was a member of both the medical plan for
active employees and the retirement system of the City of Marine City
immediately prior to retirement and who receives benefits from the retirement
system of the City of Marine City, and who retired with a service retirement,
OR
      (2)   (a)   Who is a spouse of an individual who meets the requirements
in (1) above and, in the case of a surviving spouse, the retiree had elected a
joint and survivor form of retirement and nominated his or her surviving spouse
as beneficiary of the benefit (the surviving spouse benefit shall not terminate
upon remarriage; however coverage shall not extend to the surviving spouse's
successive spouse and/or dependents), or
         (b)   Who is an eligible dependent of an individual who meets the
requirements in (1) above, provided their surviving parent is receiving a
survivor pension and retiree medical benefits.
AND
      (3)   Who has commenced participation in the plan pursuant to §§ 33.21
and 33.22 and whose participation has not terminated under other applicable
provisions of the plan.
      And shall be in accordance with the resolutions and decisions of the
trustees, so long as the allowance by the trustees of any such persons to
participate in the plan is not prohibited by the insurance laws and regulations
of the State of Michigan, the United States Internal Revenue Code, any
applicable federal law, and the rules, regulations and court decisions
governing those statutes.
      Notwithstanding the above, retirees eligible to receive substantially
equivalent or better medical benefits from another employer or spouse's
employer, at substantially equivalent or less cost to the retiree, may not
participate in this plan until eligibility for coverage with the other employer
ends. Upon termination of eligibility for coverage with the other employer, the
retiree must notify the city of the loss of such coverage within 30 days, in
order to obtain coverage under this plan.
      During any period of re-employment with the city, the retiree would
become covered under the active employee's medical plan and would no longer be
eligible for benefits from this plan. Upon termination of employment, the
retiree would again become eligible under this plan.
   PLAN. The post-retirement health care benefits plan of the city as described
in §§ 33.20 through 33.35 of this chapter and any subsequent amendments, and
any contract(s) or other applicable materials incorporated by reference into
the plan.
   PLAN ADMINISTRATOR. The person, persons, firm, corporation or insurance
company or companies, appointed by the Board of Trustees to administer the
plan. The Plan Administrator shall be responsible for the administrative
functions of the plan and shall carry out the directives of the Board of
Trustees.
   PLAN YEAR.The period commencing on July 1 and ending on June 30.
   RETIREE. An individual receiving benefits from the retirement system of the
City of Marine City who retired from employment with the city.
   RETIREMENT PLAN.The City of Marine City Retirement System, as provided in
Chapter 3 of the City of Marine City Charter, as amended.
   SPOUSE. The legal spouse of the retiree who has met all requirements of a
valid marriage contract in the state of marriage and is the opposite sex of the
person to whom he or she is married, provided that status existed on the
retiree's initial retirement date and at the time the expense for which
coverage is claimed was incurred.
   TRUST.The Trust of the City of Marine City Post-Retirement Health Care
Benefits Plan as provided for in §§ 33.50 through 33.62 of this chapter.
   TRUSTEES or BOARD OF TRUSTEES. The trustees of the trust of the City of
Marine City post-retirement health care benefits plan, as provided for in §§
33.50 through 33.62 of this chapter, who are designated in the manner provided
for in this Trust.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.06 NOTICE.
   Notice given to all parties shall, unless otherwise specified in this
chapter, be sufficient if in writing and delivered or sent by prepaid first
class mail. Except as otherwise noted, the distribution or delivery of any
statements or documents required under the plan and trust shall be sufficient
if delivered in person or prepaid first class mail.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.07 REPORTING AND DISCLOSURE.
   The city and the trustees, or their respective designees, shall complete and
provide to participants, retirees, spouses and/or dependents and to the
appropriate government agencies any reports as may be required by the code and
applicable federal, state or local law. The city and trustees, respectively,
retain the right to provide for disclosure of any information deemed in the
best interest of the participants.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.08 AMENDMENTS.
   The provisions of the plan and trust may be amended at anytime by ordinance
(s) adopted by the City Commission or by collective bargaining between
applicable collective bargaining associations and the city in accordance with
applicable law and the tax exempt status of the trust.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
POST-RETIREMENT HEALTH CARE BENEFITS PLAN
§ 33.20 ELIGIBILITY.
   In order to be eligible for health insurance coverage during any plan year,
an individual must:
   (A)   Be a retiree of the city who upon retirement from the city elects to
participate in the plan; and
   (B)   Be a participant of the plan, as defined in this chapter; or
   (C)   Be a spouse or eligible dependent (as defined in § 33.05) of an
individual who meets the above requirements, subject to any relevant provisions
in the contract(s).
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.21 COMMENCEMENT OF BENEFITS.
   Subject to all applicable provisions of the contract(s), a retiree shall
commence participation in the plan on the first day of the month following the
date he or she satisfies the eligibility requirements of §
33.20, provided the individual has enrolled for coverage on or before such
date.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.22 ENROLLMENT.
   (A)   The city shall give each retiree timely written notice of his or her
eligibility to participate in the plan and his or her right to enroll for
coverage under the plan. A retiree may enroll for coverage on a form or forms
provided by and filed with the city. In connection with his or her enrollment
for coverage, the retiree shall furnish all pertinent information requested by
the city, plan administrator and/or insurance carrier, including but not
limited to the names, relationships and birth dates of the retiree's spouse and
eligible dependents, and any pertinent Medicare part A and B information of any
participant, retiree, spouse and/or eligible dependent, and the plan
administrator and/or insurance carrier may rely upon all such forms and
information furnished.
   (B)   Spouse and dependents shall be eligible for coverage as provided for
in the contract(s) and in §33.20 above.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.23 TERMINATION OF PARTICIPATION.
   Except as provided in § 33.24, participation in the plan shall terminate in
accordance with the contract(s) on the earliest of:
   (A)   Termination of the plan; or
   (B)   Non-payment of any required retiree contributions; or
   (C)   Death of the individual receiving benefits under the plan; or
   (D)   In the case of a spouse or dependent, the date the spouse or dependent
ceases to be a spouse or dependent as defined in this chapter; or
   (E)   In the case of a spouse or dependent, the death of the retiree if the
retiree elected a level straight life form of retirement at the time of
retirement or if the retiree failed to nominate his or her spouse as
beneficiary under an optional form of benefit, necessary to ensure coverage of
the spouse or dependent; or
   (F)   In the case of a retiree, if that individual assumes employment
elsewhere and that employer provides health coverage to its employees which
does not substantially differ from that offered by the plan.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.24 COBRA CONTINUATION COVERAGE.
   The plan extends to participants and their dependents the option of
continuing health care coverage, for the payment of a premium, in certain
instances when coverage under the plan would otherwise end. This continuation
of health care coverage is required by federal law under the consolidated
omnibus budget reconciliation act (COBRA) of 1986 and is referred to in this
document as "COBRA coverage." COBRA provides that a "qualified beneficiary" has
the right to elect COBRA coverage. A "qualified beneficiary" is a person
covered by the plan who by virtue of a "qualifying event" loses eligibility.
"Qualifying events" are those events listed in COBRA that trigger a loss of
coverage and entitlement to COBRA coverage. Different qualifying events lead to
different allowable periods of cobra coverage, as set forth in the following
chart:
 
                                                               Maximum Continuation
Qualifying Event                                               Period
                                                               Retiree Spouse Child
Termination of the retiree participant’s coverage under this 18      18     18
plan                                                           months  months months
The commencement by the city on or after July 1, 1986 of a     18      18     18
Title 11 bankruptcy proceeding                                 months  months months
Death of the retiree participant, divorce or legal separation  N/A     36     36
from the retiree participant                                           months months
Child no longer qualifies as a dependent                       N/A     N/A    36
                                                                              months
 
   (A)   Notification of qualifying event to the city.
      (1)   A retiree participant and/or his spouse must notify the city of a
death, divorce, legal separation, or a child losing dependent status under the
plan within 60 days of the date of the event.
      (2)   Coverage will be terminated upon the occurrence of a qualifying
event (e.g., termination of coverage, divorce, etc.) and will be retroactively
reinstated to the date of the qualifying event once COBRA coverage is properly
elected and the initial premium is paid.
   (B)   Second qualifying event extension.
      (1)   If another qualifying event occurs while receiving 18 months of
COBRA continuation coverage, the covered spouse and dependent children can get
up to 18 additional months of COBRA continuation coverage, for a maximum of 36
months, if notice of the second qualifying event is properly given to the plan,
this extension may be available to the spouse and any dependent children
receiving continuation coverage if the participant or former participant dies,
becomes entitled to Medicare benefits (under part A, part B or both), or gets
divorced, or if the dependent child stops being eligible under the plan as a
dependent child, but only if such event would have caused the spouse or
dependent child to lose coverage under the plan had the first qualifying event
not occurred.
      (2)   The plan administrator must be notified of this second qualifying
event within 60 days of such event.
   (C)   Notification to qualified beneficiary. Within 14 days of receiving
notice of a qualifying event, the plan will send an election notice to each
qualified beneficiary.
   (D)   The election period for COBRA continuation A qualified beneficiary has
60 days after receipt of the election notice, which will be sent to his/her
last known address, to elect to continue health care coverage pursuant to
COBRA.
   (E)   Premium payment for COBRA coverage.
      (1)   A qualified beneficiary has 45 days from the date he or she timely
elects COBRA coverage to pay the initial COBRA premium. If a qualified
beneficiary fails to make payment within this period, coverage will terminate
and he or she will not be given an opportunity to reinstate coverage.
      (2)   Thereafter, payments are due on the first day of the month of
coverage. The postmark will serve as proof of the date paid. A qualified
beneficiary has a 30-day grace period to make such payment. If a qualified
beneficiary fails to make payment within this period, coverage will terminate
and he or she will not be given an opportunity to reinstate coverage.
      (3)   The premium equals the cost to the plan of providing coverage plus
a 2% administration fee.
   (F)   Early termination of COBRA coverage. COBRA coverage can terminate
before the 18-month or 36-month period described above expires. COBRA coverage
will automatically terminate on the earliest of the following:
      (1)   The first day of the month for which the qualified beneficiary's
COBRA premium is not timely paid.
      (2)   The date the plan is terminated.
      (3)   The date a qualified beneficiary becomes covered by another group
health plan that does not contain an exclusion or limitation for a preexisting
condition of the qualified beneficiary. If the other plan has applicable
exclusions or limitations, COBRA coverage will terminate after the exclusion or
limitation no longer applies.
      (4)   The date a qualified beneficiary becomes entitled to medicare.
      (5)   The expiration of the maximum COBRA continuation period.
   (G)   Enrollment of dependents during period of COBRA coverage/coverage
options.
      (1)   A child born to, adopted by, or placed for adoption with the
covered retiree participant during a period of COBRA coverage is considered to
be a qualified beneficiary, provided that the covered retiree participant has
elected continuation coverage for himself/herself. During the COBRA coverage
period, a qualified beneficiary may add an eligible dependent who initially
declined COBRA coverage because of alternative coverage and later loses such
coverage due to certain qualifying reasons.
      (2)   A qualified beneficiary has the same opportunities to change
coverage options or add or eliminate coverage for dependents as similarly
situated retiree participants are given.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.25 CONVERSION PRIVILEGE.
   An individual who is no longer eligible to receive benefits under the plan
(as a retiree participant, spouse, dependent or COBRA qualified beneficiary)
may, if permitted by and in accordance with the terms of the contract, convert
his or her coverage under the plan to an individual medical expense policy with
the insurance carrier, without the necessity of a medical examination and with
no interruption in coverage. The cost of such individual conversion coverage
shall be paid solely by the affected individual. Application for individual
conversion coverage must be made to the insurance carrier in accordance the
contract. A COBRA qualified beneficiary (described in §
33.24) must be given notification of this conversion privilege during the 180-
day period ending on the expiration of the qualified beneficiary's COBRA
continuation period.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.26 HEALTH CARE BENEFITS.
   (A)   Beginning on the effective date, the city shall provide health care
benefits to each retiree participant and, if elected, to his or her eligible
spouse and eligible dependents. The benefits provided under the plan are those
set forth in the contract(s). The contract(s) are incorporated herein by this
reference. A complete description of benefits provided under the plan shall be
maintained by the city and/or the plan administrator.
   (B)   Except as provided under §
33.04, the city reserves the right to change or terminate the trust at any time
and for any reason, for any group or class of retirees as well as for all
retirees. Correspondingly, the city may change the level of benefits provided,
eliminate an entire category of benefits, or change self-payment amounts,
deductibles and co-pays at any time and/or for any reason.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.27 ALTERNATIVE POLICIES OR PROGRAMS.
   The city, in its discretion, in addition to the base plan, may offer
alternative policies or benefit structures to participants. Participants may
transfer from one policy or benefit structure to another policy or benefit
structure during open enrollment periods. However, any additional cost above
the base plan shall be borne by the participant.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.28 DUPLICATE COVERAGE DISALLOWED.
   Duplicate coverage will not be provided in the event that there are 2 or
more participants who are each independently eligible for health care benefits
from the city or plan and are each also eligible for health care benefits from
the city or the plan as a spouse or dependent of a participant, said parties
shall be eligible to participate in only 1 policy or program so that 1 party
participates in the 1 policy or program as the principal insured and the other
party(ies) participates in the same policy or program as a spouse or dependent
of the participant.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.29 MEDICARE ELIGIBILITY.
   Upon attaining the age of Medicare eligibility and upon qualifying for
complimentary medicare coverage, all eligible retirees and/or spouses shall
enroll in both Medicare A and B. Once a retiree is in receipt of Medicare A and
B coverage, this plan will provide complementary coverage as provided pursuant
to the coverage in effect at the time of retirement.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.30 COORDINATION OF BENEFITS.
   The city and the plan and trust intend that the plan shall provide each
participant with payment for health care expenses incurred by the retiree
participant and, if eligible, his or her spouse and his or her dependents, as
provided for in the contract(s). The city and the plan and trust do not intend
that payment under the plan shall exceed the amount of the expenses incurred.
For this reason, the plan coordinates benefits with other health care plans as
provided for in the contract(s) and according to industry standards and
applicable laws.
   (A)   Reimbursement. If an expense is paid under the plan by the trust on
behalf of a retiree participant, his or her spouse or dependents, and such
expense subsequently is paid from any other source, in whole or in part, the
retiree participant and/or his or her spouse or dependents shall remit to the
trust an amount equal to the duplicated benefits. In addition, the trust may
reimburse any other health care plan, person or entity that has paid an expense
on behalf of a retiree participant, spouse or dependent, which expense was
payable under the plan. In such event, the plan and the insurance carrier shall
be relieved of all further responsibility with respect to that expense.
   (B)   Subrogation. In the event any payment is made by the trust under the
plan, the plan and the trust shall be subrogated and shall succeed to the
rights of any retiree participant, his or her spouse and/or dependents against
any other plan, person or entity for recovery of health care expenses for which
such other plan, person or entity legally is liable. All amounts so recovered,
by settlement, judgment or otherwise, shall be paid to the trust. Retiree
participants, their spouses and dependents shall furnish such information,
execute and deliver such assignments, documents or other instruments, and take
whatever steps are necessary to secure the rights of the plan. Retiree
participants, their spouses and dependents shall take no action to prejudice
the rights and interests of the plan hereunder.
   (C)   Effect of exclusions. The provisions of this section shall not be
construed to create any independent right to payment of any benefit under this
plan. Any exclusion or limitation contained in the plan and/or contract shall
supersede any provision of this section regarding coordination of benefits.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.31 PLAN ADMINISTRATION, CITY DUTIES.
   (A)   The city or its designee shall act as plan administrator for the
purpose of complying with the code's reporting and disclosure requirements and
for the purpose of fulfilling such other plan administrative functions as are
not specifically assigned hereunder to the city's agent. The city may employ an
insurance carrier who will be responsible for the interpretation,
administration and the payment of health care claims under the plan. The city
shall not be responsible for the interpretation or administration of or the
payment of claims under the contract(s).
   (B)   The city shall be responsible for the performance of its duties as
employer and plan sponsor/administrator under applicable Internal Revenue Code
sections. The city may delegate all or any part of its plan administration
responsibilities. Any such delegation shall be done in writing.
   (C)   The city shall complete and provide to participants and to appropriate
government agencies any reports as may be required by the code or any other
applicable law.
   (D)   The city may employ one or more persons to render advice with regard
to any responsibility the city fiduciary has under the plan. Any fiduciary,
agent, representative or other person performing services to or for the plan
shall be entitled to reasonable compensation for services rendered, unless such
person is employed by the city and already receives full pay from the city, and
to reimbursement of expenses properly and actually incurred.
   (E)   The city shall furnish the plan administrator and/or insurance
carrier, while the plan is in effect, any information as may be required, at
intervals and in the form prescribed by the plan administrator and/or insurance
carrier, for the enrollment of participants for coverage under the plan and for
the processing of terminations or other changes in coverage of participants and
also shall furnish to the plan administrator and/or insurance carrier such
other information required for the administration of the plan.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.32 PLAN ADMINISTRATION, INSURANCE CARRIER DUTIES.
   (A)   Tthe insurance carrier shall have the responsibility for interpreting
and administering the contract(s) and for processing and paying benefit claims
thereunder.
   (B)   The insurance carrier shall provide the plan administrator with such
information as the plan administrator may deem necessary to permit the timely
filing of all reports required by law.
   (C)   The insurance carrier shall provide to the plan administrator, for
distribution to (or provide directly to) retiree participants, spouses and/or
dependents, a description of benefits provided under the contract(s).
   (D)   The insurance carrier has the responsibility for the resolution of
disputes involving the payment of benefits under the plan.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.33 PLAN ADMINISTRATION, PLAN ADMINISTRATOR DUTIES.
   The plan administrator shall have the responsibility for interpreting and
administering the plan and for processing and paying benefit claims and/or
insurance premiums thereunder, and shall provide the trustees with such
information necessary to permit the timely filing of all reports required by
applicable laws or regulations governing the plan.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.34 PLAN ADMINISTRATION, BOARD OF TRUSTEES DUTIES.
   (A)   The Board of Trustees shall be vested with the authority to render
decisions regarding participation in the plan. Such authority shall be
specifically limited by the eligibility requirements of §
33.20 or as otherwise provided for in this chapter, and the city's ability to
obtain coverage under the plan and/or from the applicable insurance carrier.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall have such other duties under the trust as
are set forth in §§
33.50 through
33.62 of this chapter.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.35 CLAIMS PROCEDURE.
   (A)   A claim for benefits under the plan must be submitted in writing to
the plan administrator and/or insurance carrier in accordance with procedures
established by the plan administrator and/or insurance carrier as communicated
in writing to retiree participants, spouses and/or dependents.
   (B)   The plan administrator and/or insurance carrier shall provide adequate
notice to any participant whose claims for benefits under the plan have been
denied, setting forth the specific reasons for such denial, written in a manner
calculated to be understood by the party. The plan administrator and/or
insurance carrier has responsibility for the resolution of disputes with the
insurance carrier involving payment of benefits under the portion of the plan
assigned to the plan administrator and/or insurance carrier. The plan
administrator and/or insurance carrier shall afford a reasonable opportunity to
any participant whose claim for benefits has been denied for a full and fair
review of the decision denying the claim.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
TRUST OF THE CITY OF MARINE CITY POST-RETIREMENT HEALTH CARE BENEFITS PLAN
§ 33.50 ESTABLISHMENT OF TRUST.
   (A)   The trust established in this chapter shall be irrevocable and shall
conform to all applicable sections of the Internal Revenue Code, the statement
of purpose in § 33.01 of this chapter, and all statutes, ordinances, rules,
regulations, arbitrators' awards and judicial decisions interpreting the
foregoing provisions.
   (B)   The trust shall consist of city contributions, any contributions which
may be paid by participants and beneficiaries due to the election of additional
coverage than that provided by the city, all investments made or held under
trust, and all income therefrom, both received and accrued, and any other
property, which may be received or held by reason of the trust.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.51 USE OF TRUST ASSETS.
   (A)   No part of the net earnings of the trust may inure to the benefit of
any participant or beneficiary other then by benefit payments or for services
provided to the trustees in their administration of the trust. The trust assets
shall not be used for or diverted to purposes other than to provide the
benefits contemplated under the plan for the exclusive benefit of retiree
participants and their spouses and eligible dependents, except any
administrative expenses for which the trust is liable. A portion of net
earnings may be used for payment for reasonable and necessary professional
services and costs and expenses related to assist the trustees and trust
administrator in the operation of the trust. The trustees shall determine what
costs, fees and professional services are reasonable and necessary.
   (B)   All income, profits, recoveries, contributions, forfeitures and any
and all monies, securities and properties of any kind at anytime received or
held by the trustees hereunder, shall become part of the trust when received,
and shall be held for the uses and purposes hereof.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.52 FUNDING.
   (A)   For the purpose of creating and maintaining a fund for the payment of
benefits payable as provided in this chapter, the city shall pay to the trust
such amounts that when added to the fund balance at the beginning of the year,
shall be sufficient to fund current insurance contracts and administrative
expenses. The city may contribute additional amounts as approved by the City
Commission.
   (B)   In addition to the amounts paid by the city on behalf of participants
as set forth above, eligible retiree participants, spouses and dependents shall
contribute additional amounts as may be required.
   (C)   In the event that the trust does not set forth the time and place of
payments, the manner of such payments, and the procedures and forms to
accompany said payments, then the trustees may in their discretion decide the
time, manner and means of payments, the procedures to be followed in making the
payments, and the forms required to accompany said payments. Upon determination
by the trustees of these matters, the trustees shall provide written notice of
the procedures to the city.
   (D)   The trustees may compel and enforce payments of contributions in any
manner they deem proper. The trustees may make such additional rules and
regulations for the enforcement of the collection payments, as they deem
proper.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.53 BOARD OF TRUSTEES.
   (A)   The general administration, management and responsibility for the
proper operation of the trust and for making effective and construing the
provisions of the trust shall be vested in the Board of Trustees established by
this section, consistent with applicable state and federal laws and
regulations. A trustee or other fiduciary under the trust shall discharge his
or her duties with respect to the trust solely in the interest of the
participants for the exclusive purpose of providing benefits to participants
and paying reasonable expenses of administering the plan and trust. A trustee
shall discharge his or her duties with the care, skill, and caution under the
circumstances then prevailing, which a prudent person, acting in a like
capacity and familiar with those matters, would use in the conduct of an
activity of like character and purpose.
   (B)   The Board of Trustees shall consist of same trustees appointed/elected
to the retirement system Board of Trustees.
   (C)   Each trustee shall be a fiduciary and have fiduciary responsibilities
under applicable law and shall act prudently and in the best interests of the
trust. Each trustee will receive and hold the trust as trustees by virtue of
the terms, conditions and provisions of the trust and for the purposes, uses
and trusts and with the powers and duties herein set forth.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.54 ALTERNATE TRUSTEES.
   Alternate members of the Board of Trustees shall be selected in accordance
with this section and shall have the power of a voting member in the absence of
their respective representative. The alternates shall consist of the same
alternate trustees appointed/elected to the Retirement System Board of
Trustees.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.55 TRUSTEES' TERMS OF OFFICE.
   (A)   The regular term of office for each trustee shall be the same as his
or her term on the Retirement Board. Each trustee shall, before assuming the
duties of trustee and within 10 days of the election or appointment, qualify by
taking an oath of office to be administered by the City Clerk. The initial
trustees shall be the same trustees then serving on the Retirement System Board
and shall serve under their existing terms of office.
   (B)   Any successor trustee appointed under the terms of the trust shall,
upon appointment, and without further act, deed or conveyance, succeed to all
the rights, duties, titles, and powers, of every type and description of his or
her predecessor.
   (C)   Each trustee shall serve until the expiration of his or her term of
office or until his or her death, incapacity, resignation or removal from
either their position as trustee of the plan or such other office upon which
their position as trustee is based.
   (D)   A vacancy or vacancies in the office of the trustees shall not impair
the powers of the remaining trustees to administer the affairs of the trust,
provided there are sufficient trustees to constitute a quorum as herein
provided.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.56 OFFICERS AND ADMINISTRATION.
   (A)   Prior to the commencement of their duties, the trustees shall select a
chairperson from the group of then-existing trustees who shall serve a term of
one year or until a new chairperson is elected.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall be the secretary to the Board and the
administrative officer to the trust.
   (C)   In the event of the absence of the chairperson and the secretary from
the meeting, the trustees shall designate another trustee as acting chairperson
and/or acting secretary until his or her return.
   (D)   The principal office and site of the trust shall be 303 S. Water
Street, Marine City, Michigan 48039. The trustees shall have the power to move
the principal office of the trust to another location and to establish other
offices, as they deem necessary.
   (E)   Consistent with applicable state and federal law, the trustees shall
have the power to promulgate rules and regulations for the day-to-day
management of the trust, the investment of monies held by the trust, to
determine all questions regarding the interpretation of the trust, and such
other subjects as shall be deemed necessary and proper by the trustees. All
such rules and regulations shall be reduced to writing and shall be kept in the
permanent office of the trust and available for inspection by the city and the
participants. Any such rule or regulation promulgated by the trustees shall be
adopted, repealed or amended by an affirmative vote of 4 of the trustees. If
any rule or regulation of the trust is found to be in conflict with any law,
statute, judicial decision, arbitration decision or any other competent body or
tribunal, such rule or regulation shall be deemed voided and all other rules
and regulations of the trust shall remain in full force and effect.
   (F)   A written instrument signed by the trustees shall be evidence of the
action of the trustees. Whenever the signature of a trustee is required on any
document, signature of the chairperson or acting chairperson shall be required,
unless such authority has been delegated to an individual trustee pursuant to
the provisions hereof. Any such instrument so signed shall be conclusively
presumed to be authentic and all facts and matters stated therein shall be
conclusively presumed to be true, and persons, including any person doing
business with the trustees, may rely on such instrument for all purposes.
   (G)   In the event of any suit brought against the trustees arising out of
the acts within the scope and powers and duties of the trustees, or in the
event of any lawsuit brought by the trustees as authorized by this chapter, the
cost of the defense or prosecution of such lawsuit shall be charged to the
trust, and shall be paid directly from the trust, provided such costs are not
incurred by reason of bad faith, gross negligence, or breach of a fiduciary
obligation to the trust or to the beneficiaries thereof. The Board of Trustees
shall be a quasi-judicial body and its actions shall be reviewable by writ of
certiorari only.
   (H)   The trustees may employ such clerical personnel or administrative
personnel to perform whatever administrative activities are required in the
proper performance of the trust. In addition thereto, the trustees may, if they
desire, contract with an administrator to perform such clerical and
administrative duties as they may, in their discretion, determine is reasonably
and prudently necessary to carry out the trust's activities and purposes. The
administrator so appointed, or with whom the contract was made, may be assigned
the activities of receiving the city's reports, entering the information of
those reports on permanent records, maintaining such records, receiving
contributions from the city and/or on behalf of participants in the form of
checks or drafts solely for the purpose of forwarding the contributions to the
trust's bank accounts, preparation of governmental reports, furnishing reports
required by law to participants, the preparation of checks for the payment of
obligations of the trust, and all related activities and other activities
necessary to help administer the trust. The trustees are further authorized to
enter into contracts with such administrator for the administration of the
trust for whatever periods, in their discretion, the said trustees deem
advisable. The trustees shall be entitled to rely on the reports and
recommendations of said administrator or any actions taken by said
administrator with the authority granted him or her. The trustees shall not be
responsible for any act taken with respect to the appointment, designation,
retention, discharge, or employment of such administrator, which is taken
prudently and in good faith. Under no circumstances shall said administrator
have control or authority with respect to the management of the trust or its
assets. The administrator shall not be clothed with any type of authority or
power, which will constitute the administrator as a fiduciary. Said
administrator will not have the power or authority to act as a investment
counselor or manager and will not be authorized to furnish investment advice.
In the event of the administrator's discharge, the trustees shall require the
administrator to return all necessary books, records and documents in the
possession of said administrator which are necessary for the proper
administration, handling and operation of the trust. If the trustees have
appointed, employed, hired or contracted with an administrator, a provision to
this effect shall be incorporated in the written agreement between the trustees
and administrator. The trustees may, in their discretion, assign certain
administrative duties to the city; provided, however, that the direction and
management of such activities shall be within the exclusive control of the
trustees.
   (I)   The trustees may employ an investment manager to manage the assets of
the trust. Such investment manager(s) must be registered under the Investment
Advisor's Act of 1940, as amended, and must meet any applicable state and
federal requirements to act as investment manager. Such appointment may include
the power to acquire and dispose of the assets of the trust; provided, however,
that if any state or federal agency promulgates any rules with respect to
limitation of liability on the part of the trustees in choosing an investment
manager or counselor, then the trustees shall follow said regulations to the
extent that they can maximize the protection available to them. If the trustees
chose an investment manager or investment counselor, they may enter into a
written agreement with said investment manager or investment counselor or bank
or insurance company, if such institutions act in such capacity, which will
provide for the investment or reinvestment of the assets of the trust; and upon
such execution, the trustees may convey, if it is so provided, to such
investment manager, investment counselor, bank or insurance company, any assets
of the trust so that said investment manager or counselor may engage in such
transactions which are legal for trust funds in the State of Michigan and in
the United States and which are prudent for the trustees to undertake.
Specifically, in accordance with section 5 of Michigan Public Act 149 of 1999,
the assets of the find shall be invested in accordance with Public Act 314 of
1965, as amended. The trustees shall not be liable for the acts or omissions of
such investment manager, investment counselor, bank or insurance company or
under any obligation to invest or otherwise manage the assets of the trust,
which assets are subject to the management of such investment manager,
investment counselor, bank or insurance company. The trustees may, if they deem
proper in their discretion, or if the circumstances require it, appoint such
investment manager, managers, banks or insurance companies as fiduciaries and
enter into an agreement with such institution, naming it a fiduciary and
conveying to such fiduciary all or a portion of the assets of the trust, so
that said fiduciary may handle, manage and hold those assets conveyed to it.
All assets conveyed to said fiduciary shall be subject to the provisions of the
agreement or agreements between the trustees and the fiduciary.
   (J)   The trustees may employ legal counsel with whom they may seek advice,
consult with, require attendance at trustees' meeting and to represent the
trustees whenever necessary, including the preparation of any documents, legal
or otherwise, which may have any legal consequences. In choosing said counsel,
the trustees may, with prudence, give consideration to the developed skills and
expertise of the attorney and experience and reputation he or she has achieved.
The trustees may rely upon the opinion of such counsel so chosen in respect to
any action taken or suffered by the trustees hereunder in good faith, in
accordance with the opinion of said counsel, and the trustees shall not be
liable therefor.
   (K)   The trustees may employ an independent certified or licensed public
accountant to perform services as may be required by the trustees.
   (L)   The trustees may authorize the purchase of insurance for the plan and
trust and for the trustees to cover liability or losses occurring for any
reason, including but not limited to, an act or omission (errors or omissions)
of a fiduciary, including the trustees.
   (M)   The trustees shall appoint an actuary who shall advise the trustees on
the actuarial operation of the plan and trust.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.57 BOARD OF TRUSTEES' MEETINGS.
   (A)   The trustees shall meet at least once in each calendar quarter. The
trustees shall determine the time for the regular meetings of the trustees and
the place or places where such meetings shall be held. The secretary of the
trustees or his or her designee shall be responsible for giving notice of the
time and place of such meetings to the other trustees.
   (B)   Special meeting of the trustees may be held at the call of the
chairperson or any two trustees upon 5 days written notice to each trustee.
Special meetings of the trustees may also be held any time, without notice to
the individual trustees, if all trustees consent in writing thereto.
   (C)   All meetings shall be public, and notice of all meetings, both regular
and special, shall be given in accordance with applicable law.
   (D)   Three (3) trustees shall constitute a quorum.
   (E)   All decisions shall be made by at least 3 affirmative votes.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008; Am. Ord. 2019-003, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 33.58 COMPENSATION.
   The trustees shall not receive any compensation for performing any services
for the trust. Each trustee shall be reimbursed for any expenses properly and
actually incurred in the performance of his or her duties to the trust.
Included in such reasonable expenses properly and actually incurred in the
performance of services to the trust is the attendance at educational meetings
and seminars organized and designed to instruct the trustees in the proper
performance of their duties as trustees and fiduciaries and to instruct,
familiarize and acquaint the trustees with all the provisions of all applicable
laws. Included in such reasonable costs and expenses will be per diem
allowance, costs and travel expenses, lodging and food expenses and other
reasonable and necessary expenses involved in the participation of such
educational conferences conducted and carried out for the purposes expressed
herein. The trustees may further authorize any of the experts who they may
retain, including administrators, insurance experts, actuaries, auditors,
accountants, attorneys or others, to attend such educational conferences for
the purpose of becoming informed of any new developments or for the purpose of
keeping current as to the developments in their proper area of expertise. The
trustees are authorized to pay such persons the cost of attending such meetings
and/or compensation as the person would ordinarily earn representing the
trustees. Any trustee who is actively employed with the city shall be permitted
attendance at any and all functions of the trust, including travel to
educational programs and seminars without loss of pay, benefits or status.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.59 TRUSTEES' POWERS AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   The trustees shall hold all the powers of trustees that are necessary to
carry out the purposes of the trust and are generally available to trustees
under the laws of the State of Michigan, except as limited by the trust and by
federal law and regulations. It is intended that the plan and trust shall be
tax exempt and shall qualify under the Internal Revenue Code, particularly §
115, and any amendments of the Code applicable to plans of this type. The
trustees shall have the continuing power and duty to propose to the city
amendments to this chapter, which amendments will be accomplished by ordinance
which will include incorporation into this chapter, to amend the trust to the
extent it becomes necessary to qualify said plan and trust under the Internal
Revenue Code and to continue the tax exempt status of the trust. The trustees
shall take no action nor make any determination inconsistent with any
qualification or ruling of the Internal Revenue Service, an arbitrator or the
courts with respect to the trust. In the case of amendments to the Internal
Revenue Code or changes of regulations by the Internal Revenue Service, the
trustees are empowered to take all necessary action authorized by this chapter
and federal and state laws and regulations to continue the qualifications of
the plan and trust as a qualified plan and trust. The trustees are also
authorized to take all necessary action to maintain the plan and trust in
compliance with applicable federal and state law. The trustees shall have
exclusive responsibility for the investment, management and control of trust
assets. In carrying out the purposes of the trust, the trustees shall have the
following powers and duties:
   (A)   The trustees may maintain group life, health, hospitalization, optical
and/or dental insurance policies now in force and in effect and available to
participants. The city, subject to applicable law, shall have the authority to
substitute other comparable or superior policies in lieu thereof upon prior
written notification to the trustees. The trustees shall, in order to
effectuate the purposes of the trust, be bound by the terms of the plan and
trust and shall comply with all applicable laws. In addition to, or in lieu of,
polices of insurance obtained through commercial or other companies, the city
may, consistent with the laws of the State of Michigan, adopt a self-insurance
plan. The present arrangements regarding the providing of benefit coverage by
the city through all existing policies between the city and applicable
insurance carriers may be continued.
   (B)   The trustees shall establish a uniform system for the timely
transmission of required reports and contributions from the city on behalf of
participants. The trustees shall have the right and duty to enforce the
performance of all obligations provided for in the trust. The trustees shall
immediately notify the city and the trust administrator of a delinquency,
mistake or discrepancy in any report or contribution. In a suit or action
brought by the trustees commenced pursuant to this section, the party in
default agrees to pay all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys'
fees. Delay by the trustees in bringing this suit to recover delinquent
contributions from the city shall not be considered a waiver of any of the
rights reserved to the trust.
   (C)   The trustees shall maintain proper books of accounts and records of
administration of the trust, including the minutes of all meetings, and make
them available for inspection at the permanent office of the trust during
reasonable business hours by the city or any participant covered by the plan
and trust. The trustees shall compile and furnish to each individual trustee
copies of all records, which they individually or collectively require to
properly discharge their duties. The city shall be entitled to receive from the
trustees records pertaining to the city's contributions, and any participant
shall be entitled to receive records of the trustees relating to the activities
of the trust.
   (D)   The trustees shall make reports to and file such information with the
Internal Revenue Service, or any other appropriate public authority as may be
required by state or federal law.
   (E)   The trustees may assign or allocate specific responsibilities or
duties among the trustees, or appoint committees for the purpose of overseeing
any activity or pursuing or investigating any activity or transactions in which
the trustees are interested. The trustee or committee of trustees may be
assigned the responsibility to take action without prior approval by the
remainder of the Board of Trustees. Any such action taken under such
circumstances shall be valid, proper and not a breach of fiduciary
responsibility of the trustee or committee so appointed and so acting. The
trustees may rely on the report of the individual trustee or committee of
trustees who prepared the report or recommended the action, which was
undertaken by the full Board of Trustees after receiving the report of the
trustee or committee of trustees. No trustee shall be liable for the acts of
any trustee or committee of trustees under these circumstances because of any
act or omission on the part of the trustee or committee of trustees to whom
such responsibilities, obligations or duties have been assigned or allocated,
unless he or she participates with the knowledge that such act or omission is a
breach of fiduciary responsibility or if he or she has knowledge of a breach by
such other fiduciary without making reasonable efforts under the circumstances
to remedy the breach.
   (F)   The trust may cause the trustees, or any person, firm or organization
with which it deals who has fiduciary responsibilities under the trust or under
that person's, firm's or organization's arrangement with the board of trustees,
to be bonded in an amount not less than 10% of the funds handled, but in no
event in excess of $500,000, unless an amount over and above that is prescribed
by state or federal law. The corporation providing such bond shall meet
applicable federal, state and local standards.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.60 TRUST LIABILITIES.
   (A)   The city shall not be liable for payment of contributions to the trust
or of any expenses of the trust of any amounts other than those required of it
by the trust. Neither the city nor any participant or trustee shall be liable
for any debts, liabilities or obligations of the trust except as set forth in
the trust. Neither the city nor any participant shall have any right to return
of any money properly paid into the trust, except as otherwise specifically
provided in this chapter, or to money improperly paid which has already been
distributed. Any contribution improperly paid into the trust by the city or on
behalf of a participant shall be returned by the trustees upon the request of
the city or the participant or upon discovery by the trustees that such monies
have been improperly paid into the trust, unless those monies have already been
distributed.
   (B)   No part of the trust or any benefits payable by the trustees shall be
subject to alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge or encumbrance charge
by any person. No participant shall be entitled to receive any part of the
contributions made by the city or required to be made by the trust, in lieu of
such benefits provided under the plan as determined by the trustees in
accordance with the plan and trust.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.61 TERMINATION OF THE TRUST.
   (A)   Subject to the limitations of this chapter, the parties hereby
contemplate that new employment benefit decisions may be made by the city,
which continue or modify the provisions of the trust. The trust shall continue
during such period of time as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of
any ordinance requiring payment to the trust and the fact that such employment
benefit decisions are not extended shall not by itself terminate this trust,
which shall continue for a period of time sufficient to wind up the affairs of
the trust.
   (B)   Provided there are no longer any participants eligible for benefits
from the trust, the trust may be terminated at any time by the trustees by the
execution of an instrument in writing, so long as the termination is not
inconsistent with any then-existing ordinance. It shall not be necessary for
the city to execute such an agreement for the trust to terminate.
   (C)   The trust shall terminate in any case upon the death of the last
survivor of such persons who are living at the time of its creation or entitled
to receive benefits hereunder, unless, without the benefit of this provision,
the trust does not violate the rule against perpetuities; in which case, this
trust may continue in perpetuity, unless otherwise terminated.
   (D)   If the trust shall terminate, the trustees shall forthwith notify any
insurance carrier or carriers then providing insurance to participants in the
trust.
   (E)   In the event of the termination of the trust, the remaining funds
available after providing for all the outstanding obligations shall be used in
a manner as will, in the opinion of the trustees, best effectuate the purposes
of the trust, including, but not limited to, the purchase of insurance
benefits.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
§ 33.62 AMENDMENTS TO THE TRUST.
   (A)   The provisions of the trust may be amended at anytime, by
      (1)   Collective bargaining between applicable collective bargaining
associations and the city or
      (2)   By ordinance adopted by the City Commission of the City of Marine
City, upon recommendation by the trustees, provided, however, that such
amendments are not inconsistent with any applicable agreements or laws and do
not adversely affect the tax exempt status of this trust.
Such amendments will be effectuated through ordinance by the City Commission,
which amends the code of the City of Marine City.
   (B)   The trust may not be amended to the extent such amendment would:
      (1)   Alter the basic purpose of the trust, as set forth in this chapter,
or divest any participant or beneficiary of any rights which have already
vested and to which they have already become entitled to and for sums of money
which they are entitled to receive then or in the future; or
      (2)   Conflict with any applicable law or government regulation; or
      (3)   Cause the use or diversion of any part of the trust for purposes
other than those generally authorized in this chapter; or
      (4)   Conflict with any applicable collective bargaining agreements.
   (C)   Despite any provision to the contrary above, or which may be
inconsistent herewith, the trustees may propose amendments and shall have the
duty to propose amendments to the plan and trust to comply with any rule or
regulation of the Internal Revenue Service for qualification under the Internal
Revenue Code, for the continuation of tax exemption of the trust, for the
deductibility of contributions made by the city under applicable sections of
the Internal Revenue Code, to obtain a favorable determination letter from the
Internal Revenue Service, or to comply with applicable federal and state law.
(Ord. 08-03, passed 9-4-2008)
CHAPTER 34: PURCHASING, CONTRACTS AND SALE/DISPOSITION OF PROPERTY
Section
   
34.01   Enabling provision and purpose
   
34.02   Purchasing agent
   
34.03   Purchasing by open market ($0—$4,999.00)
   
34.04   Purchasing by comparative pricing ($5,000.00—$14,999.00)
   
34.05   Purchasing by a competitive bidding process ($15,000.00 and above)
   
34.06   Purchasing for an emergency by purchasing agent (up to $50,000.00)
   
34.07   Purchasing for an emergency by department heads (up to $5,000.00)
   
34.08   Contracts for supplies, materials, equipment and services
   
34.09   Professional services
   
34.10   Inspection and acceptance of purchases
   
34.11   Sale of city property
   
34.12   Gifts, rebates prohibited; conflict of interest prohibited
   
34.13   Annual review
   
34.14   Definitions
§ 34.01 ENABLING PROVISION AND PURPOSE.
   As required by the City of Marine City (“City”) Charter at Section 13, an
ordinance to provide for purchasing, sales and contracting procedures shall be
developed, implemented and maintained by the city subject only to an ordinance
amendment by the city Commission. The purpose of this chapter is to provide
procedures and conditions for the purchase of supplies, materials, equipment
and contractual services and for the management and disposal of all city
supplies, materials, equipment and property determined to be obsolete or
surplus.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.02 PURCHASING AGENT.
   The City Manager shall be the purchasing agent of the city for the purchase
of supplies, materials, equipment and contractual services and for the
management and disposal of all city materials determined to be obsolete or
surplus and for the sale of all city related property. The City Manager may, at
the sole discretion of the City Manager, work with staff and department heads
to carry-out all or part of the procedures set forth herein. All purchases of
all goods, equipment or services shall be reported and routed through the
Treasurer/Finance Director’s office to ensure audit compliance and appropriate
accountability for fiscal management. The City Manager/purchasing agent for the
city, together with the Treasurer shall be responsible for a review of this
chapter as it pertains to values, purchasing power, inflation, and the like. A
recommendation will be made to the Board of Commissioners at the same meeting
as the fee schedule is set.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.03 PURCHASING BY OPEN MARKET
($0 - $4,999.00).
   The purchasing agent and any department head, with direct consultation with
the purchasing agent, may purchase supplies, materials, equipment and services
deemed, in good judgment, to be necessary to the efficient and effective
performance of city functions in an amount not to exceed $4,999. Any such
purchase shall be in the open market with all efforts made to obtain best
pricing and best quality to meet the needs of the city.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.04 PURCHASING BY COMPARATIVE PRICING ($5,000.00 - $14,999.00).
   Comparative prices shall be obtained for the purchase of all supplies,
materials, equipment and contractual services valued from $5,000.00 to
$14,999.00. “Comparative prices” shall include three written quotes, informal
quotes, on-line pricing and other similar methods of obtaining values all of
which shall be retained to support the transaction. All comparative pricing
purchases shall be made with all efforts to obtain the best pricing and best
quality to meet the needs of the city. Any purchase under this provision must
be expressly authorized by the purchase agent. Purchases by comparative pricing
($5,000.00 to $14,999.00) and above $15,000.00 shall require the use and
issuance of a Marine City purchase order obtained via the then current
purchasing software used by the city that must meet this chapter and
administrative processes. The purchase order must receive systematic approvals
prior to the commencement of the authorized purchase.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.05 PURCHASING BY A COMPETITIVE BIDDING PROCESS ($15,000.00 AND ABOVE).
   (A)   The purchase of any supplies, materials, equipment or contractual
services valued above $15,000.00 shall be made in compliance with the following
competitive bidding provisions:
   (B)   All purchases in excess of $15,000.00 shall be approved by the City
Commission and competitive bids shall be obtained unless the City Commission,
by a formal and unanimous resolution of those present at a meeting and based
upon the written recommendation of the City Manager, determines that no
advantage would result from such competitive bidding or that competitive
bidding is satisfied using an acceptable government sponsored bid process as
set forth herein. Purchases by comparative pricing ($5,000.00 to $14,999.00)
and above $15,000.00 shall require the use and issuance of a Marine City
purchase order obtained via the then current purchasing software used by the
city that must meet this chapter and administrative processes. The purchase
order must receive systematic approvals prior to the commencement of the
authorized purchase.
   (C)   (1)   For purchases over $15,000.00, a competitive bid process shall
be used. The bid process shall allow for the city to reject any and all bids at
the sole discretion of the city.
      (2)   The City Manager shall solicit bids from a reasonable number of
qualified prospective bidders. Notice of the bid process may be posted at the
city offices and on the city website.
      (3)   Unless set forth by the City Commission, the City Manager shall set
and define the amount of any security, if any, to be deposited with any bid.
Any required deposit shall be in the form of a certified check, a cashier’s
check or a bond written by a surety company authorized to do business in the
State of Michigan. The amount of such security shall be expressed in terms of
percentage of the bid submitted. Unless fixed by the City Commission, the City
Manager shall fix the amount of the performance bond and in the case of
construction contracts, the amount of the labor and material bond to be
required of the successful bidder.
      (4)   All bids shall be opened in public presence of the City Manager and
the relevant department head. The bids shall be reviewed and tabulated and
reported to the City Commission with the written recommendation of the City
Manager at the next regular meeting of the City Commission. After tabulation,
all bids may be inspected by the competing bidders as allowed by Michigan’s
public record disclosure laws.
      (5)   The following criteria shall be considered in the review and
selection of the successful bid:
         (a)   The ability, capacity and skill of the responding bidder to
perform the contract or provide the services required under the bid process;
         (b)   The ability of the responding bidder to perform the contract or
provide the services promptly within the time specified in the bid process and
without delay or interference;
         (c)   The character, integrity, reputation, judgment, experience and
efficiency of the responding bidder and the experience of the responding bidder
with prior city projects. All bids, quotes or proposals will require the bidder
to publicly list past work experiences with the city stating the date of the
project or work, type of project or work, value of the contract awarded;
         (d)   The quality of performance of previous contracts for services or
goods of the responding bidder;
         (e)   The sufficiency of the financial resources and the ability of
responding bidder to perform the contract or provide the services;
         (f)   Previous and existing compliance by the responding bidder with
all laws and ordinances relating to the contract or services or the providing
of goods;
         (g)   The conformance or nonconformance of the responsive bid with the
published bid specifications;
         (h)   The quality, availability and adaptability of supplies or
contractual services to the particular use required;
         (i)   The ability of the responding bidder to provide future
maintenance and service for the use of the subject of the contract, where
applicable;
         (j)   The number and scope of the conditions/exceptions attached to
the responsive bid.
      (6)   When such bids are submitted to the City Commission, the contract
to be executed, in a form approved by the City Attorney, shall also be
submitted and, if the City Commission shall find any of the bids to be
responsible and satisfactory, it shall award the contract to the selected
bidder and shall authorize execution of the approved contract. Upon execution
of the contract by the successful bidder and the filing of any bonds which may
have been required, which bonds shall first be approved by the City Attorney as
to form and content, such award may be by resolution or a majority vote of the
City Commission. The City Commission shall have the right to reject any or all
bids and to waive irregularities in the process and to accept bids which do not
conform in every respect to the bidding requirements, provided that the City
Commission shall not have the authority to accept a bid of lower specifications
without re-advertising the bid as a whole.
      (7)   The city shall not be obligated to purchase from the lowest bidder
and may consider all the factors set forth herein to select a bidder.
      (8)   All bids, deposits of certified or cashier’s checks may be retained
until the contract is awarded and fully executed. If any successful bidder
fails or refuses to enter the contract awarded to the successful bidder within
ten business days after the award date, the City Commission may, in its sole
discretion, award the contract to the next successful bidder or such contract
may be subjected to a new bid process.
      (9)   A record shall be kept for six months of all bid processes and the
responsive bids submitted.
      (10)   All bid related records shall be available for public inspection.
Any or all bids may be rejected at the sole discretion of the city.
   (C)   No purchase shall be divided for the purpose of circumventing the
$15,000.00 value limitation.
   (D)   The City Commission may authorize the making of public improvements or
the performance of any other city work by any city entity without competitive
bidding.
   (E)   Sales are to be made to the bidder whose bid is most advantageous to
the city as recommended by the City Manager under the process set forth herein.
   (F)   Using the State of Michigan purchasing contracts or any other
recognized/government sponsored state, county or local bid processes is
permitted to satisfy the bid process set forth below. The state contracts and
other recognized state bid processes have already been competitively bid and
can be used without an additional bid process. The use of MiDeal (the State of
Michigan’s extended purchase program) shall satisfy the bid process.
   (G)   Every attempt shall be made to ensure that all purchases are fair and
impartial with no impropriety or appearance of impropriety. All qualified
businesses shall have access to city business. No individual or business shall
be arbitrarily excluded under any circumstance.
   (H)   In all processes herein, every attempt will be made to secure the
maximum amount of competition.
   (I)   The purchase and sale of all city property shall be subject to the
applicable provisions of the City Charter.
   (J)   The city may not sell any park, cemetery, or any part thereof, except
in accordance with restrictions placed thereon by statute, charter and
ordinance.
   (K)   The city may not lease, purchase or sell any real estate or any
interest therein except by the affirmative vote of four members of the City
Commission.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.06 PURCHASING FOR AN EMERGENCY BY PURCHASING AGENT (UP TO $50,000.00).
   The effective operations of the city may, at times, require an emergency
purchase to maintain full and effective services. Such emergency purchase may
also be necessary for the safety, security and welfare of the city and its
citizens. The purchase agent may effectuate purchases up to $50,000.00 to
address the concerns set forth herein. The purchasing agent shall get telephone
approval of two Commission members and require email notification within seven
days to all Commissioners. In addition, the Treasurer shall be notified of such
emergency purchase as well. An additional follow-up of a text or email shall
also follow to the same two Commissioners and the Treasurer in regards to the
emergency purchase. Any such purchases made under this provision shall be
documented by the purchasing agent and presented to the City Commission at the
next regular meeting for discussion.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.07 PURCHASING FOR AN EMERGENCY BY DEPARTMENT HEADS (UP TO $5,000.00).
   The effective operations of the city may, at times, require an emergency
purchase to maintain full and effective city services. In the case of an
emergency, and not to exceed $5,000.00, any department head may purchase
directly any supplies, material, equipment or services when the immediate
procurement is necessary to the continuation of a city service. Such purchase,
and the underlying emergency, shall be documented, submitted to the City
Manager within seven business days and all documentation shall be presented to
the City Commission and maintained in the city records, at the next regularly
scheduled City Commission meeting. The City Manager shall be notified and made
aware of the emergency and the purchase that was required as a result of the
emergency.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.08 CONTRACTS FOR SUPPLIES, MATERIALS, EQUIPMENT AND SERVICES.
   The authority to contract on behalf of the city and to bind the city to an
obligation is vested solely with the City Commission.
   (A)   All contracts in an amount over $5,000.00, except for an agreement of
employment, shall be submitted to the City Attorney for review and an opinion
with regard to its legality and form.
   (B)   All contracts in an amount over $5,000.00, except for a contract of
employment, shall be certified by the officer charged with maintaining the
accounting system, identified as the City Treasurer or Finance Director, or
their designee of the city that an appropriation has been made for the payment
or that sufficient funds will be available if it be for a purpose to be
financed by the issuance of bonds or special assessments or for some other
purpose not chargeable to a budget appropriation. Purchases by comparative
pricing ($5,000.00 to $14,999.00) and above $15,000.00 shall require the use
and issuance of a Marine City purchase order obtain via the then current
purchasing software used by the city that must meet this chapter and
administrative processes. The purchase order must receive systematic approvals
prior to the commencement of the authorized purchase. This is how the tracking
of capital purchases and investments will occur.
   (C)   In the case of a contract obligating the city for periodic payments in
the future fiscal years for the furnishing of a continuing service or the
leasing of property, such certification need not cover those payments on the
contract which will be due in future fiscal years, but this exception shall not
apply to a contract for the construction of a public improvement. A copy of all
contracts requiring such opinion and certification shall be filed in the office
of the Clerk.
   (D)   No contract shall be amended after the contract is fully executed
except upon the approval by the City Commission.
   (E)   No compensation of any kind or source shall be paid to any contractor
except in accordance with the terms of the contract.
   (F)   No contact shall be made with any person, firm or corporation who is
in default to the city.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.09 PROFESSIONAL SERVICES.
   (A)   Comparative and competitive bidding prices shall not be required for
the employment of professional services. Professional services shall mean a
type of service rendered by members of a recognized profession or specialty
which involve analysis, exercise of discretion, and independent judgment in
their performance, and an advanced, specialized type of knowledge, expertise,
or training customarily acquired either by a prolonged course of study or
equivalent experience in the field, and for these reasons are unique and not
subject to price competition in the usual sense. Examples of “professional
services” typically acquired by the city include, but are not limited to, the
following:
      (1)   Engineering services;
      (2)   Planning services;
      (3)   Legal services;
      (4)   Auditor services;
      (5)   Actuarial services;
      (6)   Fund management services.
   (B)   Upon the written recommendation of the City Manager and the approval
of the City Commission by a majority vote, comparative prices can be sought at
any time for the employment of professional services.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.10 INSPECTION AND ACCEPTANCE OF PURCHASES.
   The responsibility for the inspection and acceptance of all supplies,
materials, equipment and services purchased under the procedures set forth
herein, shall rest with the department head most closely involved in the
purchase at issue. The use of electronic signatures by authorized city
representatives may be utilized to approve invoices, contracts, purchase orders
or other components of any purchase so authorized by this chapter.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.11 SALE OF CITY PROPERTY.
   Whenever any city personal property is no longer needed for corporate or
public purposes, that personal property may be offered for sale on approval of
the City Commission. Personal property not exceeding $5,000.00 in value may be
sold for cash by the City Manager after receiving quotations or competitive
bids therefor, for the best price obtainable. Property with a value in excess
of $5,000.00 may be sold after advertising and receiving competitive bids, as
provided herein and after approval of the sale has been made by the City
Commission. In the sale of replaceable equipment, bidders may include in their
bid, a trade-in allowance for the old equipment. The Treasurer shall designate
a special account for the sale of city property. The Board of Commission shall
determine where those funds can or should be utilized.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.12 GIFTS, REBATES PROHIBITED; CONFLICT OF INTEREST PROHIBITED.
   (A)   All officials and employees of the city are prohibited from
soliciting, demanding, accepting or agreeing to accept directory or indirectly,
from any person to which a contract might be awarded or is awarded any gift,
offer of employment, rebate, money or anything of material value whatsoever,
except were given for the sole use and benefit of the city.
   (B)   The city will not enter a contract to furnish supplies or contractual
services to the city from any city official, his spouse, child or parent, or
from any corporation, association or partnership in which any city official,
his spouse, child or parent, has any direct or indirect interest. Ownership of
less than 1% of the stock or other equity interest in a corporation or
unincorporated business shall not be deemed to be a disqualifying interest.
Employment by a business entity shall be deemed to be a disqualifying interest
only if such employment is in an administrative, managerial or executive
capacity in which the employee could in any way influence the decisions of the
business entity with regard to contract proposals or other transaction
contemplated by this division (B). The use of business luncheons for employees
shall not exceed fifty $50 in any one incident.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.13 ANNUAL REVIEW.
   The purchasing limits of each category of purchase set forth herein shall be
reviewed by the City Commission annually and at the same time the City fee
schedule is being reviewed by the City Commission.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 34.14 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPARATIVE. An estimation by comparison, not absolute or complete. Can be
used to compare ideas, things, or objects and people. Generally accepted to
compare three or more items.
   COMPETITION. A situation in which one side wins out, or is chosen over
another. The act or process of trying to get or win something. COMPETITION in
business is the contest between several firms selling similar goods or
services; and when successful, are chosen over the others for their goods or
services when compared.
   CONFLICT. A business conflict occurs when an individual’s personal interests
conflict with their professional obligations to their employer or the interests
of the company. This may occur when a person chooses personal gain over the
needs of the organization, or exploits their position for personal gain.
   DISASTER. A serious disruption of the functioning of a community or a
society at any scale due to hazardous events interacting with conditions of
exposure, vulnerability and capacity, leading to one or more of the following:
human, material, economic and environmental losses and impacts. A sudden event
such as an accident or a natural catastrophe that can cause great damage of
loss of life. An event or incident that can have severe or unfortunate
consequences.
   EMERGENCY. A serious, unexpected, and often dangerous situation requiring
immediate action. An unforeseen combination of circumstances or the resulting
state of circumstances that calls for immediate reaction. A critical or crucial
times or situation applies to a sudden unforeseen situation requiring prompt
action to avoid disaster.
(Ord. 25-001, passed 1-23-2025)
 
TITLE V: PUBLIC WORKS
Chapter
   
50.   GARBAGE AND REFUSE
   
51.   WATER
   
52.   SEWERS
   
53.   ILLICIT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION
CHAPTER 50: GARBAGE AND REFUSE
Section
   
50.01   Receptacles required
   
50.02   Littering prohibited
   
50.03   Dumping inflammable waste prohibited
   
50.04   Accumulation prohibited
   
50.05   Collection
   
50.06   Residential garbage and refuse fees and charges
   
50.07   Service hours
§ 50.01 RECEPTACLES REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any occupant of any dwelling, building or
structure of any kind or description whatever, to fail to provide a covered or
otherwise enclosed, watertight receptacle or container for the receipt of
garbage and refuse; and to deposit all garbage or refuse materials in the
respective receptacles so provided, and to place the same so that they are
readily accessible to the city collectors of the garbage or refuse.
   (B)   Every owner or occupant shall keep at the rear lot line of his or her
premises, except on the advertised date of collection or pick up by the city, a
suitable receptacle of not to exceed 30-gallons’ capacity and 50-pounds’
maximum weight for the deposition of ashes, glass or any metal, stone,
earthenware, cans or other refuse and waste of a like nature.
   (C)   Each person who is responsible for any lot or premises within the city
which is occupied for residential or commercial purposes shall keep at the rear
lot line, except on the advertised date of collection or pickup by the city, a
receptacle of not to exceed 30-gallons’ capacity and 50-pounds’ maximum weight,
having tight-fitting lid or otherwise enclosed, for garbage, animal or
vegetable matter. On the advertised date of collection, the receptacle shall be
placed in the front of the premises for pick up by the city.
   (D)   It shall be prohibited to place yard waste for collection in any
container other than a reusable container and/or craft paper bag, or other such
container as may be required by the solid waste service provider.
(Prior Code, § 12-1) (Ord. 99-3, passed 3-18-1999)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.02 LITTERING PROHIBITED.
   No person shall dump, abandon, throw or scatter anything in, or transport
the same in such a manner as to cause the littering of any street, alley or
public place or of any private property not his or her own with any garbage,
refuse or waste material of any kind, or to cause the obstruction of any ditch,
drain or gutter.
(Prior Code, § 12-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.03 DUMPING INFLAMMABLE WASTE PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to dump or cause to be dumped any
inflammable waste or refuse whatsoever upon any property located within the
city, except that nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting
the burning of flammable waste or refuse in an incinerator maintained for such
purpose. FLAMMABLE WASTE, as used herein, includes  anything flammable or
combustible, such as paper cartons and boxes, oil, waste, excelsior,
automobiles or parts thereof, rubber, oil paper, scrap paper, garbage, refuse
or other materials or products.
(Prior Code, § 12-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.04 ACCUMULATION PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person owning, renting, controlling, using or
occupying any building or premises in the city to permit the accumulation
thereon, and he or she shall remove and keep clear therefrom all filth, waste,
refuse, trash, ashes, garbage, brush or other unsightly, offensive or
unsanitary matter, articles or materials; and he shall not allow thereon any
other use prohibited by this code or by law.
(Prior Code, § 12-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 50.05 COLLECTION.
   The City of Marine City shall contract for the collection of residential
garbage and refuse for all residential units within the city. Residential units
are hereby defined as single-family dwellings, duplexes and multiple-family
dwellings of 3 units or less. Multiple-family units of more than 3 units,
commercial units and industrial units, as defined in the city zoning ordinance,
shall provide for garbage and refuse removal as they shall determine in a
manner that shall be consistent with the Marine City Code of Ordinances, the
St. Clair County Solid Waste Management Plan and all other Michigan statutes,
rules and regulations pertaining thereto.
(Prior Code, § 12-5) (Ord. 94-12, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 50.06 RESIDENTIAL GARBAGE AND REFUSE FEES AND CHARGES.
   The City Commission shall impose and levy a charge to all residential units,
as defined in this chapter, which shall equal an amount not less than the cost
incurred by the city for payment and administration of its solid waste
collection contract then in effect. All such fees and charges shall be
specified and set out in the city’s master fee resolution and may be collected
by inclusion in the utility billings of the city or inclusion within the city’s
annual property tax bill or by a combination of these methods as the City
Commission shall determine in the master fee resolution of the city.
(Prior Code, § 12-6) (Ord. 94-12, passed 6-2-1994)
§ 50.07 SERVICE HOURS.
   Any services, by private contract or otherwise, relating to the management
or servicing of residential waste, recyclables or yard waste, including any
services relating to the delivery, exchange or emptying of residential and/or
commercial dumpsters is prohibited between the hours of 7:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Ord. 2019-011, passed 11-7-2019)
CHAPTER 51: WATER
Section
General Provisions
   
51.01   Definitions
   
51.02   Adoption of Water Supply Cross Connection Rules
   
51.03   Inspections
   
51.04   Discontinuance of service for violation
   
51.05   Protection from contamination
   
51.06   Interference with water mains prohibited
   
51.07   Testing
   
51.08   State supremacy
Connection Permit
   
51.20   Required
   
51.21   Application
   
51.22   Hold harmless agreement prerequisite to issuance
   
51.23   Deposit
   
51.24   Bond or insurance
   
51.25   Suspension or revocation
   
51.26   Exemption from ready to serve fees
Charges
   
51.35   Charges
   
51.36   Collection and enforcement of water service and sewage disposal bills;
deposit
   
51.37   Debt service charge for water delivery
 
   
51.99   Penalty
Charter references:
   Municipally owned utilities, see
Ch. 12
   Public utility franchises,
Ch. 14
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 51.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SERVICE PIPE. Any pipe which is installed for the purpose of connecting the
water mains of the city to the individual premises where water conveyed therein
is to be consumed.
   WATER MAIN. The part of the water distribution system which is located
within the right-of-way lines of the several streets and alleys of the city or
within easements on private property which is the property of the city or held
and controlled by the city for the purpose of supplying water or fighting
fires.
(Prior Code, § 30-16)
§ 51.02 ADOPTION OF WATER SUPPLY CROSS CONNECTION RULES.
   The city hereby adopts by reference the Water Supply Cross Connection Rules
of the Michigan Department of Environmental Quality (MDEQ), being R 325.11401
to R 325.11407 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
(Prior Code, § 30-17) (Ord. 70, passed 10-18-1973; Am. Ord. 01-2015, passed 2-
18-2015)
§ 51.03 INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   It shall be the duty of the City Manager or his or her authorized
representative to cause inspections to be made of all properties served by the
public water supply where cross connections with the public water supply is
deemed possible. The frequency of inspections and reinspections based on
potential health hazards involved shall be established by the City Manager and
as approved by the state’s Department of Public Health.
   (B)   (1)   The City Manager or his or her authorized representative shall
have the right to enter at any reasonable time any property served by a
connection to the public water supply system of the city for the purpose of
inspecting the piping system or systems thereof for cross connections.
      (2)   On request the owner, lessees or occupants of any property so
served shall furnish to the inspection agency any pertinent information
regarding the piping system or systems on the property.
      (3)   The refusal of the information or refusal of access, when
requested, shall be deemed evidence of the presence of cross connections.
(Prior Code, § 30-18) (Ord. 70, passed 10-18-1973; Am. Ord. 01-2015, passed 2-
18-2015)
§ 51.04 DISCONTINUANCE OF SERVICE FOR VIOLATION.
   The City Manager is hereby authorized and directed to discontinue water
service after reasonable notice to any property wherein any connection in
violation of this chapter exists, and to take other precautionary measures
deemed necessary to eliminate any danger of contamination of the public water
supply system. Water service to the property shall not be restored until the
cross connection has been eliminated in compliance with the provisions of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 30-19) (Ord. 70, passed 10-18-1973)
§ 51.05 PROTECTION FROM CONTAMINATION.
   The potable water supply made available on the properties served by the
public water supply shall be protected from possible contamination as specified
by this chapter and by the state’s and city’s Plumbing Code. Any water outlet
which could be used for potable or domestic purposes and which is not supplied
by the potable system must be labeled in a conspicuous manner as follows: WATER
UNSAFE FOR DRINKING.
(Prior Code, § 30-20) (Ord. 70, passed 10-18-1973)
§ 51.06 INTERFERENCE WITH WATER MAINS PROHIBITED.
   The water mains of the city shall be under the exclusive control of the
city, and no person other than agents or employees of the city shall disturb,
tap, change, obstruct or interfere with them in any way, shape or manner.
(Prior Code, § 30-21)
§ 51.07 TESTING.
   All testable backflow prevention assemblies shall be tested at the time of
installation or relocation and after any repair. Subsequent testing of devices
shall be conducted at a time interval specified by the City Manager and in
accordance with MDEQ requirements. Only individuals who hold a valid Michigan
plumbing license and have successfully passed an approved backflow testing
class shall perform such testing. Each tester shall also be approved by the
City Manager. Individuals performing assembly testing shall certify the results
of their testing.
(Am. Ord. 01-2015, passed 2-18-2015)
§ 51.08 STATE SUPREMACY.
   The ordinance codified herein does not supersede the state plumbing code or
any other provision of this subchapter, but is supplementary to them.
(Ord. 01-2015, passed 2-18-2015)
CONNECTION PERMIT
§ 51.20 REQUIRED.
   Before any connection shall be made to any water main, a permit shall be
obtained by the owner of the premises to be served, or by his or her authorized
agent, from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 30-31)
§ 51.21 APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit under this subchapter shall state the location of
the property, the number of the lot, the name of the owner, and the name and
address of the plumber employed to do the work. Separate meter permits
installed exclusively for the use of water not to be reintroduced into the
sanitary sewer system may be permitted, providing all installation meets
department of public work’s installation criteria and safety inspection.
Additional meters under this provision will be charged permit fees as if it
were an original installation. User fees will reflect only water charge.
(Prior Code, § 30-32) (Ord. 95-9, passed 12-21-1995)
§ 51.22 HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   A permit shall be granted under this subchapter on the express condition
that the owner for whose benefit the connection is made shall, on behalf of
himself, herself, his or her heirs, executors, administrators or assigns, hold
the city harmless for any loss or damage that may in any way be occasioned by
the making of the connection.
(Prior Code, § 30-33)
§ 51.23 DEPOSIT.
   Each applicant for a permit under this subchapter shall deposit, with his or
her application, the sum determined by resolution of the Commission, except
that the deposits shall be required pursuant to a uniform schedule.
(Prior Code, § 30-34)
§ 51.24 BOND OR INSURANCE.
   In each case where a bond or policy of insurance is required of any person
as a condition precedent to the granting of any permit under this subchapter,
the bond shall be in the sum determined by resolution of the Commission, except
that the amounts of the bonds or policies of insurance shall be required
pursuant to a uniform schedule. All bonds or policies of insurance shall be
conditioned to pay all damages to the streets of the city or to hold the city
harmless of all other damage of any nature, whether to persons or property, for
which the city may be held liable by reason of, or which is occasioned by, the
doing of a thing or the exercise of a privilege for which the permit upon which
the bond or policy of insurance was based, was granted.
(Prior Code, § 30-35)
§ 51.25 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The City Manager may for cause suspend or revoke any permit under this
subchapter where either the workmanship or materials used does not conform to
the plans and specifications approved or required upon the issuance of the
permit, or when the terms of any permit or the provisions of this chapter have
been violated.
(Prior Code, § 30-36)
§ 51.26 EXEMPTION FROM READY TO SERVE FEES.
   Ready to serve fees imposed by any city ordinance shall not be charged to a
commercial or residential property for the utilization of a second meter
dedicated to measuring only water used for lawn sprinkler systems, where said
water is not reintroduced into the sanitary sewer system.
(Ord. 2016-1, passed 2-4-2016)
CHARGES
§ 51.35 CHARGES.
   All water charges are incorporated herein by reference as if appearing in
total and are on file in the city offices.
(Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 6-22-2012; Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 6-20-2013; Am. Ord.
14-03, passed 6-19-2014; Am. Ord. 04-2015, passed 6-18-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-05,
passed 7-21-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-15-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-005, passed
6-21-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-007, passed 7-1-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-001, passed 6-4-
2020; Am. Ord. 2022-001, passed 5-5-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-002, passed 5-18-2023;
Am. Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-16-2024)
§ 51.36 COLLECTION AND ENFORCEMENT OF WATER SERVICE AND SEWAGE DISPOSAL BILLS;
DEPOSIT.
   (A)   The city is hereby authorized to enforce the payment of charges of
water service to any premises by discontinuing the water service to such
premises, and the payment of charges for sewage disposal to any premises may be
enforced by discontinuing either the water service or the sewage disposal
service to such premises or both; and a collection action may be instituted by
the city against the customer. Notice of intent to discontinue service shall be
given personally or by first class mail to the customer at the address served.
   (B)   The charges for water service and sewage disposal service which, under
the provisions of Public Act No. 94 of 1933 (M.C.L.A. 141.101 et seq.), are
made a lien on the premises to which furnished are hereby recognized to
constitute such lien, and the city shall annually, on June 1 certify all unpaid
charges for such services furnished to any premises which, on May 31 preceding,
have remained unpaid for a period of six months and place the charges on the
next tax roll of the city. Such charges so assessed shall be collected in the
same manner as general city taxes.
   (C)   When the city is properly notified in accordance with the act referred
to in division (B) of this section that a tenant is responsible for water or
sewage disposal service charges, no such service shall be commenced or
continued to such premises until there has been deposited with the City
Treasurer a sum of $500 for such premises.
   (D)   Where the water service to any premises is turned off to enforce the
payment of water service charges or sewage disposal service charges, the water
service shall not be recommenced until all delinquent charges, plus the turn-on
charge, have been paid and/or a deposit, as for tenants, is made.
   (E)   Deposits made pursuant to this section may be applied against any
delinquent water or sewage disposal charges on an account, and the application
thereof shall not affect the right of the Utilities Manager to turn off the
water service and/or sewer service to any premises for any delinquency thereby
satisfied. No such deposit shall bear interest, and such deposit or any
remaining balance thereof shall be returned to the customer making the deposit
when he or she shall discontinue receiving water and sewage disposal service.
(Ord. 11-02, passed 6-2-2011)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to discontinue service for failure to pay charges, see M.C.L.A.
123.166,141.121
   Water and sewer charges constitute lien, see M.C.L.A. 141.121
§ 51.37 DEBT SERVICE CHARGE FOR WATER DELIVERY.
   (A)   All city water users connected to any city water main for the delivery
of water shall pay a debt service charge to the city to be applied against
current debts and loans related to the city water system as a whole. The debt
service charge shall be set by the water/sewer rate ordinance, (§ 51.35)
adopted annually by the City Commission.
   (B)   Multiple housing units shall, for each individual unit contained
therein, be assigned a residential equivalent unit rate (“REU”) equivalent to a
standard five-eighths-inch meter size regardless of meter size installed and
shall make payment to the city for each assigned REU at a rate set by the
water/sewer rate ordinance, (§ 51.35), adopted annually by the City Commission.
   (C)   All non-residential commercial units shall, for each individual unit
contained therein, be assigned a residential equivalent unit rate (“REU”) based
upon actual meter size and shall make payment to the city for each assigned REU
at a rate set by the water/sewer rate ordinance, (§ 51.35), adopted annually by
the City Commission.
   (D)   A RESIDENTIAL EQUIVALENT UNIT (REU) is the method of measurement used
for establishing utility rates for users. One residential home/apartment equals
one REU; whereas businesses may have multiple REUs.
(Ord. 25-002, passed 1-23-2025)
§ 51.99 PENALTY.
   Any person or customer found guilty of violating any of the provisions of §§
51.02,
51.03,
51.07, or
51.08 or any written order of the City Manager, in pursuance thereof, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and upon conviction thereof shall be punished
consistent with §
10.99(A)(1). Each day upon which a violation of the provisions of §§
51.02,
51.03,
51.07, or
51.08 shall occur shall be deemed a separate and additional violation.
(Ord. 01-2015, passed 2-18-2015)
CHAPTER 52: SEWERS
Section
General Provisions
   
52.01   Connection required
   
52.02   Inspection required
   
52.03   Use
   
52.04   Septic tanks, cesspools and the like prohibited where public sewer is
available
   
52.05   Approval required before covering
   
52.06   Abatement of nuisances
Connection Permit
   
52.20   Required
   
52.21   Application; charges
Wastewater Collection and Pretreatment
   
52.35   Purpose and policy
   
52.36   Definitions
   
52.37   Abbreviations
   
52.38   General regulations
   
52.39   Private sewage disposal requirements
   
52.40   Building sewer and connections
   
52.41   Use of public sewers
   
52.42   Additional industrial wastewater disposable requirements
   
52.43   Protection from damage
   
52.44   Municipal liability
   
52.45   Power and authority of inspectors
   
52.46   Enforcement
   
52.47   Administrative appeals; Board of Appeals
   
52.48   Records retention
   
52.49   User charge system
   
52.50   Variances
Charges
   
52.60   Charges
 
   
52.99   Penalty
Cross-reference:
   Collection and enforcement of water service and sewage disposal bills;
deposit, see §
51.36
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 52.01 CONNECTION REQUIRED.
   Every lessee, owner or occupant of any building or structure that is
occupied or used for any purpose shall be charged with the responsibility of
connecting same with the sanitary or combined sewer; provided the sewer is
available. Every single house shall have a separate connection with the sewer
main, except where there are 2 buildings on the same lot, one in the rear of
the other.
(Prior Code, § 30-48)
§ 52.02 INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   All work done pursuant to any permit issued under this chapter shall be
personally inspected by the Plumbing Inspector, who shall have access to the
premises for this purpose at all reasonable times.
(Prior Code, § 30-49)
§ 52.03 USE.
   (A)   No person shall place or cause to be placed in any sanitary sewer any
substance other than household waste or commercial waste. The terms HOUSEHOLD
WASTE and COMMERCIAL WASTE, for the purpose of this chapter shall mean only
liquid waste, except surface and storm water drainage. No person shall place or
cause to be placed any device anywhere which allows any surface or storm water
from any roof, yard or premises to be deposited in any sanitary sewer.
   (B)   No person shall place or cause to be placed in any sewer any
suffocating, corrosive, inflammable or explosive liquid, gas vapor or substance
or material of any kind, or any oil or grease or product similar in substance,
or any such waste from any garage, machine shop, storehouse, storeroom,
salesroom, store, warehouse or premises.
(Prior Code, § 30-50)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.04 SEPTIC TANKS, CESSPOOLS AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED WHERE PUBLIC SEWER IS
AVAILABLE.
   When any sanitary or combined sewer is available, no person shall use or
maintain for sewage disposal a privy vault, cesspool, septic tank or sink hole
on any lot or premises upon which a connection can be made with the sewer.
(Prior Code, § 30-51)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.05 APPROVAL REQUIRED BEFORE COVERING.
   No person shall cover any sewer until the Plumbing Inspector approves, in
writing, the work as having been completed in compliance with the state law,
the provisions of this code and all rules and regulations of the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 30-52)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.06 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Nothing contained in this chapter shall be construed as limiting in any
manner the powers of the City Manager, and if any unsanitary condition exists,
the same is hereby declared to be a public nuisance and shall be abated by the
City Manager in accordance with the provisions of this code.
(Prior Code, § 30-53)
CONNECTION PERMIT
§ 52.20 REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish or make any connection with any city sewer or
sewer pipe, or cause same to be done, unless he or she complies with the
provisions of this code, the state laws, and all lawful regulations, and unless
he or she first secures a permit as provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 30-61)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.21 APPLICATION; CHARGES.
   Application for a permit under this subchapter shall be made to the
Department of Public Works in the form and detail as it may prescribe,
accompanied with the payment of the charges as may be determined from time to
time by the Commission, except that tapping charges shall be uniform to all
property owners on streets of equal width irrespective of the location of the
lateral sewers in the streets.
(Prior Code, § 30-62)
WASTEWATER COLLECTION AND TREATMENT
§ 52.35 PURPOSE AND POLICY.
   (A)   A subchapter regulating private and public sewers, sewer connections,
industrial waste pretreatment facilities and discharge of industrial waste into
the publicly operated treatment works and providing for pollutant limitations,
data collection, monitoring and sampling, and providing for penalties for the
violation thereof, in the City of Marine City, County of St. Clair, State of
Michigan.
   (B)   The objectives of this subchapter are:
      (1)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which will interfere with the normal operation of the system or
contaminate the resulting municipal sludge;
      (2)   To prevent the introduction of pollutants into the wastewater
system which do not receive adequate treatment in the POTW, and which will pass
through the system into receiving waters or the atmosphere or otherwise be
incompatible with the system;
      (3)   To improve the opportunity to recycle and reclaim wastewater and
sludge from the system; and
      (4)   To provide for equitable distribution of the cost of municipal
wastewater system.
   (C)   This subchapter provides for the regulation of direct and indirect
contributors to the municipal wastewater system through the issuance of permits
to certain non-domestic users and through enforcement of general requirements
for the other users, authorizes monitoring and enforcement activities, requires
user reporting, assumes that existing customer’s capacity will not be
preempted, and provides for the setting of fees for the equitable distribution
of costs resulting from the program established herein.
   (D)   (1)   This subchapter shall apply to the city and to persons outside
the city who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city
POTW.
      (2)   Except as otherwise provided herein, the superintendent of the city
POTW shall administer, implement and enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 30-81) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.36 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT or THE ACT. The Federal Water Pollution Control Act, also known as the
Clean Water Act, as amended, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq.
   APPLICABLE COUNTY HEALTH DEPARTMENT. The St. Clair County Health Department.
   AUTHORIZED REPRESENTATIVE OF INDUSTRIAL USER.
      (1)   An authorized representative of an industrial user may be:
         (a)   A principal executive officer of at least the level of vice
president, if the industrial user is a corporation;
         (b)   A general partner or proprietor if the industrial user is a
partnership or proprietorship, respectively; or
         (c)   A duly authorized representative of the individual designated
above if the representative is responsible for the overall operation of the
facilities from which the indirect discharge originates, or for environmental
matters of the company.
      (2)   Authorization for this representative must be submitted in writing
to the city by the individual designated in divisions (1)(a) and (b) hereof.
   BIOCHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (BOD). The quantity of oxygen utilized in the
biochemical oxidation of organic matter under standard laboratory procedure, 5
days at 20° Centigrade expressed in terms of weight and concentration
(milligrams per liter).
   BUILDING DRAIN. That part of the lowest horizontal piping of a drainage
system which receives discharge from drainage pipes inside the walls of the
building and conveys it to the building sewer, beginning 5 feet outside the
inner face of the building wall.
   BUILDING SEWER. The extension from the building drain to the public sewer or
other place of disposal.
   BYPASS. The intentional diversion of waste streams from any portion of a
user’s pretreatment facility.
   CATEGORICAL STANDARDS. National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or
pretreatment standard.
   CHEMICAL OXYGEN DEMAND (COD). A measure of the oxygen-consuming capacity of
inorganic and organic matter present in water or wastewater. It is expressed as
the amount of oxygen consumed from a chemical oxidant in a specified test. It
does not differentiate between stable and unstable organic matter and thus does
not necessarily correlate with biochemical oxygen demand. Also known as OC and
DOC, oxygen consumed and dichromate oxygen consumed, respectively.
   CHLORINE DEMAND. The difference between the amount of chlorine applied and
the amount of free chlorine available at the end of the contact time, expressed
in milligrams per liter.
   CITY. The City of Marine City, Michigan, its agents and employees.
   COMBINED SEWER. A sewer receiving both surface runoff and sewage.
   COMMERCIAL WASTE. A liquid or water-carried waste material from a commercial
business engaged in buying, selling, exchanging goods or engaging in the goods
or services.
   COMPATIBLE POLLUTANT. A substance amenable to treatment in the wastewater
treatment plant such as biochemical oxygen demand, suspended solids, pH and
fecal coliform bacteria, plus additional pollutants identified in the NPDES
permit if the publicly owned treatment works was designed to treat such
pollutants, and in fact does remove the pollutant to a substantial degree.
Examples of additional pollutants may include: chemical oxygen demand, total
organic carbon, phosphorus and phosphorus compounds, nitrogen compounds, fats,
oils and greases of animal or vegetable origin.
   COMPOSITE SAMPLE. A series of samples taken over a specific time period
whose volume is proportional to the flow in the waste stream, which are
combined into 1 sample.
   COOLING WATER. The water discharged from any use such as air conditioning,
cooling or refrigeration, or to which the only pollutant added is heat.
   DEBT SERVICE CHARGE. Charges levied to customers of the wastewater system
which are used to pay principal interest and administrative costs of retiring
the debt incurred for construction of the wastewater system. The debt service
charge shall be in addition to the user charge specified below.
   DIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge of treated or untreated wastewater directly
to the waters of the state.
   DIRECTOR. The Director of Public Works, or his or her authorized
representative.
   ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION AGENCY or EPA. The U.S. Environmental Protection
Agency administrator or other duly authorized official.
   GARBAGE. Solid wastes from the preparation, cooking and dispensing of food
and from the handling, storage and sale of produce.
   GRAB SAMPLE. A sample which is taken from a waste stream on a 1-time basis
with no regard to the flow in the waste stream and without consideration of
time.
   HOLDING TANK WASTE. Any waste from holding tanks such as vessels, chemical
toilets, campers, trailers, septic tanks and vacuum-pump tank trucks.
   INCOMPATIBLE POLLUTANTS. Any pollutant which is not a compatible pollutant.
   INDIRECT DISCHARGE. The discharge or the introduction of non-domestic
pollutants into the POTW (including holding tank waste discharged into the
system).
   INDUSTRIAL WASTES. The wastewater discharges from industrial, manufacturing,
trade or business processes, or wastewater discharge from any structure with
these characteristics, as distinct from their employee’s domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
   INFILTRATION. Any waters entering the system from the ground, through such
means as, but not limited to, defective pipes, pipe joints, connections or
manhole walls. INFILTRATION does not include and is distinguished from inflow.
   INFILTRATION/INFLOW. The total quantity of water from both infiltration and
inflow.
   INFLOW. Any waters entering the system through such sources as, but not
limited to, building downspouts, footing or yard drains, cooling water
discharges, seepage lines from springs and swampy areas and storm drain cross
connections.
   INTERFERENCE. The inhibition or disruption of the POTW treatment processes
or operations which contributes to a violation of any requirement of the city’s
NPDES permit or reduces the efficiency of the POTW. The term also includes
prevention of sewage sludge use or disposal by the POTW.
   LABORATORY DETERMINATION. The measurements, tests and analyses of the
characteristics of waters and wastes in accordance with the methods contained
in the latest edition at the time of any such measurement, test, or analysis of
Standard Methods for Examination of Water and Waste Water, a joint publication
of the American Public Health Association, the American Waterworks Association
and the Water Pollution Control Federation or in accordance with any other
method prescribed by the rules and regulations promulgated pursuant to this
subchapter.
   LATERAL LINE. That portion of the sewer system located under the street or
within the street right-of-way from the property line to the trunk line and
which collects sewage from a particular property for transfer to the trunk
line.
   NATIONAL CATEGORICAL PRETREAT-MENT STANDARD or PRETREATMENT STANDARD. Any
federal regulation containing pollutant discharge limits promulgated by the EPA
which applies to a specific category of industrial users.
   NATIONAL POLLUTION DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM PERMIT or NPDES PERMIT. A
permit issued pursuant to § 402 of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1342).
   NATIONAL PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD or PROHIBITIVE DISCHARGE STANDARD.
Any regulation developed under the authority of § 307(b) of the Act and Title
40 C.F.R. § 403.5.
   NATURAL OUTLET. Any outlet into a watercourse, pond, ditch, lake or other
body of surface or groundwater.
   NEW SOURCE.
      (1)   Any significant industrial user source, the construction of which
is commenced after the publication of proposed national categorical
pretreatment standards which will be applicable to such source, provided that:
         (a)   Construction is at a site where no other source is located;
         (b)   Process or production equipment causing discharge is totally
replaced due to construction; or
         (c)   Production or wastewater generating processes of the facility
are substantially independent of an existing source at the same site.
      (2)   Construction is considered to have commenced when installation or
assembly of facilities/equipment has begun, significant site preparation has
begun for installation or assembly, or the owner/operator has entered into a
binding contractual obligation for the purchase of facilities or equipment
which are intended to be used in its operation within a reasonable time.
(Construction on a site at which an existing source is located results in a
modification, rather than a new source, if the construction does not create a
new building, structure, facility or installation meeting the criteria of
divisions (1)(b) or (c) above but otherwise alters, replaces or adds to
existing process or production equipment.)
   NORMAL DOMESTIC SEWAGE (NDS). Wastewater which, when analyzed, shows a daily
average concentration of not more than 140 mg/l of BOD; nor than 160 mg/l of
suspended solids; nor more than 5 mg/l of phosphorus; no more than 25 mg/l of
total Kjeldahl nitrogen.
   OBSTRUCTION. Any object of whatever nature which substantially impedes the
flow of sewage from the point of origination to the trunk line. This shall
include, but not be limited to objects, sewage, tree roots, rocks and debris of
any type.
   OPERATION AND MAINTENANCE. All work, materials, equipment, utilities and
other effort required to operate and maintain the wastewater transportation and
treatment system consistent with insuring adequate treatment of wastewater to
produce an effluent in compliance with the NPDES permit and other applicable
state and federal regulations, and includes the cost of replacement.
   OWNER or OWNERS OF RECORD OF THE FREEHOLD OF THE PREMISES OR LESSER ESTATE.
A mortgagee or vendee in possession, assignee of rents, receiver, executor,
trustee, lessee, or other person, firm or corporation in control of a building.
   PERSON. Any individual, partnership, copartnership, firm, company,
corporation, association, joint stock company, trust, estate, governmental
entity or any other legal entity, or its legal representatives, agents or
assigns. The masculine gender shall include the feminine, the singular shall
include the plural where indicated by the context.
   pH. The logarithm (base 10) of the reciprocal of the concentration of
hydrogen ions expressed in grams per liter of solution.
   POLLUTANT. Any of various chemicals, substances and refuse materials such as
solid waste, sewage, garbage, sewage sludge, chemical wastes, biological
materials, radioactive materials, heat and industrial, municipal and
agricultural wastes which impair the purity of the water and soil.
   POLLUTION. The man-made or man-induced alteration of the chemical, physical,
biological, and radiological integrity of water.
   POTW TREATMENT PLANT. That portion of the POTW designed to provide treatment
to wastewater.
   PRETREATMENT or TREATMENT. The reduction of the amount of pollutants, the
elimination of pollutants, or the alteration of the nature of pollutants, or
the alteration of the nature of pollutant  properties in wastewater to a less
harmful state prior to or in lieu of discharging or otherwise introducing such
pollutants into a POTW. The reduction or alteration can be obtained by
physical, chemical or biological processes, or process changes other means,
except as prohibited by Title 40 C.F.R. § 403.6(d).
   PRETREATMENT STANDARDS or PRETREATMENT REQUIREMENTS. Any substantive or
procedural requirement for treating of a waste prior to inclusion in the POTW,
including those by the city, state or national categorical pretreatment
standards.
   PRIVATE SEWER LINES. All service lines and equipment for the disposal of
sewage installed or located on any property, from the property line to and
including any structure or facility which exists on the property.
   PROPERLY SHREDDED GARBAGE. The wastes from the preparation, cooking and
dispensing of food that have been shredded to the degree that all particles
will be carried freely under the flow conditions normally prevailing in public
sewers, with no particle greater than 1/2 inch in any dimension.
   PROPERTY OWNER. The owner of the property which abuts the street.
   PUBLICLY-OWNED TREATMENT WORKS (POTW). A treatment works as defined by § 212
of the Act (33 U.S.C. § 1292), which is owned in this instance by the city.
This definition includes any sewers that convey wastewater to the POTW
treatment plant. For the purposes of this subchapter, POTW shall also include
any sewers that convey wastewaters to the POTW from persons outside the city
who are, by contract or agreement with the city, users of the city’s POTW.
   PUBLIC SEWER. A sewer in which all owners of abutting properties have equal
rights, and is controlled by public authority.
   REPLACEMENT. The replacement in whole or in part of any equipment,
appurtenances and accessories in the wastewater transportation or  treatment
systems to insure continuous treatment of wastewater in accordance with the
NPDES permit and other applicable state and federal regulations.
   SANITARY SEWAGE. A liquid or water-carried waste discharged from the
sanitary conveniences of dwellings including but not limited to residential
homes, apartment houses and hotels, office buildings, commercial businesses or
industrial plants.
   SANITARY SEWER. A sewer which carries sewage and to which storm, surface and
groundwaters are not intentionally admitted.
   SEWAGE. A combination of the water-carried wastes from residences, business
buildings, institutions and industrial establishments, together with such
groundwaters as may be present.
   SEWAGE TREATMENT PLANT or WASTEWATER TREATMENT PLANT. Any arrangement of
devices and structures used for treating sewage.
   SEWAGE WORKS. All facilities for collecting, pumping, treating and disposing
of sewage.
   SEWER. A pipe or conduit for carrying sewage.
   SEWER SERVICE CHARGE. The sum of the applicable user charge, surcharges and
debt service charges.
   SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE. Substantial physical damage to property, damage to
the user’s pretreatment facilities which causes them to become inoperable, or
substantial and permanent loss of natural resources which can reasonably be
expected to occur in absence of a bypass. SEVERE PROPERTY DAMAGE does not mean
economic loss caused by delays in production.
   SHALL.  The act referred to is mandatory; MAY is permissive.
   SIGNIFICANT INDUSTRIAL USER. Any industrial user of the city’s wastewater
disposal system who:
      (1)   Is subject to national categorical pretreatment standards;
      (2)   Has a discharge flow of 25,000 gallons or more per average work
day;
      (3)   Has a flow greater than 5% of the flow in the city’s wastewater
treatment system;
      (4)   Has in his or her wastes toxic pollutants as defined pursuant to §
307 of the Act state statutes and rules; or
      (5)   Is found by the city, Michigan Department of Natural Resources, or
the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) to have significant impact,
either singly or in combination with other contributing industries, on the
wastewater treatment system, the quality of sludge, the system’s effluent
quality, or air emissions generated by the system.
   SIGNIFICANT NONCOMPLIANCE. One or more of the following:
      (1)   Chronic violation of wastewater discharge limit, defined here as
when 66% or more of all the measurements for a pollutant parameter taken during
a 6-month period exceed by any magnitude the corresponding daily maximum limit
or the corresponding average limit;
      (2)   Technical review criteria violation of wastewater discharge limit,
defined here as when 33% or more of all of the measurements for a pollutant
parameter taken during a 6-month period equal or exceed the product of the
corresponding daily maximum limit multiplied by the applicable TRC factor, or
the product of the corresponding average limit multiplied by the applicable TRC
factor. (TRC Factor = 1.4 for BOD, fats, oil and grease, and 2.2 for all other
pollutants except);
      (3)   Any other violation of a daily maximum limit or an average limit
that the Director determines has alone or in combination with other discharges
caused interference or pass through, including endangering the health of POTW
personnel or the general public;
      (4)   Any discharge of a pollutant that has caused imminent endangerment
to human health, public welfare, or the environment, or has resulted in the
POTW exercising its emergency authority to halt or prevent such a discharge;
      (5)   Failure to meet, within 90 days after the schedule date, a
compliance schedule milestone contained in a city-issued discharge permit or
enforcement order for starting construction, completing construction or
attaining final compliance;
      (6)   Failure to provide, within 30 days after the due date, required
reports such as baseline monitoring reports, 90-day compliance reports, and/or
reports on compliance with compliance schedules;
      (7)   Failure to accurately report noncompliance; and
      (8)   Any other violation, or group of violations, which the Director
determines as adversely affecting operation or implementation of the city’s
pretreatment program.
   SLUG LOAD. Any substance released in a discharge at a rate and/or
concentration which causes interference to a POTW.
   STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION (SIC). A classification pursuant to the
Standard Industrial Classification Manual issued by the Executive Office of the
President, Office of Management and Budget.
   STATE.  The State of Michigan.
   STORM SEWER OR STORM DRAIN. A sewer which carries storm and surface waters
and drainage, but excludes sewage and polluted industrial wastes.
   STORMWATER. Any flow occurring during or following any form of natural
precipitation and resulting therefrom.
   SUPERINTENDENT. The person designated by the city to supervise the operation
of the publicly owned treatment works, who is charged with certain duties and
responsibilities by this subchapter, or his or her duly authorized
representative.
   SURCHARGE. As part of the service charge, any customer discharging
wastewater having strength in excess of limits set forth by the city shall be
required to pay an additional charge to cover the cost of treatment of such
excess strength wastewater.
   SUSPENDED SOLIDS. The total suspended matter that floats on the surface of,
or is suspended in, water, wastewater or other liquids, and which is removable
by laboratory filtering.
   TOXIC POLLUTANT. Any pollutant or combination of pollutants which is or can
potentially be harmful to public health or environment including those listed
as toxic in regulations promulgated by the administrator of the Environmental
Protection Agency under the provisions of CWA § 307(a) or other acts.
   TRUNK LINE. The main sewer line located under any street or within any
street right-of-way which collects and transmits the sewage of the various
properties served by the sewer system.
   UNCONTAMINATED INDUSTRIAL WASTE. Wastewater which has not come into contact
with any substance used in or incidental to industrial processing operations
and to which no chemical or other substance has been added.
   UPSET. An exceptional incident in which there is unintentional and temporary
noncompliance with national categorical pretreatment standards because of
factors beyond the reasonable control of the user. An UPSET does not include
noncompliance to the extent caused by operational error, improperly designed
treatment facilities, inadequate treatment facilities, lack of preventive
maintenance, or careless or improper operation.
   USER. Any person who contributes, causes or permits the contribution of
wastewater into the POTW.
   USER CHARGE. A charge levied on users of a treatment works for the cost of
operation and maintenance of sewerage works pursuant to § 204(b) of Pub. Law
No. 92-500, being known as the Clean Water Act, 33 U.S.C. §§ 1251 et seq., and
includes the cost of replacement.
   USER CLASS. The kind of user connected to sanitary sewers including but not
limited to residential, industrial, commercial, institutional and governmental.
      (1)   COMMERCIAL USER. An establishment listed in the office of the
management and budget’s Standard Industrial Classification Manual (SICM),
involved in a commercial enterprise, business or service which, based on a
determination by the city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences and which is not a residential user or an
industrial user.
      (2)   GOVERNMENTAL USER. Any federal, state or local government user of
the wastewater treatment works.
      (3)   INDUSTRIAL USER. Any user who discharges industrial wastes, as
defined in this subchapter.
      (4)   INSTITUTIONAL USER. Any establishment listed in the SICM involved
in a social, charitable, religious or educational function which, based on a
determination by the city, discharges primarily segregated domestic wastes or
wastes from sanitary conveniences.
      (5)   RESIDENTIAL USER. A user of the treatment works whose premises or
buildings are used primarily as a domicile for 1 or more persons, including
dwelling units such as detached, semi-detached and row houses, mobile homes,
apartments or permanent multi-family dwellings (transit lodging is not
included, it is considered commercial).
   WASTEWATER. The liquid and water-carried industrial or domestic wastes from
dwellings, commercial buildings, industrial facilities and institutions,
together with any groundwater, surface water, and stormwater that may be
present, whether treated or untreated, which is contributed into or permitted
to enter the POTW.
   WATERCOURSE. A channel in which a flow of water occurs, either continuously
or intermittently.
   WATERS OF THE STATE. All streams, lakes, ponds, marshes, watercourses,
waterways, wells, springs, reservoirs, aquifers, irrigation systems, drainage
systems and all other bodies or accumulations of water, surface or underground,
natural or artificial, public or private, which are contained within, flow
through, or border upon the state or any portion thereof.
(Prior Code, § 30-82) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.37 ABBREVIATIONS.
   The following abbreviations shall have the designated meanings:
   BOD. Biochemical oxygen demand.
   CFR. Code of Federal Regulations.
   COD. Chemical oxygen demand.
   CWA. Clean Water Act.
   EPA. Environmental Protection Agency.
   l. Liter.
   mg. Milligrams.
   mg/l. Milligrams per liter.
   NDS. Normal domestic sewage.
   NPDES. National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System.
   O&M. Operation and maintenance.
   P. Phosphorus.
   POTW. Publicly-owned treatment works.
   SIC. Standard Industrial Classification.
   SICM. Standard Industrial Classification Manual.
   SS. Suspended solids.
   SWDA. Solid Waste Disposal Act, 42 U.S.C. §§ 6901 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 30-83) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.38 GENERAL REGULATIONS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to place, deposit or permit to be
deposited in any unsanitary manner upon public or private property within the
city, or in any area under the jurisdiction of the city, any human or animal
excrement, garbage or other objectionable waste.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful, when sewage and/or treatment facilities are
available, to discharge to any natural outlet within the city, or in any area
under the jurisdiction of the city, any sanitary sewage, industrial wastes or
other polluted waters, unless specifically permitted by the applicable county
health department.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to construct or maintain any privy, privy vault,
septic tank, cesspool or other facility intended or used for the disposal of
sewage, unless specifically permitted by the applicable county health
department or as hereinafter provided.
   (D)   The owner of all houses, buildings or properties used for human
occupancy, employment, recreation or other purposes, situated within the city
and abutting on any street, alley or right-of-way in which there is now located
or may in the future be located a public sanitary or combined sewer of the
city, is hereby required at his or her expense to install suitable sewage
facilities therein, and to connect such facilities directly with the proper
public sewer in accordance with the provisions of this subchapter, within 90
days after date of official notice to do so.
(Prior Code, § 30-84) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.39 PRIVATE SEWAGE DISPOSAL REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Where a public sewer is not available under the provisions of §
52.38(D), the building sewer shall be connected to an approved private sewage
disposal system.
   (B)   Before commencement of a private sewage disposal system, the owner
shall first apply to the county’s Health Department for a soil evaluation test.
The fee shall be determined by the county’s Health Department, and shall be
paid to the county’s Health Department. At completion of the above soil
evaluation test showing positive results, the property owner shall apply for a
permit for installation for the proposed sewage system. He or she shall include
plans, specifications and other information as deemed necessary by the county’s
Health Department. At the time the application is filed, the fee determined by
the county’s Health Department for the permit and inspection shall be paid.
   (C)   A permit for a private sewage disposal system shall not become
effective until the installation is completed to the satisfaction of the
county’s Health Department. The county’s Health Department shall be allowed to
inspect the work at any stage of construction and, in any event, the applicant
for the permit shall notify the county’s Health Department when the work is
ready for final inspection, and before any underground portions are covered.
The inspection shall be made within 7 days of the receipt of notice by the
county’s Health Department. All persons receiving a permit for a private sewer
disposal system shall provide the city with copies of all final approved
inspection reports issued by the county’s Health Department.
   (D)   The type, capacities, location and layout of a private sewage disposal
system shall comply with all recommendations of the county’s Health Department.
No septic tank or cesspool shall be permitted to discharge to any public sewer
or natural outlet.
   (E)   At such time as a public sewer becomes available to a property served
by a private sewage disposal system as provided in §
52.38(D), a direct connection shall be made to the public sewer in compliance
with this subchapter, and any septic tanks, cesspools and similar private
sewage disposal facilities shall be abandoned for sanitary use and filled with
a suitable material.
   (F)   The owner shall operate and maintain the private sewage disposal
facilities in a sanitary manner at all times at no expense to the city.
   (G)   No statement contained in this section shall be construed to interfere
with any additional requirements that may be imposed by any other agency having
legal jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 30-85) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.40 BUILDING SEWER AND CONNECTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall uncover, make any connections with or opening into,
use, alter or disturb any public sewer or appurtenance thereof, without first
obtaining a written permit from the Director. No building sewer shall be
covered until after it has been inspected and approved by the Director.
   (B)   The owner or his or her agent shall make application for sewer permit
on a form furnished by the city. The permit application shall be supplemented
by any plans, specifications or other information required by this subchapter
or considered pertinent in the judgment of the city. A hook-up fee, in an
amount established by resolution of the City Council, shall be paid to the City
Treasurer at the time the application is filed. A plumbing permit is also
required. If a street opening is required to make the lead connection, an
additional attachment to the permit must be completed.
   (C)   All cost and expense incident to the installation, connection and
maintenance of the building sewer to the public sewer connection shall be borne
by the owner.
   (D)   (1)   All liabilities incident to the installation and connection of
the building sewer shall be borne by property owner. The property owner shall
indemnify and save harmless the city from any loss or damage that may directly
or indirectly be occasioned by the installation of the building sewer.
         (a)   It shall be the duty of each property owner to maintain, clean
and repair the private sewer lines on his or her property at his or her own
expense as necessary to keep such lines free and clear of obstructions and in
good working order and to maintain and keep clear of obstructions the lateral
lines servicing his or her property.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the city to maintain, clean and repair
as necessary and at its expense the sewer trunk lines and to repair or replace
any broken or crushed lateral lines.
      (2)   The city shall not be responsible for cleaning or maintenance of
lateral lines.
      (3)   In the case of a bona fide dispute as to whether needed
maintenance, cleaning or repair of a portion of sewer line is the
responsibility of the property owner or the city under the provisions of this
subchapter, it shall be the duty of the property owner to establish that the
obstruction disrepair or defect has occurred in that portion of the line for
which the city is responsible.
      (4)   If the property owner fails to establish the city responsibility,
it shall be the property owner’s responsibility to perform the necessary
maintenance as provided in this subchapter. If the city responsibility is
established, the city shall perform the necessary maintenance and shall
reimburse the property owner for reasonable expenses incurred in locating the
defect in the line or in otherwise establishing the city responsibility.
      (5)   The property owner would be responsible under this subchapter for
the total maintenance and repair of the private sewer lines on his property and
for the maintenance and cleaning, although not including major repair, of the
entire sewer line out to the trunk line.
      (6)   The city, on the other hand, is responsible for major repair of the
trunk line and lateral lines only and has no responsibility of any sort for the
private lines. The city also has no responsibility to clean the lateral lines.
      (7)   Any property owner who shall violate the provisions of this
subchapter shall be liable to the city for civil damage incurred in correcting
the defect, and in addition, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
      (8)   If any property owner fails to maintain a private sewer line as
required by this subchapter, in addition to the other penalties prescribed, the
sewer may be declared a public nuisance by the county health officer and the
defect may be corrected by the city. Any costs so incurred shall be assessed
against the property and become a lien on the property if not timely paid.
   (E)   A separate and independent building sewer shall be provided for every
building; except where one building stands at the rear of another or an
interior (lot) and no private sewer is available or can be constructed to the
rear building through an adjoining alley, yard or driveway, the building sewer
from the front building may be extended to the rear building.
   (F)   Old building sewers may be used in connection with new buildings only
when they are found, on examination and test by the Director, to meet all
requirements of this subchapter.
   (G)   The building sewer shall be constructed of vitrified clay sewer pipe
or cast iron soil pipe, as approved by the Director. The city reserves the
right to specify and require the encasement of any sewer pipe with concrete, or
the installation of the sewer pipe in concrete cradle if foundation and
construction are such as to warrant such protection in the opinion of the
Director.
   (H)   The size and slope of the building sewer shall be subject to approval
by the Director, but in no event shall the diameter be less than 4 inches. The
slope of 4-inch pipe shall be not less than 1/4 inch per foot, unless otherwise
permitted. The slope of pipe, the diameter of which is 6 inches or more, shall
be not less than 1/8 inch per foot unless otherwise permitted.
   (I)   Whenever possible, the building sewer shall be brought to the building
at an elevation below the basement floor. No building sewer shall be laid
parallel to or within 3 feet of any bearing wall, which might thereby be
weakened. The depth shall be sufficient to afford protection from frost. The
building sewer shall be laid at uniform grade. The line shall be straight or
laid with properly curved pipe and fittings. Changes in direction greater than
45 degrees shall be provided with cleanouts accessible for cleaning.
   (J)   In all buildings in which any building drain is too low to permit
gravity flow to the public sewer, sanitary sewage carried by such drain shall
be lifted by artificial means approved by the Director, and discharges to the
building sewer.
   (K)   All joints and connections shall be made gastight and watertight. All
joints shall be approved by the Director.
   (L)   No sewer connection will be permitted unless there is capacity
available in all downstream sewers, lift stations, force mains and the sewage
treatment plant, including capacity for treatment of BOD and suspended solids.
   (M)   All newly constructed building sewers shall have a properly sized
cleanout at the head of the sewer that is accessible at all times. This
cleanout shall allow access of sewer cleaning equipment of a size equivalent to
the size of the building sewer.
   (N)   All sewers shall be constructed in accordance with the latest edition
of the Ten State Standards.
(Prior Code, § 30-86) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.41 USE OF THE PUBLIC SEWERS.
   (A)   General discharge prohibitions. No user shall contribute or cause to
be contributed, directly or indirectly, any pollutant or wastewater which will
interfere with the operation or performance of the POTW. These general
prohibitions apply to all such users of a POTW whether or not the user is
subject to the National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or any other
national, state or local pretreatment standards or requirements. The city may
refuse to accept any wastes which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES
discharge limits. A user may not contribute the following substances to any
POTW:
      (1)   Any liquids, solids or gases, including but not limited to waste
streams with a closed cup flash point of less than 140°F, which by reason of
their nature and quantity are, or may be, sufficient either alone or by
interaction with other substances to cause fire or explosion or be injurious in
any other way to the POTW or to the operation of the POTW. At no time, shall 2
successive readings on an explosion hazard meter, at the point of discharge
into the system (or at any point in the system) be more than 5% nor any single
reading over 10% of the lower explosive limit (LEL) of the Meter. Prohibited
Materials Include, but are not limited to gasoline, kerosene, naphtha, benzene,
toluene, xyletie, ethers, alcohols, ketones, aldehydes, peroxides, ehlolateg,
petaltrates, broinates, tatbides, hydrides and sulfides;
      (2)   Solid or viscous substances which may cause obstruction to the flow
in a sewer or other interference with the operation of the wastewater treatment
facilities such as, but not limited to: grease, garbage with particles greater
than 1/2 inch in any dimension, animal guts or tissues, paunch manure, bones,
hair, hides or fleshings, entrails, whole blood, feathers, ashes, cinders,
sand, spent lime, stone or marble dust, metal, glass, straw, shavings, grass
clippings, rags, spent grains, spent hops, waste paper, wood, plastics, gas,
tar, asphalt residues, residues from refining, or processing of fuel or
lubricating oil, mud or glass grinding or polishing wastes;
      (3)   Any wastewater having a pH less than 6.0 or greater than 9.5, or
wastewater having any other corrosive property capable of causing damage or
hazard to structures, equipment or personnel of the POTW;
      (4)   Any wastewater containing toxic pollutants in sufficient quantity,
either singly or by interaction with other pollutants, to injure or interfere
with any wastewater treatment process, constitute a hazard to humans or
animals, create a toxic effect in the receiving waters of the POTW, or exceed
the limitation set forth in a categorical pretreatment standard. This
prohibition of toxic pollutants will conform to § 307(a) of the Act;
      (5)   Any noxious or malodorous liquids, gases or solids which either
singly or by interaction with other wastes are sufficient to create a public
nuisance or hazard to life or are sufficient to prevent entry into the sewers
for maintenance and repair, including pollutants which result in the presence
of toxic gases, vapors, or fumes within the POTW in a quantity that may cause
acute worker health and safety problems;
      (6)   Any substance which may cause the POTW’s effluent or any other
product of the POTW such as residues, sludges or scums, to be unsuitable for
reclamation and reuse or to interfere with the reclamation process. In no case,
shall a substance discharged to the POTW cause the POTW to be in noncompliance
with sludge use or disposal criteria, guidelines or regulations developed under
§ 405 of the act; any criteria, guidelines or regulations affecting sludge use
or disposal developed pursuant to the Solid Waste Disposal Act, being 42 U.S.C.
§§ 6901 et seq., the Clean Air Act, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 7401 et seq., the Toxic
Substances Control Act, being 15 U.S.C. §§ 2681 et seq., or state criteria
applicable to the sludge management method being used;
      (7)   Any substance which will cause the POTW to violate its NPDES permit
or the receiving water quality standards;
      (8)   Any wastewater with objectionable color not removed in the
treatment process, such as, but not limited to, dye wastes and vegetable
tanning solutions;
      (9)   Any wastewater having a temperature which will inhibit biological
activity in the POTW resulting in interference, but in no case wastewater with
a temperature at the introduction into the POTW which exceeds 40°C (104°F);
      (10)   Any pollutants, including oxygen demanding pollutants (BOD and the
like) released at a flow rate and/or pollutant concentration which will cause
interference to the POTW;
      (11)   Any wastewater containing any radioactive wastes or isotopes of an
half-life or concentration as may exceed limits established by the Director in
compliance with applicable state or federal regulations;
      (12)   Any wastewater which causes a hazard to human life or creates a
public nuisance;
      (13)   Any unpolluted water including, but not limited to storm-water,
groundwater, roof water or noncontact cooling water;
      (14)   Any waters or wastes containing suspended solids or any
constituent of a character and quantity that unusual attention or expense is
required to handle the materials at the sewage treatment plant;
      (15)   Any waste from individual sewage disposal systems except at the
POTW treatment plant as provided herein or except for waste from any individual
sewage disposal system that may be disposed of directly into a sanitary sewer
upon entering into an agreement with the city; the agreement shall specify the
site of disposal, sewage disposal charge, and such other conditions as may be
required to satisfy the sanitation and health requirements of the city. For the
purpose of this division, INDIVIDUAL SEWAGE DISPOSAL SYSTEM is defined to
include every means of  disposing of industrial, commercial, household,
domestic or other water-carried sanitary waste or sewage other than a public
sanitary sewer;
      (16)   Any sludge, precipitate or congealed substances resulting from an
industrial or commercial process, or resulting from the pretreatment of
wastewater or air pollutants; and
      (17)   Any trucked or hauled wastewater, except as specifically allowed
by the Director.
   (B)   Specific pollutant limitations.
      (1)   Toxic pollutants. Under no circumstances shall any person discharge
wastewater containing in excess of:
         (a)   1.8 mg/l arsenic.
         (b)   0.58 mg/l cadmium.
         (c)   18 mg/l chromium (total).
         (d)   1.7 mg/l chromium (hexavalent).
         (e)   4.9 mg/l copper.
         (f)   1.3 mg/l cyanides.
         (g)   9.0 mg/l lead.
         (h)   0.33 mg/l mercury.
         (i)   7.5 mg/l nickel.
         (j)   0.70 mg/l silver.
         (k)   6.0 mg/l zinc.
         (l)   1.7 mg/l total phenols.
         (m)   0.011 mg/l polychlorinated biphenyls.
      (2)   Conventional pollutants. Except as authorized by the Director, no
person shall discharge wastewater containing in excess of:
         (a)   140 mg/l BOD5.
         (b)   160 mg/l total suspended solids.
         (c)   25 mg/l total Kjeldahl nitrogen.
         (d)   5 mg/l total phosphorus.
         (e)   320 mg/l COD.
         (f)   100 mg/l by weight of fat, oil or grease.
         (g)   30 mg/l chlorine demand, at 30 minutes.
      (3)   Determinations. Should the above concentrations, either
individually or in combination with one another, interfere with the sewage
treatment process, or cause difficulties or damage to the receiving waters, the
maximum concentrations of these substances will be reduced by order of the
Director. Should the Director determine that the above limits can be raised
without damage to the sewer system or the sewage plant exceeding the state or
federal limits, then the Director may raise the limits, and shall determine the
individual concentrations depending on quantity of flow, equipment,
capabilities, reliability of testing and the like. Should any other substances
either individually or in combination with other substances interfere with the
sewage treatment process or cause damage to the receiving waters or affect the
sanitary or storm sewer system, the allowable concentration of these substances
will be limited by order of the Director.
      (4)   Hazards; public nuisances.
         (a)   If any waters are discharged or are proposed to be discharged to
the public sewers, which waters contain the substances or possess the
characteristics enumerated above, and which in the judgment of the city may
have a deleterious effect upon the sewage works, processes, equipment, or
receiving waters, or which otherwise create a hazard to life or constitute a
public nuisance, the city may:
            1.   Reject the wastes;
            2.   Require pretreatment to the level defined as normal domestic
sewage;
            3.   Require control over the quantities and rates of discharge;
            4.   Require payment to cover the added cost of handling and
treating the wastes not covered using taxes or sewer charges; and/or
            5.   Require new industrial customers or industries with
significant changes in strength or flow to submit prior information to the city
concerning the proposed flows.
         (b)   If the city permits the pretreatment or equalization of waste
flows, the design and installation of the plant and equipment shall be subject
to the review and approval of the city and shall be subject to the requirements
of all applicable codes, ordinances and laws.
   (C)   Compliance with applicable pretreatment standards.
      (1)   Upon the promulgation of the National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards for a particular subcategory, the pretreatment standard, if more
stringent than limitations imposed under this subchapter for sources in that
subcategory, shall immediately supersede the limitations imposed under this
subchapter and shall be considered applicable to the industrial user. The
Director shall notify all affected users of the applicable reporting
requirements.
      (2)   Existing users subject to new National Categorical Pretreatment
Standards shall achieve compliance within 3 years of the date the standard is
promulgated, unless a shorter compliance schedule is specified in the standard.
New sources subject to National Categorical Pretreatment Standards shall
install, have in operating condition, and have started up all pretreatment
equipment required to achieve compliance before beginning to discharge; and
shall meet all applicable pretreatment standards within the shortest feasible
time, but not to exceed 90 days after beginning to discharge.
   (D)   Compliance with state requirements. State requirements and limitations
on discharges shall apply in any case where they are more stringent than
federal requirements and limitations or those in this subchapter.
   (E)   City’s right of refusal and revision.
      (1)   The city may prohibit the admission into the public sewers or any
waters or wastes as follows:
         (a)   Containing any quantity of substances having the characteristics
described herein by the general discharge prohibitions or the specific
pollutant limitations;
         (b)   Having an average daily flow greater than 2% of the average
daily sewage flow of the city, or having a rate of flow (gallons per day)
greater than 10% of the average daily city flow for a period of 1 hour or more,
shall be subject to review and approval of the Director.
      (2)   The city also reserves the right to establish by ordinance more
stringent limitations or requirements on discharges to the wastewater disposal
system if deemed necessary to comply with the objectives presented in §
52.35.
   (F)   Stormwater, surface water, or groundwater.
      (1)   Unless specifically authorized by the Director, no user shall
discharge or cause to be discharged any stormwater, surface water, groundwater,
water from footing drains, or roof water to any sanitary sewer or sewer
connection. Any premise connected to a storm sewer shall comply with county,
state and federal requirements as well as those of the city.
      (2)   Downspouts and roof leaders shall be disconnected from sanitary
sewers within 6 months of the date of this subchapter. If this is not done, the
city shall perform this work and bill the user.
      (3)   Stormwater, groundwater and all other unpolluted drainage shall be
discharged to such sewers as are specifically designed as combined sewers or
storm sewers. Discharge of cooling water or unpolluted process water to a
natural outlet shall be approved only by the Michigan Water Resources
Commission.
      (4)   Cooling water containing such pollutants as insoluble oils or
grease or other suspended solids shall be pretreated for removal of the
pollutants and then discharged to a Michigan Department of Natural Resources
approved drainage outlet.
   (G)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors.
      (1)   Grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be provided when in the
opinion of the Director they are necessary for the proper handling of liquid
wastes containing grease in excessive amounts or any flammable wastes, sand and
other harmful ingredients; except that the interceptors shall not be required
for private living quarters or dwelling units. All interceptors shall be
located as to be readily and easily accessible for cleaning and inspection.
Grease and oil interceptors shall be constructed of impervious material capable
of withstanding abrupt and extreme changes in temperature. They shall be of
substantial construction, watertight and equipped with easily removable covers,
which when bolted in place shall be gastight and watertight.
      (2)   Where installed, all grease, oil and sand interceptors shall be
maintained by the owner, at his expense, in continuously efficient operation at
all times.
   (H)   Equalization and pretreatment. Where necessary in the opinion of the
city, the owner shall provide at his or her expense, such equalization and
pretreatment as may be necessary to reduce conventional pollutants to
concentrations given in §
52.42(B)(2); or eliminate objectionable characteristics of toxic pollutants as
defined by the maximum limits provided for in §
52.42(B)(1); or control the quantities and rates of discharge of the waters or
wastes.
   (I)   Surcharge provision.
      (1)   Where the strength of sewage from an industrial, commercial or
institutional establishment exceeds NDS levels defined as 140 parts per million
of biochemical oxygen demand, or 160 parts per million by weight of suspended
solids, or 5 parts per million by weight of phosphorus, or 25 parts per million
by weight of total Kjeldahl nitrogen and where the wastes are permitted to be
discharged to the sewer system by the Director, an added charge, as noted
below, may be made against the establishment according to the strength of the
wastes.
      (2)   The strength of such wastes shall be determined by composite
samples taken over a sufficient period of time to insure a representative
sample. The cost of taking and making the first of these samples shall be borne
by the city. The cost of any subsequent sampling and testing shall be borne by
the industry or establishment, whether owner or lessee. Tests shall be made by
an independent laboratory or at the city wastewater treatment plant.
      (3)   Added charges shall be determined by the city. These charges shall
be based on the cost of operation, maintenance, and equipment replacement for
the sewage works.
   (J)   Control manhole. When required by the city, the owner of any property
serviced by a building sewer carrying industrial wastes shall install a
suitable control manhole together with such necessary meters and other
appurtenances in the building sewer to facilitate observation, sampling and
measurement of the wastes. Such manhole, when required, shall be accessibly and
safely located and shall be constructed in accordance with plans approved by
the city. The manhole shall be installed by the owner at his or her expense and
shall be maintained by him or her so as to be safe and accessible at all times.
   (K)   Monitoring requirements.
      (1)   All measurements, tests and analyses of the characteristics of
water to which reference is made herein shall be determined in accordance with
the latest edition at the time of Standard Methods for Examination of Water and
Sewage, and shall be determined from appropriate samples taken at a suitable
manhole. In the event that no control manhole has been required by the city,
the suitable manhole shall be considered to be the nearest downstream manhole
in the public sewer to the point at which the building sewer is connected.
      (2)   Sampling shall be carried out by customarily accepted methods to
reflect the effect of constituents upon the sewage works and to determine the
existence of hazards to life, limb and property. The particular analyses
involved will determine whether a 24-hour composite of all outfalls of a
premise is appropriate or whether grab samples should be taken. The
responsibilities of industry are further defined below.
   (L)   Inspections. Agents of the city, county’s Health Department, Michigan
Department of Natural Resources of U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, shall
have the right to enter all properties at all reasonable hours for the purpose
of inspecting, measuring, sampling and testing the wastewater discharge and
reviewing applicable records.
   (M)   Flow determination. To determine the sewage now from any
establishment, the Director may use one of the following methods:
      (1)   The amount of water supplied to the premises by the city or a
private water company as shown upon the water meter if the premises are
metered;
      (2)   If the premises are supplied with river water or water from private
wells, the amount of water supplied from the sources as estimated by the
Director from the water, gas or electric supply;
      (3)   If the premises are used for an industrial or commercial purpose of
such a nature that the water supplied to the premises cannot be entirely
discharged into the sewer system, the estimate of the amount of sewage
discharged into the sewer system made by the Director from the water, gas or
electric supply;
      (4)   The number of gallons of sewage discharged into the sewer system as
determined by measurements and samples taken at a manhole installed by the
owner of the property served by the sewer system at his or her own expense in
accordance with the terms and conditions of the permit issued by the Director
pursuant to §
52.42; or
      (5)   A figure determined by the Director by any combination of the
foregoing or by any other equitable method.
   (N)   Dilution prohibition. No user shall ever increase the use of water or,
in any way, attempt to dilute a discharge as a partial or complete substitute
for adequate treatment to achieve compliance with the limitations contained in
pretreatment standards, or in any other pollutant-specific limitation developed
by the city or state.
   (O)   Protection from accidental discharge.
      (1)   Where required a user shall provide protection from accidental
discharge of prohibited materials or other substances regulated by this
subchapter. The city will evaluate, at least once every 2 years, whether a user
without said protection will be subjected to these requirements. Facilities to
prevent accidental discharge or prohibited materials shall be provided and
maintained at the owner’s or user’s own cost and expense. Detailed plans
showing facilities and operating procedures to provide this protection shall be
submitted to the city for review, and shall be approved by the city before
construction of the facility. All required users shall complete such a plan
within 180 days after the adoption of this subchapter. If required by the city
a user who commences contribution to the POTW after the effective date of this
subchapter shall not be permitted to introduce pollutants into the system until
accidental discharge procedures have been approved by the city. Review and
approval of the plans and operating procedures shall not relieve the industrial
user from the responsibility to modify the user’s facility as necessary to meet
the requirements of this subchapter.
      (2)   In the case of an accidental discharge, it is the responsibility of
the user to immediately telephone and notify the POTW of the incident. The
notification shall include location of discharge, type of waste, concentration
and volume, and corrective actions.
         (a)   Written notice. Within 5 days following an accidental discharge,
the user shall submit to the Director a detailed written report describing the
cause of the discharge and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent
similar future occurrences. The notification shall not relieve the user of any
expense, loss, damage or other liability which may be incurred as a result of
damage to the POTW, fish kills, or any other damage to person or property; nor
shall the notification relieve the user of any fines, civil penalties or other
liability which may be imposed by this subchapter or other applicable law.
         (b)   Notice to employees. A notice shall be permanently posted on the
user’s bulletin board or other prominent place advising employees of whom to
call in the event of a dangerous discharge. Employers shall insure that all
employees who may cause or suffer such a dangerous discharge to occur are
advised of the emergency notification procedure.
   (P)   Upset provision.
      (1)   An upset shall constitute an affirmative defense by users in
unintentional and temporary noncompliance with applicable pretreatment
standards, provided it can be proved that:
         (a)   An upset occurred and the user can identify the cause(s) of the
upset;
         (b)   The facility was at the time being operated in a prudent and
workmanlike manner and in compliance with applicable operation and maintenance
procedures; and
         (c)   The user submitted the following information to the city within
24 hours of becoming aware of the upset (if this information is provided
orally, a written submission must be provided within 5 days):
            1.   A description of the discharge and cause of noncompliance;
            2.   The period of noncompliance, including exact dates and times
or, if not corrected, the anticipated time the noncompliance is expected to
continue; and
            3.   Steps being taken and/or planned to reduce, eliminate and
prevent recurrence of the noncompliance.
      (2)   In any enforcement proceedings, the user seeking to establish the
occurrence of an upset shall have the burden of proof.
   (Q)   Bypass provision.
      (1)   Bypass producing a discharge which violates applicable pretreatment
standards is prohibited, and the city may take enforcement action against a
user for the bypass, unless: the bypass was unavoidable to prevent loss of
life, personal injury or severe property damage; there were no feasible
alternatives to the bypass such as the use of auxiliary treatment facilities,
retention of untreated wastes or maintenance during normal periods of equipment
downtime (except where adequate backup equipment should have been installed in
the exercise of reasonable engineering judgment to operate during normal
periods of equipment downtime or preventive maintenance); and the user
submitted required notices.
      (2)   If the user knows in advance of the need for bypass, a prior notice
shall be submitted to the city at least 10 days before the date of the bypass.
The city may approve or disapprove this anticipated bypass, after considering
its adverse effects.
      (3)   A user shall submit oral notice of an unanticipated bypass that
exceeds applicable pretreatment requirements to the city within 24 hours from
the time the user becomes aware of the bypass. Unless waived by the city, a
written submission shall then be provided within 5 days of the time the user
becomes aware of the bypass. The written submission shall contain a description
of the bypass and its cause; the duration of the bypass, including exact dates
and times, and, if the bypass has not been corrected, the anticipated time it
is expected to continue; and steps taken or planned to reduce, eliminate, and
prevent reoccurrence of the bypass.
   (R)   Disposal of wastes from individual sewage systems.
      (1)   Waste from individual sewage systems may be accepted with
permission of the Superintendent at the wastewater treatment plant. No waters
or wastes exceeding maximum limits described in §
52.42(A) and (B)(1) herein shall be disposed of at the wastewater treatment
plant.
      (2)   Rates for disposal at the wastewater treatment plant shall be
determined by the superintendent at the time of acceptance.
   (S)   Special agreements. No statement contained in this section shall be
construed as preventing any special agreement or arrangement between the city
and any person, firm or corporation whereby waste of unusual strength or
character may be accepted by the city, subject to payment therefor by the
person, firm or corporation, provided the waste will not damage the sanitary
sewer or storm sewer or sewage treatment plant or the receiving waters.
(Prior Code, § 30-87) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.42 ADDITIONAL INDUSTRIAL WASTEWATER DISPOSABLE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   General responsibilities. In addition to the general user requirements
specified above, responsibilities of industrial users shall include the
following:
      (1)   One person from each industrial user shall be delegated the
authority to be responsible for industrial wastes admitted to the municipal
sewers. Such person would be involved with maintaining the pretreatment
facility operations and assuring a continual high level of performance. In case
no pretreatment is provided, the person would be involved with the prevention
of accidental discharges of process wastes admitted to the sanitary sewer
system. The person must become aware of all potential and routine toxic wastes
generated by their industry. The person must also be informed of all process
alterations which could, in any manner, increase or decrease normal daily flow
or waste strength discharged to the sanitary sewers.
      (2)   This industrial representative must catalog all chemicals stored,
used, or manufactured by their industry. Such a listing should include specific
chemical names, not manufacturer’s codes. Those wastes admitted to the sanitary
sewer are a prime concern; however, all discharges should be cataloged. An
estimate of daily average flows and strengths must be made including process,
cooling, sanitary and the like. Such a determination should separate the flows
according to appropriate categories. The aforementioned flow and chemical
listing is to be sent to the city.
      (3)   The industrial representative shall determine whether or not large
process alterations will occur during the next few years; 1 year, 2 years and 5
years. Management should be consulted to determine if such alterations are
scheduled and forthcoming.
      (4)   A sketch of the plant building(s) must be made, including a diagram
of process and chemical storage areas. Location of any pretreatment equipment
should be indicated and floor drains located near process and storage areas
should be noted. Manhole and sewer locations at the industry’s point of
discharge into the municipal collection system should be included on the plant
layout sketch.
      (5)   There must be separation of spent concentrations from the sanitary
sewer to prevent toxic wastes from upsetting the wastewater treatment plan.
Supervision and operation of the pretreatment equipment for spent
concentrations as well as all toxic wastes and high strength organic wastes to
an acceptable level as detailed in this subchapter is the responsibility of the
industrial representative. All sludges generated by such treatment must be
handled in an acceptable manner, such as designated areas of a sanitary
landfill or by a licensed waste hauler. Adequate segregation of those waters
and wastes to be pretreated to meet discharge limits is a vital portion of the
industrial effort to prevent operational problems at the wastewater treatment
plant.
      (6)   Throughout the industry, adequate secondary containment or curbing
must be provided to protect all floor drains from accidental spills and
discharges to the receiving sewers. Such curbing should be sufficient to hold
150% of the total process area tank volume. All floor drains found within the
containment area must be plugged and sealed. Spill trough and sumps within the
containment area must be plugged and sealed. Spill trough and sumps within
process areas must discharge to appropriate pretreatment tanks. Secondary
containment should be provided for storage tanks which may be serviced by
commercial haulers and for chemical storage areas.
      (7)   An adequate sampling vault or manhole must be provided in an
accessible place for the wastewater treatment plant personnel to obtain samples
and flow measurement data. The complexity of the vault will vary with the
sampling requirements the city determines necessary to protect the treatment
plant and receiving stream. Should the city desire continual flow recording and
long duration, 24-hour composite sampling, then a more complex manhole would be
mandatory complete with 110-volt AC. Samples collected could be divided between
the industry and city for analysis if so desired by the industry. The sampling
vault should be located so as to give access by city personnel without entering
the industrial property.
      (8)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of the information
would divulge information, processing or methods of production entitled to
protection as trade secrets of the user. When requested by the person
furnishing the report, the portion of the report which might disclose trade
secrets or secret processes shall not be made available for inspection by the
public but shall be made available upon written request to governmental
agencies for uses related to this subchapter. The National Pollutant Discharge
Elimination System (NPDES) permit, state disposal system permit, and/or the
pretreatment programs; wastewater constituents and characteristics will not be
recognized as confidential information. Information accepted by the city as
confidential shall not be transmitted to any governmental agency or to the
general public by the city until and unless a 10-day notification is given to
the user.
   (B)   Wastewater contribution information. Any facility or structure
discharging process flow to the sanitary sewer, storm sewer or receiving stream
shall file the information listed below with the Director. Any industry which
does not normally discharge to the sanitary sewer, storm sewer or receiving
stream, but has the potential to do so from accidental spills or similar
circumstances, shall also file the information listed below. The Director may
require each industrial user who applies for or receives sewer service, or
through the nature of the enterprise creates a potential environmental problem,
to file any or all of the information listed below on a disclosure form
prescribed by the city:
      (1)   Name, address and location (if different from the address);
      (2)   SIC number according to the Standard Industrial Classification
Manual, Bureau of the Budget, 1972, as amended;
      (3)   Wastewater constituents and characteristics including but not
limited to those mentioned in § 52.36 of this subchapter as determined by a
reliable analytical laboratory; sampling and analysis shall be performed in
accordance with the procedures and methods detailed in:
         (a)   Standard Methods for the Examination of Water and Wastewater,
American Public Health Association, current edition;
         (b)   Manual of Methods for Chemical Analysis of Water and Wastes,
United States Environmental Protection Agency, current edition; and
         (c)   Annual Book of Standards, Part 131, Water, Atmospheric Analysis,
American Society of Testing Materials, current edition.
      (4)   Time and duration of contribution;
      (5)   Average daily wastewater flow rates, including daily, monthly and
seasonal variations, if any;
      (6)   Site plans, floor plans, mechanical and plumbing plans and details
to show all sewers, sewer connections, and appurtenances by the size, location
and elevation;
      (7)   Description of activities, facilities and plant processes on the
premises including all materials which are or could be discharged;
      (8)   Where known, the nature and concentration of any pollutants in the
discharge which are limited by applicable city, state or federal pretreatment
requirements, and a statement regarding whether or not the pretreatment
requirements are being met on a consistent basis; if not, whether additional
operation and maintenance and/or additional pretreatment is required by the
industrial user to meet applicable pretreatment requirements;
      (9)   If additional pretreatment and/or O&M will be required to meet
applicable pretreatment requirements, the shortest schedule by which the
industrial user will provide the additional pretreatment. The completion date
in this schedule shall not be later than the compliance date established by the
applicable pretreatment standard. The following conditions shall apply to this
schedule:
         (a)   The schedule shall contain increments of progress, in the form
of dates for the commencement and completion of major events, leading to the
construction and operation of additional pretreatment.
         (b)   No increment referred to in division (B)(9)(a) above shall
exceed 9 months.
         (c)   Not later than 14 days following each date in the schedule and
the final date for compliance, the user shall submit a progress report to the
Director including, as a minimum, whether or not it complied with the increment
of progress to be met on the date; if not, the report shall also include the
date on which the user expects to comply with this increment of progress, the
reason for delay, and the steps being taken to return the construction to the
schedule established. In no event shall more than 9 months elapse between such
progress reports to the Director;
      (10)   Each product produced by type, amount, process or processes and
rate of production;
      (11)   Type and amount of raw materials processed, average and maximum
per day;
      (12)   Number and type of employees, hours of operation of plant and
proposed or actual hours of operation of pretreatment system; and
      (13)   Any other information as may be deemed by the city to be necessary
to evaluate the impact of the discharge on the POTW. The disclosure form shall
be signed by a principal executive officer of the user and a qualified
engineer. The city will evaluate the complete disclosure form and data
furnished and may require additional information. Within 90 days after full
evaluation and acceptance of the data furnished, the city shall notify the user
of the acceptance thereof.
   (C)   Changed discharge.
      (1)   If any of the wastewater contributing information submitted in
accordance with the above requirements should be changed, via planned facility
or process modifications, the industrial user shall notify the city in advance
of the changes.
      (2)   Within 3 months after the effective date of the promulgation or
revision of a National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, all affected
industrial users must submit or resubmit to the city the information required
hereby.
   (D)   Discharge conditions. Wastewater discharges shall be expressly subject
to all provisions of this subchapter and all other applicable regulations, user
charges, and fees established by the city. The city may:
      (1)   Set unit charges or a schedule of user charges and fees for the
wastewater to be discharged to the POTW;
      (2)   Limit the average and maximum wastewater constituents and
characteristics;
      (3)   Limit the average and maximum rate and time of discharge or make
requirements for flow regulations and equalization;
      (4)   Require the installation and maintenance of inspection and sampling
facilities;
      (5)   Establish specifications for monitoring programs which may include
sampling locations, frequency of sampling, number, types and standards for
tests and reporting schedule;
      (6)   Establish compliance schedules and require submission of technical
reports or discharge reports;
      (7)   Randomly sample and analyze effluent for industrial users and
conduct surveillance activities, in order to establish compliance;
      (8)   Require the maintaining, retaining and furnishing of plant records
relating to wastewater discharge as specified by the city, and affording city
access thereto, and copying thereof;
      (9)   Require prompt notification of the city in advance of any new
introduction of wastewater constituents or any substantial change in the volume
or character of the wastewater constituents being introduced into the
wastewater treatment system;
      (10)   Require immediate notification of all discharges that could cause
problems to the POTW, including slug discharges;
      (11)   Require waste treatment facilities, process facilities, waste
streams, or other potential waste problems to be placed under the specific
supervision and control of persons who have been certified by an appropriate
state agency as properly qualified to supervise such facilities;
      (12)   Require records and file reports to be maintained on the final
disposal of specific liquids, solids, sludges, oils, radioactive materials,
solvents, or other wastes;
      (13)   Control through permit, order, or similar means, the contribution
to the POTW by each for a significant industrial user to ensure compliance with
applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standards or pretreatment
requirements. The control mechanism may limit duration to a maximum of 5 years,
require nontransferability without appropriate prior notification, set effluent
limits, establish monitoring and reporting requirements, and contain a
statement of applicable penalties for violations. The control mechanism may
also be modified where necessary to comply with this subchapter and state/
federal requirements;
      (14)   Convert mass-based or concentration- based National Categorical
Pretreatment Standards to equivalent concentration-based or production-based
Pretreatment Requirements for a significant industrial user, and require
compliance with these equivalent limitations in lieu of the original
categorized standards;
      (15)   Adjust National Categorical Pretreatment Standards to reflect the
presence of pollutants in a significant industrial user’s intake water;
      (16)   Grant removal credits to a significant industrial user subject to
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, provided it is in accordance with
Title 40 C.F.R. § 403.7; and
      (17)   Require other conditions as deemed appropriate by the city to
ensure compliance with this subchapter.
   (E)   Baseline reports.
      (1)   Within 180 days after promulgation or revision of an applicable
National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, all existing industrial users so
affected must submit to the city the information specified by Title 40 C.F.R. §
403.12(b)(1) through (7).
      (2)   At least 90 days prior to commencement of discharge, new sources
and sources that become industrial users subsequent to the promulgation of an
applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standard, shall submit to the city
the information specified by Title 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(b)(1) through (5). New
sources shall also include in this report information on the method of
pretreatment they intend to use to meet the applicable pretreatment standard
and shall give estimates of the required information regarding flow and
pollutant discharge.
   (F)   Compliance date report. Within 90 days following the date for final
compliance with applicable pretreatment standards or, in the case of a new
source, following commencement of the introduction of wastewater into the POTW,
any industrial user subject to pretreatment standards and requirements shall
submit to the Director a report indicating the nature and concentration of all
pollutants in the discharge from the regulated process which are limited by
pretreatment standards and requirements and the average and maximum daily flow
for these process units in the user facility which are limited by such
pretreatment standards or requirements. Users subject to equivalent mass shall
contain a reasonable measure of the long-term production rate. For users
subject to categorical pretreatment standards expressed per unit of production,
the report shall include the actual production during the sampling period. The
report shall state whether the applicable pretreatment standards or
requirements are being met on a consistent basis and, if not, what additional
O&M and/or pretreatment is necessary to bring the user into compliance with the
applicable pretreatment standards or requirements. This statement will be
signed by an authorized representative of the industrial user, and certified to
by a qualified representative.
   (G)   Periodic compliance reports.
      (1)   All significant industrial users discharging into the POTW, shall
submit to the Director during the months of June and December, unless required
more frequently in pretreatment standard or by the Director, a report
indicating the nature and concentration of pollutants in the effluent which are
limited by such pretreatment standards or this subchapter. In addition, this
report shall include a record of all daily flows which during the reporting
period exceeded the average daily flow reported in division (C)(3) above. At
the discretion of the Director and in consideration of such factors as local
high or low flow rates, holidays, budget cycles and the like, the Director may
agree to alter the months during which the above reports are to be submitted.
      (2)   The Director may also impose mass limitations on significant
industrial users which are using dilution to meet applicable pretreatment
standards or requirements, or in other cases in which the imposition of mass
limitations is appropriate. In such cases, the report required by division (G)
(1) above shall also indicate the mass of pollutants regulated by pretreatment
standards in the effluent of the user.
      (3)   If a significant industrial user is subject to reporting
requirements required to demonstrate continued compliance and monitors any
pollutant more frequently than required by the city, using standard laboratory
procedures, the results of this additional monitoring shall also be included in
the periodic compliance report.
      (4)   If sampling performed by a significant industrial user indicated a
violation, the user shall notify the city within 24 hours of becoming aware of
the violation. The user shall also repeat the sampling and submit the results
of re-analysis to the city within 30 days after becoming aware of the
violation, except when the city will be performing scheduled surveillance
sampling/analysis within this 30-day period.
   (H)   Notification of hazardous waste discharges. All industrial users shall
notify the POTW, the EPA regional waste management subchapter Director, and the
state hazardous waste authority in writing of any discharge into the POTW of a
substance which would be a hazardous waste under Title 40 C.F.R. part 261 if
disposed via other means. Notification details, as well as allowable
exemptions, shall be in accordance with Title 40 C.F.R. § 403.12(p). In the
case of any new regulations under § 3001 of RCRA identifying additional
characteristics of hazardous waste or listing any additional substance as a
hazardous waste, the user must provide notification of the discharge of the
substance within 90 days of the effective date of the regulations. In the case
of any notification of hazardous waste discharges, the user shall further
certify that it has a program in place to reduce the volume and toxicity of
hazardous wastes generated to the degree it has determined to be economically
practical.
   (I)   Monitoring facilities. The city may require to be provided and
operated at any industrial user’s own expense, monitoring facilities to allow
inspection, sampling, and flow measurement of the building sewer and/or
internal drainage systems. The monitoring facility should normally be situated
on the user’s premises, but the city may, when such a location would be
impractical or cause undue hardship on the user, allow the facility to be
constructed in the public street or sidewalk area and located so that it will
not be obstructed by landscaping or parked vehicles. There shall be ample room
in or near such sampling manhole or facility to allow accurate sampling and
preparation of samples for analysis. The facility, sampling, and measuring
equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe and proper operating
condition at the expense of the user. Whether constructed on public or private
property, the sampling and monitoring facilities shall be provided in
accordance with plans and specifications submitted to and approved by the city
and all applicable local construction standards and specifications.
Construction shall be completed within 90 days following written notification
by the city.
   (J)   Inspections. The city may inspect the facilities of any industrial
user to ascertain whether the purpose of this subchapter is being met and the
user is complying with all requirements. Persons or occupants of premises where
wastewater is created or discharged shall allow the city or its representative
ready access at all reasonable times to all parts of the premises for the
purposes of inspection, sampling, records examination, records copying or in
the performance of any of their duties. The city, Michigan Department of
Natural Resources and EPA shall have the right to set up on the user’s property
such devices as are necessary to conduct sampling inspection, compliance
monitoring and/or metering operations. Where a user has security measures in
force which would require proper identification and clearance before entry into
their premises, the user shall make necessary arrangements with their security
guards so that upon presentation of suitable identification, personnel from the
city, Michigan Department of Natural Resources and EPA will be permitted to
enter, without delay, for the purposes of performing their specific
responsibilities. All records relating to compliance with pretreatment
standards shall be made available to officials of the EPA or Michigan
Department of Natural Resources upon request.
   (K)   Containment. In addition to the general requirements for protection
from accidental discharge of division (O) below:
      (1)   Any industrial user that has 1,000 gallons or more of an oil based
chemical stored will provide 100% spill containment of that chemical; and
      (2)   Any industrial user that stores a substance that is on the Michigan
Critical Materials List will store this material in an area with no drain and
will further prevent this substance from reaching any storm drain, sanitary
sewer, surface water or groundwater in the State of Michigan.
   (L)   Pretreatment. Industrial users shall provide necessary wastewater
treatment as required to comply with this subchapter and shall achieve
compliance with all applicable National Categorical Pretreatment Standards
within the time limitations as specified by the federal pretreatment
regulations and as required by the city. Any facilities required to pretreat
wastewater to a level acceptable to the city shall be provided, operated, and
maintained at the user’s expense. Detailed plans showing the pretreatment
facilities and operating procedures shall be submitted to the city for review,
and shall be approved by the city before construction of the facility. The
review of the plans and operating procedures will in no way relieve the user
from the responsibility of modifying the facility as necessary to produce an
effluent acceptable to the city under the provisions of this subchapter. Any
subsequent changes in the pretreatment facilities or method of operation shall
be reported to and be acceptable to the city prior to the user's initiation of
the changes.
   (M)   Annual publication of noncompliance. The city will annually publish in
the Independent Press a list of the significant industrial user(s) which were
in significant noncompliance with any pretreatment requirements or standards
during the 12 previous months. The notification will identify the nature of the
violation and summarize any enforcement actions taken against the user(s)
during the same 12 months.
   (N)   Confidential information.
      (1)   Information and data on a user obtained from reports,
questionnaires, permit applications, permits and monitoring programs and from
inspections shall be available to the public or other governmental agency
without restriction unless the user specifically requests and is able to
demonstrate to the satisfaction of the city that the release of the information
would divulge information, processes or methods of production entitled to
protection as trade secrets of the user.
      (2)   When requested by the person furnishing a report, the portion of a
report which might disclose trade secrets or secret processes shall not be made
available for inspection by the public but shall be made available upon written
request to governmental agencies for uses related to this subchapter, the
National Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit, or the
pretreatment programs; provided, however, that such portions of a report shall
be available for use by the state or any state agency in judicial review or
enforcement proceedings involving the person furnishing the report. Wastewater
constituents and characteristics will not be recognized as confidential
information.
      (3)   Information accepted by the city as confidential shall not be
transmitted to any governmental agency or to the general public by the city
until and unless a 10-day notification is given to the user.
   (O)   Signatory requirements.
      (1)   All reports required by this section shall be signed by the
authorized representative of industrial user and include the following
certification statement:
“I certify under penalty of law that this document and all attachments were
prepared under my direction or supervision in accordance with a system designed
to assure that qualified personnel properly gather and evaluate the information
submitted. Based on my inquiry of the person or persons who manage the system,
or those persons directly responsible for gathering the information, the
information submitted is, to the best of my knowledge and belief, true,
accurate, and complete. I am aware that there are significant penalties for
submitting false information, including the possibility of fine and
imprisonment for knowing violations.”
      (2)   If the authorized representative of industrial user changes because
a different individual has responsibility for the overall operation of the
facility or for environmental matters of the company, a new authorization
satisfying the requirements of §
52.36, authorized representative of industrial user, division (C) above, must
be submitted to the city prior to or together with any reports to be signed by
that representative.
   (P)   Fees for industrial pretreatment program.
      (1)   It is the city’s intent to provide for the recovery of costs from
significant industrial users of the wastewater treatment works for
administration of the industrial pretreatment program.
      (2)   The applicable charges or fees shall be set forth in the city’s
schedule of changes and fees for the following.
         (a)   Reimbursement of costs of setting up and operating the
industrial pretreatment program;
         (b)   Monitoring, inspections and surveillance procedures;
         (c)   Reviewing accidental discharge procedures and construction;
         (d)   Filing appeals;
         (e)   Permit applications or transfers;
         (f)   Consistent removal by the city of pollutants otherwise subject
to federal pretreatment standards; or
         (g)   Others as the city may deem necessary to carry out the
requirements contained herein.
      (3)   Additional surcharges may be made by the city to compensate the
city for the cost of treatment of pollutant loadings not normally treated at or
in excess of those treated by the POTW.
      (4)   There shall be further charges for laboratory testing of
wastewater. The laboratory charge shall be for the cost thereof and will be
determined for each industrial user.
      (5)   The charges and fees for the services provided by the system shall
be levied upon any significant industrial user which has sewer connections with
the POTW and which discharges industrial waste to the POTW or any part thereof.
The charges shall be based upon the quantity and quality of industrial
wastewater used thereon or therein.
(Prior Code, § 30-88) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.43 PROTECTION FROM DAMAGE.
   No unauthorized person shall enter or maliciously, willfully or negligently
break, damage, destroy, uncover, deface or tamper with any structure,
appurtenance or equipment which is a part of the municipal sewage works.
(Prior Code, § 30-89) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
Penalty, see § 52.99
§ 52.44 MUNICIPAL LIABILITY.
   The city shall not be responsible for interruptions of services due to
natural calamities, equipment failures, or actions of the system users. It
shall be the responsibility of the user that all connected equipment remain in
good working order so as not to cause disruption of service of any sewer or
treatment plant equipment.
(Prior Code, § 30-90) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.45 POWER AND AUTHORITY OF INSPECTORS.
   The Director and other duly authorized employees of the city acting as his
or her duly authorized agent, bearing proper credentials and identification,
shall be permitted to enter upon such properties as may be necessary for the
purposes of inspection, observation, measurement, sampling and testing in
accordance with provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 30-91) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.46 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   The city is charged with the duty of investigating, preventing and
abating violations and enforcing the provisions of this subchapter. The city
shall be responsible for the supervision and control of the maintenance of the
existing sewer line and all new connections. The city shall be responsible for
the supervision and control of all other matters related to the operation,
maintenance, alteration, repair, and management of the wastewater treatment
works. The city may employ the person or persons in such capacity or capacities
as advisable to carry out the efficient management and operations of the system
and may make necessary or recommended rules, orders and regulations to assure
the efficient management and operation of the system, including the setting of
rates, surcharges, fees, penalties or other charges, for the use of the system.
   (B)   If the city determines that a user has violated any provisions of this
subchapter, the city may take enforcement action deemed appropriate under the
circumstances, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Notification of violation. Upon discovery of a violation of this
subchapter or a wastewater permit issued hereunder, the city may serve a
written notice of violation upon the user. This notice may require the user to
submit an explanation of the violation and a plan for the satisfactory
correction and prevention of the cause of the violation. Submission of an
explanation or plan shall not relieve the user of any liability for prior or
subsequent violations.
      (2)   Show cause hearing. The city may order any discharger engaging in
or allowing conduct prohibited by this subchapter or a wastewater permit issued
hereunder to show cause before the city why additional enforcement action, up
to and including service termination, should not be taken. At least 10 days
prior to the date of the show cause hearing, a written notice of the hearing
shall be served on the discharger by personal service or by certified mail,
return receipt requested, specifying the place of the hearing and including the
reasons why the proposed enforcement action is to be taken. Service may be made
on any agent, officer or authorized representative of a discharger. The hearing
may be held by the City Manager, Superintendent or other representative
designated by the Director to conduct the hearing.
      (3)   Administrative order of compliance. Following the show cause
hearing, the city may issue an order of compliance upon the user directing the
user to implement additional self-monitoring, additional management practices;
operational techniques; install devices or other related appurtenances; or
implement other requirements that may be necessary and appropriate to achieve
compliance.
      (4)   Cease and desist order. Failure to comply with an order of
compliance shall be grounds for termination of service, which shall be preceded
by a cease and desist order directing the user to cease all violations of this
subchapter and comply forthwith. The cease and desist order may also require
the user to take appropriate remedial or preventive action as may be necessary
to properly respond to the violation including but not limited to halting
operations and terminating discharge.
      (5)   Emergency suspension of service.
         (a)   In order to stop an actual or threatened discharge presenting or
causing an imminent or substantial harm to the health or welfare of persons,
the POTW or the environment, the city shall have the authority to bypass the
enforcement actions described above and directly suspend the wastewater
treatment service or the user’s wastewater permit.
         (b)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater service or
the wastewater permit, shall immediately stop or eliminate its discharge. In
the event of a user’s failure to immediately comply voluntarily with the
suspension order, the city shall take steps necessary to prevent or minimize
damage to the POTW, its receiving stream or individuals, including immediate
severance of the sewer connection. Unless termination proceedings have been
instituted, the city shall allow the user to recommence its discharge once the
danger has passed.
         (c)   Any user notified of a suspension of the wastewater service or
the wastewater permit shall submit to the city, within 15 days, a detailed
written report describing the cause of the harmful discharge, the duration of
noncompliance including exact dates and times, the measure taken in response to
the discharge, and the measures to be taken by the user to prevent any future
recurrence.
      (6)   Termination of sewer use service. In the event that a user violates
or continues to violate the provisions of this subchapter, an order, or a
permit issued hereunder, the Director shall have the authority to direct the
revocation of the discharge permit (if applicable) and termination of the
user’s sewer use. Service will recommence only at the user’s expense and after
the user has demonstrated its ability to achieve full compliance.
(Prior Code, § 30-92) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.47 ADMINISTRATIVE APPEALS; BOARD OF APPEALS.
   (A)   In order that the provisions of this subchapter may be reasonably
applied and substantial justice done in instances where unnecessary hardship
would result from carrying out the strict letter of these sections, the City
Council shall serve as the Wastewater Board of Appeals. The duty of the Board
shall be to consider appeals and to determine, in particular cases, whether any
deviation from strict enforcement will violate the intent of the order or
jeopardize the public health or safety.
   (B)   (1)   Informal appeals before the city may be requested in writing by
any user or contractee deeming itself aggrieved by any citation, order, charge,
fee, surcharge, penalty or action within 10 days after the date thereof,
stating the reasons therefor with supporting documents and data.
      (2)   The hearing shall be scheduled at the earliest practicable date,
but not later than 5 days after receipt of the request, unless extended by
mutual written agreement. The hearing shall be conducted at such place as
designated by the city.
   (C)   (1)   Formal appeals on orders of the city may be made to a board of
appeals, within 30 days from the date of any citation, order, charge, fee,
surcharge, penalty or other action. The appeal may be taken by any person
aggrieved. The appellant shall file a notice of appeal with the city and with
the Board, specifying the ground therefor. Prior to a hearing, the city shall
transmit to the Board a summary report of all previous action taken. The Board
may, at its discretion, call upon the city to explain the action. The final
disposition of the appeal shall be in the form of a resolution, either
reversing, modifying or affirming, in whole or in part, the appealed decision
or determination. In order to find for the appellant, a majority of the Board
must concur.
      (2)   The Board of Appeals shall fix a reasonable time for the hearing of
the appeal, give due notice thereof to interested parties, and decide the same
within a reasonable time. Within the limits of its jurisdiction, the Board of
appeals may reverse or affirm, in whole or in part, or may make such order,
requirements, decision or determination as, in its opinion, ought to be made in
the case under consideration, and to that end have all the powers of the
official from whom the appeal is taken. The decision of the Board shall be
final.
      (3)   The Board of Appeals shall meet at such times as the Board may
determine. There shall be a fixed place of meeting and all meetings shall be
open to the public in accordance with applicable laws. The Board shall adopt
its own rules of procedure and keep a record of its proceedings, showing
findings of fact, the action of the board, and the vote of each member upon
each question considered. The presence of 3 members shall be necessary to
constitute a quorum.
      (4)   The Board of Appeals may prescribe the sending of notice to such
persons as it deems to be interested in any hearing by the Board.
   (D)   All charges for service, penalties, fees or surcharges outstanding
during any appeal process shall be due and payable to the city. Upon resolution
of any appeal, the city shall adjust such amounts accordingly; however, such
adjustments shall be limited to the previous one year's billing unless
otherwise directed by court order.
   (E)   If an informal or formal hearing is not demanded within the periods
specified herein, such administrative action shall be deemed final. In the
event either or both the hearings are demanded, the action shall be suspended
until a final determination has been made except for immediate cease and desist
orders issued pursuant to this section.
   (F)   Appeals from the determinations of the Board of Appeals may be made to
the Circuit Court within 20 days as provided by law. The appeals shall he
governed procedurally by the Administrative Procedures Act of the State of
Michigan (1979 Public Act 306, M.C.L.A. §§ 24.201 et seq.). All findings of
fact, if supported by the evidence, made by the Board shall be conclusive upon
the court.
(Prior Code, § 30-93) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.48 RECORDS RETENTION.
   (A)   By users. All users subject to this subchapter shall retain and
preserve for no less than 3 years, any records, books, documents, memoranda,
reports, correspondence and any and all summaries thereto, relating to
monitoring, sampling and chemical analyses made by or in behalf of a user in
connection with its discharge. All records which pertain to matters which are
the subject of administrative adjustment or any other enforcement or litigation
activities brought by the city pursuant hereto shall be retained and preserved
by the user until all enforcement activities have concluded and all periods of
limitation with respect to any and all appeals have expired.
   (B)   By city.
      (1)   The city will maintain and keep proper books of records and
accounts, separate from all other records and accounts, in which shall be made
full and correct entries of all transactions relating to the system. The city
will cause an annual audit of the books of record and account for the preceding
operating year to be made by a recognized independent certified public
accountant, and will supply the audit report to authorized public officials on
request.
      (2)   In conjunction with the audit, there shall be an annual review of
the sewer charge system for adequacies meeting expected expenditures for the
following year and to insure proportionality among user classes as required by
federal regulations.
      (3)   Classification of old and new industrial users shall also be
reviewed annually.
      (4)   The city will maintain and carry insurance on all physical
properties of the system, of the kinds and in the amounts normally carried by
public utility companies and municipalities engaged in the operation of sewage
disposal systems. All monies received for losses under any such insurance
policies shall be solely to the replacement and restoration of the property
damaged or destroyed.
(Prior Code, § 30-95) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.49 USER CHARGE SYSTEM.
   (A)   Established, basis for computations. Rates and charges for the use of
the wastewater system of the city shall be based upon the methodology in the
user charge system approved by the Michigan Department of Natural Resources.
Revisions to the rates for total sewer service charges are to be established by
ordinance of the City Council, which may be enacted apart from the published
ordinances as necessary to ensure sufficiency of revenues in meeting operation,
maintenance and replacement costs, as well as debt service. User charges for
operation, maintenance and replacement shall be subject to the annual review of
the user charge system. User charges shall be the same for all customers of the
system regardless of geographical boundaries. The charges and rates shall be
made against each lot, parcel of land or premises which may have any sewer
connections with the sewer system of the city, or which may otherwise discharge
sewage or industrial waste, either directly or indirectly, into such system or
any part thereof. Such charges shall be based upon the quantity of water used
thereon or therein.
   (B)   Amounts; billings; sewer service charges. The rates and charges for
service furnished by the system shall be levied upon each lot or parcel of
land, building or premises, having any sewer connection with the system, on the
basis of the quantity of water used thereon or therein as the same is measured
therein used, or in the absence thereof, by such equitable method as shall be
determined by the city, and shall be collected quarterly except in cases where
the character of the sewage from a manufacturing or industrial plant, building
or premises is such that unreasonable additional burden is placed upon the
system, greater than that imposed by the normal domestic sewage delivered to
the system plant, the additional cost of treatment created thereby shall be an
additional charge over the regular rates hereinafter set forth; or the city
may, if it deems it advisable, compel such manufacturing or industrial plant,
building or premises, to treat such sewage in such manner as shall be specified
by the city before discharging the sewage into the sewage disposal system.
Rates for all users obtaining all or part of their water supply from sources
other than the city water system may be determined by gauging or metering the
actual sewage entering the system or by metering the water used by them, in a
manner acceptable to the city.
   (C)   Annual audit. The rates hereby fixed are estimated to be sufficient to
provide for the expenses of operation, maintenance and replacement of the
system as are necessary to preserve the same in good repair and working order.
The rates shall be fixed and revised from time to time as may be necessary to
produce these amounts. An annual audit shall be prepared. Based on the audit,
rates for sewage services shall be reviewed annually and revised as necessary
by the City Council by resolution to meet system expenses and to insure that
all user classes pay their proportionate share of operation, maintenance and
equipment replacement cost.
   (D)   No free service. No free service shall be allowed for any user of the
wastewater treatment works.
   (E)   Billing. Billing for wastewater service shall be the city’s
responsibility. All water meters shall be read quarterly and bills rendered
quarterly.
   (F)   Termination of service for nonpayment. It is the policy of the city to
discontinue utility service to customers by reason of nonpayment of bills only
after notice and a meaningful opportunity to be heard on disputed bills. The
city's form for application for utility service and all bills shall contain, in
addition to the title, address, room number, and telephone number of the
official in charge of billing, clearly visible and easily readable provisions
to the effect:
      (1)   That all bills are due and payable on or before the date set forth
on the bill; and
      (2)   That if any bill is not paid by or before that date, a second bill
will be mailed containing a cutoff notice that if the bill is not paid within
30 days of the mailing of the second bill, service will be discontinued for
nonpayment; and
      (3)   That any customer disputing the correctness of his bill shall have
a right to a hearing at which time he or she may be represented in person and
by counsel or any other person of his or her choosing and may present orally or
in writing his complaint and contentions to the city official in charge of
utility billing. This official shall be authorized to order that the customer's
service not be discontinued and shall have the authority to make a final
determination of the customer's complaint.
   (G)   Requests for delays or waiver of payment will not be entertained; only
questions of proper and correct billing will be considered. In the absence of
payment of the bill rendered or resort to the hearing procedure provided
herein, service will be discontinued at the time specified, but in no event
until the charges have been due and unpaid for at least 30 days.
   (H)   When it becomes necessary for the city to discontinue utility service
to a customer for nonpayment of bills, service will be reinstated only after
all bills for service then due have been paid, along with a turn-on charge in
the sum of $50.
   (I)   Collection of delinquent accounts. Unpaid charges for sewage disposal
service furnished to any premise within the city shall be a lien against the
premise. Enforcement of this lien shall be made pursuant to city code and/or
statute. This lien remedy does not preclude any other remedy provided by law.
Those premises outside the city that are served by the city wastewater
treatment works that have delinquent bills will be certified to their
governmental unit for collection as provided in the contract between the city
and the governmental unit.
   (J)   Annual notification. All customers of the city’s wastewater treatment
works will receive an annual notification, either printed on the bill or
enclosed in a separate letter, which will show the breakdown of the sewer into
its components for operation, maintenance and replacement and for debt service.
(Prior Code, § 30-96) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
§ 52.50 VARIANCES.
   Any person, upon written application to the City Manager’s office within 90
days after the effective date of the subchapter, as amended, who shows, in the
case of the activity being conducted or operated, that compliance with §
52.42 would either be impossible or constitute an undue hardship because of
time limitations, may be granted a variance by the city manager for a
reasonable time, not to extend beyond 2 years from the effective date of this
subchapter, as amended, at which date all variances shall terminate and after
which date no new variances will be granted. Any variance granted by the City
Manager within 6 months from the date of the granting of the variance shall
make reports to the city manager periodically as to the progress being made
toward compliance with §
52.42. A variance shall not be granted under the provisions of this section
where a person applying therefor is causing a public nuisance or other injury
to the general public, or is subject to a National Categorical Standard, and
any such variances shown to have been granted under these circumstances shall
be immediately terminated. Any variance granted under the provisions of this
section shall not be construed to relieve the person who shall receive it from
any liability or penalties imposed by other law for the commission or
maintenance of a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 30-97) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
CHARGES
§ 52.60 CHARGES.
   All water charges are incorporated herein by reference as if appearing in
total and are on file in the city offices.
(Am. Ord. 12-01, passed 6-22-2012; Am. Ord. 13-02, passed 6-20-2013; Am. Ord.
14-03, passed 6-19-2014; Am. Ord. 04-2015, passed 6-18-2015; Am. Ord. 2016-05,
passed 7-21-2016; Am. Ord. 2017-02, passed 6-15-2017; Am. Ord. 2018-005, passed
6-21-2018; Am. Ord. 2019-007, passed 7-1-2019; Am. Ord. 2020-001, passed 6-4-
2020; Am. Ord. 2022-001, passed 5-5-2022; Am. Ord. 2023-002, passed 5-18-2023;
Am. Ord. 2024-003, passed 5-16-2024)
§ 52.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Any person who is found to be in violation with the requirements of
this subchapter shall, upon conviction thereof, be guilty of a misdemeanor, and
shall be punished by a fine of not more than $500, or by imprisonment of not
more than 90 days or both, the fine and imprisonment in the discretion of the
court. Each day in which any such violation shall continue, shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (B)   A violation of this subchapter is also declared to be a public
nuisance and the city may enforce by injunction or other remedy, including the
right to correct the violation and bill the owner or person in charge of the
premises therefor and if not collected, the bill will become a lien upon the
property. Charges for sewer furnished to any premises shall be a lien thereon
and any such charges delinquent for 6 months or more shall be certified
annually to the Assessor, who shall enter the same on the next tax roll against
the premises to which the services shall have been rendered. The charges shall
be collected and the lien shall be enforced in the same manner as provided for
the collection of taxes assessed upon the roll and the enforcement and return
thereof.
   (C)   Any business, industry or individual violating any of the provisions
of this subchapter, which results in fines or penalties being levied against
the city, shall become liable for the fine or penalty, plus any expenses, loss
or damage occasioned by the violation. This cost would be levied in addition to
the fine identified in §
52.49.
   (D)   Any person who knowingly makes any false statement, representation or
certification in any application, record, report, plan or other document filed
or required to be maintained pursuant to this subchapter, or who falsifies,
tampers with or knowingly renders inaccurate any monitoring device or method
required under this subchapter, shall, upon conviction, be punished by a fine
of not more than $500 or by imprisonment for not more than 90 days, or by both.
(Prior Code, § 30-94) (Ord. 92-7, passed 8-20-1992)
CHAPTER 53: ILLICIT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION
Section
   
53.01   Short title
   
53.02   Statement of purpose
   
53.03   Definitions
   
53.04   Applicability
   
53.05   Responsibility for administration
   
53.06   Ultimate responsibility
   
53.07   Discharge prohibitions
   
53.08   Suspension of MS4 access
   
53.09   Industrial or construction activity discharges
   
53.10   Monitoring of discharges
   
53.11   Requirements to prevent, control, and reduce storm water pollutants by
the use of best management practices
   
53.12   Watercourse protection
   
53.13   Notification of spills
   
53.14   Enforcement
   
53.15   Appeal of notice of violation
   
53.16   Enforcement measures after appeal
   
53.17   Cost of the abatement of the violation
   
53.18   Injunctive relief
   
53.19   Appeal of notice of violation
   
53.20   Violations deemed a public nuisance
   
53.21   Remedies not exclusive
 
   
53.99   Penalty
§ 53.01 SHORT TITLE.
   The ordinance codified herein shall be known and cited as the Illicit
Discharge Elimination Ordinance.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide for the health, safety, and
general welfare of the citizens of the City of Marine City through the
regulation of non-storm water discharges to the municipal separate storm sewer
system (MS4) to the maximum extent practicable as required by federal and state
law. This chapter establishes methods for controlling the introduction of
pollutants into the MS4 in order to comply with requirements of the National
Pollutant Discharge Elimination System (NPDES) permit process. The objectives
of this chapter are:
   (A)   To regulate the contribution of pollutants to the municipal separate
storm sewer system by storm water discharges by any user; and
   (B)   To prohibit illicit connections and discharges to the municipal
separate storm sewer system; and
   (C)   To establish legal authority to carry out all inspection, surveillance
and monitoring procedures necessary to ensure compliance with this chapter.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AUTHORIZED ENFORCEMENT AGENCY. Employees or designees of the director of the
municipal agency designated to enforce this chapter.
   BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES (BMPs). Schedules of activities; prohibitions of
practices; general good house keeping practices; pollution prevention and
educational practices; maintenance procedures; management practices to prevent
or reduce the discharge of pollutants directly or indirectly to storm water,
receiving waters, or storm water conveyance systems; treatment practices,
operating procedures, and practices designed to control site runoff, spillage
or leaks, sludge or water disposal, or drainage from raw materials storage.
   CLEAN WATER ACT. The federal Water Pollution Control Act (33 U.S.C. § 1251
et seq.), and any subsequent amendments thereto.
   CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES construction permits.
Currently these include construction projects resulting in land disturbance of
1 acre or more. Such activities include but are not limited to clearing and
grubbing, grading, excavating, and demolition.
   HAZARDOUS MATERIALS. Any material, including any substance, waste, or
combination thereof, which because of its quantity, concentration, or physical,
chemical, or infectious characteristics may cause, or significantly contribute
to, a substantial present or potential hazard to human health, safety,
property, or the environment when improperly treated, stored, transported,
disposed of, or otherwise managed.
   ILLICIT CONNECTION. A physical connection to an MS4 that primarily conveys
non-storm water discharges other than uncontaminated groundwater; or a physical
connection not authorized or permitted by the local authority, where a local
authority requires authorization or a permit for physical connections.
   ILLICIT DISCHARGE. Any discharge to, or seepage into, an MS4 that is not
composed entirely of storm water or uncontaminated groundwater except
discharges pursuant to an NPDES permit.
   INDUSTRIAL ACTIVITY. Activities subject to NPDES industrial permits as
defined in 40 CFR, § 122.26 (b)(14).
   MUNICIPAL SEPARATE STORM SEWER SYSTEM. Publicly-owned facilities by which
storm water is collected and/or conveyed, including but not limited to any
roads with drainage systems, municipal streets, gutters, curbs, inlets, piped
storm drains, pumping facilities, retention and detention basins, natural and
human-made or altered drainage channels, reservoirs, and other drainage
structures.
   NATIONAL POLLUTANT DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM (NPDES) STORM WATER
DISCHARGE PERMIT. A permit issued by EPA (or by a State under authority
delegated pursuant to 33 U.S.C. § 1342(b)) that authorizes the discharge of
pollutants to waters of the United States, whether the permit is applicable on
an individual, group, or general area-wide basis.
   NON-STORM WATER DISCHARGE. Any discharge to the storm drain system that is
not composed entirely of storm water.
   PERSON. Any individual, association, organization, partnership, firm,
corporation or other entity recognized by law and acting as either the owner or
as the owner's agent.
   POLLUTANT. Anything which causes or contributes to pollution, including, but
not limited to: paints, varnishes, and solvents; oil and other automotive
fluids; non-hazardous liquid and solid wastes and yard wastes; refuse, rubbish,
garbage, litter, or other discarded or abandoned objects, ordinances, and
accumulations, so that same may cause or contribute to pollution; floatables;
pesticides, herbicides, and fertilizers; hazardous substances and wastes;
sewage, fecal coliform and pathogens; dissolved and particulate metals; animal
wastes; wastes and residues that result from constructing a building or
structure; and noxious or offensive matter of any kind.
   PREMISES. Any building, lot, parcel of land, or portion of land whether
improved or unimproved including adjacent sidewalks and parking strips.
   STORM WATER. Any surface flow, runoff, and drainage consisting entirely of
water from any form of natural precipitation, and resulting from such
precipitation.
   STORM WATER POLLUTION PREVENTION PLAN. A document which describes the best
management practices and activities to be implemented by a person or business
to identify sources of pollution or contamination at a site and the actions to
eliminate or reduce pollutant discharges to storm water, storm water conveyance
systems, and/or receiving waters to the maximum extent practicable.
   WASTEWATER. Any water or other liquid, other than uncontaminated storm
water, discharged from a facility.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.04 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply to all water entering the MS4 generated on any
developed and undeveloped lands unless explicitly exempted by an authorized
enforcement agency.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.05 RESPONSIBILITY FOR ADMINISTRATION.
   The City Manager shall administer, implement, and enforce the provisions of
this chapter. Any powers granted or duties imposed upon the City of Marine City
may be delegated in writing by the City Manager to persons or entities acting
in the beneficial interest of or in the employ of the city.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.06 ULTIMATE RESPONSIBILITY.
   The standards set forth herein and promulgated pursuant to this chapter are
minimum standards; therefore this chapter does not intend nor imply that
compliance by any person will ensure that there will be no contamination,
pollution, nor unauthorized discharge of pollutants.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.07 DISCHARGE PROHIBITIONS.
   (A) Prohibition of illicit discharges.
      (1)   No person shall discharge or cause to be discharged into the
Municipal Separate Storm Sewer System (MS4) or watercourses any materials,
including but not limited to pollutants or waters containing any pollutants
that cause or contribute to a violation of applicable water quality standards.
      (2)   The following storm water discharges are excluded from the
prohibition of illicit discharges if they have not been identified as a
significant source of pollutants to the MS4:
         (a)   Discharges of flows from firefighting activities;
         (b)   Discharges or flows from:
            1.   Water line flushing and potable water sources;
            2.   Landscape irrigation runoff, lawn watering runoff, and
irrigation waters;
            3.   Diverted stream flows and flows from riparian habitats and
wetlands;
            4.   Rising ground waters and springs;
            5.   Uncontaminated groundwater infiltration and seepage;
            6.   Uncontaminated pumped groundwater, except for groundwater
cleanups specifically authorized by NPDES permits;
            7.   Foundation drains, water from crawl space pumps, footing
drains, and basement sump pumps;
            8.   Air conditioning condensation;
            9.   Waters from noncommercial car washing;
            10.   Street wash water; and
            11.   De-chlorinated swimming pool water from single, two, or three
family residences.
   (B)   Prohibition of illicit connections.
      (1)   The construction, use, maintenance or continued existence of
illicit connections to the storm drain system is prohibited.
      (2)   This prohibition expressly includes, without limitation, illicit
connections made in the past, regardless of whether the connection was
permissible under law or practices applicable or prevailing at the time of
connection.
      (3)   A person is considered to be in violation of this chapter if the
person connects a line conveying sewage to the MS4, or allows such a connection
to continue.
   (C)   Prohibition of direct dumping or disposal of materials into the MS4.
The direct dumping of materials or discharges into the MS4 is prohibited except
for those illicit discharges excluded under division (A) of this section,
Prohibition of Illicit Discharges.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.08 SUSPENSION OF MS4 ACCESS.
   (A)   Suspension due to illicit discharges in emergency situations. The City
Manager may, without prior notice, suspend MS4 discharge access to a person
when such suspension is necessary to stop an actual or threatened discharge
which presents or may present imminent and substantial danger to the
environment, or to the health or welfare of persons, or to the MS4 or waters of
the United States. If the violator fails to comply with a suspension order
issued in an emergency, the authorized enforcement agency may take such steps
as deemed necessary to prevent or minimize damage to the MS4 or waters of the
United States, or to minimize danger to persons.
   (B)   Suspension due to the detection of illicit discharge. Any person
discharging to the MS4 in violation of this chapter may have their MS4 access
terminated if such termination would abate or reduce an illicit discharge. The
authorized enforcement agency will notify a violator of the proposed
termination of its MS4 access. The violator may petition the authorized
enforcement agency for a reconsideration and hearing.
   (C)   Violation as criminal offense. A person commits an offense if the
person reinstates MS4 access to premises terminated pursuant to this section,
without the prior approval of the City Manager.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.09 INDUSTRIAL OR CONSTRUCTION ACTIVITY DISCHARGES.
   Any person subject to an industrial or construction activity NPDES storm
water discharge permit shall comply with all provisions of such permit. Proof
of compliance with the permit may be required in a form acceptable to the City
Manager prior to the allowing of discharges to the MS4.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.10 MONITORING OF DISCHARGES.
   (A)   Applicability. This section applies to all facilities, industrial,
construction or residential, within the city of Marine City.
   (B)   Access to facilities.
      (1)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall be permitted to enter
and inspect facilities subject to regulation under this chapter as often as may
be necessary to determine compliance with this chapter. If a discharger has
security measures in force which require proper identification and clearance
before entry into its premises, the discharger shall make the necessary
arrangements to allow access to representatives of the city or its designees.
      (2)   Facility operators shall allow the City Manager or his or her
designee ready access to all parts of the premises for the purposes of
inspection, sampling, examination and copying of records that must be kept
under the conditions of an NPDES permit to discharge storm water, and the
performance of any additional duties as defined by state and federal law.
      (3)   The City Manager or his or her designee shall have the right to set
up on any permitted facility such devices as are necessary in the opinion of
the City to conduct monitoring and/or sampling of the facility's storm water
discharge.
      (4)   The City Manager or his or her designee has the right to require
the discharger to install monitoring equipment as necessary. The facility's
sampling and monitoring equipment shall be maintained at all times in a safe
and proper operating condition by the discharger at its own expense. All
devices used to measure storm water flow and quality shall be calibrated to
ensure their accuracy.
      (5)   Any temporary or permanent obstruction to safe and easy access to
the facility to be inspected and/or sampled shall be promptly removed by the
operator at the written or oral request of the City Manager or his or her
designee and shall not be replaced. The costs of clearing such access shall be
borne by the operator.
      (6)   Unreasonable delays in allowing the City Manager or his or her
designee access to a permitted facility is a violation of a storm water
discharge permit and of this chapter. A person who is the operator of a
facility with a NPDES permit to discharge storm water associated with
industrial activity commits an offense if the person denies the city or its
designees reasonable access to the permitted facility for the purpose of
conducting any activity authorized or required by this chapter.
      (7)   If the City Manager or his or her designee has been refused access
to any part of the premises from which storm water is discharged, and he/she is
able to demonstrate probable cause to believe that there may be a violation of
this chapter, or that there is a need to inspect and/or sample as part of a
routine inspection and sampling program designed to verify compliance with this
chapter or any order issued hereunder, or to protect the overall public health,
safety, and welfare of the community, then the city may seek issuance of a
search warrant from any court of competent jurisdiction.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.11 REQUIREMENTS TO PREVENT, CONTROL, AND REDUCE STORM WATER POLLUTANTS BY
THE USE OF BEST MANAGEMENT PRACTICES.
   The City Manager or his or her designee will adopt requirements identifying
best management practices for any activity, operation, or facility which may
cause or contribute to pollution or contamination of storm water, the storm
drain system, or waters of the U.S. The owner or operator of a commercial or
industrial establishment shall provide, at their own expense, reasonable
protection from accidental discharge of prohibited materials or other wastes
into the municipal storm drain system or watercourses through the use of these
structural and non-structural BMPs. Further, any person responsible for a
property or premise, which is, or may be, the source of an illicit discharge,
may be required to implement, at said person's expense, additional structural
and non-structural BMPs to prevent the further discharge of pollutants to the
municipal separate storm sewer system. Compliance with all terms and conditions
of a valid NPDES permit authorizing the discharge of storm water associated
with industrial activity, to the extent practicable, shall be deemed compliance
with the provisions of this section. These BMPs shall be part of a storm water
pollution prevention plan (SWPPP) as necessary for compliance with requirements
of the NPDES permit.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.12 WATERCOURSE PROTECTION.
   Every person owning property through which a watercourse passes, or such
person's lessee, shall keep and maintain that part of the watercourse within
the property free of trash, debris, excessive vegetation, and other obstacles
that would pollute, contaminate, or significantly retard the flow of water
through the watercourse. In addition, the owner or lessee shall maintain
existing privately owned structures within or adjacent to a watercourse, so
that such structures will not become a hazard to the use, function, or physical
integrity of the watercourse.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.13 NOTIFICATION OF SPILLS.
   Notwithstanding other requirements of law, as soon as any person responsible
for a facility or operation, or responsible for emergency response for a
facility or operation has information of any known or suspected release of
materials which are resulting or may result in illegal discharges or pollutants
discharging into storm water, the storm drain system, or water of the U.S. said
person shall take all necessary steps to ensure the discovery, containment, and
cleanup of such release. In the event of such a release of hazardous materials
the person shall immediately notify emergency response agencies of the
occurrence via emergency dispatch services. In the event of a release of non-
hazardous materials, the person shall notify the authorized enforcement agency
in person or by phone or facsimile no later than the next business day.
Notifications in person or by phone shall be confirmed by written notice
addressed and mailed to the City Manager within 3 business days of the phone
notice. If the discharge of prohibited materials emanates from a commercial or
industrial establishment, the owner or operator of such establishment shall
also retain an on-site written record of the discharge and the actions taken to
prevent its recurrence. Such records shall be retained for at least 3 years.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.14 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Notice of violation. Whenever the City Manager or his or her designee
finds that a person has violated a prohibition or failed to meet a requirement
of this chapter, the city may order compliance by written notice of violation
to the responsible person. Such notice may require without limitation:
      (1)   The performance of monitoring, analyses, and reporting;
      (2)   The elimination of illicit connections or discharges;
      (3)   That violating discharges, practices, or operations shall cease and
desist;
      (4)   The abatement or remediation of storm water pollution or
contamination of hazards and the restoration of any affected property; and
      (5)   Payment of a fine to cover administrative and remediation costs;
and
      (6)   The implementation of source control or treatment BMPs.
   (B)   Abatement of a violation. If abatement of a violation and/or
restoration of affected property is required, the notice shall set forth a
deadline within which such remediation or restoration must be completed. The
notice shall further advise that, should the violator fail to remediate or
restore within the established deadline, the work will be done by the city or
its designee at the violator's expense.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.15 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   Any person receiving a notice of violation may appeal the determination of
the city. The notice of appeal must be received within 30 days from the date of
the notice of violation. Hearing on the appeal before the appropriate authority
or its designee shall take place within 15 days from the date of receipt of the
notice of appeal. The decision of the city or its designee shall be final.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.16 ENFORCEMENT MEASURES AFTER APPEAL.
   If the violation has not been corrected pursuant to the requirements set
forth in the notice of violation, or, in the event of an appeal, within 30 days
of the decision of the city upholding its decision, then representatives of the
city or its designees shall enter upon the subject private property and are
authorized to take any and all measures necessary to abate the violation and/or
restore the property. It shall be unlawful for any person, owner, agent or
person in possession of any premises to refuse to allow the city or its
designee to enter upon the premises for the purposes set forth above.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.17 COST OF THE ABATEMENT OF THE VIOLATION.
   Within 30 days after abatement of the violation, the owner of the property
will be notified of the cost of abatement, including administrative costs. The
property owner may file a written protest objecting to the amount of the
assessment within 10 days. If the amount due is not paid within a timely manner
as determined by the decision of the city or by the expiration of the time in
which to file an appeal, the charges shall become a special assessment against
the property and shall constitute a lien on the property for the amount of the
assessment. Any person violating any of the provisions of this chapter shall
become liable to the city by reason of such violation. The liability shall be
paid in not more than 12 equal payments. Interest at the rate of 5% per annum
shall be assessed on the balance beginning on the first day following discovery
of the violation.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.18 INJUNCTIVE RELIEF.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to violate any provision or fail to
comply with any of the requirements of this chapter. If a person has violated
or continues to violate the provisions of this chapter, the city may petition
for a preliminary or permanent injunction restraining the person from
activities which would create further violations or compelling the person to
perform abatement or remediation of the violation.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013) Penalty, see §
53.99
§ 53.19 APPEAL OF NOTICE OF VIOLATION.
   In lieu of enforcement proceedings, penalties, and remedies authorized by
this chapter, the city may impose upon a violator alternative compensatory
actions; including, but not limited to storm drain stenciling, attendance at
compliance workshops, and creek cleanup.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.20 VIOLATIONS DEEMED A PUBLIC NUISANCE.
   In addition to the enforcement processes and penalties provided, any
condition caused or permitted to exist in violation of any of the provisions of
this chapter is a threat to public health, safety, and welfare, and is declared
and deemed a nuisance, and may be summarily abated or restored at the
violator's expense. The city may also simultaneously or alternatively initiate
a civil action to abate, enjoin, or otherwise compel the cessation of such
nuisance.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.21 REMEDIES NOT EXCLUSIVE.
   The remedies listed in this chapter are not exclusive of any other remedies
available under any applicable federal, state, or local law and it is within
the discretion of the authorized enforcement agency to seek cumulative
remedies.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
§ 53.99 CRIMINAL PROSECUTION.
   (A)   Any person who has violates this chapter shall be guilty of a
misdemeanor and subject to the penalties set forth in §
10.99(2) of the Marine City Code.
   (B)   The city may recover all attorney's fees, court costs, and other
expenses associated with enforcement of this chapter, including sampling and
monitoring expenses.
(Ord. 13-01, passed 4-18-2013)
TITLE VII: TRAFFIC CODE
Chapter
   
70.   TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
CHAPTER 70: TRAFFIC AND MOTOR VEHICLES
Section
General Provisions
   
70.001   Michigan Vehicle Code adopted
   
70.002   Pedestrians and rights-of-way
   
70.005   Sudden acceleration
   
70.006   Use of engine brakes
   
70.007   Distracted driving
   
70.010   Posted parking signs
Minibikes
   
70.015   Definitions
   
70.016   Registration required
   
70.017   Required equipment
   
70.018   Areas of use
   
70.019   Prohibited uses
   
70.020   Operation on rights-of-way
   
70.021   Unattended vehicle
   
70.022   Impoundment for violations
Disabled Motor Vehicles
   
70.035   Definition
   
70.036   Prohibition generally
   
70.037   On streets
   
70.038   In front yards
   
70.039   In side or rear yards
   
70.040   In accessory garage
   
70.041   Where permitted
   
70.042   Enforcement
   Winter Parking and Snow Removal
   
70.050   Short title
   
70.051   Definitions
   
70.052   Winter parking
   
70.053   Declaration of a snow emergency
   
70.054   Duration of parking prohibition in snow emergency; impounding and
towing of vehicles; violations and penalties
   
70.055   Responsibility for private roads
Truck and Oversize Load Regulations
   
70.075   Definitions
   
70.076   Trucks; prohibited acts
   
70.077   Oversize loads; permit procedure
Parking and Storage of Commercial Vehicles
   
70.080   Definition
   
70.081   Parking and/or storage of commercial vehicles
   
70.082   Civil infraction; enforcement
Golf Carts and Off-Road Vehicles
   
70.100   Purpose
   
70.101   Definitions
   
70.102   Operation of golf carts on city streets
   
70.103   Operation of off-road vehicles on city streets
   
70.104   Violations and penalties
 
   
70.999   Penalty
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 70.001 MICHIGAN VEHICLE CODE ADOPTED.
   (A)   The Michigan Vehicle Code, 1949 Public Act 300, M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1 to
257.923, is adopted by reference.
   (B)   References in the Michigan Vehicle Code to “local authorities” shall
mean the City of Marine City.
   (C)   The City Clerk shall publish this section in the manner required by
law and shall publish, at the same time, a notice stating the purpose of the
Michigan Vehicle Code and the fact that a complete copy of the code is
available to the public at the office of the Clerk for inspection.
(Ord. 00-02, passed 3-16-2000)
§ 70.002 PEDESTRIANS AND RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   When traffic-control signals are not in place or are not in operation,
the driver of a vehicle shall stop before entering a crosswalk and yield the
right-of-way to any pedestrian stopped at the curb, curb line, or ramp leading
to a crosswalk. Said driver shall also yield the right-of-way to every
pedestrian within a crosswalk when the pedestrian is on the half of the roadway
on which the vehicle is traveling, or when the pedestrian is approaching so
closely from the opposite half of the roadway as to be in danger.
   (B)   A pedestrian shall not suddenly leave a curb or other place of safety
and walk or run into a path of a vehicle that is so close that it is impossible
for the driver to yield.
   (C)   Every pedestrian crossing a roadway at any point other than within a
marked crosswalk or within an unmarked crosswalk at an intersection shall yield
the right-of-way to all vehicles upon the roadway.
   (D)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of the code.
(Ord. 2016-03, passed 8-4-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 70.005 SUDDEN ACCELERATION.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for an operator of a motor vehicle on a public
street or highway to accelerate suddenly so as to create an immediate hazard.
   (B)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of the code.
(Ord. 09-04, passed 12-3-2009)
§ 70.006 USE OF ENGINE BRAKES.
   (A)   Operation of engine brakes declared a nuisance. The city finds that
the operation of an engine, compression brake or a mechanical exhaust device on
a gasoline powered or diesel powered motor vehicle not equipped with exhaust
mufflers, or equipped with defective or modified exhaust mufflers, so as to
create excessive noise through the use of said engine, brake or exhaust device,
adversely affects the public health, safety and welfare of the residents of the
city, and is a nuisance in fact.
   (B)   Prohibition. No gasoline powered or diesel powered motor vehicle shall
be operated on the streets, roads, alleys or highways within the city
utilizing, in said operation, an engine, compression brake or a mechanical
exhaust device designed to aid in the braking or deceleration of any motor
vehicle by altering the normal compression of the engine and subsequently
releasing that compression that causes, in the process, excessive noise to be
created by said motor vehicle.
   (C)   Use permitted in emergency situations. This section shall not apply to
emergency driving situations requiring the utilization of an engine, brake or
mechanical exhaust device as set forth above to protect the safety and property
of the residents of the city, other motor vehicle operators, pedestrians, and
the operator and passengers of the motor vehicle involved in said emergency
situation.
(Ord. 2019-010, passed 8-15-2019) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.007 DISTRACTED DRIVING.
   (A)   Definition. 
      DISTRACTED DRIVING means the following:
         (a)   The physical manipulation of any two-way wireless electronic
communication device used for dialing numbers; or scrolling; or typing or
entering multiple letters, numbers, symbols, or other text; or the sending,
receiving, and reading of any non-voice data in the device while the motor
vehicle is in motion on any highway or street or place open to the general
public within the city. As used in this section, a wireless two-way
communication device does not include a global positioning or navigation system
that is affixed to the motor vehicle.
         (b)   The physical manipulation or handling of any wireless
entertainment or electronic communication device for the purpose of speaking
into, or listening to voice data, while the motor vehicle is in motion on any
highway or street or place open to the general public within the city.
         (c)   Any action by the driver of a motor vehicle that diverts his or
her attention resulting in the failure to use due care and caution in the safe
operation of a motor vehicle while the vehicle is in motion on any highway or
street or place open to the general public within the city. Such action can
include but is not limited to: eating, reading, writing, performing personal
hygiene/grooming, physical interaction with pets, passengers, or unsecured
cargo, any of which is done in a manner that prohibits the driver from
maintaining direct physical control of the motor vehicle steering mechanism
with at least one hand that is free of all other objects and used entirely to
form a controlled grip on the steering mechanism.
   (B)   Distracted driving. Violation as civil infraction.
      (1)   A person shall not engage in distracted driving within the city.
      (2)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99.
      (3)   Exceptions. This section does not apply to a person who is using an
electronic communication device to do one or more of the following:
         (a)   Report a traffic accident, medical emergency or serious road
hazard.
         (b)   Report a situation in which the person believes his or her
personal safety is in jeopardy.
         (c)   Report or avert the perpetration or potential perpetration of a
criminal act against the individual or another person.
         (d)   Carry out official duties as a police officer, law enforcement
official, member of a paid or volunteer fire department, or operator of an
emergency vehicle.
(Ord. 2019-015, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 70.010 POSTED PARKING SIGNS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to disobey posted parking signs.
   (B)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of the code.
(Ord. 09-05, passed 12-3-2009)
MINIBIKES
§ 70.015 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MINIBIKE or MINICYCLE. A self-propelled motorized vehicle designed to travel
ordinarily with not more than 2 wheels in contact with the ground, of an
overall size and design, smaller than and easily recognized as not being a
motorcycle and duly registered as a minibike or minicycle with the Police
Department or other designated agent of the City Commission. Wherever the words
MINIBIKE are hereinafter used they shall also include MINICYCLE.
   OPERATE. To control the operation of a minibike.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates or is in actual control of a minibike.
(Prior Code, § 29-16) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1970)
§ 70.016 REGISTRATION REQUIRED.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike in the city
without first having registered the engine and/or frame number of the minibike
with the Police Department of the city.
   (B)   The owner will receive an identification card which he or she or any
person operating the minibike shall have in his or her possession whenever
operating on any property not his or her own.
   (C)   Registration and proof of possession thereof will not be required of
the owner or members of his or her immediate family on their own private
property.
(Prior Code, § 29-17) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1970)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.017 REQUIRED EQUIPMENT.
   All minibikes operated within the city shall have the following equipment in
addition to or in conjunction with that which may be required by the state
should the machine be state licensed.
   (A)   Mufflers which are properly attached and which reduce the noise of
operation of the vehicle to the minimum noise level possible consistent with
operation of the engine;
   (B)   Adequate brakes in good working condition;
   (C)   At least 1 headlight and taillight in good working condition when in
use anytime the minibike is being used in semi, partial or complete darkness;
and
   (D)   A safety or so-called “dead man” throttle in proper operating
condition. The aforementioned device being designed so that when pressure is
removed from the accelerator or throttle, spring tension will cause it to
return the engine to idle speed. (Prior Code, § 29-18) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-
1970)
§ 70.018 AREAS OF USE.
   The Recreation Board may from time to time establish areas of use on
municipally owned or controlled lands where minibikes may be ridden and a
listing of these areas shall be submitted to the City Commission for its
approval. The Recreation Board shall supervise and regulate events or programs
as may be established in connection with the use of minibikes in those areas.
(Prior Code, § 29-19) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1970)
§ 70.019 PROHIBITED USES.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike under the
following circumstances:
   (A)   On private property of another without the express permission to do so
by the owner or occupant of the property;
   (B)   On public school grounds without express provision or permission to do
so by the proper governing authorities of the school system;
   (C)   On publicly owned properties, parks, playgrounds and recreational
areas, without express provision or permission to do so by the proper public
authority;
   (D)   In a manner so as to create loud, unnecessary or unusual noise; and
   (E)   In a careless, reckless or negligent manner that would endanger the
safety of any person or property.
(Prior Code, § 29-20) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1970)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.020 OPERATION ON RIGHTS-OF-WAY.
   (A)   (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a minibike on
sidewalks and within the right-of-way of any public or private street being
maintained or used as a thoroughfare for legally licensed vehicular traffic
unless the operator has a valid motor vehicle operator’s license, and the
minibike is properly registered and licensed with the state as a motor vehicle.
      (2)   Safety equipment as required under state license shall be installed
and operable.
   (B)   All local and state traffic laws governing streets and highways will
apply to the use.
(Prior Code, § 29-21) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1970)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.021 UNATTENDED VEHICLE.
   It shall be a violation of this subchapter to leave a minibike unattended
with the engine running on any public property.
(Prior Code, § 29-22) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1970)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.022 IMPOUNDMENT FOR VIOLATIONS.
   In addition to the penalty provided in §
10.99 of this code, the Police Chief, or his or her duly authorized agent, may
impound the minibike for a period not to exceed 30 days upon conviction of any
provision of this subchapter as a first offense and a period not to exceed 60
days for any second or subsequent conviction.
(Prior Code, § 29-23) (Ord. 59, passed 8-20-1970)
DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLES
§ 70.035 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DISABLED MOTOR VEHICLE. Any vehicle which is incapable of being self-
propelled upon the public streets, or which does not meet the requirements for
operation upon the public streets, including a current license.
(Prior Code, § 29-35) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965)
§ 70.036 PROHIBITION GENERALLY.
   No person shall permit any disabled motor vehicle to be parked, stored,
placed or allowed to remain with the city in violation of the provisions of
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 29-36) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.037 ON STREETS.
   Disabled motor vehicles shall not be permitted in the rights-of-way of the
streets, alleys or highways within the city; provided, however, that this shall
not apply to towing or similar transporting of the vehicles; and provided
further, that a reasonable time (not to exceed 48 hours from the time of
disability) shall be permitted for the removal or servicing of a disabled
vehicle in an emergency caused by accident or sudden breakdown of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 29-37) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.038 IN FRONT YARDS.
   Disabled motor vehicles shall not be permitted in a front yard as defined by
the zoning ordinance of the city; provided, however, that a reasonable time
(not to exceed 48 hours from the time of disability) shall be permitted for the
removal or servicing of a disabled vehicle in any emergency caused by accident
or sudden breakdown of the vehicle.
(Prior Code, § 29-38) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.039 IN SIDE OR REAR YARDS.
   (A)   (1)   One disabled motor vehicle may be permitted in a side or rear
yard of a residential, commercial or industrial lot (excluding vacant lots) as
an accessory use to the main use of the lot; provided, that the motor vehicle
is not located in any open space required by the zoning laws and provided that
the motor vehicle is owned by the current lawful resident.
      (2)   Further, such disabled motor vehicle shall not be permitted to
remain outside of a building for a period in excess of 30 days on any lot used
for residential purposes or on that portion of any lot within 20 feet of an
abutting lot used for residential purposes.
      (3)   Service and repair work may be performed on the motor vehicle that
is owned by the current lawful resident and, incidental thereto, parts, tools
and equipment may be stored on that lot.
   (B)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed as authorizing the
disassembling, teardown or scrapping of a motor vehicle, or to permit 1 motor
vehicle to be scavenged or stripped for parts for use on another motor vehicle.
   (C)   Nothing contained herein shall be construed as authorizing any home
business relating to servicing or repairing motor vehicles owned by other
persons beyond those defined herein.
(Prior Code, § 29-39) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965; Am. Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-
5-2018) Penalty, see §
70.999
§ 70.040 IN ACCESSORY GARAGE.
   Storage, service and repair of a disabled motor vehicle which is conducted
entirely within the confines of an accessory garage shall be permitted;
provided, that the vehicle is the property of the owner or occupier of the lot
and that the use is not a commercial use of the property, unless the use is
authorized by other ordinances of the city.
(Prior Code, § 29-40) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.041 WHERE PERMITTED.
   Storage, repair and servicing of disabled motor vehicles not authorized
herein, and the tearing down, stripping or junking of motor vehicles shall be
permitted, only where and when the use is specifically authorized, permitted or
licensed under other ordinances of the city, and in accordance therewith.
(Prior Code, § 29-41) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965)
Penalty, see § 70.999
§ 70.042 ENFORCEMENT.
   It shall be the duty of the Police Department to enforce this subchapter;
provided, however, that the Chief Building Inspector and the Zoning Enforcement
Officer shall assist and cooperate in such enforcement.
(Prior Code, § 29-42) (Ord. 44, passed 10-21-1965)
WINTER PARKING AND SNOW REMOVAL
§ 70.050 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Marine City
Winter Parking and Snow Removal Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 29-50) (Ord. 87-16, passed 11-5-1987; Am. Ord. 24-022, passed 3-
7-2024)
§ 70.051 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PRIVATE ROAD. A privately owned and maintained road which allows access to
more than one residence or place of business, which is normally open to the
public, and on which people other than the owners may travel.
   STREET, HIGHWAY, ROADWAY and IN PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY. The entire width
between boundary lines of every way publicly maintained when any part thereof
is open to the use of the public for purposes of vehicular travel.
   VEHICLE. Every device in, upon, or by which any person or property is or may
be transported or drawn on a highway, except devices which are moved
exclusively by human power or which are used exclusively on stationary rails or
tracks, and except for a mobile home as defined in Section 2 of Act No. 419 of
the Public Acts of Michigan of 1976 [M.C.L. § 125.1102, M.S.A. § 9.855(2)], as
amended.
   WINTER MONTHS. The period from December 1 through and including March 31.
(Prior Code, § 29-51) (Ord. 87-16, passed 11-5-1987; Am. Ord. 24-002, passed 3-
7-2024)
§ 70.052 WINTER PARKING.
   No person shall park any motor vehicle on any public residential street
within the City of Marine City between the hours of 9:00a.m. and 4:00 p.m.
between Monday and Friday if there is two inches or more snow and ice on the
ground. This parking prohibition on residential streets for motor vehicles
shall not apply to the Christmas holiday season from 12:01 a.m. on December 24
through 12:01 a.m. on January 2.
(Ord. 24-002, passed 3-7-2024)
§ 70.053 DECLARATION OF A SNOW EMERGENCY.
   The City Manager, or their designee, may declare a snow emergency when in
their judgment, the snow or ice has accumulated or is expected to significantly
accumulate to such an extent as to impede safe travel upon the streets of the
city. A declaration of a snow emergency shall be made in writing and filed with
the Office of the City Clerk as soon as practically possible after being
declared. Any declaration shall take effect one hour after its publication.
Publication shall be posted physically at city offices, on the official
municipal website and sent via email or facsimile to local media outlets as
soon as possible upon issuance of a declaration and parking prohibition to
reasonably inform residents of their responsibilities. When a snow emergency
has been declared, there shall be no parking of any vehicle upon public city
streets until such a time that the snow emergency is no longer in effect.
(Ord. 24-002, passed 3-7-2024)
§ 70.054 DURATION OF PARKING PROHIBITION IN SNOW EMERGENCY; IMPOUNDING AND
TOWING OF VEHICLES; VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Enactment. The snow emergency parking prohibition shall begin when the
snow emergency takes effect, one hour after the City Manager or their designee
has declared a snow emergency. The prohibition shall end when both the
following conditions have been satisfied:
      (1)   The snow, sleet, or ice has stopped; and
      (2)   An individual street has been completely snowplowed by the city
curb-to-curb.
   (B)   Duration and extension. The parking prohibition shall expire 36 hours
after the weather conditions creating the emergency have stopped unless the
snow emergency is extended by action of the City Manager or their designee.
Such an extension shall require publication procedures identified in § 70.053
to be repeated in the event of an extension.
   (C)   Abandoned and disabled vehicles. Whenever a vehicle becomes disabled
for any reason on any street during a parking prohibition or snow emergency,
the owner or person operating the vehicle shall take immediate action to have
the vehicle towed or pushed off the street. No person shall abandon or leave
the vehicle on the street, except for the purpose of securing immediate
assistance; in such cases, the person securing assistance shall leave the
vehicle only for the time absolutely necessary to make contact for assistance
and shall return to the vehicle immediately thereafter without delay.
   (D)   Impounding vehicles. In the event of a declared snow emergency, a
police officer is hereby authorized to immediately have towed and impounded any
vehicle if parked on any street at an impound facility utilized by the Marine
City Police Department, St. Clair County Sheriff’s Department and/or state
police. Towing and impound fees shall be charged to the owner of the vehicle
impounded.
   (E)   Presumption of ownership. Proof that the particular vehicle described
in the complaint in violation of this subchapter, together with proof that the
defendant named in the complaint was, at the time of such parking, the
registered owner of such vehicle, shall constitute a presumption that the
registered owner of such vehicle was the person who parked or placed such
vehicle in violation of this subchapter. The failure of a defendant to receive
notice of a snow emergency shall not be a defense.
   (F)   Prohibited conduct. It shall be unlawful for any person in the city to
park a commercial vehicle, commercial motor vehicle, motor vehicle, or vehicle
upon a public street or private roadway in the city during a declared snow
emergency, except as otherwise provided in this subchapter. Such prohibition is
not applicable to authorized emergency vehicles.
   (G)   Violations and penalties.
      (1)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of § 70.052 shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction and subject to a penalty not to
exceed $50.
      (2)   Any person who shall violate the provisions of § 70.053 shall be
responsible for a civil infraction and subject to a penalty not to exceed $100.
Any towing and impound fees shall be charged to the owner of the vehicle towed/
impounded.
   (H)   Temporary parking permission. During winter parking restrictions and
the declaration of a snow emergency, special allowances will be made to allow
residents to park vehicles in front yards/lawns to accommodate clearing of
streets, as long as the parking of vehicles does not create a clear vision
issue for drivers or block fire hydrants.
(Prior Code, §§ 29-53, 29-56, 29-57) (Ord. 87-16, passed 11-5-1987; Am. Ord.
95-12, passed 2-1-1996; Am. Ord. 2018-01, passed 4-5-2018; Am. Ord. 24-002,
passed 3-7-2024)
§ 70.055 RESPONSIBILITY FOR PRIVATE ROADS.
   It shall be the responsibility for home or property owners’ associations,
management associations or a designated and registered responsible party with
the city to ensure that all private roads within the city are cleared of snow,
sleet or ice in the same manner and timeframe as prescribed in this subchapter.
Failure to perform such actions may result in the city performing the task and
invoicing the association or agent for costs.
TRUCK AND OVERSIZE LOAD REGULATIONS
§ 70.075 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   AXLE. The common axis of rotation of 1 or more wheels whether power driven
or freely rotating, and whether in 1 or more segments and regardless of the
number of wheels carried thereon.
   MOTOR VEHICLE. Every vehicle which is self-propelled.
   TRAILER. Every vehicle with or without motive power designed for carrying
property and for being drawn by a motor vehicle.
   TRUCK. Every motor vehicle designed, used, or maintained primarily for the
transportation of property and shall include a combination of a truck tractor
and trailer as defined.
   TRUCK TRACTOR. Every motor vehicle designed and used primarily for drawing
other vehicles.
(Prior Code, § 29-71)
§ 70.076 TRUCKS; PROHIBITED ACTS.
   (A)   No truck with 3 or more axles shall be operated on any highway, street
or alley within the city limits other than a designated truck route except for
the purpose of making local deliveries.
   (B)   No truck shall be parked or left standing, whether or not attended, so
as to block or otherwise impede the normal flow of traffic on any designated
truck route.
   (C)   All trucks operated within the limits of the city, whether or not on a
designated truck route, shall comply with all provisions to the Michigan Motor
Vehicle Code relative to size, weight and load limitations as set forth in
M.C.L.A. §§ 257.716 et seq.
(Prior Code, § 29-72) (Ord. 88-4, passed 6-2-1988)
§ 70.077 OVERSIZE LOADS; PERMIT PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The city may, upon application in writing and good cause being shown,
issue a special permit, in writing authorizing the applicant to operate or
remove a vehicle or combination of vehicles of a size or weight of vehicle or
load exceeding the maximum specified in the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code, upon a
street or highway under its jurisdiction.
   (B)   Application for a special permit shall be made to the Chief of Police
on a form provided by the city and shall specifically describe the vehicle or
vehicles and load to be operated or moved and the particular route upon which
permit to operate is requested.
   (C)   The Chief of Police shall review all permit applications and impose
restrictions or prescribe conditions of operation of the vehicle or vehicles,
if necessary, to protect the safety of the public or to insure against undue
damage to the road foundations, surfaces, structures or installations, and may
require a reasonable inspection fee and other security as may be necessary to
compensate for damages caused by the movement.
(Prior Code, § 29-73) (Ord. 88-4, passed 6-2-1988)
PARKING AND STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES
§ 70.080 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMMERCIAL VEHICLE. Commercial vehicle means a motor vehicle used for
commercial activity which is licensed by the Secretary of State as a commercial
vehicle and has a gross vehicle weight of not less than 6,000 pounds.
Recreational-type vehicles or vehicles requiring commercial license plates but
not used for a commercial purpose shall not be considered a COMMERCIAL VEHICLE.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 70.081 PARKING AND/OR STORAGE OF COMMERCIAL VEHICLES.
   The parking and/or storage of commercial vehicles, large trucks and
equipment such as, but not limited to: semi-tractors and/or trailers, stake
trucks, cube trucks, cube vans, dump trucks, panel trucks, delivery trucks,
earth moving equipment, and equipment trailers is prohibited on residentially
zoned property or in the adjacent right-of-way.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 70.082 CIVIL INFRACTION; ENFORCEMENT.
   A violation of this subchapter shall constitute a municipal civil infraction
as defined in §
10.99.
(Ord. 2019-001, passed 2-7-2019)
GOLF CARTS AND OFF-ROAD VEHICLES
§ 70.100 PURPOSE.
   These regulations are intended to secure the public peace, health and safety
of the residents and property owners of the city for the regulation of the use
of golf carts and off-road vehicles on public streets within the city and for
providing penalties for the violation of these provisions.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 70.101 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRIVER'S LICENSE. A license, permit, or temporary license issued under the
laws of the State of Michigan pertaining to the licensing of persons to operate
motor vehicles.
   GOLF CART. A vehicle designed for transportation while playing the game of
golf. For the purposes of this subchapter, off-road vehicles, as defined
herein, are not considered golf carts.
   OFF-ROAD VEHICLE ("ORV"). A motor-driven, off-road recreational vehicle
capable of cross-country travel without the benefit of a road or trail, on or
immediately over land, snow, ice, marsh, swampland, or other natural terrain.
ORV includes, but is not limited to, a multi-track or multi-wheel drive
vehicle; an all-terrain vehicle ("ATV"); an amphibious machine; a ground-effect
air cushion vehicle; or other means of transportation deriving power from a
source other than muscle or wind. For the purposes of this subchapter, this
definition shall not include a minibike or minicycle as defined and regulated
in §§
70.015 et seq. of this code.
   OPERATE. To ride in or on, or be in actual physical control of a golf cart
or an off-road vehicle.
   OPERATOR. A person who operates and/or is in actual physical control of a
golf cart or an off-road vehicle.
   STREET. A road, roadway, street or right-of-way within the city street
system, but does not include a private road. The terms road, roadway, street
and right-of-way are interchangeable.
   SUNSET AND SUNRISE. Sunset and sunrise as determined by the National Weather
Service on any given day.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 70.102 OPERATION OF GOLF CARTS ON CITY STREETS.
   A person may operate a golf cart on city streets, subject to the following
restrictions:
   (A)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on any street unless he or she
is at least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a motor vehicle.
   (B)   The operator of a golf cart shall comply with the signal requirements
of M.C.L.A. § 257.648, as amended, that apply to the operation of a vehicle.
   (C)   All golf carts are required to have a red reflector on the rear of the
golf cart that shall be visible from distances up to 500 feet when in front of
lawful low beams of headlamps on a motor vehicle.
   (D)   The operator of a golf cart shall obey all sections pertaining to
traffic in the Michigan Vehicle Code and the Uniform Traffic Code.
   (E)   A person operating a golf cart upon a street shall ride as near to the
right side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when passing a
standing vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction.
   (F)   A person shall not operate a golf cart on a state trunk line highway
except to cross that state trunk line highway.
   (G)   Where a usable and designated path for golf carts is provided adjacent
to a road or street, a person operating a golf cart shall be required to use
that path. A golf cart shall not be operated on a sidewalk constructed for the
use of pedestrians.
   (H)   A person operating a golf cart shall not pass between lines of
traffic, but may pass on the left of traffic moving in his or her direction in
the case of a two-way street, or on the left or right of traffic, in an
unoccupied lane, in the case of a one-way street.
   (I)   A golf cart shall be operated at a speed not to exceed 15 miles per
hour and shall not be operated on a street with a speed limit of more than 35
miles per hour except to cross that street.
   (J)   A golf cart shall not be operated on the streets of the city from the
time period beginning one-half hour before sunset and ending one-half hour
after sunrise.
   (K)   An operator or a passenger in a golf cart is not required to wear a
crash helmet.
   (L)   A golf cart shall not be used to carry more persons at one time than
the number for which it is designed.
   (M)   A golf cart operated on a street of the city is not required to be
registered under the Michigan Vehicle Code for purposes of section 3101 of the
Insurance Code of 1956, 1956 PA 218, M.C.L.A. § 500.3101, as amended.
   (N)   A golf cart shall not be operated during weather events with snow and/
or ice on the ground.
   (O)   Golf carts shall not be operated on a road or street in a negligent
manner, endangering any person or property, or obstructing, or impeding the
lawful course of travel of any motor vehicle or the lawful use by any
pedestrian of public streets, sidewalks, paths, trails, walkways or parks.
   (P)   The parking, stopping, and standing regulations provided in the city
code, which may be adopted by reference therein, shall also apply to golf carts
operated in the city, as if they are motor vehicles under those provisions.
   (Q)   This section does not apply to a police officer, city officials,
employees, contractors or volunteers operating a golf cart in the performance
of city duties.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 70.103 OPERATION OF OFF-ROAD VEHICLES ON CITY STREETS.
   Except as set forth herein or otherwise provided by law, a person may
operate an ORV on city streets, subject to the following restrictions:
   (A)   A person operating an ORV on a street shall ride as near to the right
side of the street as practicable, exercising due care when passing a standing
vehicle or one proceeding in the same direction;
   (B)   A person shall not operate an ORV on a state trunk line highway except
to cross that state trunk line highway;
   (C)   A person shall not operate an ORV on a street with a speed limit of
more than 35 miles per hour except to cross that street;
   (D)   A person shall operate an ORV at a speed of no more than 25 miles per
hour, or a lower ORV posted speed limit;
   (E)   A person shall not operate an ORV on any street unless he or she is at
least 16 years old and is licensed to operate a motor vehicle;
   (F)   A person shall operate an ORV with the flow of traffic;
   (G)   A person shall operate an ORV in a manner that does not interfere with
traffic;
   (H)   A person shall operate an ORV in single file except when overtaking
and passing another ORV;
   (I)   A person shall operate an ORV while displaying a working, visible
lighted headlight and lighted taillight at all hours;
   (J)   The operator and each passenger of the ORV shall wear a crash helmet
and protective eyewear approved by the United States Department of
Transportation, unless the ORV is equipped with a roof that meets or exceeds
standards for a crash helmet and the operator and each passenger are wearing a
properly adjusted and fastened seat belt;
   (K)   An ORV shall be operated with a throttle so designed that when the
pressure used to advance the throttle is removed, the engine speed will
immediately and automatically idle;
   (L)   An ORV shall be equipped with a spark-arrester type, United States
Forest Service-approved muffler in good working order and in constant
operation; and
   (M)   An ORV shall be operated consistent with noise and emission standards
defined by law.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 70.104 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   A person who violates any of the provisions of this subchapter shall be
responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the
penalty provisions of §
10.99.
(Ord. 2019-014, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 70.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   The penalties provided by the Michigan Vehicle Code are adopted by
reference. The city may not enforce any provision of the Michigan Vehicle Code
for which the maximum period of imprisonment is greater than 93 days, provided,
however, that a violation of M.C.L.A. § 257.625(1)(C) is punishable by one or
more of the following: community service of not more than 360 hours,
imprisonment for not more than 180 days, and a fine of not less than $200 or
more than $700.
   (B)   Any violation of §
70.006, or any part thereof, shall be deemed a civil infraction and is
punishable by a fine not to exceed $100. Each day that a violation exists or
continues to exist shall constitute a separate offense.
   (C)   Any individual, corporation or other legal entity found to have
violated any of the provisions §§
70.075 et seq. shall be responsible for a civil infraction with a fine not to
exceed $500.
(Prior Code, § 29-74) (Ord. 88-4, passed 6-2-1988; Am. Ord. 2019-010, passed 8-
15-2019; Am. Ord. 2019-016, passed 11-21-2019)
TITLE IX: GENERAL REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
90.   STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
   
91.   CEMETERIES
   
92.   FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
   
93.   PARKS AND RECREATION
   
94.   ANIMALS AND FOWL
   
95.   HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
   
96.   HANDBILLS
   
97.   ARTS, CULTURE AND HISTORY
CHAPTER 90: STREETS AND SIDEWALKS
Section
General Provisions
   
90.001   Abutting property owners to maintain sidewalks in good repair
   
90.002   Driving over construction work prohibited
   
90.003   Injuring any part or accessory prohibited
   
90.004   Permits; prerequisite bond; conformance to plans and specifications
Obstructions
   
90.015   Abutting property owners’ responsibility for sidewalks
   
90.016   Merchandise and material
   
90.017   Suspension of objects
Sidewalk Construction or Repair
   
90.030   Adoption of sidewalk inspection program
   
90.040   Property owner non-compliance with sidewalk inspection program
Curb Cuts
   
90.060   Plans and specifications
   
90.061   Permit required
   
90.062   Issuance upon Commission approval; restrictions
   
90.063   Fee
Excavations
   
90.075   Prohibited within two years of paving; exception
   
90.076   Guarding required
   
90.077   Closing
   
90.078   Construction standards
   
90.079   Payment of costs for street restoration required
   
90.080   Failure to restore streets; special assessment
Public Rights-of-Way
   
90.095   Title
   
90.096   Declaration of purpose
   
90.097   Definitions
   
90.098   General permit requirements
   
90.099   General construction requirements
   
90.100   Application procedure
   
90.101   Construction bond and hold harmless agreement
   
90.102   Blanket permit and bond
   
90.103   Inspection of work; suspension or revocation of permit; filing of “as-
built” plans with GIS data
   
90.104   Review procedure
Installation of Pipes, Conduits and Culverts
   
90.115   Removal of obstructions
   
90.116   Minimum length of culverts under driveways
   
90.117   Permit required
   
90.118   Deposit
   
90.119   Designation of grade and depth
   
90.120   Fee
Moving Buildings
   
90.135   Public safety required
   
90.136   Permit required
   
90.137   Application
   
90.138   Investigation; issuance
   
90.139   Designation of time and route
   
90.140   Fee
   
90.141   Appeal
Parking Lot Regulations in Commercial and Industrial Districts
   
90.155   Definitions
   
90.156   Compliance required
   
90.157   Notice
   
90.158   Transfer prohibited without notice
   
90.159   Violation
   
90.160   Public nuisance per se
   
90.161   Each day a separate offense
   
90.162   Performance bonds
Complete Streets
   
90.175   Definition
   
90.176   Complete streets improvements
   
90.177   Exceptions
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 90.001 ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS TO MAINTAIN SIDEWALKS IN GOOD REPAIR.
   All owners or agents of owners with property abutting and fronting upon any
plaza, street or alley within the corporate limits of the city are required to
keep the public sidewalks immediately abutting their property in good order and
repair. Each such owner shall be liable to the city for all losses to the city
or recoveries from the city for damages to person or property of others caused
by his or her failure or that of his or her agents to repair and keep in good
order and reasonably safe condition all such sidewalks abutting and fronting
his or her property upon any plaza, street or alley within the corporate limits
of the city. The city may, at its discretion, through the City Manager, notify
the owner that repairs are necessary to put the sidewalk in good order as
provided in this chapter and if the person fails to make the required repairs,
the city may repair same and assess the abutting owner as further provided in
Chapter 90herein.
(Prior Code, § 26-1) (Ord. 82-2, passed 2-4-1982)
§ 90.002 DRIVING OVER CONSTRUCTION WORK PROHIBITED.
   No person shall go upon or drive, or cause to be driven, any vehicle or
animal on any new pavement, sidewalk, curbing, gutter or other construction
work until it has been completed and any street closing sign or barricade
posted or placed thereon has been removed by the proper city officer or
employee.
(Prior Code, § 26-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.003 INJURING ANY PART OR ACCESSORY PROHIBITED.
   No unauthorized person shall move, alter, deface, injure or destroy any part
or accessory of any street or alley or any sign or barricade erected or placed
to protect, warn or guide the public.
(Prior Code, § 26-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.004 PERMITS; PREREQUISITE BOND; CONFORMANCE TO PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   (A)   No permit shall be granted for the doing of any work covered by this
subchapter until a bond or policy of insurance has been filed with the City
Clerk as herein provided. The bond or policy of insurance shall be in the sum
of not less than $100,000 for bodily injury to or death of any one person and
$300,000 for bodily injury to or death of 2 or more persons in any one
accident, and not less than $10,000 for damage to property resulting from any
one accident, unless a larger bond shall be required by the Commission at the
time any permit is granted by it upon appeal. All bonds or policies of
insurance shall be conditioned to pay all damages to the streets of the city or
to hold the city harmless of every other damage of every other nature, whether
to persons or property, for which the city may be held liable by reason of, or
which is occasioned by, the doing of a thing or the exercise of the privilege
for which the permit upon which the bond or policy of insurance was based, was
granted.
(Prior Code, § 26-4)
   (B)   The city shall inspect all work done or privilege exercised under any
permit issued pursuant to the provisions of this subchapter. The City Manager
may, for cause, suspend or revoke any permit so granted where either the
workmanship or materials used does not conform to the plans and specifications
approved or required upon issuance of the permit, or when the terms of any
permit or of this chapter are violated. No person shall perform any work
authorized by any permit or cause any such work to be performed while that
permit is suspended or revoked.
(Prior Code, § 26-5)
OBSTRUCTIONS
§ 90.015 ABUTTING PROPERTY OWNERS’ RESPONSIBILITY FOR SIDEWALKS.
   If the owner or occupant of any lot or premises fails to remove snow, ice,
filth, obstructions or nuisances from sidewalks pursuant to this subchapter
within 24 hours of its accumulation, the City Manager shall direct the removal
of snow ice, filth, obstructions or nuisances from the sidewalk at the expense
of the owner or occupant, and all such expense, together with a penalty of 10%
of the expense shall be assessed the owner or occupant and any unpaid balance
shall become a tax lien against the property.
(Prior Code, § 26-17) (Ord. 97-7, passed 12-4-1997)
§ 90.016 MERCHANDISE AND MATERIAL.
   (A)   Except as may be permitted under §
160.234 and §
160.235, no person shall place any merchandise, material or sign on any
sidewalk or any merchandise or material within any street area, except that a
reasonable quantity of material may be stored within the area for construction
purposes for a period not exceeding 90 days upon permit issued by the City
Manager when authorized by resolution of the Commission.
   (B)   The goods or material shall be barricaded in a manner prescribed by
the City Manager, and the granting of the authority shall be conditioned upon
the furnishing of a bond or policy of insurance as therein provided.
(Prior Code, § 26-18) (Am. Ord. 2019-001, passed 2-7-2019)
§ 90.017 SUSPENSION OF OBJECTS.
   No person shall suspend anything above any sidewalk or within any street
area unless expressly authorized by this code.
(Prior Code, § 26-18) Penalty, see §
10.99
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTION OR REPAIR
§ 90.030 ADOPTION OF SIDEWALK INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   The City Commission shall adopt a Sidewalk Inspection Program governing the
repair and maintenance of all city sidewalks. The Sidewalk Inspection Program
shall be reviewed and amended from time to time as determined by the
Commission. Copies of the Sidewalk Inspection Program are available at City
Hall.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-21-2016)
§ 90.040 PROPERTY OWNER NON-COMPLIANCE WITH SIDEWALK INSPECTION PROGRAM.
   Any city property owner who fails to comply with the provisions of the
Sidewalk Inspection Program shall be subject to the single lot assessment
procedure set forth in §
154.003.
(Ord. 2016-04, passed 7-21-2016)
CURB CUTS
§ 90.060 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   No curb cut shall be made except in accordance with plans and specifications
established by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 26-59)
§ 90.061 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall make any opening in or through any curb in any street, alley
or public place without first obtaining a written permit from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 26-66)
§ 90.062 ISSUANCE UPON COMMISSION APPROVAL; RESTRICTIONS.
   Permits shall be issued for any curb cut, except upon approval of the
Commission:
   (A)   When to grant the permit would allow 2 cuts on any one premises;
   (B)   When the cut is to be made permanent and is within 20 feet of any
other permanent cut on any premises;
   (C)   When the cut is to be made permanent and it is intended to be more
than 30 feet wide at the sidewalk line nearest the center of the street; and/or
   (D)   When the cut is to be made permanent and, in the opinion of the City
Manager, may interfere with the safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 26-67)
§ 90.063 FEE.
   The fee for a curb cut permit shall be $25 plus the cost of the cut.
(Prior Code, § 26-68)
EXCAVATIONS
§ 90.075 PROHIBITED WITHIN TWO YEARS OF PAVING; EXCEPTION.
   (A)   No person shall make any opening or excavation in or under a paved
street or alley within a period of 2 years after completion of any paving or
resurfacing thereof. If the public safety or welfare requires immediate action,
the City Manager may suspend the operation of this provision.
   (B)   Appeal may be had to the Commission with respect to any decision of
the City Manager concerning the suspension of the prohibition of this section.
The decision of the Commission on the appeal shall be final.
(Prior Code, § 26-81)
§ 90.076 GUARDING REQUIRED.
   No person making an opening in a street or alley shall fail to guard the
same fully during the period of construction, and no person causing any such
opening to be used, nor the user thereof, shall fail to guard the same while in
use, so as to protect the safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 26-82)
§ 90.077 CLOSING.
   No person using any street opening, or causing the same to be used, shall
fail to close the opening in accordance with the directions of the City Manager
immediately after use.
(Prior Code, § 26-83)
§ 90.078 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   The City Manager shall make such additional rules and regulations pertaining
to the making of openings or excavations in streets, in the building of any
vault, stair or areaway in or under the streets, as are necessary to secure the
health and safety of the public and of property, and such rules and
regulations, when approved by the Commission, shall constitute the standards
upon which the permit required under §§
90.015 et seq. shall be issued.
(Prior Code, § 26-84)
§ 90.079 PAYMENT OF COSTS FOR STREET RESTORATION REQUIRED.
   Each applicant for a permit to open a street shall pay, in addition to the
permit fee herein required, the cost of restoring the surface of the street to
its proper condition.
(Prior Code, § 26-85)
§ 90.080 FAILURE TO RESTORE STREETS; SPECIAL ASSESSMENT.
   Shall any person whose property is benefitted by any excavation or opening
in or under any street, alley or public place, fail to restore the street,
alley or public place to its original condition requiring the city to incur
expense for restoration of same, the city Commission shall by resolution levy
the expense so incurred as a special assessment under §
154.003 of this code of ordinances against the property so benefitted.
(Prior Code, § 26-86)
PUBLIC RIGHTS-OF-WAY
§ 90.095 TITLE.
   This subchapter may be known as the City of Marine City Public Right-of-Way
Ordinance and may be cited as such.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.096 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to regulate the use of public right-of-way
and to establish permit procedures and standards pertaining to the installation
of facilities and structures within the public right-of-way and utility
easements, encouraging joint planning of utility and telecommunication
construction projects in the public right-of-way, coordinating and
standardizing the location of particular kinds of facilities and structures in
the public right-of-way and minimizing their interference and impairment of
sidewalks, street, sanitary sewers, storm drains or water pipes.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.097 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALLEY. A public or legally established thoroughfare other than a street
affording a secondary method of vehicular access to abutting property and not
intended for general traffic circulation.
   CURB. A part of the street usually of the same elevation as the center of
the street which is parallel to the street which separates the portion of the
roadway established for vehicular traffic from the adjacent greenbelt area
designed to keep vehicular traffic from the greenbelt area.
   FACILITIES and STRUCTURES. Poles, towers, monitoring wells, pipes, conduits,
guy wires, anchors, pedestals, utility boxes, manholes, handholes, vaults,
utility pits, nodes, junction boxes, buildings and enclosures, including
fences.
   PUBLIC RIGHT-OF-WAY. The entire area owned or dedicated by the city or other
governmental agency or entity for public use as a highway, street, alley or
other public place.
   STREET. That portion of a public thoroughfare improved, designed or
ordinarily used for vehicular traffic including curbs on paved roads and
shoulders on unimproved thoroughfares.
   UTILITY EASEMENT. A right or privilege over a specific portion of land area
granted by the owner to the public, a corporation or some particular person or
persons for specific uses and purposes, and which is designated a public or
private easement depending on the nature of the use.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.098 GENERAL PERMIT REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   It is unlawful to install facilities or structures within any public
right-of-way or utility easement without a permit from the city.
   (B)   It is unlawful to make any excavation or opening in or to tunnel under
any public right-of-way without a permit from the city. The City Manager or his
or her designee may, if public safety requires, grant immediate permission to a
person to make a necessary excavation or opening within the public right-of-way
provided that a permit is obtained by the next business day.
   (C)   An emergency above ground repair within the public right-of-way made
without a permit must be reported to the city by the next business day.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.099 GENERAL CONSTRUCTION REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   No unnecessary damage or injury may be done to any tree or shrub or to
the roots thereof. If any sidewalk is blocked by any work, a temporary sidewalk
shall be constructed or provided which must be safe and convenient for
travelers.
   (B)   Owners of any underground facilities and structures within a public
right-of-way must participate in the Miss Dig System and respond to and stake
or locate its facilities and structures within the rules and regulations as
prescribed by the Miss Dig System and hold the city, its agents and contractors
harmless for any damage to facilities and structures which may be damaged as a
result of the city repairing or maintaining its sanitary sewers, storm drains
or water mains located in any public right-of-way if due to untimely or
incorrect locations being staked or identified.
   (C)   The placement of facilities and structures within public right-of-way
and utility easements is subject to approval by the city. The location of above
ground facilities and structures are subject to review and approval by the city
for visibility, traffic and pedestrian safety, landscaping, screening and other
site conditions.
   (D)   All openings, excavations or obstructions in a public right-of-way
must be properly barricaded and illuminated as required by the Michigan Manual
of Uniform Traffic-Control Devices to prevent injury or damage to persons or
vehicles. Safety devices must be installed at all construction sites to provide
adequate notice and warning to both pedestrians and motorists.
   (E)   All openings, excavations and tunnels in a public right-of-way must be
properly shored and braced in accordance with all standards promulgated by the
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) and the Michigan
Occupational Safety and Health Administration (MIOSHA) to insure the safety of
all workers and prevent cave-ins and washouts which would likely cause damage
to the surface grade of the street or adjoining portions of the right-of-way.
If it appears that there is a danger to the public safety, the city has the
authority to install any and all barricades, warning signs and other such
devices that it may deem necessary and may charge the permit holder for costs
incurred in protecting the public and may revoke the permit.
   (F)   Underground facilities and structures constructed of nonmetallic
material are required to have a traceable metallic wrap or accompanying wire
for the purpose of tracing and locating with conventional locating equipment.
When placed in the public right-of-way, facilities and structures constructed
of material susceptible to breakage (i.e. fiber optic line) may be encased in a
protective shell as approved by the city.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.100 APPLICATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Application for a permit under the terms and conditions of this
subchapter and any other applicable provision of the city code shall be made on
forms provided by the city and shall be accompanied by plans and specifications
showing the proposed work to be performed within the public right-of-way.
   (B)   Application for a permit may not be accepted unless it contains all of
the required information, is accompanied by required plans which conform to the
applicable provisions of the city code ordinances and regulations and is
accompanied by the payment of a permit fee as established by resolution of the
city commission from time to time. The proposed plans and specifications shall
be reviewed by appropriate city departments depending on the nature of the work
to be performed.
   (C)   Adequate self-insurance or liability policies naming the city as
additional insured may be required by the city. A properly executed certificate
of insurance containing evidence that the pertinent policy of insurance or
endorsement applies to the provisions under which the permit is issued and
approved as to form by the City Attorney shall be filed with the City Clerk.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.101 CONSTRUCTION BOND AND HOLD HARMLESS AGREEMENT.
   As a condition of obtaining a permit the applicant may be required to file
with the city a cash construction bond in an amount of at least $1,000 or five
percent, whichever is greater, as established by the city based on the
applicant’s estimated cost of the project, including labor, materials and
overhead, which may be utilized to pay all valid claims for damages resulting
from activity within the public right-of-way. The applicant may post a blanket
bond of $5,000 covering all new construction up to $100,000 per year. The
estimated cost of the project shall be consistent with the installed cost of
the project as reported for state and local tax purposes. The cash bond shall
be conditioned to pay all damages to the public right-of-way of the city and to
hold the city harmless of every damage of every other nature whether to persons
or property for which the city may be held liable by reason of or which is
occasioned by the doing of a thing or the exercise of the privilege for which
the permit upon which the case bond was based was granted. The applicant must
execute an agreement to defend, indemnify and hold the city harmless in the
event a claim arises out of an activity conducted by the applicant within the
right-of-way.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.102 BLANKET PERMIT AND BOND.
   (A)   The owner of any facilities and structures within a public right-of-
way may obtain an annual blanket work permit (January 1 to December 30)
covering all maintenance and repair activities upon payment of a fee set by
resolution of the City Commission, the posting of a cash bond in the amount of
$1,000 and the filing of maps describing the location of all the owner’s
facilities and structures within the city.
   (B)   The holder of an annual blanket work permit must file with the city
upon request, a report describing the nature and location of the maintenance
and repair work.
   (C)   The cash bond shall be conditioned to pay all damages to the public
right-of-way of the city and to hold the city harmless of every damage of every
other nature whether to persons or property for which the city may be held
liable by reason of or which is occasioned by the doing of a thing or the
exercise of the privilege for which the permit upon which the case bond was
based was granted. The applicant must execute an agreement to defend, indemnify
and hold the city harmless in the event a claim arises out of any activity
conducted by the applicant within the right-of-way.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.103 INSPECTION OF WORK; SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION OF PERMIT; FILING OF “AS-
BUILT” PLANS WITH GIS DATA.
   (A)   All construction work done pursuant to any permit issued pursuant to
this subchapter shall be inspected by the city to determine that the work
conforms with the applicable city code provisions. The city may suspend or
revoke any permit where the workmanship or materials used do not conform to the
approved plans and specifications and the applicable provisions of this code or
other applicable ordinances. Violation of the terms and conditions contained in
this subchapter or any other applicable ordinance or code provision may result
in the permit being revoked. It is unlawful to perform any work authorized by
any permit or cause any work to be performed after a permit has been suspended
or revoked.
   (B)   “As-built” or engineering maps and plans must be submitted by the
applicant to the city as soon as they are completed but no later than 90 days
after completion of the work; if available, a digital geographical information
system layer, using a program, format and computer media acceptable to the city
and containing such information and data as the city may require, which
accurately displays the work. Proprietary information may be submitted under a
promise of confidentiality as provided by the Freedom of Information act being
M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to 15.246.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
§ 90.104 REVIEW PROCEDURE.
   All operations for which a permit is granted pursuant to the terms of this
subchapter are under the direction and supervision of the City Manager or his
or her designee. If a permit is refused, suspended or revoked, the applicant
may within 10 days of the denial, suspension or revocation appeal that
determination to the City Commission. The City Commission may, after proper
notice to all interested parties, conduct a hearing concerning the refusal,
suspension or revocation. After conducting the public hearing, the City
Commission may either affirm, modify or reverse the decision of the City
Manager or his or her designee. The decision of the City Commission is final.
(Ord. 99-8, passed 11-18-1999)
INSTALLATION OF PIPES, CONDUITS AND CULVERTS
§ 90.115 REMOVAL OF OBSTRUCTIONS.
   If it shall be determined by the City Manager that any existing pipe,
conduit or culvert is of inadequate size, of improper material or laid at an
improper grade or depth, and constitutes an obstruction in the roadside ditch
of the public highway of the city, notice of the obstruction shall be given to
the occupant or owner of the premises in front of which the obstruction exists,
and the occupant or owner shall be given 30 days within which to either remove
the same or comply with the terms of this subchapter, and if the same is not
removed or properly reinstalled within the 30-day period, the city, through the
City Manager, shall thereafter remove the same, the cost shall be assessed
against the owner or occupant, and payment enforced in accordance with the
provisions of the Charter and this code relating to special assessments.
(Prior Code, § 26-106)
§ 90.116 MINIMUM LENGTH OF CULVERTS UNDER DRIVEWAYS.
   Culverts installed under this subchapter shall be not less than 15 feet in
length under driveways.
(Prior Code, § 26-107)
§ 90.117 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall install, maintain or repair any pipe, conduit or culvert in
the roadside ditches in the public streets, alleys or highways of the city,
without first obtaining a permit therefor from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 26-116)
§ 90.118 DEPOSIT.
   At the time of applying for the permit as provided in this subchapter, the
applicant shall deposit with the City Treasurer the sum of $25 per foot for the
length of culvert to be installed, to cover the cost of installation only, the
culvert material to be furnished by the applicant; provided, however, that if
the applicant shall cause the same to be installed by a qualified drain layer
and, upon inspection, the installation shall be approved by the city, the
deposit shall be returned to the applicant. If the installation is made by the
city, the deposit shall be applied to the cost thereof. The deposit provided
above may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 26-117) (Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 90.119 DESIGNATION OF GRADE AND DEPTH.
   (A)   The permit granted under this subchapter shall designate the size of
the pipe, conduit or culvert, material, and the grade or depth at which the
same shall be laid.
   (B)   The depth or grade shall be determined by the City Manager, and it
shall be unlawful for any person to install, maintain or repair any such pipe,
conduit or culvert except in accordance with the size, depth, grade and
material designated in the permit.
(Prior Code, § 26-118)
§ 90.120 FEE.
   The fee for a permit under this subchapter shall be $50. This fee may be
amended from time to time by resolution of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 26-119) (Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 11-1-2007)
MOVING OF BUILDINGS
§ 90.135 PUBLIC SAFETY REQUIRED.
   No person shall move or cause to be moved any building along or across any
public street, alley or other public property, unless the same can be removed
without impairing the public safety, without undue risk of damage or injury to
property, public or private, and without interfering unreasonably with traffic.
(Prior Code, § 26-131)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.136 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   No person shall move or cause to be moved any building along or across any
public street, alley or other public property unless he or she has obtained a
permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 26-137)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 90.137 APPLICATION.
   An application to move any building shall be filed with the City Clerk,
which application shall set forth in detail the size and type of building
proposed to be moved, and the points between which it is proposed to move the
same.
(Prior Code, § 26-138)
§ 90.138 INVESTIGATION; ISSUANCE.
   The City Manager shall cause an investigation to be made, and if he or she
finds that a building can be moved without impairing the public safety,
unreasonably interfering with traffic and without undue risk of damage to
private or public property, a permit may be issued.
(Prior Code, § 26-139)
§ 90.139 DESIGNATION OF TIME AND ROUTE.
   Each permit under this subchapter shall specify the time and route over
which the moving shall be done.
(Prior Code, § 26-140)
§ 90.140 FEE.
   The fee for a permit under this subchapter shall be $100 for each
industrial, commercial or dwelling building and $50 for each double or multiple
garage. The fees may be amended from time to time by resolution of the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 26-141) (Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 11-1-2007)
§ 90.141 APPEAL.
   If the City Manager shall refuse any permit under this subchapter, the
applicant may appeal to the Commission, which shall grant a hearing thereon,
and the decision of the Commission shall be final. In granting a permit after
the hearing, the Commission may impose such conditions therefor as it may deem
desirable to protect the safety of persons and property during the moving of
the building and the replacement of any utility wires, poles and other street
appurtenances as may be moved or taken down therefor.
(Prior Code, § 26-142)
PARKING LOT REGULATIONS IN COMMERCIAL AND INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 90.155 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ADEQUATE DRAINAGE. The parking area including parking spaces, maneuvering
lanes and approaches shall be graded and drained so as to  dispose of all
surface water in accord with all city codes applicable thereto and approved by
the city’s Building Department and/or Engineer.
   CHANGE OF USE. Any change of use which requires the issuance of an initial
business license, business license or a certificate of occupancy.
   DURABLE AND DUSTLESS SURFACE. A hard surface material such as concrete or
asphalt which is suitable for parking lot construction and is approved by the
city’s Building Department and/or Engineer.
   PARKING FACILITIES. Any area within a commercial or industrial zone
including the B-1, B-2, W-M, I-1, I-2 and P-1 districts of the city as
contained in the zoning ordinance which is at any time set aside for, utilized
for, or is required by zoning regulations for the parking of motor vehicles
including parking spaces, maneuvering lanes and approaches.
   SALE or TRANSFER. Any transfer of ownership by sale or lease of real
property.
(Prior Code, § 26-145) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
§ 90.156 COMPLIANCE REQUIRED.
   No initial business license or certificate of occupancy shall be issued by
the city until a certificate shall be obtained from the city’s Building
Department which certifies that parking facilities installed on a parcel of
land used or to be used by a business entity within the city is constructed of
a durable and dustless surface and provides adequate drainage.
(Prior Code, § 26-146) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
§ 90.157 NOTICE.
   (A)   The city’s Building Department shall maintain an inventory of all
existing commercial and industrial uses of land which do not presently comply
with the durable and dustless and/or adequate drainage provisions of this
subchapter.
   (B)   The Building Department shall within 90 days of enactment of this
subchapter mail by certified mail to each property owner listed on the
inventory a notice which places the owner of any such property on notice that
upon sale or transfer or upon a change of use of his or her land an initial
business license or certificate of occupancy cannot be issued until such time
as the parking facilities located thereon are so constructed as to provide a
durable and dustless surface and to provide for adequate drainage.
(Prior Code, § 26-147) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
§ 90.158 TRANSFER PROHIBITED WITHOUT NOTICE.
   Any owner who shall have been notified that parking facilities utilized by
the business entity do not meet the requirements of this subchapter shall not
sell or transfer the land without first notifying the purchaser thereof that
the parking facilities do not meet the requirements of this subchapter and that
he or she shall cause to be filed with the City Clerk a copy of the notice
acknowledged by the purchaser.
(Prior Code, § 26-148) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
§ 90.159 VIOLATION.
   Any owner, transferor or lessor of land who shall fail to comply with the
notice requirements of §
90.158 or any owner, transferee or lessee who shall use a parking facility
subsequent to sale or transfer or change of use after the effective date of
this subchapter without first obtaining a certificate of compliance with this
subchapter shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 26-149) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
§ 90.160 PUBLIC NUISANCE PER SE.
   Any building or structure which is erected, altered or converted, or any use
of premises or land which is begun or changed subsequent to the time of passage
of this subchapter and in violation of any of the provisions thereof is hereby
declared to be a public nuisance per se, and may be abated by order of any
court of competent jurisdiction.
(Prior Code, § 26-150) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
§ 90.161 EACH DAY A SEPARATE OFFENSE.
   A separate offense shall be deemed committed upon each day during or when a
violation occurs or continues.
(Prior Code, § 26-151) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
§ 90.162 PERFORMANCE BONDS.
   (A)   Whenever an application is received by the city for an initial
business license, business license, site plan approval, rezoning, change of
use, occupancy permit, temporary occupancy permit, variance or zoning amendment
for a parcel of land subject to this subchapter, the Building Department,
Planning Commission or Zoning Board of Appeals may issue the requested permit
prior to completion of improvements required by this subchapter upon a showing
of undue hardship or unusual difficulty; provided, however, that in order to
ensure strict compliance with any regulation contained herein or required as a
condition of the issuance of a permit, the permittee be required to furnish a
cash, performance or surety bond executed by a reputable surety company
authorized to do business in the State of Michigan, or irrevocable letter of
credit, in an amount determined by the Board of Zoning Appeals or the city’s
Planning Commission or the Building Department to be reasonably necessary to
ensure compliance hereunder; provided, however, that in fixing the amount of
the cash, performance, surety bond or irrevocable letter of credit, the Board
of Zoning Appeals or city’s Planning Commission or the Building Department
shall take into account the size and scope of the proposed improvement project
current prevailing cost of rehabilitating the premises upon default of the
operator, estimated expenses to compel the operator to comply by court decree
and such other factors and conditions as might be relevant in determining the
sum reasonable in the light of all facts and circumstances surrounding
application.
   (B)   The performance guarantee shall be deposited with the City Clerk at
the time of the issuance of the permit authorizing the activity or project. The
city may not require the deposit of the performance guarantee prior to the time
when the city is prepared to issue the permit.
   (C)   The city shall establish procedures whereby a rebate of any cash
deposits, in reasonable proportion to the ratio of work completed on the
required improvements, will be made as work progresses.
(Prior Code, § 26-152) (Ord. 91-1, passed 2-21-1991)
COMPLETE STREETS
§ 90.175 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definition shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COMPLETE STREETS. A design principle to promote a safe network of access for
pedestrians, bicyclists and motorists of all ages and abilities.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 90.176 COMPLETE STREETS IMPROVEMENTS.
   (A)   The city will plan for, design, and construct all transportation
improvement projects, both new and retrofit activities, to provide appropriate
accommodation for bicyclists, pedestrian, transit users, and persons of all
ages and abilities in accordance with the city’s Nonmotorized Transportation
Plan.
   (B)   In furtherance of that policy:
      (1)   The Planning Commission shall prepare and recommend a nonmotorized
transportation plan for adoption by the City Commission.
      (2)   The city’s Nonmotorized Transportation Plan shall be referenced and
its implementation considered prior to new construction or alterations within
city rights-of-way.
      (3)   The Nonmotorized Transportation Plan will include, at a minimum,
accommodations for accessibility, sidewalks, curb ramps and cuts, trails and
pathways, signage, bike lanes, and shall incorporate principles of complete
streets and maximize walkable and bikeable streets within the City of Marine
City.
      (4)   The accommodations shall also be designed and built using guidance
from the most recent editions of the American Association of State Highway
Transportation Officials (AASHTO) Guide for the Development of Bicycle
Facilities, the Michigan Manual on Uniform Traffic Control Devices (MMUTCD)
(MDOT), and the Americans with Disabilities Act Accessibility Guidelines
(ADAAG). Methods for providing flexibility within safe design parameters, such
as context sensitive solutions and design, will be considered.
      (5)   The city’s Nonmotorized Transportation Plan will be updated in
accordance with division (B)(1) of this section every five years from the
effective date.
      (6)   It will be a goal of the city to fund the implementation of the
Nonmotorized Transportation Plan, which shall include expending State Act 51
funds received by the City annually in accordance with Public Act 135 of 2010,
as amended.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 11-7-2013)
§ 90.177 EXCEPTIONS.
   Facilities for bicyclists, pedestrians, transit users, and people of all
ages and abilities are not required to be provided in instances where a
documented exception is recommended by the City Manager and granted by the City
Commission based on findings of one or more of the following conditions:
   (A)   Where their establishment would be contrary to public health and
safety;
   (B)   When the cost would be excessively disproportionate to the need or
probable use;
   (C)   When the cost would result in an unacceptable diminishing of other
city services;
   (D)   Where there is no identified long-term need;
   (E)   Where the length of the project does not permit a meaningful addition
to the non-motorized network; or
   (F)   Where reconstruction of the right-of-way is due to an emergency.
(Ord. 13-09, passed 11-7-2013)
CHAPTER 91: CEMETERIES
Section
General Provisions
   
91.01   Burying outside of cemeteries prohibited
   
91.02   Interment; permit required
   
91.03   Interment; authority of Sexton; digging of graves; charges
   
91.04   Rules and regulations
   
91.05   City to subdivide lots for purchase; purchase procedure
   
91.06   Consent of city required for sale, transfer and the like of certificate
   
91.07   Permit to open grave required
   
91.08   Persons not permitted to enter cemetery grounds to care for lots;
exception
   
91.09   Foundations to be built at owners’ expense
   
91.10   Construction of foundations; excavations; removal of rubbish
   
91.11   Vaults
   
91.12   Cemetery Fund; use of funds; moneys
Woodlawn Cemetery
   
91.25   Definitions
   
91.26   Closing house
   
91.27   General regulations; malicious mischief; trespass and the like
   
91.28   Traffic regulations
   
91.29   Financial responsibility of city for property damage
   
91.30   Rates
Cemetery Advisory Board
   
91.45   Created
   
91.46   Purpose
   
91.47   Appointment
   
91.48   Residency required
   
91.49   Terms of members
   
91.50   Removal of members
   
91.51   Vacancies
   
91.52   Organization
   
91.53   Limitation of powers
   
91.54   Compensation; expenses
   
91.55   Open Meetings Act
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 91.01 BURYING OUTSIDE OF CEMETERIES PROHIBITED.
   All cemeteries now owned, or which may hereafter be acquired by the city,
wherever situated, are hereby declared to be public burying grounds, and no
person, persons, corporation or society shall establish or locate any other
burying grounds within the limits of the city and no interment of the body of
any person shall be made in any place within the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-1) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.02 INTERMENT; PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   No interment shall be made in any cemetery belonging to the city
except as hereby provided.
   (B)   The person desiring to make an interment in any cemetery shall provide
a burial transmit permit, in writing, signed by him or her, to the City Clerk,
which shall contain, if obtainable, the full name of the deceased, his or her
age and residence at the time of death, the sex and place of death, whether
within the city or elsewhere, and the cause of death as certified by the
medical attendant or coroner, and shall pay to the clerk the amount of the
sexton's fees hereinafter prescribed.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-2) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.03 INTERMENT; AUTHORITY OF SEXTON; DIGGING OF GRAVES; CHARGES.
   (A)   All interments must be made under the direction of the sexton, who
will have entire control of the digging of graves and all matters relating to
burials.
   (B)   The Sexton must be notified at least 24 hours before a burial is to
take place, and if on a private lot, the location of the grave must be
designated when notice of the burial is given.
   (C)   All graves will be dug by the employees of the cemetery or the city.
   (D)   When bodies are removed to other cemeteries, the charge for raising
the bodies will be the same as the interment fee.
   (E)   In all cases of interments the charges include only the opening,
closing, filling and seeding of the grave.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-3) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.04 RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The following rules and regulations shall be observed and enforced:
   (A)   Rule 1. No vehicle shall be driven faster than a walk within the gates
of the cemeteries. Heavy loads will not be allowed to enter the grounds in very
wet weather unless by permission of the Sexton.
   (B)   Rule 2. No person or persons shall willfully remove, cut or in any
manner injure or destroy any tree, shrub or plant, whether wild or cultivated,
or any herbage, or the fruit or produce of any such tree, shrub or plant,
within any of the cemeteries of the city.
   (C)   Rule 3. Nor shall any person, while in a state of intoxication, be
permitted within the gates; nor shall any person be permitted to remain in any
cemetery after having been ordered by the person in charge at the time, to
leave the grounds.
   (D)   Rule 4. No person shall write upon, cut, bruise, break, discolor, or
otherwise deface, or injure any, stone, monument, fence or other structure
within the cemeteries.
   (E)   Rule 5. No person shall discharge any firearms within any cemetery
except at military funerals.
   (F)   Rule 6. Children will not be permitted within the cemeteries unless
accompanied by parents, guardians or adult friends.
   (G)   Rule 7. No person shall catch, wound or kill, or attempt to injure any
bird, or remove or disturb any bird's nest, or the eggs therein, in any of the
cemeteries.
   (H)   Rule 8. No person shall suffer or permit his or her dog to run at
large in any of the cemeteries.
   (I)   Rule 9. Individual taste in ornamentation and improvement of lots will
be respected, but the right given by the city will be enforced, to prohibit,
remove or modify any structure, improvement or object, on any lot which they
shall consider injurious to the general good appearance of the grounds, and
particularly to adjacent lots, as well after interments are made thereon as
before, and no tree or trees growing on any lot shall be removed or trimmed
without the consent of the city.
   (J)   Rule 10. The city shall establish the grade of all lots, lawns and
avenues, and shall direct generally all improvements within the grounds, upon
all lots, before as well as after interments have been therein, and no lot
shall be filled or raised above the established grade. They will have charge of
the planting, seeding, surveying and improvements generally at the cemetery.
   (K)   Rule 11. No lot shall be considered as sold until the payment thereof
shall have been fully made. The city reserves the right to remove all bodies
which have been interred in any lot, to a single grave plot, in case of
continued neglect to pay the complete purchase price of such lot and accrued
interest thereon.
   (L)   Rule 12. No monument or headstones shall be erected on any lot until
said lot is fully paid for and a deed issued for the same.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-4) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.05 CITY TO SUBDIVIDE LOTS FOR PURCHASE; PURCHASE PROCEDURE.
   The city shall provide for the sale of lots, half lots and single graves, by
subdividing such lots as may be necessary for that purpose, and any person
wishing to purchase a lot, half lot or single grave in any of the lots
subdivided as herein provided, may do so by paying to the City Clerk such sums
as may be fixed by the city and the City Clerk shall thereupon execute in
behalf of the city and deliver to such person a deed for same.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-5) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.06 CONSENT OF CITY REQUIRED FOR SALE, TRANSFER AND THE LIKE OF
CERTIFICATE.
   No sale, transfer or assignment of the certificate of any lot shall be valid
without the consent of the city and their approval endorsed on the conveyance.
It must be clearly understood that cemetery lots cannot be bought and sold as
other property for speculation.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-6) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.07 PERMIT TO OPEN GRAVE REQUIRED.
   No grave in any of the cemeteries of the city shall be opened without a
permit first.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-7) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.08 PERSONS NOT PERMITTED TO ENTER CEMETERY GROUNDS TO CARE FOR LOTS;
EXCEPTION.
   No person shall be permitted to enter any city cemetery to care for, improve
or embellish any lot or part of a lot, unless it be his or her own lot, and
then the work shall be done in accordance with this set of rules and
regulations.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-8) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.09 FOUNDATIONS TO BE BUILT AT OWNERS’ EXPENSE.
   Foundations for all monuments, headstones, markets and the like shall be
built by the cemetery employees at the expense of the lot owners. Reasonable
notice must be given for the building of foundations and the cost paid in
advance.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-9) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.10 CONSTRUCTION OF FOUNDATIONS; EXCAVATIONS; REMOVAL OF RUBBISH.
   To protect the grounds and especially improved lots from injury by the
introduction of irresponsible workers, the city reserves the right to construct
all foundations for monuments, headstones, markers and the like and to have all
excavations, the digging of graves, the grading and seeding of lots, and all
other improvements made upon the ground performed by the employees of the
cemetery. All earth or rubbish accumulated by lot owners, their agents or
employees must be carefully removed by them as soon as possible or deposited
where the sexton of the cemetery may direct.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-10) (Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 91.11 VAULTS.
   The encased casket shall be enclosed in a vault of concrete, metal or
suitable rigid materials and should be placed in accordance with general
appearance of the cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-10.1) (Ord. 84-15, passed 9-6-1984)
§ 91.12 CEMETERY FUND; USE OF FUNDS; MONEYS.
   (A)   (1)   The Cemetery Fund shall consist of a set of books to which shall
be credited the receipts as provided in this chapter. The moneys in the Fund
shall be used for maintenance and repair of burial lots, monuments, vaults,
tombs, buildings, roads, alleys and the like in the city cemetery and any
cemetery which may become a city cemetery.
      (2)   The city shall maintain the Perpetual Lot Care Fund and shall keep
therein such receipts as are provided in this chapter. The moneys in the Fund
shall be deposited in a bank, or invested in good and sufficient securities,
pursuant to resolution of the Commission, and the interest therefrom shall be
used for the purpose or purposes for which the money is given, and for no other
purpose.
      (3)   In the case of moneys credited the Perpetual Lot Care Fund, the
interest therefrom shall be used for improvement of roads, alleys, buildings,
burial lots, monuments, vaults, tombs, and other properties constructed,
provided and maintained for the use of the public in the city cemetery, and for
the upkeep of the cemetery and the lots therein, and for no other purpose.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-11)
   (B)   (1)   All moneys expended by the city for the improvement of the
cemeteries shall be drawn by them from the Cemetery Fund.
      (2)   All money received for the sale of lots in the several cemeteries,
shall be paid into the City Treasury, and be placed in the Cemetery Fund, and
shall be drawn only upon order of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-12)
(Ord. 81-16, passed 1-7-1982)
WOODLAWN CEMETERY
§ 91.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   CEMETERY. Woodlawn Cemetery, as heretofore established and any other public
cemetery or cemeteries owned, managed or controlled by the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-31) (Ord. 80-4, passed 4-17-1980)
§ 91.26 CLOSING HOUSE.
   (A)   All cemeteries shall be closed to the public:
      (1)   Between the hours of 9:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. from April 1 through
September 30; and
      (2)   Between the hours of 6:00 p.m. to 7:00 a.m. from October 1 through
March 31 of each year.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, other than authorized personnel
of the city, to be present in any city cemetery during the hours the cemeteries
are closed.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-32) (Ord. 80-4, passed 4-17-1980)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 91.27 GENERAL REGULATIONS; MALICIOUS MISCHIEF; TRESPASS AND THE LIKE.
   (A)   No person shall:
      (1)   Enter a cemetery except through an established gate or entrance;
      (2)   Deposit rubbish or debris on city cemetery grounds, except at
places so provided;
      (3)   Commit any malicious mischief, damages or trespass upon the
grounds, buildings, enclosure, burial spaces or graves in any city cemetery nor
upon the roads or walks therein, nor deface, damage or in any way whatever
injure any of the graves, vaults, monuments, tombstones, paling, fountains,
gates, fences, bridges, seats, or signs or otherwise commit any desecration
within any city cemetery;
      (4)   Pick or cut flowers or shrubs, except on his own burial space, or
cut down, injure or disturb any tree or shrub; or
      (5)   Remove any properties or things from the cemetery, or otherwise
interfere with the same, without right and without permission of the City
Manager to do so.
   (B)   No person shall moor, dock or tie up watercraft for any period of time
whatsoever against, or on, the seawall fronting the city cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-33) (Ord. 80-4, passed 4-17-1980; Am. Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-
1993)
§ 91.28 TRAFFIC REGULATIONS.
   (A)   No person, other than city employees in the performance of their
duties, shall drive any vehicle of any description upon any part of a city
cemetery other than roadways established by city personnel.
   (B)   The speed limit on all cemetery roadways shall be 10 mph.
   (C)   All other traffic laws of the city that are applicable to the
operation of vehicles on city streets, shall be strictly observed.
   (D)   A person driving in a cemetery shall be responsible for any damage
done by the vehicle.
   (E)   (1)   No persons other than city employees in the performance of their
official duties shall operate any type of off-road vehicle within any part of
the city cemetery.
      (2)   Off-road vehicles shall include snowmobiles, 4-wheel and 3-wheel
all terrain vehicles, motorcycles not equipped so as to legally travel upon the
highways of the State of Michigan and all similar recreational motorized
vehicles designed to travel off road.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-34) (Ord. 80-4, passed 4-17-1980; Am. Ord 93-1, passed 3-4-
1993)
§ 91.29 FINANCIAL RESPONSIBILITY OF CITY FOR PROPERTY DAMAGE.
   The city shall not be financially responsible for any damage to lots and
structures or objects thereon or for flowers or articles removed from any lot
or grave.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-35) (Ord. 80-4, passed 4-17-1980)
§ 91.30 RATES.
   (A)   The following rates shall be effective July 1, 1990:
Lot purchase                                        Resident $400
                                                    Non-resident $800
                                                    Weekdays $500
Opening and closing                                 Saturdays $600
                                                    Sundays/holidays $700
                                                    Weekdays $150
Urn burials                                         Saturdays $175
                                                    Sundays/holidays $200
Baby - open/closings (includes lot in baby section) Resident $100
                                                    Non-resident $125
Footings                                            Per cubic foot $12
                                                    Minimum $100
Corner markers                                      $15
 
   (B)   The rates set forth herein may be amended from time to time by
resolution of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-36) (Ord. 80-4, passed 4-17-1980; Am. Ord. 81-8, passed 7-2-
1981; Am. Ord. 83-7, passed 7-7-1983; Am. Ord. 88-5, passed 6-16-1988; Am. Ord.
90-7, passed 6-21-1990; Am. Ord. 93-5, passed 11-4-1993; Am. Ord. 05-04, passed
7-1-2005; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 11-1-2007)
CEMETERY ADVISORY BOARD
§ 91.45 CREATED.
   The City Commission hereby declares that efficient and economical operation
and maintenance of the city cemetery will benefit from the creation of a
cemetery advisory board to offer advice and assistance to the City Manager in
matters relating to the city cemetery and that it is for and in the public
interest that a cemetery advisory board be and is hereby created.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-46) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.46 PURPOSE.
   The Cemetery Advisory Board shall, as it determines desirable:
   (A)   Advise the City Manager and City Clerk on matters relating to the
operation, care and use of Marine City’s cemetery;
   (B)   Assist city officials in coordinating special events, honorariums and
other cemetery projects;
   (C)   Make recommendations to the City Manager regarding cemetery rules and
regulations;
   (D)   Promote public awareness of the need to preserve and protect the
dignity and heritage of Marine City’s cemetery.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-47) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.47 APPOINTMENT.
   The Cemetery Advisory Board shall consist of not less than 3 nor more than 5
members who shall be appointed by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-48) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.48 RESIDENCY REQUIRED.
   Each member of the Cemetery Advisory Board shall be, at the time of his or
her appointment, and shall remain during his or her term of office, a bona fide
resident of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-49) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.49 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The term of office of members of the Cemetery Advisory Board shall be 5
years. Members of the first Board existing hereunder shall be appointed for the
terms of 1 year, 2 years, 3 years, 4 years and 5 years respectively, and
annually thereafter 1 member shall be appointed for the term of 5 years.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-50) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.50 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Members of the Cemetery Advisory Board may be removed from office by the
City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-51) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.51 VACANCIES.
   Any vacancy on the Cemetery Advisory Board shall be filled by the City
Commission for the remainder of the unexpired term.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-52) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.52 ORGANIZATION.
   (A)   The Board shall appoint a chairperson and secretary from among its
members, shall take minutes of all Board meetings, and may appoint such other
officers as it deems necessary.
   (B)   The Board shall appoint one of its members who shall act as liaison
with the City Manager and City Clerk and shall limit its communications to
these city officials.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-53) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.53 LIMITATION OF POWERS.
   (A)   The Board shall function in an advisory capacity only and shall not
direct, instruct or otherwise cause work to be done by any city employee.
   (B)   No Board member shall perform any work, repair or maintenance on any
cemetery property.
   (C)   The Board shall have no supervisory, fiduciary, financial or
regulatory authority.
   (D)   The Board shall not authorize any purchase, expenditure, encumbrance
or other use of any city funds. The city’s cemetery, perpetual care, and other
accounts remain the responsibility of the city’s financial officers and
department heads.
   (E)   No responsibility, duty or obligation of any city officials shall be
delegated to the Board, nor shall they be enhanced or diminished as a result of
this subchapter.
   (F)   Any conflict between the provisions of this chapter, the city code,
charter, resolutions and ordinances shall be resolved in favor of the
provisions found outside this chapter.
   (G)   Board members shall hold the city harmless for costs or liabilities
resulting from actions taken which exceed limitations imposed by this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-54) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.54 COMPENSATION; EXPENSES.
   Members of the Cemetery Advisory Board shall serve without compensation.
Board members may be reimbursed for actual and necessary expenses incurred in
the performance of their function as determined in advance by City Commission
resolution.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-55) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
§ 91.55 OPEN MEETINGS ACT.
   As a result of the limitation of powers set out in §
91.53, the Cemetery Advisory Board is deemed not to be a public body and
defined in Act 267 of 1976, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 to 15.275, Open Meetings Act, as
it has no governmental or proprietorial authority nor shall it perform any
governmental or proprietorial function.
(Prior Code, § 7.5-56) (Ord. 93-1, passed 3-4-1993)
CHAPTER 92: FIRE PREVENTION AND PROTECTION
Section
General Provisions
   
92.01   False alarms; interfering with fire equipment
   
92.02   Obstruction or use of fire hydrants
   
92.03   Open burning
   
92.04   Smoking
   
92.05   Cost recovery for emergency responses
Fire Prevention Code
   
92.15   Adoption
   
92.16   Additions, insertions and changes
   
92.17   Establishment of fire limits
Dangerous or Hazardous Materials; Clean Up
   
92.30   Purpose
   
92.31   Dangerous, hazardous substances or materials
   
92.32   Duty to remove and clean up
   
92.33   Failure to remove and clean up
   
92.34   Enforcement
   
92.35   Equipment operation costs
Charter reference:
   Technical codes adopted by reference, see §
7.7
State law references:
   Destruction of fire department property, see M.C.L.A. § 750.377b
   False fire alarms, see M.C.L.A. § 750.240
   Fire Prevention Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 29.1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 92.01 FALSE ALARMS; INTERFERING WITH FIRE EQUIPMENT.
   No person shall turn in, sound or cause to be communicated to the Fire
Department a false alarm of fire, or molest any firefighting apparatus or
equipment, or anything pertaining to the fire alarm system, or make, or have in
his or her possession, an impression or duplicate of any key belonging to the
Fire Department, without the express permission of the Fire Chief.
(Prior Code, § 11-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.02 OBSTRUCTION OR USE OF FIRE HYDRANTS.
   No person shall place any building material or any other obstruction
whatsoever, nor shall any person responsible for such material or obstruction
permit the same to remain, within 15 feet of any fire hydrant or fireplug. No
person, except members of the Fire Department or of the Department of Public
Works, shall use any fireplug, except in case of emergency, without first
securing permission from the Department of Public Works for the use and paying
or agreeing to pay for the water to be used. In no case shall any wrench or
tool be used on any fireplug other than a regulation Fire Department hydrant
wrench.
(Prior Code, § 11-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.03 OPEN BURNING.
   (A)   Prohibition generally. No person shall cause or permit, except as
provided in this section, any open burning of garbage, waste, refuse, rubbish
or other combustible materials, including by way of specification but not by
limitation, paper, leaves, grass, trees and tree trimmings, on any private or
public property; provided, however, that charcoal and non-ash producing fuels
may be used on private property and in recreation areas for the exclusive
preparation of food for human consumption, and that fuels may be used in metal
containers situated not less than 15 feet from combustible materials for the
purpose of heating building materials and for the warmth of workers.
   (B)   Prohibited on paved streets and alleys. No person shall kindle fire in
or upon any paved street or alley.
   (C)   Prohibited near buildings and at certain hours. No person shall kindle
fire on any private property within 50 feet of any building, unless the fire be
confined in a safe container, and in no case shall any such fire be permitted
within 15 feet of any building, nor the same to be such as to constitute a
nuisance. The fires shall be kindled between the hours of noon. to 11:00 p.m.
only.
   (D)   Leaves. Leaves, under the prescribed conditions under this section and
as promulgated by the Chief of the Fire Department, may be burned at certain
periods of the year in accordance with published notice only.
   (E)   Land clearing. It shall be unlawful for any person to set fire to any
woodlands, grasslands, weedlands, brush or other land for the purpose of
cleaning or improving the land or preventing other fires, without first having
procured a permit from the Fire Chief. Applications for such permits shall be
made to the Fire Chief in such form and detail as he may prescribe, and such
permits shall be subject to the conditions the Fire Chief may specify for the
protection of life and property. Any person who willfully, negligently or
carelessly sets on fire or causes to be set on fire any woodlands, grasslands,
weedlands, brush or other land, or other combustible material, whether on his
or her own land or not, by means whereof the property of another is injured or
endangered, shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (F)   Campfires. Campfire exemptions (open burning).
      (1)   Nothing in this section shall be held to prohibit private
individuals from setting a campfire for the purpose of the preparation of food
or for recreation, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   Said campfire is set in an adequate container or in a fire bowl
of earth or other noncombustible materials that must be capable of containing
all burned material. The burn area for round containers shall be no greater
than 36 inches in diameter, and the burn area for square containers shall be no
greater than 32 inches per side;
         (b)   Said campfire shall be far enough away from weeds, grass, or
other combustible materials so as to present no hazard;
         (c)   Said campfire shall be at least 15 feet from any structure and
15 feet away from any property line;
         (d)   Said campfire shall be prohibited on balconies or covered
patios;
         (e)   Said campfire shall be made using seasoned firewood;
         (f)   Said campfire shall be constantly attended by person initiating
it up until such time as it is completely extinguished, and the campfire shall
never be left unattended;
         (g)   Said campfire shall be conducted in a safe, nuisance-free
manner, when wind and weather conditions minimize adverse effects and do not
create a health hazard for property owners or residents in the vicinity;
         (h)   There shall be a portable fire extinguisher with a minimum OSHA
rating of 4-A, or other on-site fire extinguishing material such as dirt, sand,
water barrel, water truck, or a garden hose attached to a water source, in
proximity to said campfire available for immediate use at all times;
         (i)   Any member of any Fire or Police Department may order any open
burning fire to be extinguished due to hazards, excessive smoke or odor, for
violation of the parameters of this section, or for any related ordinance or
statute violation including but not limited to noise;
         (j)   Said campfire shall not be permitted during such periods that
the county is under emergency fire regulations of the state department of
natural resources banning outdoor campfires or when necessary, as determined by
the Fire Chief;
         (k)   Any person who sets an open fire which necessitates the Fire
Authority or any other Fire Department to respond shall pay and be liable for
all costs and charges incurred related to the response;
         (l)   Sky lanterns (any airborne paper lantern, also known as a
Kongming Lantern or Chinese Lantern, sky candle or fire balloon) which are
constructed from oiled rice paper on a bamboo frame and contain a small candle
or fuel cell composed of waxy flammable material, which when lit the flame
heats the air on the inside of the lantern and causes the lantern to rise in to
the air or any similar devices are prohibited; and
         (m)   Any existing and permanently installed campfire structure
existing at the time of this section that otherwise meets the location
requirements under this section shall be and remain permitted provided it is
not expanded. If any such campfire structure is removed, it shall only be
replaced with a campfire structure that is consistent with the conditions of
this section. Any campfire structure governed herein shall be allowed to place
outer rings or decorative enhancements to any campfire structure but no such
items shall increase the actual burning area allowed herein.
      (2)   All fires set in accordance with this section shall be attended at
all times by a reasonable number of people in relation to the extent of the
area to be burned. No burning shall be carried out if wind conditions are such
as to endanger life or property or on paved street or sidewalk areas.
(Prior Code, § 11-3) (Ord. 62, passed 9-2-1971; Am. Ord. 2021-02, passed 10-21-
2021) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 92.04 SMOKING.
   (A)   Prohibited on public conveyances. It shall be unlawful for any person
to smoke in any bus or public conveyance except taxicabs or motor vehicles for
hire, as defined in this code.
   (B)   Prohibited in theaters. It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke
or light a match while attending any performance in any theater or motion
picture house or in any other auditorium used therefor in the city or for any
person maintaining or operating any theater or motion picture show to permit
any person to smoke while attending a performance.
   (C)   Prohibited in bed.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person to smoke in bed in the
following places:
         (a)   Hospitals;
         (b)   Nursing homes;
         (c)   Hotels;
         (d)   Roominghouses and lodginghouses;
         (e)   Dormitories; and
         (f)   Other places of danger designated by the Bureau of Fire
Prevention.
      (2)   In each sleeping room of all hotels, rooming and lodginghouses and
other places of public abode, a plainly written notice shall be posted in a
conspicuous place as notice of this division.
(Prior Code, § 11-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 92.05 COST RECOVERY FOR EMERGENCY RESPONSES.
   (A)   Purpose. In order to protect the city from extraordinary expenses
resulting from the use of city resources in response to certain incidents
involving the use of emergency resources of the city, this article authorizes
the imposition of charges to recover where there is a cost incurred in
responding to incidents. Authority for the enactment of these provisions is set
forth in the Police and Fire Protection Act, M.C.L.A. §§ 41.801 et seq.
   (B)   Definitions. The following terms, phrases, words and their definitions
shall have the meaning set forth unless the context otherwise requires:
      BOMB THREAT.  the verbal or written threat of a bomb or other explosive
device, which if discharged as threatened, would violate federal, state or
local law.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE.  A response by police, fire or public works
department, or other responders on behalf of the city to an emergency incident,
or to a call for assistance.
      EMERGENCY SERVICE FEE.  The cost incurred by the city as a result of
providing emergency services including police, fire, or other support services
to a person within the city including but not limited to the following:
         (a)   Officer expenses incurred by the police department, fire
department, public services department, or other public officials, or bodies,
third parties engaged by the city in responding to the incident. Costs and
expenses shall include cost of equipment, operations, personnel, materials
used, and all other expenses, including but not limited to employee wages,
fringe benefits, administrative overhead, and costs of equipment, including
depreciation.
         (b)   Other costs and expenses incurred by the city in providing the
emergency service or attempting to collect a fee including legal and
engineering fees, litigation costs and expenses, supplies used directly or
indirectly in the incident.
         (c)   Costs incurred in accounting for emergency services including
billing and collection costs.
         (d)   Costs associated with deployment, including costs associated
with dispatch and return of emergency resources.
      FALSE ALARM.  Any automated or manual device designed to request or
summon emergency assistance which device is activated intentionally or
otherwise, in the absence of an actual need for emergency assistance. The most
senior person responding to a FALSE ALARM shall make the determination that
there was no actual need for emergency assistance. A FALSE ALARM shall not be
deemed to have occurred if: 1) caused by an act of God [i.e., a lightning
storm, power failure, and the like]; 2) it originates from a motor vehicle
alarm system; or 3) has not occurred more frequently than three times in 30
days or five times in 12 months.
      NONRESIDENT.  A person or entity that does not have a primary residence
in the City of Marine City, own real property in the City of Marine City, or
have a principal office or place of business within the city.
      RESPONSIBLE PARTY.  Any individual, firm, corporation, limited liability
company, or any other legal entity responsible in whole or in part for causing
the need for emergency service, or any person receiving emergency services, or
any owner, tenant, occupant, or party in control of real and personal property
from which, onto which, or related to which, there is an emergency response
incident and service provided. All the foregoing parties are jointly and
severally responsible. The city may proceed against any or all such persons, or
entities.
   (C)   Liability for emergency service fee. Emergency service fees shall be
assessed against any responsible party or parties when the City of Marine City
has deployed any emergency resources under this ordinance. If more than one
party is responsible for causing the expense of an emergency response under
this ordinance, all such parties shall be jointly and severally liable for the
cost of the emergency response under the following circumstances:
      (1)   Emergency services provided for any accident, or fire involving, or
related to any motor vehicle, trailer, aircraft, boat, snow mobile, water
craft, or other vehicles owned or operated by a nonresident of the city.
      (2)   Emergency response to any fire which could be set with a permit,
but for which a permit was not obtained.
      (3)   Emergency response to any fire which could be set with a permit,
but which becomes uncontrolled regardless of whether a permit was obtained.
      (4)   Emergency response provided to any nonresident of the city within
the areas of the city opened to the public, such as parks, roads, highways and
places of business.
      (5)   Emergency response to an illegal fire under federal, state or local
law. Charges under this subsection are payable by the responsible party causing
in whole, or in part, or responsible in whole, or in part for such illegal
fire.
      (6)   Emergency response to an activity, event, or incident in violation
of federal, state, or local laws involving the illegal use of fireworks, or
malicious destruction of property.
      (7)   Emergency response to an activity, event, or incident involving
threats of harm to oneself, or another, or another's property which if carried
out, would be a violation of federal, state, or local law.
      (8)   Utility line failure involving disabling of any transmission or
service line, cable, conduit, pipeline, wire, or the like used to provide,
collect, or transport electricity, natural gas, water, sewer, communication, or
electronic signals (including, but not limited to, telephone, computer, cable,
television, or other electronic impulses, if the owner, or party responsible
for the maintenance of such utility line does not respond, employing personnel
to the scene within one hour of a request to repair, or correct such failure.)
Time limitations for response shall be extended to two hours in the event of
weather-related emergencies.
      (9)   Any emergency service response to a particular location, if an
emergency response has occurred at such particular location in excess of three
times within 30 days or five times within 12 months.
      (10)   Emergency response to any occurrence, incident, activity, or
emergency where a release of hazardous materials occurs or is reasonably
imminent and where the fire chief or his designee has so declared such
activity, accident or emergency a hazardous material incident or emergency.
      (11)   To the extent the Michigan Natural Resources and Environmental
Protection Act (M.C.L.A. §§ 324.20101 et seq.) or any other law preempts the
cost recovery provisions of this ordinance, the liability for and recovery of
costs for emergency response shall be governed by the Michigan Natural
Resources and Environmental Protection Act or such other law, and the City may
pursue collection of such costs of the emergency response in a civil action,
pursuant to the laws.
   (D)   Invoice for emergency services. 
      (1)   The city administration upon recommendation by the police, fire or
public works department, shall prepare an invoice for emergency services
pursuant to the fees as defined in the fee schedule, which shall be delivered
by first class mail to any person, or persons responsible for the emergency
service fee and may recover all assessable costs in connection with such
emergency response. In making such a determination for total assessable costs,
the city administration shall consider the following:
         (a)   The total assessable costs.
         (b)   The risk the public safety or emergency situation imposed upon
the city, its residents, and their property.
         (c)   Whether there was any injury or damage to person or property.
         (d)   Whether an evacuation was required.
         (e)   If the emergency response required an unusual or extraordinary
use of city personnel, equipment, or resources.
         (f)   Whether there was any damage to the environment as a result of
the situation.
      (2)   The invoice is due and payable within 30 days of the date of
mailing, or delivery. Overdue unpaid amounts shall incur interest at the rate
of 12% per annum simple interest. The notice shall generally identify the
location of the emergency service response and provide a brief summary of the
incident.
   (E)   Fee schedule. The City Commission from time to time may adopt and
amend a schedule of costs as assessable costs which shall be available at the
municipal offices for inspection by the public during regular business hours
which may set forth charges established on an hour, or fractional hour basis
for apparatus equipment and personnel. Actual additional costs incurred shall
be chargeable, notwithstanding that the same were not expressly provided in
such fee schedule.
   (F)   Appeal. Any person determined to be responsible for an emergency
service fee may appeal that determination by filing a written statement of
appeal to the City Manager setting for the reasons for the appeal, shall be
filed within 21 days following the mailing of any invoice, or if not mailed,
the date of delivery by other means. The appeal stays payment until a final
determination by the City Manager. The party appealing may present information
and evidence. The City Manager shall make a final determination on any appeal
within 14 days of the filing of any appeal. The determination shall be in
writing.
   (G)   Other remedies. The city shall be entitled to pursue any other remedy,
or may institute appropriate action or proceedings in a court of competent
jurisdiction to collect successful costs from a responsible party.
   (H)   No limitation of liability. The recovery of accessible cost pursuant
hereto does not limit the liability of a responsible party under applicable
local, state or federal law to the city, or to any other person, or entity.
   (I)   Assessable costs, lien upon property. Assessable costs when not paid,
including late payment and interest shall constitute a lien upon real property
which shall be payable and collectible in the same manner as real property
taxes, including interest and penalties thereto as a cumulative remedy.
(Ord. 10-06, passed 12-16-2010; Am. Ord. 14-02, passed 6-5-2014)
FIRE PREVENTION CODE
§ 92.15 ADOPTION.
   (A)   A certain document, 3 copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as the 2003 edition of the
International Fire Code, as published by the Building Officials and Code
Administrators International, Inc., be and is hereby adopted as the fire
prevention code of the City of Marine City in the State of Michigan for the
control of buildings, structures and premises as herein provided.
   (B)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the International Fire Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made
part hereof as if fully set out in this chapter with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
92.16.
(Prior Code, § 11-16) (Ord. 90-1, passed 5-3-1990; Am. Ord. 96-15, passed 2-20-
1997)
§ 92.16 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   The following sections of the code adopted in this article are hereby
revised as follows:
   Section F-101.1. Insert: City of Marine City.
   Table F-107.2.3. Insert: No permits required.
(Prior Code, § 11-17) (Ord. 90-1, passed 5-3-1990; Am. Ord. 94-20, passed 6-16-
1994; Am. Ord. 96-15, passed 2-20-1997)
§ 92.17 ESTABLISHMENT OF FIRE LIMITS.
   The limits referred to in Section F-3003.2 of the BOCA National Fire
Prevention Code/1996 in which the storage of explosive materials is prohibited
are hereby established as follows: “As established in NFPA 495 and DOT 49CFR.”
(Prior Code, § 11-18) (Ord. 90-1, passed 5-3-1990; Am. Ord. 96-15, passed 2-20-
1997)
DANGEROUS OR HAZARDOUS MATERIALS; CLEAN UP
§ 92.30 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this subchapter is to enable the city to require
reimbursement of costs of abatement, containment, clean up, disposal and
restoration from property owners or those responsible for the leaking, spilling
or otherwise allowing certain dangerous or hazardous substances or materials to
escape containment.
(Prior Code, § 11-31) (Ord. 94-21, passed 8-18-1994)
§ 92.31 DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS.
   DANGEROUS, HAZARDOUS SUBSTANCES OR MATERIALS is defined as any substance
which is spilled, leaked or otherwise released from its container, which in the
determination of the Fire Chief or his or her authorized representative, is
dangerous or harmful to the environment or human or animal life, health or
safety, or is obnoxious by the reason of odor, or is a threat to public health,
safety or welfare; which shall include, but not be limited to the substances as
chemicals and gases, explosives, radioactive materials, petroleum or petroleum
products or gases, poisons, etiological (biologic) agents, flammables or
corrosives.
(Prior Code, § 11-32) (Ord. 94-21, passed 8-18-1994)
§ 92.32 DUTY TO REMOVE AND CLEAN-UP.
   It shall be the duty of any property owner or any person or any other entity
which causes or controls leakage, spillage or any other dissemination of
dangerous or hazardous substances or materials to immediately remove such and
clean up the area of such spillage in such a manner that the area involved is
fully restored to its condition prior to the happening.
(Prior Code, § 11-33) (Ord. 94-21, passed 8-18-1994)
§ 92.33 FAILURE TO REMOVE AND CLEAN UP.
   Any property owner of the area involved or any such person or entity which
fails to comply with §
92.32 shall be liable to and shall pay the city for its costs and expenses,
including the cost incurred by the city to any party which it engages, for the
complete abatement, containment, clean up, disposal and/or restoration of the
affected area. Costs incurred by the city shall include: actual labor costs of
city personnel (including Workers’ Compensation benefits, fringe benefits,
administration overhead, cost of equipment operation), cost of any contract
labor or materials. Costs under this section shall not include actual fire
suppression services which are normally or usually provided by city.
(Prior Code, § 11-34) (Ord. 94-21, passed 8-18-1994)
§ 92.34 ENFORCEMENT.
   If any person or entity fails to reimburse city as provided and such person
or entity is the owner of the affected property, the city shall have the right
and power to add any and all costs of clean up and restoration to the tax roll
as to such property and to levy and collect the costs in the same manner as
provided for the levy and collection of real property taxes against the
property. The city shall also have the right to confiscate any vehicle and its
contents where the costs cannot be added to the tax roll. The city shall also
have the right to bring an action in the appropriate court to collect the costs
if it deems the action to be necessary.
(Prior Code, § 11-35) (Ord. 94-21, passed 8-18-1994)
§ 92.35 EQUIPMENT OPERATION COSTS.
   A schedule of equipment operation costs shall be adopted by a vote of the
City Commission and be on file in the City Clerk’s office as public record.
(Prior Code, § 11-36) (Ord. 94-21, passed 8-18-1994)
CHAPTER 93: PARKS AND RECREATION
Section
   
93.01   Purpose
   
93.02   Applicability
   
93.03   Prohibited acts
   
93.04   Use of motor vehicles
   
93.05   Landing aircraft
   
93.06   Pets
   
93.07   Possession and/or consumption of alcoholic beverages
   
93.08   Ejection from park
   
93.09   Temporary closing
   
93.10   Rules and regulations to be set by City Manager
   
93.11   Smoking prohibited at the public beach
 
   
93.99   Penalty
§ 93.01 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to provide rules and regulations for the use
of and conduct in the parks and recreation areas of the city.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-1) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
§ 93.02 APPLICABILITY.
   This chapter shall apply in all parks and recreation areas of the city
unless expressly exempted.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-2) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
§ 93.03 PROHIBITED ACTS.
   No person shall:
   (A)   Obstruct any roadway, lane or sidewalk in any park;
   (B)   Injure, mar or damage in any manner, any monument, ornament, fence,
seat, tree, shrub, flower, playground equipment or other public property within
any park;
   (C)   Sit upon, climb or otherwise engage in play on any structure, statue,
memorial or vegetation not specifically designated and provided for such
purpose;
   (D)   Operate any radio, television, phonograph, tape recorder or other such
device in such manner as to create noise that disturbs others;
   (E)   Engage in any loud, abusive, boisterous or otherwise disorderly
conduct tending to create a disturbance or annoy others;
   (F)   Construct or maintain any item or structure within a park;
   (G)   Dump, deposit or leave any bottles, rubbish, waste, garbage or other
trash within a park other than refuse accumulated through lawful use of the
park left in a designated trash receptacle;
   (H)   Throw or cast any stones or other missiles within a park;
   (I)   Camp or establish temporary lodging; and
   (J)   Start a fire (except in such places provided for that purpose).
(Prior Code, § 19.5-3) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.04 USE OF MOTOR VEHICLES.
   No person shall operate a motor vehicle, including but not limited to,
snowmobiles, motorcycles, trail bikes, minibikes, mopeds, motor-driven cycles,
golf carts, motorhomes or all-terrain vehicles except on drives and roadways
established for that purpose.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-4) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.05 LANDING AIRCRAFT.
   No person shall land any aircraft or helicopter in a park without first
obtaining a permit for same from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-5) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.06 PETS.
   Pets are not allowed in any park except a dog or cat, provided the dog or
cat is under immediate control on a leash not exceeding 6 feet in length.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-6) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.07 POSSESSION AND/OR CONSUMPTION OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   No person shall bring into, have in possession, drink or otherwise consume
any alcoholic beverage in any public park or any parking lot contained therein.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-7) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
Penalty, see § 93.99
§ 93.08 EJECTION FROM PARK.
   Any person found violating any provision of this chapter may be ejected from
the park by any police officer or employee of the city’s Recreation Department
in addition to any other penalties provided herein.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-8) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
§ 93.09 TEMPORARY CLOSING.
   The Chief of Police may order the temporary closing of any park or parks
when in his or her discretion such a closing is necessary for the immediate
protection of the health and safety of the public.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-9) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
§ 93.10 RULES AND REGULATIONS TO BE SET BY CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager is hereby empowered to make such rules and regulations,
subject to the approval of the City Commission, pertaining to the conduct and
use of parks and public grounds as are necessary to administer the same and to
protect public property and the safety, health, morals and welfare of the
public; and no person shall fail to comply with the rules and regulations.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-10) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
§ 93.11 SMOKING PROHIBITED AT THE PUBLIC BEACH.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following definition
shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning.
      SMOKING. Inhaling, exhaling, burning, or carrying any lighted or heated
cigar, cigarette, or pipe in any manner or in any form, including any
electrical device that simulates the act of tobacco smoking.
   (B)   Violation. Smoking shall be prohibited at or on the Marine City Public
Beach, and within 50 feet, excluding private property, of the Marine City
Public Beach.
   (C)   Penalty. A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of the Code.
   (D)   Miscellaneous.
      (1)   The prohibition on smoking at the public beach shall be
communicated to the public by way of proper signage by the effective date of
this section.
      (2)   This section shall not be interpreted nor construed to permit
smoking where it is otherwise restricted or prohibited by other applicable
laws.
      (3)   This section shall be enforced by the Police Department, Code
Enforcement Officer, or other authorized designee.
      (4)   Any member of the public who wishes to register a complaint under
this section may initiate enforcement with the Police Department, Code
Enforcement Officer, or other authorized designee.
      (5)   The Commission may, from time to time, suspend enforcement of this
section by a vote of a majority of Commissioners present, on the motion of a
Commissioner, for good cause shown, for a definite period of time not to exceed
72 hours.
(Ord. 12-02, passed 8-16-2012)
§ 93.99 PENALTY.
   Any person found guilty of violating any of the provisions of this chapter
shall be subject to a fine in an amount not to exceed $500 or imprisonment not
to exceed 90 days.
(Prior Code, § 19.5-11) (Ord. 86-1, passed 4-17-1986)
CHAPTER 94: ANIMALS AND FOWL
Section
General Provisions
   
94.01   Purpose and intent
   
94.02   Definitions
   
94.03   Licensing requirements of dogs and cats
   
94.04   Limitation on number of dogs or cats
   
94.05   License requirements for commercial animal establishments, animal
shelters or veterinary hospitals
   
94.06   Restraint of animals
   
94.07   Farm animals prohibited
   
94.08   Wild animals prohibited
   
94.09   Performing animal exhibitions
   
94.10   Operation of pigeon lofts
   
94.11   Animal care
   
94.12   Animal waste
   
94.13   Public nuisance prohibited
   
94.14   Disturbing birds prohibited
   
94.15   Coloring birds prohibited
   
94.16   Sick or dead animals
   
94.17   Poisonous substances prohibited
Vicious Dogs
   
94.30   Declaration of purpose
   
94.31   Definition
   
94.32   Dog fighting and the like prohibited
   
94.33   Determination
   
94.34   Impoundment pending hearing
   
94.35   Registration requirements
   
94.36   Leash and muzzle requirement
   
94.37   Reporting requirements
Enforcement
   
94.50   Impoundment and violation notice
   
94.51   Dog bite procedure
   
94.99   Penalty
Statutory references:
   Authority to adopt animal control ordinance, see M.C.L.A. § 287.290
   Crimes relating to animals and birds, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.49 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 94.01 PURPOSE AND INTENT.
   The purpose and intent of this chapter is to regulate the keeping of animals
within the city. It is hereby determined that the following provisions strike a
balance between the right of persons to keep an animal and the public health,
safety and welfare of the citizens of the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-1) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ANIMAL. Any live, vertebrate creature, domestic or wild.
   ANIMAL CONTROL OFFICER (ST. CLAIR COUNTY ANIMAL CONTROL). Any person
designated by the city to enforce this chapter and applicable state law.
   ANIMAL SHELTER. Any facility operated by a humane society or municipal
agency, or its authorized agents for the purpose of impounding or caring for
animals held under the authority of this chapter or state law.
   AUCTION. Any place or facility where animals are regularly bought, sold or
traded, except for those facilities otherwise defined in this chapter. This
section does not apply to individual sales of animals by owners.
   CIRCUS. A commercial variety show featuring animal acts for public
entertainment.
   COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENT. Any pet shop, grooming shop, auction,
riding school or stable, laboratory, zoological park, circus, performing animal
exhibition or kennel.
   FARM ANIMAL. Any livestock, horse, swine, cattle, sheep, goat, llama, duck,
chicken, turkey or rabbit. FARM ANIMAL also means any other animal, other than
a dog or cat, raised for commercial profit or slaughter.
   GROOMING SHOP. A commercial establishment where animals are bathed, clipped,
plucked or otherwise groomed.
   HARBORING OR HAVING CUSTODY OR CONTROL OF AN ANIMAL. Feeding, sheltering or
allowing an animal to remain on the premises for 3 or more consecutive days.
Allowing an animal to remain on the premises shall include acquiescing in its
remaining on the premises. Such allowance or acquiescence shall include the
failure of an occupant of the premises to contact the animal control officer to
require the removal of the animal within the 3-day period.
   KENNEL. Any premises wherein any person engages in the business of boarding,
breeding, buying, letting for hire, training for a fee or selling more than 3
dogs or 3 cats or a combination of both not totaling more than 3.
   OWNER. Any person, partnership, corporation or other business entity owning,
keeping or harboring or having custody or control of an animal.
   PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITION. Any spectacle, display, act or event other
than circuses, in which performing animals are used.
   PERSON. Any person or any legal entity, including but not limited to, a
corporation, firm, partnership or trust.
   PET. Any animal kept for pleasure rather than utility.
   PET SHOP. Any person, partnership, corporation or other business entity,
whether operated separately or in connection with another business enterprise
except for a licensed kennel, that buys, sells or boards any species of animal.
   PUBLIC NUISANCE. An owner’s failure to remove animal waste from the property
of others or the existence of malodorous or offensive waste conditions on the
owner’s premises or any animal which:
      (1)   Molests passers-by or passing vehicles;
      (2)   Attacks other animals;
      (3)   Trespasses on school grounds;
      (4)   Is at large;
      (5)   Damages private or public property;
      (6)   Barks, whines, howls or makes any noise in an excessive continuous,
or untimely fashion; and
      (7)   Is defined as vicious by this chapter or state law.
   RESTRAINT OF ANIMAL. Secured by a leash or lead, or under the control of a
responsible person and obedient to that person’s commands, or within the real
property limits of its owner.
   SHOW DOG or ANIMAL. Any dog or animal that is pedigreed and has appeared in
at least 1 competitive show in the preceding year.
   VETERINARY HOSPITAL. Any establishment maintained and operated by a licensed
veterinarian for surgery, diagnosis and treatment of diseases and injuries of
animals.
   VICIOUS ANIMAL. Any fierce or dangerous animal that constitutes a physical
threat to human beings or other animals.
   VICIOUS DOG. Any dog which, when unprovoked, in a vicious or terrorizing
manner approaches any person in apparent attitude of attack upon the streets,
sidewalks, or any public grounds or places; or any dog with a known propensity,
tendency or disposition to attack unprovoked, to cause injury or to otherwise
endanger the safety of human beings or domestic animals; or any dog which
bites, inflicts injury, assaults or otherwise attacks a human being or domestic
animal without provocation on public or private property; or any dog owned or
harbored primarily or in part for the purpose of dog fighting or any dog
trained for dog fighting; or any dog which because of its size, physical
nature, or vicious propensity is capable of inflicting serious physical harm or
death to humans and which would constitute a danger to human life or property
if it were not kept in the manner required by this chapter.
   WILD ANIMAL. Any live animal which is generally not bred by humans except in
zoological, laboratory or similar settings including the following:
      (1)   Any non-human primate, including but not limited to animals
commonly known as monkeys, chimpanzees, orangutans, gorillas, gibbons, apes,
baboon, marmosets, tamarins, lemurs, lorises and galagos;
      (2)   Alligator (family);
      (3)   Badger;
      (4)   Bear;
      (5)   Bison;
      (6)   Bird (wild);
      (7)   Cat (wild family) including but not limited to cougars, cheetahs,
jaguars and tigers;
      (8)   Coyote;
      (9)   Deer;
      (10)   Dog (wild family);
      (11)   Dog-wolf;
      (12)   Elephant;
      (13)   Ferret;
      (14)   Insects of the venomous type;
      (15)   Lizard (poisonous);
      (16)   Martin;
      (17)   Opossum (family);
      (18)   Ostrich;
      (19)   Raccoon;
      (20)   Skunk;
      (21)   Snakes of the venomous, constrictor or dangerous type;
      (22)   Spiders (poisonous);
      (23)   Weasel (family); and
      (24)   Any other animal or fish which a person is prohibited from
possessing by state or federal law.
   ZOOLOGICAL PARK. Any facility, other than a pet shop or kennel, displaying
or exhibiting 1 or more species of non-domesticated animals operated by a
person, partnership, corporation, other business entity or government agency.
(Prior Code, § 6-2) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.03 LICENSING REQUIREMENTS OF DOGS AND CATS.
   Any person owning, keeping, harboring or having custody of any permitted dog
over 4 months of age within the city shall obtain a license for each such
animal as provided in the St. Clair County Animal Control Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 6-3) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991; Am. Ord. 13-05, passed 8-1-
2013)
§ 94.04 LIMITATION ON NUMBER OF DOGS OR CATS.
   Except as provided in this chapter and in §
94.05, it shall be unlawful to own, possess, shelter, harbor, keep or have
custody of more than 3 dogs or 3 cats (or any combination thereof totaling more
than 3, which are over 6 months old on the same premises except in any
commercial animal establishment, animal shelter or veterinary hospital or
clinic.
(Prior Code, § 6-4) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991; Am. Ord. 95-12, passed 2-1-
1996)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.05 LICENSE REQUIREMENTS FOR COMMERCIAL ANIMAL ESTABLISHMENTS, ANIMAL
SHELTERS OR VETERINARY HOSPITALS.
   No person, partnership, corporation or entity shall operate a commercial
animal establishment, animal shelter or veterinary hospital without first
obtaining a business license in compliance with city ordinance, and presenting
the required county/state license.
(Prior Code, § 6-5) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.06 RESTRAINT OF ANIMALS.
   (A)   All dogs and cats shall be kept under restraint and shall not be
permitted to be at large.
   (B)   No owner shall permit a dog or cat to leave the owner’s premises
unless the animal is wearing a leash and is under the positive control of a
person of suitable age and discretion. The leash shall not exceed 6 feet in
length and shall be of sufficient strength to restrain the particular animal.
   (C)   While restrained by a leash, no animal shall be permitted to enter
upon private property other than the animal owners without the permission of
the private property owner.
   (D)   An owner shall exercise proper care, control and restraint of his or
her animals to prevent them from becoming a public nuisance.
   (E)   A vicious animal shall be confined by the owner within a building or
secure enclosure and shall be securely muzzled or caged whenever off the
premises of its owner.
   (F)   Every female dog or cat in heat shall be confined in a building or
secure enclosure in a manner that the female dog or cat cannot come into
contact with another animal except for planned breeding.
(Prior Code, § 6-6) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.07 FARM ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own, keep, harbor, have custody or raise any farm animals
except that two shall be permitted per residential premises.
(Prior Code, § 6-7) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991; Am. Ord. 91-11, passed 11-7-
1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.08 WILD ANIMALS PROHIBITED.
   Wild animals shall not be allowed, kept, harbored, displayed, offered for
sale, sold or purchased on any premises within the city except as follows:
   (A)   The animals are part of a bona fide public zoo, zoological park or
bona fide licensed circus;
   (B)   The animals are in the possession of a person, commercial animal
establishment or shelter, who or which is licensed by the State of Michigan to
temporarily harbor and treat an injured animal or endangered species until
permanent quarters are found; and/or
   (C)   Any such animal permitted pursuant to divisions (A) and (B) above is
under the care of a trained attendant at all times whose responsibility it
shall be to see that the animal is securely confined.
(Prior Code, § 6-8) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.09 PERFORMING ANIMAL EXHIBITIONS.
   No performing animal exhibition or circus shall be permitted in which
animals are induced or encouraged to perform through the use of chemical,
mechanical, electrical, or manual devices in a manner which will cause, or is
likely to cause, physical injury or suffering. All equipment used on a
performing animal shall fit properly and be in good working condition.
(Prior Code, § 6-9) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.10 OPERATION OF PIGEON LOFTS.
   It shall be unlawful to establish, construct or operate a pigeon loft within
the city.
(Prior Code, § 6-10) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.11 ANIMAL CARE.
   (A)   Every owner shall provide his or her animal(s) with food and water and
other sustenance necessary for maintenance of the animal’s healthy life, with
adequate shelter and protection from the weather, with veterinary care when
needed to prevent suffering and with humane care and treatment.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful to feed any animal unwholesome or unsuitable food
or unclean water or to place same in unclean or unsuitable containers which are
likely to cause or produce disease in the animal.
   (C)   It shall be unlawful to overdrive, overload, overwork, torture,
torment, cruelly beat, mutilate, cruelly kill or otherwise abuse an animal or
to cause or instigate any such conduct. The cropping of dogs ears and tails
shall be considered mutilation or cruelty unless such cropping is performed by
a registered veterinary surgeon while the dog is under an anesthetic.
   (D)   It shall be unlawful to cruelly work or transport animals in violation
of M.C.L.A. § 750.50, as amended.
   (E)   No owner shall abandon his or her animal(s).
   (F)   It shall be unlawful to cause, instigate or permit any dogfight,
cockfight, bullfight or other combat between animals or between animals and
humans.
   (G)   No person shall willfully and maliciously expose any known poisonous
substance, whether mixed with food or not, so that the same is liable to be
eaten by another animal, except that it shall not be unlawful to expose on
one’s own premises common rat poisons mixed only with vegetable substances.
   (H)   No person shall give away any live animal, fish, reptile or bird as a
prize for, or as an inducement to enter, any contest, game or other
competition, or as an inducement to enter a place of amusement; or offer the
vertebrate as an incentive to enter into any business agreement whereby the
offer was for the purpose of attracting trade.
   (I)   Any person who, as the operator of a motor vehicle, strikes a domestic
animal shall stop at once and render assistance as may be possible and shall
immediately report such injury or death to the animal's owner; in the event the
owner cannot be ascertained and located the operator shall at once report the
accident to the appropriate law enforcement agency or to the local humane
society.
(Prior Code, § 6-11) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.12 ANIMAL WASTE.
   (A)   The owner of every animal shall be responsible for the removal of any
excreta deposited by his or her animal(s) on public walks, recreation areas, or
private property.
   (B)   Any excreta deposited by the animal on the owner’s property shall be
buried upon his or her premises or confined, covered and cared for in a timely
manner to prevent it from being scattered off the premises and to prevent any
malodorous or offensive condition to exist.
   (C)   Such condition shall constitute a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 6-12) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.13 PUBLIC NUISANCE PROHIBITED.
   No owner shall permit an animal to become a public nuisance as defined in
this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 6-13) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.14 DISTURBING BIRDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully injure, molest or disturb
in any way any birds or the nest eggs, young or brood of any such birds, except
that this provision shall not apply to any birds declared by any law or
ordinance to be pests.
(Prior Code, § 6-14) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.15 COLORING BIRDS PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to artificially color, spray or paint
any live bird or fowl or to sell, offer for sale, or otherwise dispose of any
such colored bird or fowl.
(Prior Code, § 6-15) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991; Am. Ord. 91-11, passed 11-7-
1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Statutory reference:
   Dyeing fowl, see M.C.L.A. § 752.91
§ 94.16 SICK OR DEAD ANIMALS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to deposit, throw or place any dead or
fatally sick or injured animal, or part thereof on any public or private place,
or into or on the banks of any stream, lake, pond, sewer or other body of
water.
(Prior Code, § 6-16) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.17 POISONOUS SUBSTANCES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful to throw or deposit poisoned meat, or any poison or
harmful substances in any street, alley or public place, or on any private
premises within the city, for the purpose of destroying any animal unless the
activity is supervised or performed by a licensed professional who is
eliminating a pest as recognized by the Department of Natural Resources, and,
in so doing, such person is following all Department of Natural Resources
regulations in this regard.
(Prior Code, § 6-17) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991; Am. Ord. 91-11, passed 11-7-
1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
Cross-reference:
   For additional poison provisions, see §
94.11(G)
VICIOUS DOGS
§ 94.30 DECLARATION OF PURPOSE.
   It is hereby declared that vicious dogs as defined in this chapter have
become a serious and widespread threat to the safety and welfare of the members
of the general public, in that vicious dogs have in recent years assaulted
without provocation and seriously injured numerous individuals, particularly
children, and have killed people and animals. Some of these attacks have
occurred in public places. The number and severity of these attacks are also
attributable to the failure of owners to register, confine and properly control
vicious dogs. It is further declared that the necessity for the regulation and
control of vicious dogs is a city-wide problem, requiring city-wide regulation,
and that existing laws are inadequate to deal with the threat to public health
and safety posed by vicious dogs. It is further declared that the owning,
keeping or harboring of vicious dogs is a nuisance. It is further declared that
because of the danger posed to the public health, safety and welfare by vicious
dogs this section constitutes an emergency measure providing for the immediate
preservation of the public health, safety and welfare.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.31 DEFINITION.
   (A)   A VICIOUS DOG shall be defined as provided in §
94.02. However, notwithstanding the definition of a vicious dog therein, no dog
may be declared vicious if any injury or damage is sustained by a person who,
at the time of the injury or damage was sustained, was committing a willful
trespass or other tort upon premises occupied by the owner of the dog, or was
teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog or was committing or
attempting to commit a crime.
   (B)   No dog may be declared vicious if an injury or damage was sustained by
a domestic animal which at the time the injury or damage was sustained was
teasing, tormenting, abusing or assaulting the dog. No dog may be declared
vicious if the dog was protecting or defending a human being within the
immediate vicinity of the dog from an unjustified attack or assault.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.32 DOG FIGHTING AND THE LIKE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall own any dog for the purpose of dog fighting, or train,
torment, badger, bait or use any dog for the purpose of causing or encouraging
said dog to unprovoked attacks upon human beings or domestic animals.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.33 DETERMINATION.
   (A)   The animal control officer shall investigate all complaints of a
vicious dog. In the event that the animal control officer has reasonable cause
to believe that a dog is vicious, he or she shall institute proceedings in
district court requesting the court to conduct a hearing on whether or not the
dog should be declared vicious. The issue shall be decided upon the
preponderance of the evidence. If the court rules the dog to be vicious, it may
order that the dog be killed or confined to the premises of the owner in
accordance with this chapter.
   (B)   The court may establish a time schedule to insure compliance with this
chapter, but in no case shall such time exceed 30 days after the date of the
court’s determination. Court costs for the action shall be taxed against the
owner of the dog. The court may decide all issues for or against the owner of
the dog regardless of the fact that the owner fails to appear at the hearing.
   (C)   The determination of the district court shall be final and conclusive
upon all parties thereto.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.34 IMPOUNDMENT PENDING HEARING.
   In the event that the animal control officer or any law enforcement officer
has probable cause to believe that the dog in question is vicious and may pose
a threat of serious harm to human beings or other domestic animals, the animal
control officer or law enforcement officer may seize and impound the dog
pending the hearing. The owner of the dog shall be liable to the city for the
costs and expenses of keeping the dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.35 REGISTRATION REQUIREMENTS.
   Upon a finding by the district court that a dog is vicious and must be
confined to the premises of its owner, its owner shall comply with the
following requirements for licensing:
   (A)   License application. The owner shall apply to the Police Department
for vicious dog license which shall be valid for 1 year from the date of its
approval provided all conditions of this ordinance section and applicable court
order have been met. The license shall be renewable provided that the dog is to
be kept on the same premises under the same conditions and its owner has not
violated any condition of this chapter section or court order during the
previous license year. No such license shall be transferable to a new owner of
the dog or to a new location or address where the dog will be kept.
   (B)   Insurance. Prior to the receipt of a license, the owner shall present
to the Marine City Police Department proof that the owner has procured
liability insurance in the amount of at least $100,000 covering any damage or
injury which may be caused by the vicious dog during the 12-month period for
which licensing is sought, which policy shall contain a provision requiring the
city to be named as additional insured for the sole purpose of the city to be
notified by the insurance company of any cancellation, termination or
expiration of the liability insurance policy. In addition, the owner shall sign
a statement attesting that the owner shall maintain and not voluntarily cancel
the liability insurance during the 12-month period for which licensing is
sought, unless the owner shall cease to own the vicious dog prior to expiration
of such license.
   (C)   Tattooing dog. Prior to receipt of a license, the owner shall, at his
or her own expense, have the licensing number assigned to the vicious dog, or
such other identification number as the Marine City Police Department shall
determine, tattooed upon such vicious dog by a licensed veterinarian or person
trained as a tattooist and authorized as such by any state or city police
department. The tattoo shall be placed either on the upper inner lip or upper
left rear thigh of the vicious dog.
   (D)   Signs. Prior to receipt of a license, the owner shall display a sign
in a prominent place on his or her premises warning of a vicious dog on the
premises. The sign shall be visible and capable of being read from the public
highway.
   (E)   Confinement outdoors. Prior to receipt of a license, the owner shall
provide for the confinement of the vicious dog. Specifically, when outdoors,
the dog shall be confined in a pen or structure with secure sides and top
attached to the sides. The structure shall be embedded in the ground no less
than 2 feet and constructed in accordance with standards set forth in the
Marine City Building Code. Such structure shall not exceed 6 feet in height. It
shall, in addition, be constructed of materials and consist of a design
suitable to prevent escape of the animal and entry of young children.
Additionally, the size and location of the structure shall comply with the
Marine City Zoning Ordinance provisions, including lot coverage and setback
requirements, applicable to accessory structures on the premises. Whenever the
animal is inside the structure, the structure shall be locked with a padlock or
key lock. Such pens or structures must be adequately lit and kept in a clean
and sanitary condition.
   (F)   Confinement indoors. No vicious dog shall be kept on a porch, patio or
in any part of a house or structure that would allow the dog to exit of its own
volition. In addition, no such animal may be kept in a house or structure when
the windows are open or when screen windows or screen doors are the only
obstacle preventing the dog from exiting.
   (G)   Identification photographs. Prior to receipt of a license, the owner
shall provide the Police Department with 2 color photographs of the vicious dog
which clearly show the color and approximate size of the animal.
   (H)   License fee. The owner shall pay a license fee in an amount
established by City Commission (fee to be set by resolution).
   (I)   License regulations. The owner shall also comply with §
94.03 regarding licensing of dogs. Rather, application for a license for a
vicious dog shall be made prior to the transfer or harboring of the dog on the
applicant's premises or other premises proposed for keeping the dog. A vicious
dog shall be required to be licensed regardless of its age. Further, a
nonresident shall not keep within the municipality any dog which has been
determined to be vicious by any governmental authority.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.36 LEASH AND MUZZLE REQUIREMENT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any owner to allow or cause, by acquiescence
or other means, any vicious dog to be outside of the dwelling of the owner or
outside of the enclosure unless it is necessary for the owner to obtain
veterinary care for the vicious dog or to sell or give away the vicious dog or
to comply with commands or directions of the court or animal control officer
with respect to the vicious dog, or to comply with the licensing provisions of
this chapter.
   (B)   In such event, the vicious dog shall be securely muzzled and
restrained with a choker chain leash having a minimum tensile strength of 300
pounds and not exceeding 3 feet in length.
   (C)   The muzzle shall be made in a manner that will not cause injury to the
dog or interfere with its vision or respiration, but shall prevent it from
biting any human or animal. The animal shall be under the direct control and
supervision of the owner of the vicious dog or his or her agent, either of whom
shall be, in any event, a person of at least 18 years of age and physically
capable of restraining the animal.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
Penalty, see § 94.99
§ 94.37 REPORTING REQUIREMENTS.
   An owner shall notify the Police Department and Animal Control Officer
immediately upon discovery that a vicious dog is on the loose, is unconfined,
has attacked an animal or human being or has been stolen. An owner shall notify
the Police Department and Animal Control Officer in writing within 1 day of the
removal of a vicious dog from the city or the dog’s death; the birth of the
animal’s offspring within the city; the new address of a vicious dog should the
owner move within the corporate city limits, and the name, address and
telephone number of a new owner of the dog.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
ENFORCEMENT
§ 94.50 IMPOUNDMENT AND VIOLATION NOTICE.
   (A)   Unrestrained animals shall be confiscated by a law enforcement officer
or the animal control officer and impounded in an animal shelter and there
confined in humane manner.
   (B)   Unless a dog or animal is reasonably believed to be vicious or has
been impounded pursuant to §
94.51 the dog or animal shall be released to the owner or the owner’s agent
anytime during the 5-working day period immediately succeeding the impoundment,
provided costs and fees entailed in this procedure have been paid.
   (C)   If by a license tag or other means, the owner of an impounded animal
can be identified, the animal control officer shall immediately upon
impoundment notify the owner by telephone or by certified mail, return receipt
requested.
   (D)   An owner reclaiming an impounded animal shall pay all costs and
expenses incurred for each day the animal has been impounded.
   (E)   Any animal not reclaimed by its owner within 5 working days of
impoundment or within 5 working days of any court proceeding regarding same or
within 5 days of receipt of notice by certified mail, whichever is later, shall
become the property of the local government authority, or humane society, and
shall be placed for adoption in a suitable home or humanely euthanized.
   (F)   In addition to, or in lieu of, impounding an animal found at large,
the Animal Control Officer, Humane Officer, or police officer may return the
animal to the known owner and issue to the known owner of the animal a notice
of ordinance violation and may institute proceedings in district court to
subject the owner to the penalties described in this chapter.
   (G)   The Police Department or Animal Control Officer shall maintain a
complete record of all dogs impounded under the provisions of this chapter and
the disposition of same.
   (H)   In addition to the above described provisions, the police officer or
Animal Control Officer may petition the District Court for a show cause hearing
to have the animal destroyed as set forth in M.C.L.A. § 287.286(a).
(Prior Code, § 6-19) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.51 DOG BITE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Report to Police Department required. If any person is bitten by a
dog, it shall be the duty of that person, or the owner of the dog having
knowledge of same to report same to the Police Department or animal control
officer within 12 hours thereafter. If the owner of any dog has any reason to
believe or suspect that the dog has become infected with rabies, it shall be
the duty of that person to report the same to the Police Department or animal
control officer within 12 hours thereafter.
   (B)   Quarantine procedure. In the event of any report of a dog bite, the
Police Department or Animal Control Officer shall seize the dog and deliver it
to an animal shelter which shall hold the dog in quarantine until a laboratory
analysis by a licensed veterinarian is made to determine whether the dog is
infected. The owner of the dog shall pay all costs and expenses incurred during
and for the impoundment.
   (C)   Show cause hearing. In addition to the above described provisions, the
police officer or Animal Control Officer may petition the District Court for a
show cause hearing to have the animal destroyed as set forth in M.C.L.A. §
287.286(a).
(Prior Code, § 6-20) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
§ 94.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this chapter, for which no specific penalty is
prescribed, shall constitute a municipal civil infraction as defined in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 6-21) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991; Am. Ord. 95-12, passed 2-1-
1996)
   (B)   (1)   Failure to comply/show cause hearing. Upon an owner’s failure to
comply with any condition in the court order finding a dog to be vicious, or
any requirement of this section, the animal control officer or a law
enforcement officer shall confiscate the dog and impound same pending a hearing
requiring the owner of the dog to show cause why the dog should not be
immediately destroyed.
      (2)   Vicious conduct/show cause hearing. If any dog, determined to be
vicious, shall, when unprovoked, kill, wound, worry or assist in killing any
domestic animal belonging to or in the possession of any person, or if any
vicious dog shall, when unprovoked, attack, assault, wound, bite, kill or
otherwise injure a human being, the animal control officer or a law enforcement
officer shall confiscate and impound the dog pending a hearing within 7 days
requiring the owner of the dog to show cause why the dog should not be
destroyed. The owner of the dog shall be liable to the city for the costs and
expenses of keeping the dog.
      (3)   Misdemeanor prosecution. The violation of any provision of §§
94.30 et seq. or court order made pursuant to this section shall constitute a
misdemeanor punishable by a fine not to exceed $500 or jail not to exceed 90
days or both.
(Prior Code, § 6-18) (Ord. 91-8, passed 10-7-1991)
CHAPTER 95: HEALTH AND SANITATION; NUISANCES
Section
Noise
   
95.01   Prohibition generally
   
95.02   Exceptions to provisions
   
95.03   Shouting and whistling
   
95.04   Horns and signal devices
   
95.05   Engine exhausts
   
95.06   Vehicle disturbance
   
95.07   Radios and musical instruments
   
95.08   Devices to attract attention
   
95.09   Sound trucks
   
95.10   Handling merchandise
   
95.11   Peddlers and solicitors
   
95.12   Animals and birds
   
95.13   Whistle or siren
   
95.14   Construction work
Nuisances Generally
   
95.25   Definitions
   
95.26   Illustrative enumeration
   
95.27   Prohibition
   
95.28   Notice to abate
   
95.29   Contents of notice
   
95.30   Abatement by city
   
95.31   Emergency abatement by city
   
95.32   Duties of City Manager
   
95.33   Assessment of costs
Vegetation
   
95.45   Unlawful growth of weeds or brush
   
95.46   Noxious or poisonous weeds
   
95.47   Regulation in street areas by City Manager
   
95.48   Attaching objects to trees in right-of-way prohibited
   
95.49   Permit required for cutting or trimming trees in right-of-way
   
95.50   Permit required to plant certain tree species
NOISE
§ 95.01 PROHIBITION GENERALLY.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be
made or continued any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any noise which
either annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others, within the limits of the city.
   (B)   The enumerated noises prohibited in this chapter shall not be deemed
to be exclusive; any noise falling within the meaning of this section shall be
prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 17-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.02 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS.
   None of the prohibitions in this subchapter shall apply to or be enforced
against:
   (A)   Emergency vehicles. Any police or fire vehicle of the city or
ambulance while engaged upon necessary public emergency business;
   (B)   Highway maintenance and construction. Necessary excavations or repairs
of bridges, streets or highways by or on behalf of the city, county or state
during the night, when the public safety, welfare and convenience renders it
impossible to perform such work during the day;
   (C)   Public addresses. The reasonable use of stationary amplifiers or
loudspeakers in the course of public addresses which are noncommercial in
character.
(Prior Code, § 17-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.03 SHOUTING AND WHISTLING.
   Yelling, shouting, hooting, whistling or singing or the making of any other
loud noise on the public streets between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.,
or the making of any such noise at any time so as to annoy or disturb the
quiet, comfort or repose of persons in any office, or in any dwelling, hotel or
other type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.04 HORNS AND SIGNAL DEVICES.
   The sounding of any horn or signal device on any automobile, motorcycle,
bus, streetcar or other vehicle while not in motion, except as a danger signal
if another vehicle is approaching apparently out of control or to give warning
of intent to get under motion, or if in motion, only as a danger signal after
or as brakes are being applied and deceleration of the vehicle is intended; the
creation by means of any such signal device of any unreasonably loud or harsh
sound; and the sounding of such device for an unnecessary and unreasonable
period of time are unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.05 ENGINE EXHAUSTS.
   The discharge into the open air of the exhaust of any steam engine,
stationary internal combustion engine or motor vehicle, except through a
muffler or other device which effectively prevents loud explosive noises
therefrom is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-5)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.06 VEHICLE DISTURBANCE.
   To make a commotion or make unnecessarily loud noises in vehicles, whereby
the peace and good order of the neighborhood is disturbed, or persons owning or
occupying property in the neighborhood are disturbed or annoyed, is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.07 RADIOS AND MUSICAL INSTRUMENTS.
   The playing of any radio, phonograph or any musical instrument in such a
manner or with such volume, particularly during the hours between 11:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. or at any time or place so as to annoy or disturb the quiet,
comfort or repose of persons in any office or in any dwelling, hotel or other
type of residence, or of any person in the vicinity is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-7)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.08 DEVICES TO ATTRACT ATTENTION.
   The use of any drum, loudspeaker, amplifier or other instrument or device
for the purpose of attracting attention for any purpose, is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.09 SOUND TRUCKS.
   To operate or cause to be operated a sound truck with radio or amplifier
within the city, without first having obtained a permit therefor from the
commission is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.10 HANDLING MERCHANDISE.
   The creating of a loud and excessive noise in connection with loading and
unloading any vehicle or the opening and destruction of bales, boxes, crates
and containers is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-10)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.11 PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS.
   No peddler or solicitor shall shout or cry out his or her goods or
merchandise, nor blow any horns, ring any bell or use any other similar device
to attract the attention of the public.
(Prior Code, § 17-11) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.12 ANIMALS AND BIRDS.
   The keeping of any animal or bird which, by causing frequent or long
continued noise, shall disturb the comfort or repose of any person is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-12)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.13 WHISTLE OR SIREN.
   The blowing of any whistle or siren, except to give notice of the time to
begin or stop work or as a warning of fire or danger is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-13)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.14 CONSTRUCTION WORK.
   The erection (including excavating), demolition, alteration or repair of any
building, the excavation of streets and highways, other than between the hours
of 7:00 a.m. and 6:00 p.m., unless a permit be first obtained from the
Department of Public Works is unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 17-14)
Penalty, see § 10.99
NUISANCES GENERALLY
§ 95.25 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the word NUISANCE is hereby defined as any
person doing an unlawful act, or omitting to perform a duty, or suffering or
permitting any condition or thing to be or exist, which act, omission,
condition or thing either:
   (A)   Injures the health or safety of others;
   (B)   Unlawfully interferes with, obstructs or tends to obstruct or renders
dangerous for passage any public or private street, highway, sidewalk, stream,
ditch or drainage and/or;
   (D)   Essentially interferes with the comfortable enjoyment of life and
property, or tends to depreciate the value of the property of others.
(Prior Code, § 18-1)
§ 95.26 ILLUSTRATIVE ENUMERATION.
   The maintaining, using, placing, depositing, leaving or permitting to be or
remain on any public or private property of any of the following items,
conditions or actions are hereby declared to be and constitute a nuisance;
provided, however, this enumeration shall not be deemed or construed to be
conclusive, limiting or restrictive:
   (A)   Noxious weeds and other rank vegetation;
   (B)   Accumulation of rubbish, trash, refuse, junk and other abandoned
materials, metals, lumber or other things;
   (C)   Any condition which provides harborage for rats, mice, snakes and
other vermin;
   (D)   Any building or other structure which is in such a dilapidated
condition that it is unfit for human habitation, or kept in such an unsanitary
condition that it is a menace to the health of people residing in the vicinity
thereof, or presents a more than ordinarily dangerous fire hazard in the
vicinity where it is located;
   (E)   All unnecessary or unauthorized noises and annoying vibrations,
including animal noises;
   (F)   All disagreeable or obnoxious odors and stenches, as well as the
conditions, substances or other causes which give rise to the emission or
generation of such odors and stenches;
   (G)   The carcasses of animals or fowl not disposed of within a reasonable
time after death;
   (H)   The pollution of any public well or cistern, stream, lake, canal or
body of water by sewage, dead animals, creamery, industrial wastes or other
substances;
   (I)   Any building, structure or other place or location where any activity
which is in violation of local, state or federal law is conducted, performed or
maintained;
   (J)   Any accumulation of stagnant water permitted or maintained on any lot
or piece of ground; and/or
   (K)   Dense smoke, noxious fumes, gas, soot or cinders, in unreasonable
quantities.
(Prior Code, § 18-2)
Charter reference:
   Authority to abate nuisances, see §
2.3(q), (v)
§ 95.27 PROHIBITION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to cause, permit, maintain or allow the
creation or maintenance of a nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 18-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.28 NOTICE TO ABATE.
   The City Commission may, by resolution, after investigation, determine that
a hazard or nuisance exists. The commission shall direct the Clerk to give the
notice by publication or by first class mail, addressed to the last known
address of the owner of the land upon which the nuisance exists or to the owner
of the building or structure itself, to abate the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 18-4)
§ 95.29 CONTENTS OF NOTICE.
   The notice to abate a nuisance issued under the provisions of this chapter
shall contain:
   (A)   An order to abate the nuisance or to request a hearing within a stated
time, which shall be reasonable under the circumstances;
   (B)   The location of the nuisance, if the same is stationary;
   (C)   A description of what constitutes the nuisance;
   (D)   A statement of acts necessary to abate the nuisance; and
   (E)   A statement that if the nuisance is not abated as directed and no
request for a hearing is made within the prescribed time, the city will abate
the nuisance and assess the cost thereof against the person.
(Prior Code, § 18-5)
§ 95.30 ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   If, at the expiration of the time limit specified in the notice to abate or
remove a nuisance, the owner has not complied with the requirements thereof, or
in any case where the owner of the land or of the building or structure itself
is not known, the City Commission may, by resolution, order such nuisance
abated under the direction of the City Manager by the proper department or
agency of the city, or may do the work by contract or by hire.
(Prior Code, § 18-6)
§ 95.31 EMERGENCY ABATEMENT BY CITY.
   When, in the opinion of the City Commission, there is actual and immediate
danger to the public or occupants of a particular premises caused by a nuisance
on such premises, the City Commission is hereby authorized and empowered,
without any notice or hearing, to order and require the premises to be vacated.
The City Manager shall immediately post the premises, warning of the dangerous
condition, and shall then abate the nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 18-7)
§ 95.32 DUTIES OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall take all steps necessary to carry out the directions
of the commission in abating a nuisance. He or she shall keep or cause to be
kept an accurate record of all expense in connection therewith. Upon completion
of the work to be performed, he or she shall submit a report of the work done
and all expenses in connection therewith to the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 18-8)
§ 95.33 ASSESSMENT OF COSTS.
   The City Commission shall, by resolution, after examination of the City
Manager’s report under §
95.32, determine what amount or part of each such expense shall be charged and
the person, if known, against whom, the premises upon which the same shall be
levied as a special assessment under §
154.003.
(Prior Code, § 18-9)
Charter reference:
   Assessments for removal of hazards, etc., see §
11.9
VEGETATION
§ 95.45 UNLAWFUL GROWTH OF WEEDS OR BRUSH.
   (A)   No owner of, or person in possession or control of, any lot or parcel
of land within the city of less than 5 acres in total area shall allow or
maintain upon any portion of such lot or parcel of land any growth of weeds or
brush, so as to create an unsightly, or unhealthy, or unsafe condition, or fire
hazard.
   (B)   No owner of, or person in possession or control of, any lot or parcel
of land within the city of more than 5 acres in total area shall allow or
maintain, upon any portion of the lot which lies within 500 feet of a public
thoroughfare or structure, whether public or private, any growth of weeds or
brush so as to create an unsightly, or unhealthy, or unsafe condition, or fire
hazard.
   (C)   Upon complaint of a violation of the provisions of this section or
upon his or her own observation, it shall be the duty of the building official
to investigate the complaint and the premises complained of. After the
investigation, if the building official determines that the condition of the
premises is such as to be in violation of this section, he or she shall issue
an order directing the owner or person in possession or control of the land
upon which the violation is committed, requiring the cutting of the brush,
within 10 days after receipt of the order. The order may be served personally
upon the owner or person in possession or control of the lot or parcel or if
not found within the city, by registered or certified mail upon the owner or
person at his or her last known address.
   (D)   If any owner of any lot or land or any person having charge of any lot
or land in the city shall violate the provisions of this section and fail to
comply with the order described in this section within 10 days from the receipt
thereof, he or she shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 31-1) (Ord. 87-6, passed 5-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Care of trees and shrubs along public roads, see M.C.L.A. §§ 247.241 et seq.
§ 95.46 NOXIOUS OR POISONOUS WEEDS.
   (A)   Cutting and removal. It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee or
occupant or any agent, servant, representative or employee of the owner, lessee
or occupant having control of any occupied or unoccupied lot or land or any
part thereof in the city to permit or maintain on any such lot or land or any
part thereof, including the greenbelt out to and abutting the developed public
street, in the city to permit or maintain on any such lot or land any growth of
weeds, grass or other rank vegetation to a greater height than eight (8) inches
on the average, or any accumulation of dead weeds, grass or brush. It shall
also be unlawful for any such, person: to cause, suffer or allow poison ivy,
ragweed or other poisonous plants, or plants detrimental to health to grow on
any such lot or land in such manner that any part of such: ivy, ragweed or
other poisonous or harmful, weed shall extend upon, overhang or border any
public place onto allow seed, pollen or other poisonous particles or emanations
therefrom to be carried through the air into public places.
(Prior Code, § 31-11)
   (B)   Duty of owner, lessee or occupant. It shall be the duty of any owner,
lessee or occupant of any lot or land to cut and remove or cause to be cut and
removed or destroyed by lawful means all such weeds, grass or other rank,
poisonous or harmful vegetation as often as may be necessary to comply with the
provisions of this subchapter, provided that the cutting, removing or
destroying of the weeds, grass and vegetation at least once in every month
during the growing season beginning April 1 shall be deemed to be in compliance
with this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 31-12)
   (C)   Exemptions. Exempted from the provisions of this subchapter are flower
gardens, plots of shrubbery, vegetable gardens and small grain plots. An
exemption under the terms of this subchapter cannot be claimed unless the land
has been subjected to cultural operations.
(Prior Code, § 31-13)
   (D)   Enforcement. If the provisions of this article are not complied with,
the City Clerk shall notify the owner of the premises 1 time during a season by
first class mail, to comply with the provisions of this subchapter within a
time to be specified in the notice. The notice shall require compliance within
10 days after mailing of the notice, and if the notice is not complied with
within the time limit, the City Clerk shall cause the weeds, grass and other
vegetation to be removed or destroyed, thereafter no notice shall be given, but
rather the City Clerk will cause the weeds, grass and other vegetation to be
removed or destroyed whenever the provisions of this subchapter are not
complied with. The actual cost of the cutting plus an administrative charge as
set by City Commission resolution shall become a lien against the premises and
the owner shall be invoiced. If by December 31, the debt is still outstanding,
the fee shall become a lien against the premises and shall be placed on the
July tax roll for collection. The removal, cutting or destruction of weeds,
grass and other vegetation may be completed by the Department of Public Works
or an agent retained by the city.
(Prior Code, § 31-11)
(Ord. 95-7, passed 12-7-1995; Am. Ord. 96-7, passed 6-20-1996; Am. Ord. 2019-
001, passed 2-7-2019) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 95.47 REGULATION IN STREET AREAS BY CITY MANAGER.
   No person except the city shall plant, remove or destroy any ornamental
shade tree or shrub in any public right-of-way unless authorized by the City
Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31-21) (Ord. 87-6, passed 5-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.48 ATTACHING OBJECTS TO TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY PROHIBITED.
   No person shall attach any guy, rope, wire, cable, or other contrivance
whatsoever to any tree in any right-of-way or use the same for any banner, sign
or business purpose whatever.
(Prior Code, § 31-22) (Ord. 87-6, passed 5-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.49 PERMIT REQUIRED FOR CUTTING OR TRIMMING TREES IN RIGHT-OF-WAY.
   No person shall cut, trim, or otherwise mutilate any tree in any right-of-
way to make room for telephone, telegraph or electric line wires, moving of
buildings or machinery, or building sidewalk, without first obtaining a permit
from the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31-23) (Ord. 87-6, passed 5-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 95.50 PERMIT REQUIRED TO PLANT CERTAIN TREE SPECIES.
   No person shall plant any poplar, box elder, basswood, cottonwood, willow,
maple, common catalpa, horsechestnut tree or ailanthus glandulosa on any
private property, without, first obtaining a written permit to do so from the
City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 31-24) (Ord. 87-6, passed 5-7-1987)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 96: HANDBILLS
Section
   
96.01   Short title
   
96.02   Statement of purpose
   
96.03   Definitions
   
96.04   Placing handbills in vehicles prohibited
   
96.05   Prohibiting distribution of handbills where properly posted
   
96.06   Distribution of handbills on private premises
   
96.07   Exemption
   
96.08   Certain existing ordinances not affected
 
   
96.99   Violations and penalties
§ 96.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the "Handbill Ordinance."
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This is a chapter to protect the people against the nuisance of the
promiscuous distribution of handbills and circulars. The objective is to
prohibit the resulting detriment and danger to public health and safety and to
the public interest. The purposes of this chapter are specifically declared to
include the following:
   (A)   To protect local residents against trespassing by solicitors,
canvassers or handbill distributors upon the private property of such residents
if they have given reasonable notice that they do not wish to be solicited by
such persons or do not desire to receive handbills or advertising matter.
   (B)   To protect the people against the health and safety menace and the
expense incident to the visual blight created by the promiscuous and
uncontrolled distribution of handbills.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.03 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms and phrases, when used in this chapter, have the
meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context clearly
indicates a different meaning:
   HANDBILL. Any printed or written matter, any sample or device, dodger,
circular, leaflet, pamphlet, magazine, paper booklet, or any other printed or
otherwise reproduced original or copies of any matter or literature not a
newspaper.
   LANGUAGE CONSTRUCTION. Words singular in form may include the plural; and
words plural in form may include the singular; and words in the masculine
gender shall include the feminine.
   NEWSPAPER. Any newspaper of general circulation as defined by general law,
any newspaper duly entered with the Post Office Department of the United
States, in accordance with Federal Statute or regulation, and any newspaper
filed and recorded with any recording officer as provided by general law; and,
in addition thereto, shall mean and include any periodical or current magazine
regularly published with not less than four issues per year, and sold to the
public.
   PERSON. Any person, firm, partnership, association, corporation, company or
organization of any kind.
   PRIVATE PREMISES. Any dwelling house, building, or other structure, designed
or used either wholly or in part for private residential purposes, whether
inhabited or temporarily or continuously uninhabited or vacant, and shall
include any yard, grounds, walk, driveway, porch, steps, vestibule or mailbox
belonging or appurtenant to such dwelling, house, building, or other structure.
   PUBLIC PLACE. Any and all streets, boulevards, avenues, lanes, alleys, or
other public ways, and any and all public parks, squares, spaces, plazas,
grounds and buildings.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.04 PLACING HANDBILLS IN VEHICLES PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw,
scatter or cast any handbill in or upon any automobile or other vehicle. The
provisions of this section shall not be deemed to prohibit the handing,
transmitting or distributing of any handbill to the owner or other occupant of
any automobile or other vehicle who is willing to accept the same.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.05 PROHIBITING DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS WHERE PROPERLY POSTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to distribute, deposit, place, throw,
scatter or cast any handbill upon any premises, if requested by anyone thereon
not to do so, or if there is placed on said premises in a conspicuous position
near the entrance thereof, a sign bearing the words: "No handbills," "No
peddlers" or "agents," "No advertisement," "No solicitors" or any similar
notice indicating in any manner that the occupants of said premises do not
desire to have their right of privacy disturbed, or to have any such handbills
left upon such premises.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.06 DISTRIBUTION OF HANDBILLS ON PRIVATE PREMISES.
   No person shall distribute, deposit, place, throw, scatter or cast any
handbill in or upon any private premises, except by handing or transmitting any
such handbill directly to the owner, occupant, or any other person then present
in or upon such private premises; provided, however, that in case of private
premises, unless requested by anyone upon such premises not to do so, may place
or deposit any such handbill in or upon such inhabited private premises, if
such handbill is so placed or deposited on a porch; near the front door;
securely attached to a front door; through a mail slot; between an exterior and
interior front door; or in a distribution box except that mailboxes may not be
so used when so prohibited by applicable Federal postal laws or regulations.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.07 EXEMPTION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be deemed to apply to the
distribution of mail by the United States or to newspapers as defined in this
chapter.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.08 CERTAIN EXISTING ORDINANCES NOT AFFECTED.
   This chapter shall not be deemed to repeal, amend or modify any ordinance
ever ordained, either prohibiting, regulating or licensing canvassers, hawkers,
peddlers, transient merchants, or any person, using the public streets or
places for any private business or enterprise, or for commercial sales, not
covered herein.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
§ 96.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys, neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes, allows, or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction. The fines
shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of the Court.
The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the city to
proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper remedies.
Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses,
direct and indirect, which the city incurs in connection with the municipal
civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   The city may seek injunctive relief against persons alleged to be in
violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Police
Department, an Ordinance Enforcement Officer of the city or by such other
person(s) as designated by the City Manager or the City Commission from time to
time.
(Ord. 2019-006, passed 5-16-2019)
CHAPTER 97: ARTS, CULTURE AND HISTORY
Section
Arts, Culture and History Commission
   
97.01   Enabling provisions
   
97.02   Purpose, objectives and duties
   
97.03   Membership
   
97.04   Ethics and conflicts of interest
   
97.05   Officers
   
97.06   Meetings
   
97.07   Agenda and order of business
   
97.08   Committees and work groups
   
97.09   Parliamentary authority
   
97.10   Amendment to bylaws
ARTS, CULTURE AND HISTORY COMMISSION
§ 97.01 ENABLING PROVISIONS.
   The City of Marine City hereby creates and establishes a commission to be
called and known as the “Marine City Arts, Culture and History Commission”
(hereinafter “Commission”).
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.02 PURPOSE, OBJECTIVES AND DUTIES.
   (A)   The purpose of the Commission is to help enrich the lives of the
people of the City of Marine City by making historical, visual, literary,
musical, culinary, and performing arts vital elements in the life of our
community. The Commission works to support historical preservation, economic
development,
tourism, and add warmth, dignity, beauty to spaces accessible to the public.
The Commission also works to expand the experience and participation of
citizens with the arts.
   (B)   The Commission is an advisory body and is limited to performing the
tasks enumerated in these bylaws or otherwise delegated to it by City
Commission. The Commission is charged with the following powers and duties:
      (1)   Develop guidelines, subject to the approval of City Commission, to
implement the provisions of this chapter, including procedures for historic
preservation activities, specifically those dealing with historic City Hall
located at 300 Broadway Street, developing and supporting cultural activities,
projects and programs, soliciting and selecting public art and for determining
suitable locations for public art to propose to the City Commission for
approval;
      (2)   By March 1 of each year, the Commission shall submit to City
Commission a plan detailing potential projects and desirable goals to be
pursued in the next fiscal year, including enhanced projects and any proposed
expenditure of donated, grant, or other funds. The plan shall also include a
recommendation as to which projects from the capital improvements plan are
appropriate for designation as enhanced projects;
      (3)   Work with city staff to determine which capital improvement
projects are appropriate for designation as an enhanced project and what type
and amount of public art may be appropriate for such projects;
      (4)   Make recommendations, subject to the approval of the City
Commission, regarding historic preservation activities, recommendations for
cultural programs and activities, disbursement of public art funds to acquire,
produce, install, maintain, alter, relocate or remove public art;
      (5)   Raise funds above and beyond the funds for historic preservation
activities, cultural programs and activities, public art and public art
programs that are included as part of an enhanced project, interact with donors
of funds or art works on behalf of the city, and foster public/private
partnerships to support the charge of the Commission. All funds collected shall
be deposited in a designated city fund, purchases, disbursement and control of
all funds shall follow policies and procedures as established by the City
Commission;
      (6)   Promote awareness of historical preservation, cultural activities
and public art;
      (7)   Encourage resident and student participation and interactions with
historical preservation, cultural activities and public art;
      (8)   Present an annual report to City Commission within 90 days after
the end of each fiscal year containing:
         (a)   A report on the status of all historic preservation, cultural
and public art activities and programs undertaken by the Commission or funded
by the city whether in progress or completed during the preceding fiscal year;
         (b)   A maintenance report on each work of historic preservation,
cultural or public art activity of program presently under city management
detailing maintenance costs for the preceding fiscal year, anticipated
maintenance costs for the next fiscal year, and any significant future
maintenance concerns, including prioritized recommendations for the
maintenance, repair or renovation of particular works;
         (c)   A report on the Commission’s efforts to promote awareness of
historic preservation, cultural programs or public art;
         (d)   A report on donations or grants received in the preceding fiscal
year and the disposition of such funds including a detailed listing of
activities, programs and activities undertaken;
         (e)   A report on additional funds raised and how such funds were
used; and
         (f)   Any other matter of substantial financial or public importance
relating to the historic preservation, cultural activities and public art in
the city.
      (9)   Perform any related duty delegated by City Commission;
      (10)   Provide advice to and assist both potential donors and other
governmental or non-profit entities of art, artifacts, in-kind activities;
      (11)   Make recommendations regarding possible public locations for
placement of art or historic artifacts when such art cannot be placed on any
city property or incorporated into a capital project of the city;
      (12)   Seek public input through the city’s public engagement process.
This process may include, but is not limited to, website and social media,
electronic messages, public meetings, forums, and workshops online or other
surveys;
      (13)   For architectural enhancements proposed under this chapter, work
collaboratively with planning staff, project management staff, systems planning
staff, and city administrators, as appropriate, to develop concepts for those
enhancements, which shall be submitted to City Commission for approval or
inclusion as part of the capital improvement budget process.
   (C)   The Commission does not have authority to enter into contracts or
otherwise create a contractual obligation for the city. The acceptance or
purchase of historical artifacts, acceptance, purchase and selection of public
works of art, assignment of work to artists, consultants and contractors to
design, create, maintain or perform work otherwise related to historic
preservation, cultural activities and programs and public works of art, and all
contracts for such, shall be done and awarded in accordance with the city code
and city policies and procedures governing the award of contracts.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.03 MEMBERSHIP.
   (A)   The Commission consists of nine voting members nominated by the Mayor
and approved by City Commission. Membership shall at a minimum, consist of one
member from each of the following: Historical Commission, Historical Society,
Planning Commission, City Commission, Chamber of Commerce and four members at
large. Appointments shall take into consideration candidates who have the
following expertise or affiliation:
      (1)   Persons who, insofar as possible, have experience and/or an
interest in historic preservation, cultural programming and public art.
   (B)   All members of the Commission, including members of its subcommittees,
shall serve without compensation.
   (C)   Each voting member is appointed to a three-year term. Appointments are
staggered so that one third of the voting members’ terms expire each year.
   (D)   The majority of the Commission membership (six members) shall be a
registered electors of the city at the time of appointment. The remaining three
members are not required to be registered electors of the city.
   (E)   No member shall be allowed to hold over for more than 90 days beyond
the appointed term whether or not a successor has been appointed.
   (F)   The Mayor shall notify City Commission of the expiration of a member’s
term at least 30 days prior whenever possible and shall present to City
Commission all proposed reappointments no later than 60 days after the
expiration of the term.
   (G)   Any vacancy on the Commission occurring in the middle of a term shall
be filled for the remainder of the term in the same manner as for full-term
appointments.
   (H)   Members are expected to attend regularly scheduled meetings and to
notify the chair and City Commission liaison in advance if they expect to be
tardy or absent. If a member misses more than three regularly scheduled
meetings in a 12-month period, the Chair shall notify the Mayor and may
recommend removal of the member.
   (I) A member of the Commission may be removed for cause by the Mayor with
the approval of City Commission.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.04 ETHICS AND CONFLICTS OF INTEREST.
   (A)   A member of the Commission shall abstain from discussion or voting on
any matter in which that member has a real or apparent conflict of interest.
Decisions regarding conflicts of interest shall be evaluated on a case-by-case
basis with reasonable application of the principles provided in this chapter. A
conflict of interest shall at a minimum include, but is not necessarily limited
to:
      (1)   Discussing, voting on, or otherwise acting on a matter in which a
member or any person in the member’s immediate family, the member’s partner, or
an entity with whom the member has family or business ties has a direct
financial or beneficial interest.
      (2)   Discussing, voting on, or otherwise acting on a matter involving
work on property which is owned by that member or which is adjacent to property
owned by that member.
      (3)   Discussing, voting on, or otherwise acting on a matter when the
member’s employee or employer is an applicant or agent for an applicant, or
has a direct financial or beneficial interest in the outcome.
   (B)   A member of the Commission shall not solicit or accept gratuities,
favors, or anything of monetary value from persons or entities in a position to
benefit from a decision of the Commission.
   (C)   A member of the Commission shall not obtain, for the member or for any
person with whom the member has business or family ties, any financial or
beneficial interest in a matter which may be affected by a decision of the
Commission. This restriction shall apply during the member’s tenure on the
Commission and for one year thereafter.
   (D)   A member of the Commission shall disclose the general nature of any
potential conflict, real or apparent, and, except when it violates a
confidence, shall disclose all pertinent facts relating to the potential
conflict. These disclosures shall be made prior to discussion and voting when
possible and shall be recorded in the minutes of the proceedings. If the member
believes that the potential conflict warrants abstention, the member may then
abstain from discussion and voting on the matter.
   (E)   A member who cannot vote due to a conflict of interest shall, during
deliberation of the matter before the Commission, leave the meeting or the area
where the members sit until action on the matter is concluded.
   (F)   When a question has arisen as to whether a member is ineligible to
participate in discussion or
vote on a matter because of a conflict of interest, the Commission may
determine that the member is ineligible due to a conflict of interest by a vote
of a majority of the other members present. Upon such a determination, the
ineligible member shall not participate in discussion or vote on the matter.
   (G)   Members shall not act, hold themselves out, or permit themselves to be
perceived as official representatives or spokespersons for the city or
Commission without authorization from the Commission or the Chair. When
communicating for personal purposes on matters that may relate to the
Commission’s business, members shall clearly indicate that their statements are
made in a personal capacity and do not necessarily reflect the views of the
Commission. Whenever a member is asked to speak on behalf of the Commission,
the member shall seek permission of the Commission or the Chair in advance.
   (H)   To maintain public confidence in the objectivity of the Commission and
to avoid the appearance of bias or prejudice, a member shall not speak or
appear before the Commission on behalf of or as a representative of a potential
or actual petitioner. A member should avoid speaking or appearing before
another entity on behalf of or as a representative of a potential or actual
petitioner and shall inform the Commission and recuse themselves from such a
petition if the member does so. Outside of a Commission meeting, a member shall
not advise an actual or potential petitioner regarding a petition, except to
inform the petitioner of factual procedures of the Commission. This section
does not preclude a member from discussing a petition within the scope of the
Commission’s duties at a Commission meeting.
   (I)   Members shall conduct themselves in a fair, courteous, and
understanding manner at all times in the discharge of their duties and shall
avoid exchanges or actions based upon personal differences. Members shall be
respectful of other members, the public, petitioners, and city staff.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.05 OFFICERS.
   (A)   The officers of the Commission shall be a Chair, Vice-Chair, and
Recording Secretary. The officers shall be elected each year from among the
voting members of the Commission. The officers shall be elected for a one-year
term by a majority of the voting members currently serving on the Commission.
No member shall serve more than three consecutive full terms in the same
office. The term of each officer shall run from the date of the Commission’s
first regular meeting in January to the date of theCommission’s regular meeting
in January of the following year. Elections of officers shall be held no later
than the month before the officers’ terms expire.
   (B)   The Chair shall preside at all meetings and shall decide points of
order and procedure subject to the provisions of these bylaws. The Chair shall
ensure that all meetings are conducted in an efficient and respectful manner.
The Chair shall have the privilege of discussing and voting on all matters
before the Commission. The Vice-Chair shall assume the duties of the Chair in
the Chair’s absence.
   (C)   When an office becomes vacant before the expiration of the current
term (whether by resignation, removal, incapacity, or other circumstance), the
vacancy shall be filled by election in the same manner as for full-term
officers and the new officer shall serve the remainder of the term. The
replacement officer shall be elected at the next regularly scheduled meeting or
as soon as practicable. The Vice-Chair may be elected as replacement chair, in
which case a replacement Vice-Chair shall be elected at the same time.
   (D)   No member may hold more than one office at the same time.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.06 MEETINGS.
   (A)   The Commission shall schedule regular meetings at least 12 times per
year (every month). The entire schedule of regular meetings for the upcoming
year shall be posted within 15 days after the first meeting of the year. A
change in the schedule of regular meetings must be approved by the Commission
and notice of the change shall be posted in accordance with provisions of the
Michigan Open Meetings Act.
   (B)   Special meetings may be called by the Chair or by the written
concurrence of three voting members. Public notice of the special meeting shall
be posted at least 18 hours prior to the scheduled starting time. Except when
the special meeting is a rescheduled regular meeting, the purpose of the
special meeting should be stated in the public notice and the Commission should
not conduct any business beyond the purpose stated in the public notice, except
by unanimous consent of the voting members present.
   (C)   The Commission may hold nonvoting working meetings to carry on the
work of Commission. Public notice of the working meeting shall be posted at
least 18 hours prior to the scheduled starting time.
   (D)   Public notice of regularly scheduled Committee meetings shall be
posted in the same manner as the schedule of regular Commission meetings.
Public notice of non-regularly scheduled or special Committee meetings shall be
posted at least 18 hours prior to the scheduled starting time.
   (E)   Public notice of all meetings shall be posted at City Hall or at any
location designated by City Commission.
   (F)   The Chair may cancel a meeting if there is no business on the agenda
or if it is clear that a quorum will not be present. The Chair may cancel a
meeting due to weather, emergency, or other circumstances that may
substantially limit the ability of members of the Commission or the public to
attend. The Chair shall give notice of cancellation to members of the
Commission and the City Commission liaison as soon as possible and at least two
hours prior to the scheduled meeting time, when practicable. Cancelled regular
meetings may be rescheduled in the same manner as special meetings. All
cancelled meetings must be posted no later than 18 hours prior the regular
scheduled meeting date.
   (G)   The presence of more than 50% of voting members shall constitute a
quorum. The concurring vote of the majority of all members present and eligible
to vote is required for the Commission to act. The right to vote is limited to
members of the Commission actually present at the time the vote is taken at a
lawfully called meeting. A member who is not eligible to vote on a matter
because of a conflict of interest shall not be counted in establishing a quorum
for that matter.
   (H)   Voting shall be by roll call vote and recorded in the meeting minutes.
The Chair shall state the outcome of each vote.
   (I)   The Commission shall keep minutes of all regular and special meetings
of the Commission in accordance with city administrative policies and
direction.
   (J)   Notwithstanding the foregoing, all meetings of the Commission shall be
open to the public and conducted in accordance with the Michigan Open Meetings
Act, as amended from time-to-time. Closed sessions may be called for purposes
listed in the Open Meetings Act.
   (K)   Public comment shall be allowed at all meetings. An individual may
speak for up to three minutes on any item open for public comment. The Chair
may extend an individual’s speaking time in the Chair’s discretion. Public
comment on non-agenda items may be limited in the Chair’s discretion.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.07 AGENDA AND ORDER OF BUSINESS.
   (A)   An agenda for each meeting of the Commission shall be developed by the
Chair in consultation with members of the Commission as needed. To the extent
practicable, agendas, resolutions, and materials for all regular meetings
shall be made available to the public and members of the Commission at least 48
hours before the meeting’s scheduled starting time.
   (B)   The order of business at regular meetings shall generally be as
follows. When setting the agenda, the order of business may be adjusted by the
Chair. The order of business may also be suspended or modified by a majority
vote of those members present.
      (1)   Call to order;
      (2)   Pledge of Allegiance/moment of silence;
      (3)   Roll call;
      (4)   Approval of agenda;
      (5)   Approval of minutes of previous meetings;
      (6)   Public comment;
      (7)   Regular or new business;
      (8)   Unfinished business;
      (9)   Communications and committee member comments;
      (10)   Adjournment.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.08 COMMITTEES AND WORK GROUPS.
   (A)   The Commission may create standing or special committees to assist in
the work of the Commission. Standing committees may, but need not be, described
in the bylaws. Each committee shall include at least one member of the
Commission and may include nonmembers in the Commission’s discretion. Members
of committees shall be appointed by the Chair and approved by the Commission.
   (B)   The Commission may also create work groups or designate certain
members to perform research or develop recommendations on specific topics
without creating a committee. Prior to creating a committee, the Commission
shall consult with city staff to review the necessity of the committee and
whether adequate resources exist to support the committee.
   (C)   Each committee should have clearly defined tasks, preferably in
writing, and, except for standing committees, should have a specific timeframe
in which to perform their delegated tasks. Committees shall be limited to
performing the tasks delegated to them by the Commission and shall report to
the Commission.Committees are subject to applicable city administrative
policies and procedures. All recommendations to the City Commission shall be
made by the Commission and not by a subcommittee of the Commission.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.09 PARLIAMENTARY AUTHORITY.
   (A)   The rules contained in the current edition of Robert’s Rules of Order
shall guide the Commission; however, parliamentary procedure shall be flexible
and may be adjusted in the Chair’s discretion to best serve the needs of the
Commission. Nevertheless, all parliamentary procedures must be consistent with
these bylaws and city policies.
   (B)   The Commission shall not adopt or follow any operating rules,
regulations, guidelines, or procedures not expressly prescribed by these
bylaws.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 97.10 AMENDMENT TO BYLAWS.
   (A)   Amendments to bylaws approved by the Commission may be approved at any
regular meeting by a two-thirds vote of all voting members currently serving on
the Commission. Proposed amendments must have been submitted in writing at the
previous
regular meeting to be considered. Proposed amendments must be submitted to the
City Attorney for review prior to adoption by the Commission. After adoption by
the Commission, the bylaws are not effective until approved by City Commission.
   (B)   The bylaws shall be reviewed annually by the Commission for possible
amendment.
(Ord. 24-010, passed 12-5-2024)
TITLE XI: BUSINESS REGULATIONS
Chapter
   
110.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
111.   BED-AND-BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
   
112.   TELECOMMUNICATIONS
   
113.   ADVERTISING
   
114.   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
   
115.   AMUSEMENTS
   
116.   PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
   
117.   SECONDHAND GOODS
   
118.   VEHICLES FOR HIRE
   
119.   MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
   
120.   KEY LOCK BOXES
CHAPTER 110: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Licensing Provisions
   
110.01   Definitions
   
110.02   License required
   
110.03   Application
   
110.04   Possession of other license; no exemption
   
110.05   Multiple businesses
   
110.06   Term; renewal
   
110.07   Conditions for issuance
   
110.08   Where certification required
   
110.09   Fire safety certificate
   
110.10   Police Chief’s certificate
   
110.11   Zoning certificate
   
110.12   Bonds
   
110.13   Right to issuance
   
110.14   Payment of fees
   
110.15   Fee schedule
   
110.16   Renewal
   
110.17   Late renewals
   
110.18   Exhibition generally
   
110.19   Transferability; misuse
   
110.20   Automatic revocation for misuse
   
110.21   Cumulation of provisions
   
110.22   Suspension or revocation
Initial Business License
   
110.40   Initial license
   
110.41   General business license renewal
   
110.42   Exclusions
Temporary Business License
   
110.60   Temporary business defined
   
110.61   License required
   
110.62   Certification of Police Chief and Treasurer required
Charter reference:
   Licensing authority, see §
2.3(r)
GENERAL LICENSING PROVISIONS
§ 110.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BUSINESS. Includes all kinds of vocations, occupations, professions,
enterprises, establishments and all other kinds of activities and matters,
together with all devices, machines, vehicles and appurtenances used therein,
any of which are conducted for private profit or benefit, either directly or
indirectly, where the owner currently holds a tax identification number in
their own right or doing business as, on any premises in the city, or anywhere
else within its jurisdiction. A business operated under one singular tax
identification number, even if there are multiple locations or facilities, or
the owner is doing business as more than one business name, will be considered
one business and is subject to one business license. Wherein a singular space
exists where multiple individual business owners conduct their operation as
vendors, each shall have their own business license should they have their own
tax identification number unless the owner/leasee of the space is operating as
an umbrella company and thereby acting as responsible party for all vendors
operating therein, then the building owner/leasee shall maintain a business
license within the city.
   LICENSE or LICENSEE. Includes, respectively, the words PERMIT or PERMITTEE
or the holder for any use or period of time of any similar privilege, wherever
relevant to any provision of this subchapter or other law or ordinance.
   PERSON. Includes individual, natural persons, partnerships, joint ventures,
societies, associations, clubs, trustees, trusts or corporations; or any
officers,  agents, employees, factors or any kind of personal representatives
of any thereof in any capacity, acting either for himself, herself or for any
other person, under either personal appointment or pursuant to law.
   PREMISES. Includes all lands, structures, places and also the equipment and
appurtenances connected or used therewith in any business, and also any
personal property which is either affixed to, or is otherwise used in
connection with any such business and where business patrons are invited into
for the purpose of conducting business on the premises.
(Prior Code, § 14-1) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.02 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage, or be engaged, in the operation, conduct or carrying
on of any trade, profession, business or privilege for which a license is
required by any provision of this code without first obtaining a license from
the city in the manner provided for in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-2) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.03 APPLICATION.
   Unless otherwise provided in this code, every person required to obtain a
license from the city to engage in the operation, conduct or carrying on of any
trade, profession, business or privilege shall make application for the license
to the City Clerk upon forms provided by the City Clerk and shall state under
oath or affirmation such facts as may be required for or applicable to the
granting of the license.
(Prior Code, § 14-3) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.04 POSSESSION OF OTHER LICENSE; NO EXEMPTION.
   The fact that a license or permit has been granted to any person by any
other governmental authority or agency to engage in the operation, conduct or
carrying on of any trade, profession, business or privilege shall not exempt
the person from the necessity of securing a license or permit from the city if
the license or permit is required by this code.
(Prior Code, § 14-4) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.05 MULTIPLE BUSINESSES.
   The granting of a license or permit to any person operating, conducting or
carrying on any trade, profession, business or privilege which contains within
itself, or is composed of, trades, professions, businesses or privileges which
are required by this code to be licensed, shall not relieve the person to whom
the license or permit is granted from the necessity of securing individual
licenses or permits for each such trade, profession, business or privilege.
(Prior Code, § 14-5) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.06 TERM; RENEWAL.
   Except as otherwise herein provided as to certain licenses, the license year
shall begin January 1 of each year and shall terminate at midnight on December
31 of that year. New licenses obtained after January 1 will be issued for the
balance of the license year at the full license fee. License applications for
license renewals shall be accepted and licenses issued in accordance to §
110.41. In all cases where the provisions of this code permit the issuance of
licenses for periods of less than one year, the effective date of the licenses
shall commence with the date of issuance thereof.
(Prior Code, § 14-6) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 96-6, passed 5-2-1996;
Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-2022)
§ 110.07 CONDITIONS FOR ISSUANCE.
   No license or permit required by this code shall be issued to any person who
is required to have a license or permit from any other governmental agency
until the person shall submit evidence of the license or permit and proof that
all fees pertaining thereto have been paid. No license shall be issued to any
applicant therefor until the applicant has complied with all of the provisions
of this code applicable to the trade, profession, business or privilege for
which application for license is made. No license or permit required under the
provisions of this code shall be issued to any person who is indebted or
obligated to the city for any sum of money, other than for current taxes.
(Prior Code, § 14-7) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.08 WHERE CERTIFICATION REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued where the certification of any officer of the
city is required prior to the issuance thereof until the certification is made.
(Prior Code, § 14-8) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.09 FIRE SAFETY CERTIFICATE.
   In all cases where the certification of the Fire Department is required
prior to the issuance of any license by the City Clerk, the certification shall
be based upon an actual inspection and a finding that the premises in which the
person making application for the license proposes to conduct or is conducting
the trade, profession, business or privilege, comply with all the fire
regulations of the state and of the city. The inspection is to be conducted by
Fire Department personnel possessing the appropriate state required criterial
to conduct a fire safety inspection.
(Prior Code, § 14-9) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.10 POLICE CHIEF’S CERTIFICATE.
   In all cases where the certification of the Chief of Police is required
prior to the issuance of any license by the City Clerk, the criteria for
certification shall be the applicant’s compliance with federal, state, and
local laws.
(Prior Code, § 14-10) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 13-03, passed 6-20-2013;
Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-2022)
§ 110.11 ZONING CERTIFICATE.
   In all cases where the carrying on of the trade, profession, business or
privilege involves the use of any structure or land, a license therefor shall
not be issued until the City Building Official shall certify that the proposed
use is not prohibited by zoning regulations of the city, or is a nonconforming
use as defined by the zoning ordinance. In cases of nonconforming uses, the
zoning certificate so shall indicate that use.
(Prior Code, § 14-11) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.12 BONDS.
   Where the provisions of this code require that the applicant for any license
or permit furnish a bond, the bond shall be furnished in an amount deemed
adequate by the proper city officer, or, where the amount thereof is specified
in the schedule of fees and bonds set out in §
110.15 or elsewhere in this code, in the amount so required; the form of the
bond shall be acceptable to the City Attorney. In lieu of a bond, an applicant
for a license or permit may furnish one or more policies of insurance in the
same amounts and providing the same protection as called for in any such bond;
any such policies of insurance shall be approved as to substance by the city
official issuing the license or permit and as to form by the City Attorney.
(Prior Code, § 14-12) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.13 RIGHT TO ISSUANCE.
   If the application for any license is approved by the proper officers of the
city, as provided in this code, the license shall be issued and shall serve as
a receipt for payment of the fee prescribed for the license.
(Prior Code, § 14-13 (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.14 PAYMENT OF FEES.
   The fee required by this code for any license or permit shall be paid to the
city upon or before the issuance of the license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 14-14) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.15 FEE SCHEDULE.
   The city’s fee schedule may be amended from time to time by resolution of
the City Commission. Copies of the current fee schedule are available upon
request during regular business hours in the Office of the City Clerk or
available on the city’s website.
(Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-2022)
§ 110.16 RENEWAL.
   Unless otherwise provided in this Code, an application for renewal of a
license shall be considered in the same manner as an original applicationand in
compliance with §
110.41.
(Prior Code, § 14-16) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.17 LATE RENEWALS.
   For all licenses which are renewed 30 days or more late, a $25 late fee will
be assessed at the time the license is renewed.
(Prior Code, § 14-17) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.18 EXHIBITION GENERALLY.
   No licensee shall fail to carry any license issued in accordance with the
provisions of this subchapter upon their person at all times when engaged in
the operation, conduct or carrying on of any trade, profession, business or
privilege for which the license was issued; except that where the trade,
profession, business or privilege is operated, conducted or carried on at a
fixed place or establishment, the license shall be exhibited at all times in
some conspicuous place in their place of business. Every licensee shall produce
their license for examination when requested to do so by any city police
officer or by any person representing the issuing authority.
(Prior Code, § 14-18) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.19 TRANSFERABILITY; MISUSE.
   No license or permit issued under the provisions of this code shall be
transferable unless specifically authorized by the provisions of this code. No
licensee or permittee shall, unless specifically authorized by the provisions
of this code, transfer or attempt to transfer his or her license or permit to
another nor shall he make any improper use of the same.
(Prior Code, § 14-20) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.20 AUTOMATIC REVOCATION FOR MISUSE.
   In addition to the general penalty provision for violation thereof, any
attempt by a licensee or permittee to transfer his or her license or permit to
another, unless specifically authorized by the provisions of this code, or to
use the same improperly shall be void and result in the automatic revocation of
the license or permit.
(Prior Code, § 14-21) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.21 CUMULATION OF PROVISIONS.
   The general provisions of this subchapter and code relevant to licenses and
permits where not otherwise provided shall be deemed to be supplementary and
complementary to each other and shall be cumulative in the same manner as
though the provisions of this subchapter were included in the provisions of any
other chapter of this code relative to licenses or permits.
(Prior Code, § 14-23) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.22 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   (A)   (1)   The City Manager may suspend or revoke for cause any license or
permit issued by the city in the manner herein provided.
      (2)   The term CAUSE, as used in this section, shall include: omitting to
perform any act required by this code or the doing or omitting of any act or
permitting any condition to exist in connection with any trade, profession,
business or privilege, for which a license or permit is issued under the
provisions of this code, or any premises or facilities used in connection
therewith, which act, omission or condition is contrary to the health, morals,
safety or welfare of the public, is unlawful or fraudulent, is unauthorized or
beyond the scope of the license or permit granted, or is forbidden by the
provisions of this code or any duly established rule or regulation of the city
applicable to the trade, profession, business or privilege for which the
license or permit has been granted. The term cause as used in this section
shall also include the arrest and conviction of the licensee or permittee for
any crime involving moral turpitude.
(Prior Code, § 14-24)
   (B)   Where the City Manager shall determine that in the interests of the
public health, morals, safety or welfare an immediate suspension is necessary,
they shall order the same. In such cases, the City Manager shall forthwith send
a notice to the licensee or permittee by registered mail to their last known
address, which notice shall contain a statement of the charge against the
licensee or permittee and a definite time and place for a hearing of the charge
and shall order the licensee or permittee to show why their license or permit
should not be suspended for an additional period of time or revoked. Hearings
shall be conducted as set forth in division (C)(2) below.
(Prior Code, § 14-25)
   (C)   (1)   Whenever the City Manager shall have evidence to warrant the
suspension or revocation of a license or permit, he or she shall send a notice
to the licensee or permittee by registered mail to their last known address,
which notice shall contain a statement of the charge against the licensee or
permittee and a definite time and place for a hearing of the charge, and shall
order the licensee or permittee to show why their license or permit should not
be suspended or revoked.
      (2)   The City Commission shall conduct a hearing not less than 5 days
after the mailing of the above notice, at which time and place the licensee or
permittee shall have an opportunity to present a defense to the charge and to
cross-examine any witnesses and examine all evidence produced against them. The
decision of the City Commission shall be final and conclusive.
      (3)   No fee for any license or permit which has been suspended or
revoked pursuant to the provisions of this section shall be refunded.
(Prior Code, § 14-26) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
INITIAL BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 110.40 INITIAL LICENSE.
   (A)   No person shall open any business, as defined in §
110.01, or advertise any goods or services without having obtained an initial
business license. Persons conducting a business as of the effective date of the
ordinance from which this section was derived who are not already in possession
of a business license shall be required to get an initial business license.
(Prior Code, § 14-38)
   (B)   The application for an initial business license shall be made on forms
supplied by the City Clerk. The application shall provide sufficient
information in order to determine the type of business being conducted, the
merchandise or service being offered for sale, the location of the business,
the owners or officers of the business, and such other information as may be
necessary to effectively administer this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-39)
   (C)   (1)   No license shall be approved for an initial license until a
certificate of approval shall have been received from the Building Official,
Fire Department and the Police Chief following an inspection, and the zoning
certified as proper by the City Manager.
      (2)   All initial licenses shall be approved by the City Commission.
      (3)   No license shall be issued until the license fee is paid.
      (4)   Prior to the issuance of the initial license, the Building Official
shall certify that the premise meets all applicable code standards and
businesses are subject to a safety inspection by the Building Official as
deemed necessary.
(Prior Code, § 14-40) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.41 GENERAL BUSINESS LICENSE RENEWAL.
   (A)   (1)   All businesses, as defined in §
110.01, within the city shall, on an annual basis, renew their license for the
business with the city.
      (2)   The annual renewal period for all business licenses shall begin on
December 1.
   (B)   All business license renewals shall be on forms as provided by the
City Clerk.
   (C)   The applicable renewal fee will be charged in accordance with the
provisions of §
110.15.
   (D)   The city reserves the right to conduct random inspections.
(Prior Code, § 14-41) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
§ 110.42 EXCLUSIONS.
   Persons required to have a specific business license by another provision of
this code shall not be required to have an initial business license under this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 14-42) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 22-004, passed 10-20-
2022)
TEMPORARY BUSINESS LICENSE
§ 110.60 TEMPORARY BUSINESS DEFINED.
   Every person engaged in the retail sale and delivery of goods, wares or
merchandise shall be deemed to be engaged in carrying on a temporary business
unless his or her goods, wares or merchandise shall have been assessed for
taxation in the city during the current year.
(Prior Code, § 14-54) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Statutory reference:
   Transient merchants, M.C.L.A. §§ 445.371 et seq.
§ 110.61 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in a temporary business of selling goods, wares or
merchandise at retail within the city from any lot, premises, building, room or
structure, including railroad cars, without first obtaining a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 14-55) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 110.62 CERTIFICATION OF POLICE CHIEF AND TREASURER REQUIRED.
   No license shall be issued for a temporary business except upon
certification of the Chief of Police and City Treasurer.
(Prior Code, § 14-56) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
CHAPTER 111: BED-AND-BREAKFAST ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
111.01   License required
   
111.02   Application and fees
   
111.03   Authority for issuance and denial
   
111.04   Notification and public comment period for initial application
   
111.05   Renewal
   
111.06   Transfer
   
111.07   Suspension or revocation
   
111.08   Dwelling unit and site requirements
   
111.09   Requirements for operation
   
111.99   Penalty
§ 111.01 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to operate a bed-and-breakfast
establishment, as defined and as permitted in the zoning code, without first
having obtained a license. This chapter shall not apply to hotels, motels,
motor lodges or rooming houses doing business within the city.
(Prior Code, § 14-57) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.02 APPLICATION AND FEES.
   The annual fees for a bed-and-breakfast license shall be prescribed by
resolution of the City Commission for the whole or any part of a year and shall
be paid at the City Clerk’s office. Applicants for a license to operate a bed-
and breakfast establishment shall complete and submit an application and shall
submit a site plan of the single-family dwelling unit that illustrates that the
proposed operation will comply with the city’s zoning ordinance, as amended,
with the terms of this chapter and any other applicable City codes and
ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 14-58) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.03 AUTHORITY FOR ISSUANCE AND DENIAL.
   The city shall issue a license for a bed-and-breakfast operation if the city
finds that the applicant can meet all requirements of this chapter and of any
other applicable local, state or federal regulation. If the city finds that an
applicant cannot meet a particular requirement of these licensing requirements,
then the city shall have the authority to deny the applicant a license. The
denial may be appealed to the City Commission, which may then weigh the facts
of the case and make a final decision.
(Prior Code, § 14-59) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.04 NOTIFICATION AND PUBLIC COMMENT PERIOD FOR INITIAL APPLICATION.
   (A)   Upon receipt of a completed bed-and-breakfast license application, the
city shall notify all property owners within 300 feet of the bed-and-breakfast
operation’s proposed location.
   (B)   The notice shall inform property owners of a 14-day period for comment
to the city regarding the proposed operation.
(Prior Code, § 14-60) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.05 RENEWAL.
   The city may renew the license for any bed-and-breakfast operation, provided
that the licensed operation shall meet the following conditions:
   (A)   Annual inspection. The bed-and-breakfast operation shall meet all
conditions of this chapter as confirmed by an annual inspection of the premises
by the city.
   (B)   Lapse of license. The license for the bed-and-breakfast operation
shall not have lapsed for more than 30 days beyond the December 31 annual
expiration date.
   (C)   Lapse of operation. The active operation of the bed-and-breakfast
establishment shall not have lapsed for more than 9 months.
(Prior Code, § 14-61) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.06 TRANSFER.
   A bed-and-breakfast license may be renewed only as provided in §
111.05. The license shall not be transferable to any property other than the
property for which it was approved.
(Prior Code, § 14-62) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.07 SUSPENSION OR REVOCATION.
   The city shall have the authority to refuse to renew a license or to suspend
or revoke a license for continued and repeated violations of the provisions of
this chapter. A decision to suspend, revoke or refuse renewal of a license may
be appealed to the City Commission by the applicant. Any license issued under
the provisions of this chapter may be revoked by the City Commission for good
cause shown after investigation and opportunity to the holder of the licenses
to be heard in opposition thereto; in the investigation, the compliance or
noncompliance with the state law and local ordinances, the conduct of the
licensee in regard to the public and other consideration shall be weighed in
determination of the issues.
(Prior Code, § 14-63) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.08 DWELLING UNIT AND SITE REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   Bed-and-breakfast establishments shall be confined to the single-
family dwelling unit which is the principal dwelling unit on the property.
   (B)   No premises shall be utilized for a bed-and-breakfast establishment,
unless the following conditions are met:
      (1)   Geographical eligibility. The use shall conform to the location
requirements of the zoning code.
      (2)   Size of sleeping rooms. The rental sleeping rooms are part of the
primary residential use and are not specifically constructed or remodeled for
rental purposes. The rental sleeping rooms shall have a minimum size of 100
square feet for every 2 occupants, with an additional 30 square feet for each
additional occupant, not to exceed a maximum of 4 occupants per room.
      (3)   Smoke detectors. Each sleeping room used for the bed-and-breakfast
established shall have a separate smoke detector alarm, installed in accordance
with applicable building codes.
      (4)   Lavatory facilities. Lavatory and bathing facilities shall be
available to all persons using any bed-and-breakfast establishment.
      (5)   Minimum exists. There shall be at least 2 exits to the outdoors
from the premises. If rooms are provided in any third-floor areas, fire escapes
shall be provided in addition to the 2 exits required.
(Prior Code, § 14-64) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.09 REQUIREMENTS FOR OPERATION.
   (A)   The dwelling unit in which the bed-and-breakfast operation is located
shall be the principal residence of the operator, and the operator shall live
on the premises when the bed-and-breakfast establishment is active.
   (B)   In addition, the bed-and-breakfast establishment shall meet the
following conditions:
      (1)   Length of stay. The maximum stay for any occupant of the bed-and-
breakfast sleeping rooms shall be 14 consecutive days.
      (2)   Occupancy. Bed-and-breakfast establishment shall accommodate 8 or
fewer persons and be limited to 4 or fewer rental sleeping rooms.
      (3)   Guest register. Every operator shall keep a list of the names of
all persons staying at the bed-and-breakfast operation. The guest register
shall be available to inspection by city officials at any time.
      (4)   Change of use permit and certificate. Before a structure is
occupied as a bed-and-breakfast establishment, a permit shall be sought and a
related certificate of occupancy issued.
      (5)   Public nuisance. Bed-and-breakfast operations shall not be
permitted whenever the operation endangers or interferes with the safety or
rights of others so as to constitute a public nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 14-65) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
§ 111.99 PENALTY.
   It shall be a misdemeanor to violate this chapter and a fine of $500 or 90
days in jail, or both, may be assessed in the discretion of the court.
(Prior Code, § 14-66) (Ord. 88-11, passed 1-5-1989)
CHAPTER 112: TELECOMMUNICATIONS
Section
   
112.01   Purpose
   
112.02   Conflict
   
112.03   Definitions
   
112.04   Permit required
   
112.05   Issuance of permit
   
112.06   Construction/engineering permit
   
112.07   Conduit or utility poles
   
112.08   Route maps
   
112.09   Repair of damage
   
112.10   Maintenance fee; establishment and payment
   
112.11   Modification of existing fees
   
112.12   Use of funds
   
112.13   Annual report
   
112.14   Cable television operators
   
112.15   Existing rights
   
112.16   Compliance
   
112.17   Reservation of police powers
   
112.18   Authorized city officials
   
112.19   Effective date
   
112.99   Penalty
§ 112.01 PURPOSE.
   The purposes of this chapter are to regulate access to and ongoing use of
public rights-of-way by telecommunications providers for their
telecommunications facilities while protecting the public health, safety and
welfare and exercising reasonable control of the public rights-of-way in
compliance with the Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120 (Act No. 48 of the Public
Acts of 2002) (Act) and other applicable law, and to ensure that the city
qualifies for distributions under the Act by modifying the fees charged to
providers and complying with the Act.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.02 CONFLICT.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed in such a manner as to conflict
with the Act or other applicable law.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.03 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACT. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 484.3101 to 484.3120 (Act No. 48 of the Public
Acts of 2002), as amended from time to time.
      CITY. The City of Marine City.
      CITY COMMISSION. The City Commission of the City of Marine City or its
designee. This section does not authorize delegation of any decision or
function that is required by law to be made by the City Commission.
      CITY MANAGER. The City Manager or his or her designee.
      PERMIT. A non-exclusive permit issued pursuant to the Act and this
ordinance to a telecommunications provider to use the public rights-of-way in
the city for its telecommunications facilities.
   (B)   All other terms used in this chapter shall have the same meaning as
defined or as provided in the Act, including without limitation the following:
      AUTHORITY. The Metropolitan Extension Telecommunications Rights-of-Way
Oversight authority created pursuant to § 3 of the Act.
      MPSC. The Michigan Public Service Commission in the Department of
Consumer and Industry Services, and shall have the same meaning as the term
COMMISSION in the Act.
      PERSON. An individual, corporation, partnership, association,
governmental entity, or any other legal entity.
      TELECOMMUNICATION FACILITIES or FACILITIES. The equipment or personal
property, such as copper and fiber cables, lines, wires, switches, conduits,
pipes and sheaths, which are used to or can generate, receive, transmit, carry,
amplify or provide telecommunication services or signals. TELECOMMUNICATION
FACILITIES or FACILITIES do not include antennae, supporting structures for
antennas, equipment shelters or houses, and any ancillary equipment and
miscellaneous hardware used to provide federally licensed commercial mobile
service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of title III of the Communications Act
of 1934, Chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and further defined as
commercial mobile radio service in Title 47 C.F.R. § 20.3, and service provided
by any wireless, 2-way communication device.
      TELECOMMUNICATIONS PROVIDER, PROVIDER and TELECOMMUNICATIONS SERVICES.
Those terms as defined in § 102 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991
Public Act 179, M.C.L.A. § 484.2102. TELECOMMUNICATION PROVIDER does not
include a person or an affiliate of that person when providing a federally
licensed commercial mobile radio service as defined in § 332(d) of part I of
the Communications Act of 1934, chapter 652, 48 Stat. 1064, 47 U.S.C. § 332 and
further defined as commercial mobile radio service in Title 47 C.F.R. § 20.3,
or service provided by any wireless, 2-way communication device. For the
purpose of the Act and this chapter only, a PROVIDER also includes all of the
following:
         (a)   A cable television provider that provides a telecommunications
service;
         (b)   Except as otherwise provided by the Act, a person who owns
telecommunication facilities located within a public right-of-way; and/or
         (c)   A person providing broadband internet transport access service.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.04 PERMIT REQUIRED.
   (A)   Permit required. Except as otherwise provided in the Act, a
telecommunications provider using or seeking to use public rights-of-way in the
city for its telecommunications facilities shall apply for and obtain a permit
pursuant to this chapter.
   (B)   Application. Telecommunications providers shall apply for a permit on
an application form approved by the MPSC in accordance with § 6(1) of the Act.
A telecommunications provider shall file one copy of the application with the
City Clerk, one copy with the City Manager and one copy with the City Attorney.
Applications shall be complete and include all information required by the Act,
including without limitation a route map showing the location of the provider’s
existing and proposed facilities in accordance with § 6(5) of the Act.
   (C)   Confidential information. If a telecommunications provider claims that
any portion of the route maps submitted by it as part of its application
contain trade secret, proprietary or confidential information, which is exempt
from the Freedom of Information Act, 1976 Public Act 442, M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 to
15.246, pursuant to § 6(5) of the Act, the telecommunications provider shall
prominently so indicate on the face of each map.
   (D)   Application fee. Except as otherwise provided by the Act, the
application shall be accompanied by a 1-time non-refundable application fee in
the amount of $500.
   (E)   Additional information. The City Manager may request an applicant to
submit such additional information which the City Manager deems reasonably
necessary or relevant. The applicant shall comply with all such requests in
compliance with reasonable deadlines for such additional information
established by the City Manager. If the city and the applicant cannot agree on
the requirement of additional information required by the city, the city or the
applicant shall notify the MPSC as provided in § 6(2) of the Act.
   (F)   Previously issued permits. Pursuant to § 5(1) of the Act,
authorizations or permits previously issued by the city under § 251 of the
Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 Public Act 179, M.C.L.A. § 484.2251 and
authorizations or permits issued by the city to telecommunications providers
prior to the 1995 enactment of § 251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act but
after 1985 shall satisfy the permit requirements of this chapter.
   (G)   Existing providers. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, within 180 days
from November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, a telecommunications
provider with facilities located in a public right-of-way in the city as of
such date, that has not previously obtained authorization or a permit under §
251 of the Michigan Telecommunications Act, 1991 Public Act 179, M.C.L.A. §
484.2551 shall submit to the city an application for a permit in accordance
with the requirements of this chapter. Pursuant to § 5(3) of the Act, a
telecommunications provider submitting an application under this division is
not required to pay the $500 application fee required under division (D) above.
A provider under this division shall be given up to an additional 180 days to
submit the permit application if allowed by the Authority, as provided in § 5
(4) of the Act.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.05 ISSUANCE OF PERMIT.
   (A)   Approval or denial. The authority to approve or deny an application
for a permit is hereby delegated to the City Manager. Pursuant to § 15(3) of
the Act, the City Manager shall approve or deny the application for a permit
within 45 days from the date a telecommunications provider files an application
for a permit under §
112.04(B) for access to a public right-of-way within the city. Pursuant to § 6
(6) of the Act, the City Manager shall notify the MPSC when the City Manager
has granted or denied a permit, including information regarding the date on
which the application was filed and the date on which permit was granted or
denied. The City Manager shall not unreasonably deny an application for permit.
   (B)   Form of permit. If an application for permit is approved. The City
Manager shall issue the permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or
without additional or different permit terms, in accordance with §§ 6(1), 6(2)
and 15 of the Act.
   (C)   Conditions. Pursuant to § 15(4) of the Act, the City Manager may
impose conditions on the issuance of a permit, which conditions shall be
limited to the telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public
right-of-way.
   (D)   Bond requirement. Pursuant to § 15(3) of the Act, and without
limitation on division (C) above, the City Manager may require that a bond be
posted by the telecommunications provider as a condition of the permit. If a
bond is required, it shall not exceed the reasonable cost to ensure that the
public right-of-way is returned to its original condition during and after the
telecommunications provider’s access and use.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.06 CONSTRUCTION/ENGINEERING PERMIT.
   A telecommunication provider shall not commence construction upon, over,
across or under the public right-of-way in the city without first obtaining a
construction or engineering permit as required hereunder, as amended, for
construction within the public rights-of-way. No fee shall be charged for such
a construction or engineering permit.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.07 CONDUIT OR UTILITY POLES.
   Pursuant to § 4(3) of the Act, obtaining a permit or paying the fees
required under the Act or under this chapter does not give a telecommunications
provider a right to use conduit or utility poles.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.08 ROUTE MAPS.
   Pursuant to § 6(7) of the Act, a telecommunications provider shall, within
90 days after the substantial completion of construction of new
telecommunications facilities in the city, submit route maps showing the
location of the telecommunications facilities to both the MPSC and to the city.
The route maps should be in paper or electronic format unless and until the
MPSC determines otherwise, in accordance with § 698 of the Act.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.09 REPAIR OF DAMAGE.
   Pursuant to § 15(5) of the Act, a telecommunications provider undertaking an
excavation or construction or installing telecommunications facilities within a
public right-of-way or temporarily obstructing a public right-of-way in the
city, as authorized by a permit, shall promptly repair all damage done to the
street surface and all installations under, over, below or within the public
right-of-way and shall promptly restore the public right-of-way to its
preexisting condition.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.10 MAINTENANCE FEE; ESTABLISHMENT AND PAYMENT.
   In addition to the non-refundable application fee paid to the city set forth
in §
112.04(D), a telecommunications provider with telecommunications facilities in
the city’s public right-of-way shall pay an annual maintenance fee to the
Authority pursuant to § 8 of the Act.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.11 MODIFICATION OF EXISTING FEES.
   In compliance with the requirements of § 13(1) of the Act, the city hereby
modifies, to the extent necessary, any fees charged to telecommunications
providers after November 1, 2002, the effective date of the Act, relating to
access and usage of the public rights-of-way, to an amount not exceeding the
amount of fees and charges required under the Act, which shall be paid to the
Authority. In compliance with the requirements of § 13(4) of the Act, the city
also hereby approves modification of the fees of providers with
telecommunication facilities in public rights-of-way within the city’s
boundaries, so that those providers pay only those fees required under § 8 of
the Act. The city shall provide each telecommunications provider affected by
the fee with a copy of this chapter, in compliance with the requirement of § 13
(4) of the Act. To the extent any fees are charged telecommunications providers
in excess of the amounts permitted under the Act, or which are otherwise
inconsistent with the Act, the imposition is hereby declared to be contrary to
the city’s policy and intent, and upon application by a provider of discovery
by the city, shall be promptly refunded as having been charged in error.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.12 USE OF FUNDS.
   Pursuant to § 10(4) of the Act, all amounts received by the city from the
Authority shall be used by the City solely for rights-of-way related purposes.
Depositing the amounts received into the Major Street Fund and/or Local Street
Fund, maintained by the City under Act No. 51 of the Public Acts of 1951, being
M.C.L.A. §§ 247.651 to 247.675 would help ensure compliance with this
requirement of the Act.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.13 ANNUAL REPORT.
   Pursuant to § 10(5) of the Act, the City Manager shall file an annual report
with the Authority on the use and disposition of funds annually distributed by
the Authority.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.14 CABLE TELEVISION OPERATORS.
   Pursuant to § 13(6) of the Act, the city shall not hold a cable television
operator in default or seek any remedy for its failure to satisfy an
obligation, if any, to pay after November 1, 2002, the effective date of this
Act, a franchise fee or similar fee on that portion of gross revenues from
charges the cable operator received for cable modem services provided through
broadband internet transport access services.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.15 EXISTING RIGHTS.
   Pursuant to § 4(2) of the Act, except as expressly provided herein with
respect to fees, this chapter shall not affect any existing rights that a
telecommunications provider or the city may have under a permit issued by the
city or under a contract between the city and a telecommunications provider
related to the use of the public rights-of-way.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.16 COMPLIANCE.
   (A)   The city hereby declares that its policy and intent in adopting this
chapter is to fully comply with the requirements of the Act, and the provisions
hereof should be construed in such a manner as to achieve that purpose.
   (B)   The city shall comply in all respects with the requirements of the
Act, including but not limited to the following:
      (1)   Exempting certain route maps from the Freedom of Information Act,
1976 Public Act 442, M.C.L.A. 15.231 to 15.246, as provided in §
112.04(C);
      (2)   Allowing certain previously issued permits to satisfy the permit
requirements hereof, in accordance with §
112.04(F);
      (3)   Allowing existing providers additional time in which to submit an
application for a permit, and excusing such providers from the $500 application
fee, in accordance with §
112.04(G);
      (4)   Approving or denying an application for a permit within 45 days
from the date a telecommunications provider files an application for a permit
for access to and usage of a public rights-of-way within the city, in
accordance with §
112.05(A);
      (5)   Notifying the MPSC when the city has granted or denied a permit, in
accordance with §
112.05(A);
      (6)   Not unreasonably denying an application for a permit, in accordance
with §
112.05(A);
      (7)   Issuing a permit in the form approved by the MPSC, with or without
additional or different permit terms, as provided in §
112.05(B);
      (8)   Limiting the conditions imposed on the issuance of a permit to the
telecommunications provider’s access and usage of the public rights-of-way, in
accordance with §
112.05(C);
      (9)   Not requiring a bond of a telecommunications provider which exceeds
the reasonable cost to ensure that the public right-of-way is returned to its
original condition during and after the telecommunication provider’s access and
use, in accordance with §
112.05(D);
      (10)   Not charging any telecommunications providers any additional fees
for construction or engineering permits, in accordance with §
112.06;
      (11)   Providing each telecommunications provider affected by the city’s
right-of-way fees with a copy of this chapter, in accordance with §
112.11;
      (12)   Submitting an annual report to the Authority, in accordance with §
112.13; and
      (13)   Not holding a cable television operator in default for a failure
to pay certain franchise fees, in accordance with §
112.14.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.17 RESERVATION OF POLICE POWERS.
   Pursuant to § 15(2) of the Act, this chapter shall not limit the city’s
right to review and approve a telecommunication provider’s access to and
ongoing use of a public right-of-way or limit the city’s authority to ensure
and protect health, safety and welfare of the public.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.18 AUTHORIZED CITY OFFICIALS.
   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby designated as the
authorized city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations
(directing alleged violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction
violation notices (directing alleged violators to appear at the Municipal
Chapter Violations Bureau) for violations under this chapter as provided by the
city code.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.19 EFFECTIVE DATE.
   This chapter shall take effect on or before November 1, 2002.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
§ 112.99 PENALTY.
   A person who violated any provision of this chapter, or the terms or
conditions of a permit, is responsible for a municipal civil infraction, and
shall be subject to the provisions of §
10.99 of the code. Nothing in this section shall be construed to limit the
remedies available to the city in the event of a violation by a person of this
chapter or a permit.
(Ord. 03-02, passed - -)
CHAPTER 113: ADVERTISING
Section
   
113.01   Posting on public property
   
113.02   Posting on private property
   
113.03   Political signs; posting and removal
§ 113.01 POSTING ON PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp or paste any sign,
advertisement or any other matter upon any lamppost, electric light, railway,
telegraph or telephone pole, tree, fire hydrant or box covering them; or on any
bridge, pavement, sidewalk or crosswalk, public building or any property or
thing belonging to the city, or any article or thing belonging to the city
within any park; provided, that this section shall not be construed to prevent
any public officer from so doing for any public purpose.
(Prior Code, § 3-1)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.02 POSTING ON PRIVATE PROPERTY.
   No person shall attach, place, paint, write, stamp or post any sign,
advertisement or any other matter upon any house, wall, fence, gate, post, tree
or treebox, without first having obtained the written permission of the owner,
agent or occupant of the premises.
(Prior Code, § 3-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 113.03 POLITICAL SIGNS; POSTING AND REMOVAL.
   (A)   Political signs shall be permitted, provided that they are placed
outside the highway or road right-of-way and in no way create a traffic hazard
due to reduced vision of motorists or pedestrians. Permission must be obtained
from the property owner or occupant before any signs are posted.
   (B)   Candidates and property owners are requested to erect the signs no
earlier than 60 days prior to the election and to remove same no later than 10
days after the election.
(Ord. 05-06, passed 9-15-2005)
CHAPTER 114: ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES
Section
General Provisions
   
114.01   Consumption in public prohibited; exceptions for organizations with
permit
   
114.02   Transportation or possession in motor vehicles
Liquor Licenses
   
114.15   Title
   
114.16   Purpose
   
114.17   Definitions
   
114.18   Action on request for approval of a new license or transfer of
location; grounds for denial
   
114.19   Objections to license renewal and requests for revocation
   
114.20   Applicability
Statutory reference:
   Michigan Liquor Control Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 114.01 CONSUMPTION IN PUBLIC PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS FOR ORGANIZATIONS WITH
PERMIT.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to possess any open container of
an alcoholic beverage, or to consume any alcoholic beverage, in any public
park, playground, parking area or public facility. This shall not apply to a
person acting in compliance with a Social District common area duly authorized
under Michigan Public Act 124 of 2020.
   (B)   Organizations and groups may obtain permission for the consumption of
alcoholic beverages in a public park or facility by applying to the City
Manager for a special permit which may be issued with the approval of the Chief
of Police.
(Prior Code, § 4-1) (Ord. 69, passed 10-4-1973; Am. Ord. 23-003, passed 9-7-
2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
Statutory reference:
   Consumption of alcoholic beverages on public highways, public parks and
places of amusement, see M.C.L.A. § 436.1915
§ 114.02 TRANSPORTATION OR POSSESSION IN MOTOR VEHICLES.
   (A)   No person shall transport or possess any alcoholic liquor in a
container which is open, uncapped, or upon which the seal is broken, within the
passenger compartment of a vehicle on the public streets or public property in
the city.
   (B)   If the vehicle does not have a trunk or compartment separate from the
passenger compartment, a container which is open, uncapped or upon which the
seal is broken shall be encased or enclosed.
(Prior Code, § 4-2) (Ord. passed 2-27-1975)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1105 to 436.2303
LIQUOR LICENSES
§ 114.15 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and may be cited as the Marine City Liquor
License Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 4-21) (Ord. 94-8, passed 3-17-1994)
§ 114.16 PURPOSE.
   This subchapter is established to cause the greatest benefit to the City of
Marine City in its use of the powers with regard to the issuance, transfer,
renewal or revocation of liquor licenses within its jurisdiction. This
subchapter is established in order to provide an orderly and non-discriminatory
procedure for the review and approval by the city of any and all requests for
liquor licenses or any matter relating thereto, for the sale or dispensation of
alcoholic beverages within the city. Each person, firm or corporation who
desire the license, approval or renewal of the same, shall comply with the
provisions of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 4-22) (Ord. 94-8, passed 3-17-1994)
§ 114.17 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES. Any spirituous, vinous, malt or fermented liquor,
liquids and compounds, whether or not medicated, proprietary, patented, and by
whatever name called, containing 0.5% or more of alcohol by volume which are
fit for use for beverage purposes.
   PERSON, FIRM or CORPORATION. These terms, as used in this subchapter,
include any person or legal entity of whatsoever kind or nature, either
charitable or profitable, that desires to have or is already possessed of any
license issued by the State of  Michigan for the sale and dispensation of
alcoholic beverages pursuant to a liquor license of any variety within the City
of Marine City.
(Prior Code, § 4-23) (Ord. 94-8, passed 3-17-1994)
§ 114.18 ACTION ON REQUEST FOR APPROVAL OF A NEW LICENSE OR TRANSFER OF
LOCATION; GROUNDS FOR DENIAL.
   (A)   Notice of application, Commission consideration. Upon receipt of
notice from the Liquor Control Commission of a pending application for approval
of a license to sell beer or wine or spirits for consumption on the premises,
or for the transfer of an existing license, and a request for local legislative
action thereon, the City Commission shall, after investigation and report from
the Chief of Police, take action to recommend or not recommend to the Liquor
Control Commission the issuance of the license.
   (B)   Grounds for non-recommendation. No recommendation shall be given for
the issuance of a license to:
      (1)   Any person, for any location which the City Commission determines,
by majority vote, is unsuitable for on-premises consumption of beer and wine or
spirits, considering:
         (a)   The proximity of other premises licensed to sell beer and wine
or spirits for on-premises consumption;
         (b)   The lack of any other facilities or uses on the premises to be
licensed which are compatible with a license for on-premises consumption of
beer and wine or spirits (e.g., restaurant, hotel);
         (c)   The distance from public or private schools for minors;
         (d)   The proximity of an inconsistent zoning classification or land
use;
         (e)   Traffic safety;
         (f)   The accessibility to the site from abutting roads;
         (g)   The capability of abutting roads to accommodate the commercial
activity; and
         (h)   Such other relevant factors as the city commission may deem
appropriate.
      (2)   Any person, for premises where it is determined by a majority of
the City Commission that the premises does not or will not within 6 months of
the approval of the license by the City Commission, or prior to the
commencement of business, whichever occurs first, have adequate off-street
parking, lighting, refuse disposal facilities, screening, noise or nuisance
control. Provided, however, that upon timely request and for good cause shown,
the City Commission may extend any deadline established by this section;
      (3)   Any person, for any premise which does not comply with the
applicable building, electrical, mechanical, plumbing or fire codes, applicable
zoning regulations, or applicable public health regulations; provided, however,
the City Commission may approve an application subject to compliance with the
applicable codes and regulations within 60 days;
      (4)   A person who does not own the premises for which the license
approval is sought or does not have a lease therefor for the full period for
which the license is to be issued;
      (5)   Any person, corporation or copartnership which, at the time of
application for such approval, transfer, or renewal, is delinquent in the
payment of any taxes, fees or other charges owed to or collected by the city;
      (6)   A person whose liquor license has been revoked or not renewed for
cause under this article, or a comparable city, or township ordinance, or state
law whether in Michigan or otherwise;
      (7)   A copartnership, unless all of the members of the copartnership
shall qualify for approval of a license;
      (8)   A corporation, if any officer, manager or director thereof, or a
stock owner or stockholders owning in the aggregate more than 5% of the stock
of the corporation, would not be eligible to receive approval for a license
hereunder for any reason;
      (9)   A person whose place of business is operated or conducted by a
manager or agent unless the manager or agent possesses the same qualifications
required of the licensee;
      (10)   A person who has been convicted of a violation of any federal or
state law concerning the manufacture or sale of alcoholic liquor;
      (11)   Any person based upon such other relevant factors as the City
Commission may deem appropriate; and
      (12)   A person who has previously been convicted for a felony.
(Prior Code, § 4-24) (Ord. 94-8, passed 3-17-1994)
§ 114.19 OBJECTIONS TO LICENSE RENEWAL AND REQUESTS FOR REVOCATION.
   (A)   Criteria for nonrenewal or revocation. The City Commission may
recommend nonrenewal or revocation of a license to the Liquor Control
Commission upon a determination by the City Commission that, based upon
evidence presented at a hearing, any of the following exist:
      (1)   Violation of any of the grounds for denial set forth in §
114.18(B)(1) through (12);
      (2)   Maintenance of a nuisance upon the premises;
      (3)   The failure to comply with promises or representations made by the
applicant to the City Commission or any conditions imposed upon the applicant
as a basis for the approval;
      (4)   Failure to comply with the requirements of the Michigan Liquor
Control Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 to 436.2303, or the Administrative
Rules of the Liquor Control Commission;
      (5)   The violation of any law or ordinance in the conduct of its
business; and
      (6)   A history of repeated criminal behavior on the premises that would
indicate an inability of the licensee to maintain safety and order on the
premises.
   (B)   Procedure.
      (1)   Before filing an objection to renewal or request for revocation of
a license with the Michigan Liquor Control Commission, the City Commission
shall serve the license holder, with a notice of hearing not less than 60 days
prior to hearing, either personally or by first class mail, which notice shall
contain the following:
         (a)   Notice of the proposed action;
         (b)   Reasons for the proposed action;
         (c)   Date, time and place of hearing; and
         (d)   A statement that the licensee may present evidence and
testimony, confront adverse witnesses, and may be represented by counsel.
      (2)   The City Commission may delegate to a hearing officer the function
of holding the hearing. The hearing officer shall thereafter submit his or her
findings and recommendation to the Commission. The licensee may, at his or her
expense, employ a reporter to transcribe the testimony given at the hearing and
make a transcript of the testimony. Following the hearing, the City Commission
shall submit to the license holder and the Michigan Liquor Control Commission a
written statement of its findings and determination.
(Prior Code, § 4-27) (Ord. 94-8, passed 3-17-1994)
§ 114.20 APPLICABILITY.
   This subchapter shall apply only to applications for licenses to sell beer
and wine or spirits for on-premises consumption, including but not limited to
Class “B” licenses, Class “C” licenses, resort licenses, tavern licenses, club
licenses and hotel licenses. This shall not, in any event, apply to
applications for SDM and SDD licenses, special licenses granted by the Michigan
Liquor Control Commission, or 1-day permits as allowed by statute.
(Prior Code, § 4-26) (Ord. 94-8, passed 3-17-1994)
CHAPTER 115: AMUSEMENTS
Section
Poolrooms, Bowling Alleys and Arcades
   
115.01   Definitions
   
115.02   Hours of operation
   
115.03   Minors under sixteen prohibited in arcades or poolrooms; exception
   
115.04   Obstructions to view in arcades and poolrooms prohibited
   
115.05   License required
   
115.06   Qualification of applicant
   
115.07   Certification required by certain officials prior to issuance
   
115.08   Fee
   
115.09   Designation of number of tables, alleys or devices
Coin-Operated Amusements or Music Devices
   
115.20   Definitions
   
115.21   Slot machines; gambling prohibited
   
115.22   Police inspection required
   
115.23   Identification marks required
   
115.24   Limiting number of devices
   
115.25   License required
   
115.26   Application
   
115.27   Fee
   
115.28   Expiration
Charter reference:
   Specific authority to regulate amusements, see §
2.3(o)
Statutory references:
   Pinball machines permitted on premises where alcoholic beverages are sold,
see M.C.L.A. § 436.28a
   Unlawful to break into coin-operated devices, see M.C.L.A. § 752.811
POOLROOMS, BOWLING ALLEYS AND ARCADES
§ 115.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ARCADE. Any place open to the public where the primary business is the
playing of coin-operated amusement devices, as defined in §
115.20.
   BOWLING ALLEY. Any place open to the public for bowling.
   POOLROOM. Any place open to the public for playing pool or billiards.
(Prior Code, § 5-16) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.02 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No person shall open any poolroom or arcade before 1:00 p.m. on Sundays or
between the hours of 11:50 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. of the succeeding morning on
weekdays; and no person shall keep open any bowling alley between the hours of
2:00 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. of any day.
(Prior Code, § 5-17) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.03 MINORS UNDER SIXTEEN PROHIBITED IN ARCADES OR POOLROOMS; EXCEPTION.
   No person who is less than 16 years of age unless accompanied by a parent or
guardian or part of a sponsored recreational group, may remain or loiter in or
about any premises licensed hereunder as a poolroom or arcade, nor shall any
licensee or his agent permit any such minor to remain in any poolroom or
arcade. No person shall falsely represent himself to be 16 years or older in
order to obtain admittance to or remain in any licensed poolroom or arcade.
(Prior Code, § 5-18) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.04 OBSTRUCTIONS TO VIEW IN ARCADES AND POOLROOMS PROHIBITED.
   No poolroom or arcade licensee or his or her agent shall permit on the
licensed premises any obstruction of the public view by the use of drawn shades
or blinds or screens, either permanent or movable.
(Prior Code, § 5-19) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.05 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of operating a poolroom, bowling
alley or arcade without first obtaining a license.
(Prior Code, § 5-26) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.06 QUALIFICATION OF APPLICANT.
   No person shall be issued a license to operate a poolroom, bowling alley or
arcade unless he or she is over the age of 18 years.
(Prior Code, § 5-27) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 115.07 CERTIFICATION REQUIRED BY CERTAIN OFFICIALS PRIOR TO ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be issued under this subchapter except upon the
certification of the Chief of Police, Fire Marshal and Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 5-28) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.08 FEE.
   The license fee required under this subchapter shall be as prescribed in §
110.15.
(Prior Code, § 5-29)
§ 115.09 DESIGNATION OF NUMBER OF TABLES, ALLEYS OR DEVICES.
   Each license issued under this subchapter shall designate the number of pool
or billiard tables, bowling alleys or coin-operated amusement and music devices
permitted hereunder, and no licensee shall keep or maintain more tables, alleys
or coin-operated devices than permitted by the license.
(Prior Code, § 5-30) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENTS OR MUSIC DEVICES
§ 115.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COIN-OPERATED AMUSEMENT DEVICE. A video game, pinball machine, skeeball
machine, motion picture machine, shuffleboard, miniature pool table or any
similar machine, instrument or contrivance which may be operated or set in
motion upon the insertion of a coin or token.
   COIN-OPERATED MUSIC DEVICE. A piano, radio, phonograph, jukebox or any
similar machine or contrivance which emits recitations, songs, speeches or
music upon the insertion of a coin or token.
   DISTRIBUTOR. Any person who places coin-operated amusement or music devices
in any place or establishment, excluding an owner as herein defined, for
operation.
   OWNER. Any person who owns, operates or conducts any place or establishment
in which any coin-operated amusement or music device may be operated.
(Prior Code, § 5-42) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 115.21 SLOT MACHINES; GAMBLING PROHIBITED.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed as permitting the issuance of
licenses for slot machines or as legalizing any such coin-operated machine in
which are incorporated any gambling features, and all uses thereof for gambling
of any kind are prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 5-43) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.22 POLICE INSPECTION REQUIRED.
   It shall be the duty of police officers to make inspections of all coin-
operated amusement and music devices, and if any unlawful or improper practices
are observed in connection therewith to report the same to the Chief of Police
for the action as he or she may deem proper and to recommend the immediate
revocation of the license.
(Prior Code, § 5-44) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.23 IDENTIFICATION MARKS REQUIRED.
   (A)   Each and every coin-operated amusement and music device shall have
affixed thereto, in a conspicuous place, a suitable and permanent
identification stamp, mark or plate bearing the name and address of the
distributor thereof.
   (B)   The City Clerk shall furnish a list containing the names and addresses
of all licensees hereunder to the Chief of Police to facilitate inspections as
required by §
115.22.
(Prior Code, § 5-45) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.24 LIMITING NUMBER OF DEVICES.
   No person shall have more amusement devices than is specified on his or her
license for operating an arcade.
(Prior Code, § 5-46) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No owner or distributor shall maintain or distribute for the purpose of
operating any coin-operated amusement or music device, without first having
obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 5-56) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.26 APPLICATION.
   Application for a license under this subchapter shall be made to the City
Clerk in accordance with the provisions of this code and in the form and manner
prescribed by the Clerk.
(Prior Code, § 5-57) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 115.27 FEE.
   The license fee required under this subchapter shall be as prescribed under
§
110.15.
(Prior Code, § 5-58)
§ 115.28 EXPIRATION.
   Every license issued under this subchapter shall expire on June 30 next
after the issuance of the license.
(Prior Code, § 5-59) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 96-4, passed 5-2-1996)
CHAPTER 116: PEDDLERS AND SOLICITORS
Section
General Provisions
   
116.01   Definitions
   
116.02   Exempt sales
   
116.03   Misrepresentation
   
116.04   Hours of operation
   
116.05   Refusing to leave
   
116.06   Entrance to premises restricted
   
116.07   Fixed stands prohibited
   
116.08   Prohibited areas
   
116.09   Curb service prohibited
License Provisions
   
116.20   Required
   
116.21   Exemptions
   
116.22   Application
   
116.23   Fee
   
116.24   Certification of Chief of Police prerequisite to issuance
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 116.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   PEDDLER. Any person traveling by foot, wagon, automotive vehicle or other
conveyance, from place to place, from house to house, or from street to street,
carrying, conveying or transporting goods, wares, merchandise, meats, fish,
vegetables, fruits,  garden truck, farm products or provisions, offering and
exposing the same for sale or making sales and delivering articles to
purchasers, or who, without traveling from place to place, shall sell or offer
the same for sale from a wagon, automotive vehicle, or other vehicle or
conveyance. The word PEDDLER shall include the words HAWKER and HUCKSTER.
   SOLICITOR. Any individual traveling either by foot, wagon, automobile, motor
truck or any other type of conveyance, from place to place, from house to
house, or from street to street taking or attempting to take orders for sale of
goods, wares and merchandise, books or magazines, personal property of any
nature whatsoever for future delivery or for services to be furnished or
performed in the future, whether or not such individual has, carries or exposes
for sale a sample of the subject of the sale or whether he is collecting
advance payments on the sales or not, and such definitions shall include any
person who, for himself or herself, or for another person, hires, leases, uses
or occupies any building, structure, tent, railroad boxcar, boat, hotel room,
lodging house, apartment, shop or any other place within the city for the sole
purpose of exhibiting samples and taking orders for future delivery. The word
SOLICITOR shall include the word CANVASSER.
(Prior Code, § 20-1) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 116.02 EXEMPT SALES.
   Nothing in this chapter shall be construed to prohibit the sale of goods,
wares or merchandise at wholesale to merchants and dealers or manufacturers,
nor to persons in a business of selling, or exposing for sale, goods, wares and
merchandise of their own manufacture or raising; nor to any person foreclosing
any chattel mortgage, when the property is disposed of under the power of sale
contained in the instrument and not sold at retail; and this chapter shall not
apply to sales made under order of any court, nor where the property is already
on the assessment rolls of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-2) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 116.03 MISREPRESENTATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to make false or
fraudulent statements concerning the quality or nature of his or her goods,
wares, merchandise or services for the purpose of inducing another to purchase
the same.
(Prior Code, § 20-3)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.04 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to engage in peddling or
soliciting within the city between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 9:00 a.m. or at
any time on Sundays except by specific appointment with or invitation from the
prospective customer.
(Prior Code, § 20-4) (Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 116.05 REFUSING TO LEAVE.
   Any peddler or solicitor who enters upon premises owned, leased or rented by
another and refuses to leave the premises after having been notified by the
owner or occupant of the premises, or his or her agent, to leave the same and
not return to the premises, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 20-5)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.06 ENTRANCE TO PREMISES RESTRICTED.
   It shall be unlawful for any peddler or solicitor to enter upon any private
premises when the same are posted with a sign stating “No Peddlers Allowed” or
“No Solicitations Allowed” or other words to such effect.
(Prior Code, § 20-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.07 FIXED STANDS PROHIBITED.
   No peddler or solicitor shall stop or remain in any one place upon any
street, alley or public place, longer than necessary to make a sale to a
customer wishing to buy. Any peddler or solicitor using a vehicle, when
stopped, shall place his or her vehicle parallel to and within 12 inches of the
curb and shall depart from the place as soon as he or she has completed sales
with customers actually present.
(Prior Code, § 20-7) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.08 PROHIBITED AREAS.
   (A)   No peddler or solicitor, in the sale of goods, wares and merchandise,
shall obstruct any street, alley, sidewalk or driveway except as may be
necessary and reasonable to consummate a sale nor remain, barter, sell, offer
or expose for sale any goods, wares or merchandise in front of or at the side
of any property against the wish or desire of the property owner or the tenant
or occupant of such property nor within 500 feet of the entrance to any school
building between the hours of 8:00 a.m. and 5:00 p.m. on the days when school
is in session nor on those portions of streets on which a public park abuts.
   (B)   No peddler or solicitor shall engage in peddling or soliciting on any
street, alley or public place after having been requested to desist by any
police officer of the city because of congested or dangerous traffic
conditions.
   (C)   No peddler or solicitor shall engage in business on any state trunk
line highway or county road within the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-8) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 116.09 CURB SERVICE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall operate or maintain any stand, vehicle, store or place of
business on or near to any highway in such a manner that the customers or
traders with such person occupy or congregate within the limits of any street,
lane, highway or public place within the city. No person shall be permitted to
use the streets, alleys, lanes or public places of the city for the service of
customers or for the transaction of business, or to use any stands, stores or
other places of business in any manner that shall require the customer, when
transacting business, to stand within the limits of the streets, highways,
alleys or public places of the city.
(Prior Code, § 20-9) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
LICENSE PROVISIONS
§ 116.20 REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of peddling or soliciting without
first obtaining a license therefor as provided in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 20-21) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 116.21 EXEMPTIONS.
   The following shall be exempt from the licensing requirements of this
subchapter but shall be subject to the other provisions hereof:
   (A)   Farmers and gardeners selling only the products of their own raising
or processing;
   (B)   Any political group seeking funds or memberships or contacting members
or electors;
   (C)   Such persons as are exempt by state or federal law to the extent of
the exemption; and
   (D)   Persons engaged in delivering newspapers.
(Prior Code, § 20-22) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 2019-013, passed 11-21-
2019)
§ 116.22 APPLICATION.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall cause to be prepared an application form to
contain all information he or she shall deem relevant to the issuance of a
license under this chapter. All applicants desiring to obtain a license under
this chapter shall complete said application and return same to the City Clerk
not later than 14 working days before the first date upon which the licensed
activity is to commence.
   (B)   The city shall have the right to assign the administration of the
application process as well as collection of the appropriate fees to a
responsible third party in the case of large scale special events. The
responsible third party shall provide to the city the original application form
for each transient merchant, required support documentation such as insurance
and permits, applicable transient merchant permit fee and a comprehensive list
of all special event transient merchants a minimum of five working days prior
to the special event. Upon final review by the City Clerk and Chief of Police,
a blanket permit shall be issued covering the transient merchants in compliance
with applicable sections of the city code.
(Prior Code, § 20-23) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976; Am. Ord. 2019-013, passed 11-21-
2019)
§ 116.23 FEE.
   The license fee required under this subchapter shall be established by
resolution of the City Commission and may be amended from time to time. Such
resolution may stipulate that a license fee is not required for church,
charitable or labor organizations, education or fraternal societies, and other
similar non-profit organizations.
(Prior Code, § 20-24) (Am. Ord. 2019-013, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 116.24 CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF OF POLICE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be issued under this subchapter except upon certification
of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 20-25) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
CHAPTER 117: SECONDHAND GOODS
Section
Secondhand and Antique Dealers
   
117.01   Definitions
   
117.02   Display of sign
   
117.03   Hours of operation
   
117.04   Business with certain persons unlawful
   
117.05   Record of transactions
   
117.06   Retention of goods purchased
   
117.07   License required
   
117.08   Prerequisite to issuance
Junk Dealers
   
117.20   Definitions
   
117.21   Place of business
   
117.22   Hours of operation
   
117.23   Business with certain persons unlawful
   
117.24   Record of transactions; cooperation with police
   
117.25   License required
   
117.26   Approval of City Commission required
   
117.27   Prerequisites to issuance
Junkyards
   
117.40   Definition
   
117.41   Hours of operation
   
117.42   Certain nuisances prohibited
   
117.43   Rodents; nesting or harborage to be discouraged
   
117.44   License required
   
117.45   Approval of City Commission required
   
117.46   Prerequisites to issuance
Garage Sales
   
117.60   Definitions
   
117.61   License required; number permitted
   
117.62   Application for license; conditions
   
117.63   Exceptions to provisions
   
117.64   License fees
Statutory references:
   Additional regulations for secondhand dealers and junk dealers, see M.C.L.A.
§§ 445.471 et seq.
   Licensing and regulation of secondhand dealers and junk dealers, see
M.C.L.A. §§ 445.401 et seq.
SECONDHAND AND ANTIQUE DEALERS
§ 117.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   SECONDHAND OR ANTIQUE DEALER. Any person engaging in the business of
purchasing, selling, exchanging, trading or receiving secondhand articles of
any kind but shall not be deemed to include any person duly licensed as a junk
dealer nor to any person operating as a used car dealer.
(Prior Code, § 23-16) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.02 DISPLAY OF SIGN.
   Every secondhand or antique dealer shall post in a conspicuous place in or
upon his or her shop, store, wagon, boat or other place of business, a sign
having his or her name and occupation legibly inscribed thereon.
(Prior Code, § 23-17) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.03 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No secondhand or antique dealer shall engage in business nor purchase or
receive by sale, barter or exchange any secondhand articles from any person
between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m.
(Prior Code, § 23-18) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 117.04 BUSINESS WITH CERTAIN PERSONS UNLAWFUL.
   No secondhand or antique dealer shall engage in business nor purchase or
receive by sale, barter or exchange any secondhand articles at any time from
any person who is at that time under the influence of any intoxicant, including
drugs; nor from a habitual drunkard or drug addict; nor from any person known
by the secondhand or antique dealer to be a thief or any associate of thieves
or receiver of stolen property or from any person he or she has reason to
suspect of being such.
(Prior Code, § 23-19) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 117.05 RECORD OF TRANSACTIONS.
   (A)   Every secondhand or antique dealer shall keep a separate book to be
known as the receipt book, which shall be open to inspection by any member of
the police force, and in which shall be written in the English language at the
time of the purchase or exchange of any secondhand or antique article, a
description thereof, the name, description and residence of the person from
whom the same was purchased or received, and the day and hour when the purchase
or exchange was made.
   (B)   Each entry shall be numbered consecutively commencing with the number
“1”.
(Prior Code, § 23-20) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.06 RETENTION OF GOODS PURCHASED.
   (A)   Every article purchased or exchanged by any secondhand or antique
dealer shall be retained by him or her for at least 15 days before disposing of
it, in an accessible place in the building where the articles are purchased and
received.
   (B)   A tag shall be attached to the articles in some visible and convenient
place with the number written thereupon, to correspond with the entry number in
the receipt book.
(Prior Code, § 23-21) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.07 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall engage in the business of secondhand or antique dealer
within the city without first having obtained a license therefor.
(Prior Code, § 23-31) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 117.08 PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be issued under this subchapter except upon certification
of the Chief of Police nor without the approval of the City Manager based upon
a finding that the proposed business will not tend to create a hazard to the
public health, tend to depreciate the property in the area unduly, retard the
natural development of the area, be a violation of this code, or the zoning
ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 23-32) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
JUNK DEALERS
§ 117.20 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNK DEALER. Any person engaged in the business of keeping a junkyard or
engaged in canvassing any stores, manufacturing places or residences for the
purpose of collecting, buying, trading in, selling or dealing in junk as
commonly defined including the above named articles.
(Prior Code, § 23-45) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.21 PLACE OF BUSINESS.
   Each junk dealer shall designate the particular place where his or her
business is to be conducted and no licensee shall engage in business at any
place other than that so designated.
(Prior Code, § 23-46) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.22 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No junk dealer shall purchase or receive any articles except:
   (A)   Between the hours of 9:00 a.m. to 7:00 p.m. Monday through Thursday
and 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday; and
   (B)   On any Sunday between 1:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m.
(Prior Code, § 23-47) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.23 BUSINESS WITH CERTAIN PERSONS UNLAWFUL.
   No junk dealer shall purchase or receive any articles:
   (A)   From any person under the influence of any intoxicant including drugs;
and
   (B)   From any person under the age of 17 years, without the written consent
of a parent or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 23-48) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.24 RECORD OF TRANSACTIONS; COOPERATION WITH POLICE.
   All junk dealers shall keep a record or book written in the English language
containing the name, residence and description of all persons from whom
purchases are made, along with a description of the merchandise purchased, and
the date of the purchase. Each junk dealer shall upon the request of any police
officer, exhibit all goods bought or received, and give the name, residence and
description of the person from whom the same was purchased.
(Prior Code, § 23-49) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.25 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate as a junk dealer without first obtaining a license.
(Prior Code, § 23-56) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.26 APPROVAL OF CITY COMMISSION REQUIRED.
   All licenses to operate as a junk dealer shall be approved by the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23-57) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.27 PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE.
   No license shall be approved or issued except on the following conditions:
   (A)   Certification of business. A certificate of approval from the Chief of
Police;
   (B)   Listing of vehicles. A listing of all vehicles to be used, if any, in
the operation of the business. No vehicle shall be used unless the vehicle is
listed on the application. The list may be amended at any time to add or remove
vehicles, but no vehicles shall be used until they are certified in accordance
with division (C) below; and
   (C)   Certification of vehicles. A certification from the Chief of Police,
or his or her designated officer, that the vehicles used for hauling junk, if
any, are properly licensed, conform to all requirements of the Uniform Traffic
Code for Michigan cities, townships and villages, and/or so constructed to
prevent the spilling or leaking of any load.
(Prior Code, § 23-58) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
JUNKYARDS
§ 117.40 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   JUNKYARD. Any building or parcel of land used for the purpose of storing,
buying or selling or in general dealing in junk as commonly called including
rags, old rope, paper, bagging, old iron, old brass, old copper, old tin, any
other old metals or any used articles constituted or made of the same,
including but not specifically limited to old automobile parts thereof.
(Prior Code, § 23-71) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.41 HOURS OF OPERATION.
   No junkyard shall operate except between the hours of 9:00 a.m. and 7:00
p.m. Monday through Thursday, 9:00 a.m. to 9:00 p.m. Friday and Saturday and
between 1:00 p.m. and 7:00 p.m. on a Sunday or legal holiday.
(Prior Code, § 23-72) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.42 CERTAIN NUISANCES PROHIBITED.
   No operation of a junkyard shall be conducted in such a manner as to cause
any noise, smoke or vibration to emit from the property which would cause or is
likely to cause a nuisance, fire hazard or health or safety menace.
(Prior Code, § 23-73) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 117.43 RODENTS; NESTING OR HARBORAGE TO BE DISCOURAGED.
   The property of each junkyard shall be maintained in such a manner as to
prevent or discourage the nesting and harborage of rodents.
(Prior Code, § 23-74) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Restrictions on junkyards near highways, see M.C.L.A. §§ 252.201 et seq.
§ 117.44 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate a junkyard without first obtaining a license.
(Prior Code, § 23-81) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.45 APPROVAL OF CITY COMMISSION REQUIRED.
   All licenses to operate a junkyard shall be approved by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23-82) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
§ 117.46 PREREQUISITES TO ISSUANCE.
   No license under this subchapter shall be approved or issued except on the
following conditions.
   (A)   Certification. A certificate of approval from the Police Chief, Fire
Marshal and City Manager;
   (B)   Fence. If the business is operated on a vacant lot or in a partially
enclosed building, the lot or building shall be enclosed with a solid board or
masonry fence without opening, except an opening for ingress and egress. The
fence or wall is to be maintained in a safe condition.
   (C)   Storage below height of fence. All materials stored within the yard
are stored below the minimum height of the fence.
(Prior Code, § 23-83) (Ord. passed 5-20-1976)
GARAGE SALES
§ 117.60 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   GARAGE SALE. Any sale of tangible personal property of any description
whatsoever, which is advertised by any means whereby the public is, or can be
made, aware of such, and includes all such sales commonly known as attic, lawn
or rummage sales. The term shall not include business or trade sales which are
regulated by any other ordinance of the City of Marine City.
   PERSON. Any individual person, firm, group, corporation or other
organization.
   TANGIBLE PERSONAL PROPERTY. Any goods, wares, merchandise or other personal
property.
(Prior Code, § 23-91) (Ord. 84-11, passed 6-21-1984)
§ 117.61 LICENSE REQUIRED; NUMBER PERMITTED.
   A license issued by the City Clerk, as hereinafter provided, shall be
obtained by any person proposing to conduct a garage sale, before selling or
offering to sell any tangible personal property at a garage sale. Not more than
2 licenses shall be issued to any individual in any 1 calendar year.
(Prior Code, § 23-92) (Ord. 84-11, passed 6-21-1984)
§ 117.62 APPLICATION FOR LICENSE; CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The City Clerk shall grant a license to conduct a garage sale to the
applicant therefor, upon receipt of the fee as hereinafter required and upon
receipt of an application containing the following:
      (1)   The name and address of the person conducting the sale;
      (2)   The dates during which the proposed sale is to be conducted and the
location of the same;
      (3)   The nature of the sale, including a general description of the type
of tangible personal property proposed to be sold;
      (4)   The date, nature and location of any garage sales conducted by the
applicant within the preceding 12 months;
      (5)   The relationships which applicant has with any other person
conducting a garage sale within the preceding 12 months and the date or dates
thereof, if known; and
      (6)   The number and location of any signs which are proposed to be
erected advertising the sale, subject to the restrictions hereinafter provided.
   (B)   No license shall be issued authorizing any person to conduct a garage
sale for a period exceeding 3 consecutive days. The license authorizing the
sale shall be displayed in a front window or other prominent place, visible
from the street, at each location where a sale is being conducted. No signs
advertising a garage sale shall be placed on private or public property without
express consent of the owner thereof, and only in compliance with the zoning
ordinance. After the conclusion of any garage sale, all such signs shall be
removed by the licensee.
(Prior Code, § 23-93) (Ord. 84-11, passed 6-21-1984)
§ 117.63 EXCEPTIONS TO PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to:
   (A)   Persons selling tangible personal property pursuant to an order or
process of a court of competent jurisdiction;
   (B)   Persons selling tangible personal property in accordance with the
exercise of an official public duty or power;
   (C)   Persons selling or advertising for sale tangible personal property
which is specifically named or described in the advertisement; and
   (D)   Any such sale conducted by a bona fide charitable, eleemosynary,
educational or governmental institution or organization; provided, however,
that the burden of establishing entitlement to an exemption under this section
shall be on the institution or organization claiming the same.
(Prior Code, § 23-94) (Ord. 84-11, passed 6-21-1984)
§ 117.64 LICENSE FEES.
   The fee which shall be required for a license to conduct a garage sale
within the city shall be determined from time to time by resolution of the City
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 23-95) (Ord. 84-11, passed 6-21-1984)
CHAPTER 118: VEHICLES FOR HIRE
Section
General Provisions
   
118.01   Definitions
   
118.02   Police inspections
   
118.03   Compliance with all laws by licensees
   
118.04   Record of licenses
   
118.05   Required to carry passengers; restriction
   
118.06   Operation
   
118.07   Property lost or left in taxicabs
   
118.08   Soliciting
Business Licensing
   
118.20   Required
   
118.21   Application
   
118.22   Inspection of vehicle prerequisite to issuance
   
118.23   Liability insurance
   
118.24   Certificate designating Clerk as agent to accept service of process
prerequisite to issuance
   
118.25   Fee
   
118.26   Expiration
   
118.27   Suspension and revocation
Driver’s License
   
118.40   Required
   
118.41   Permitting person to operate without license prohibited
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 118.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOTOR VEHICLE FOR HIRE. A motor vehicle not equipped with a taximeter,
designed to carry 7 or less persons for public hire at an hourly rate.
   TAXICAB. A motor vehicle on which a taximeter is affixed or the rates
charged are according to the distance traveled.
   TAXIMETER. A mechanical or electronic instrument or device by which the
charge for hire is calculated and upon which the charge is indicated by
figures.
(Prior Code, § 32-1) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.02 POLICE INSPECTIONS.
   Any individual or corporation licensed under this chapter shall maintain all
taxicabs and vehicles for hire in a safe mechanical condition and in compliance
with the Michigan Motor Vehicle Code. The Police Department may inspect any
taxicab or vehicle for hire to assure compliance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 32-2) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.03 COMPLIANCE WITH ALL LAWS BY LICENSEES.
   All laws and ordinances affecting the operation of taxicabs and motor
vehicles for hire and all traffic regulations applicable thereto, now in force
or which may hereinafter be enacted or put into force, shall be complied with
by the licensee. The licensee shall also comply with and enforce the carrying
out of any order or regulation which may be issued by the city, designed for
the protection and safety of persons and property or for the comfort, health
and convenience of the public.
(Prior Code, § 32-3) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.04 RECORD OF LICENSES.
   The City Clerk shall keep a complete and public record of the issuance of
each license and all renewals, suspensions and revocations thereof, which
record shall be kept on file with the original application for the license. If
a member of any cooperative association, the licensee shall give the name of
the association and shall notify the City Clerk of any change in his or her
membership or affiliation within 48 hours of the change.
(Prior Code, § 32-4) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.05 REQUIRED TO CARRY PASSENGERS; RESTRICTION.
   No driver of a taxicab shall refuse or neglect to convey any orderly person
upon request in the city unless previously engaged or unable to do so or unless
the passenger refuses to pay. No taxicab driver shall carry any other person
than the person first employing the taxicab, without the consent of the
passenger.
(Prior Code, § 32-5) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.06 OPERATION.
   No taxicab or vehicle for hire shall be operated in such a manner so as to
interfere with or impede the flow of traffic.
(Prior Code, § 32-6) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.07 PROPERTY LOST OR LEFT IN TAXICABS.
   Every driver of a taxicab, immediately after the termination of any hiring
or employment, shall carefully search such taxicab for any property lost or
left therein, and any such property, unless sooner claimed or delivered to the
owner, shall be taken to the nearest police station and deposited with the
officer in charge within 24 hours after the finding thereof. The officer in
charge of the station to which the report shall be made shall forward a written
notice to the police property officer with brief particulars and a description
of the property. The provisions of this section shall not apply to any profit
or nonprofit corporation composed of members engaged in regular taxicab
business, having a regularly established lost and found department; in which
case such property shall be kept subject to the call of the owner for a period
of not less than 30 days, at the termination of the period to be disposed of in
accordance with law.
(Prior Code, § 32-7) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.08 SOLICITING.
   No person shall solicit passengers for a taxicab upon the streets and public
ways of the city, except the driver of a taxicab when seated upon the driver’s
seat of the vehicle. The driver of any taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall
remain on the driver’s seat or inside of his or her vehicle at all times when
the vehicle is standing at any public stand or when actually engaged in
carrying passengers; provided that nothing in this section contained shall be
construed to prohibit the driver from alighting to the street or sidewalk for
the purpose of assisting passengers.
(Prior Code, § 32-8) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
BUSINESS LICENSING
§ 118.20 REQUIRED.
   No person shall operate for hire upon the streets of the city any taxicab or
motor vehicle for hire without first obtaining a license therefor from the city
clerk.
(Prior Code, § 32-26) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.21 APPLICATION.
   Application for licenses for taxicabs or motor vehicles for hire shall be
made by the owner upon blanks to be furnished by the City Clerk and the
applications shall contain:
   (A)   The full name and address of the owner;
   (B)   The class of vehicle for which a license is desired;
   (C)   The length of time the vehicle has been in use;
   (D)   The number of persons it is capable of carrying; and
   (E)   The motor power thereof.
(Prior Code, § 32-27) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.22 INSPECTION OF VEHICLE PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   Every applicant for the issuance of a license pursuant to this subchapter
shall, at his or her own expense, cause the vehicle to be throughly and
carefully inspected by a master mechanic certified under the provisions of
Public Act 300 of 1974 known as the Michigan Motor Vehicle Service and Repair
Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 257.1301 to 257.1340, and shall attach a signed
statement from the mechanic indicating that the vehicle has been inspected and
has been found to be in a safe operating condition, to the application referred
to in §
118.22
(Prior Code, § 32-28) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.23 LIABILITY INSURANCE.
   Before the issuance of a license to operate a taxicab or motor vehicle for
hire, the licensee shall file a certificate signed by a duly authorized officer
of a company authorized to write insurance in the state to the effect that a
policy of insurance has been issued and is in full force and effect issued to
the licensee, and that the premium has been paid as required, together with a
true copy of the policy contract. In cases where the insurance premium is
payable monthly, proper certificates or evidence of payment of the premiums
shall be delivered to the City Clerk not later than the first day of each
month. The policy of insurance shall be issued for each vehicle licensed in
amounts not less than $100,000 for bodily injuries or death to any one person,
and $300,000 for bodily injuries or death to more than 1 person, and $50,000
for damage to property. The limitations of the foregoing sentence shall apply
to judgments recovered in each cause of action resulting from the operation,
maintenance, use or defective construction of each licensed vehicle. The policy
of insurance shall contain a provision for a continuing liability thereunder to
the full amount thereof, notwithstanding any recovery thereon, and that until
the policy is revoked as herein provided the insurance company will not be
relieved from liability on account of nonpayment of premium, failure to renew
license at the end of the year, or any act or omission of the licensee. The
insurer shall file a notice in the office of the City Clerk of its intention to
terminate and cancel the policy and give notice thereof to the licensee,
whereupon after 10 days after the filing, the licensee or owner shall cease to
operate or cause to be operated within the city a taxicab or motor vehicle for
hire and the license issued therefor shall be automatically revoked and
liability on the policy shall cease and terminate; provided that for any act or
omission of the licensee or owner occurring prior to the effective date of
cancellation, liability therefor shall not be discharged or impaired.
(Prior Code, § 32-29) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.24 CERTIFICATE DESIGNATING CLERK AS AGENT TO ACCEPT SERVICE OF PROCESS
PREREQUISITE TO ISSUANCE.
   Before a license as herein provided for shall be issued, the applicant shall
file with the City Clerk an instrument setting forth the name and address of
the resident agent if the applicant be a corporation or a certified copy of an
assumed name certificate if the applicant is not a corporation.
(Prior Code, § 32-30) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.25 FEE.
   A license may be issued under this subchapter upon the applicant paying the
sum of $25 for the first taxicab or motor vehicle for hire and $5 for each one
thereafter. Fees established in this section may be amended from time to time
by resolution of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 32-31) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 11-1-
2007)
§ 118.26 EXPIRATION.
   All licenses issued by the Commission, under this subchapter, unless sooner
revoked, shall expire on June 30 each year.
(Prior Code, § 32-32) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985; Am. Ord. 96-5, passed 5-2-
1996)
§ 118.27 SUSPENSION AND REVOCATION.
   (A)   Any vehicle license issued under the provisions of this subchapter may
be suspended by the City Clerk or revoked by the Commission, if the vehicle
shall, with the knowledge and consent of the owner, be engaged in illegal
business in violation of any ordinance, state or federal law, or in violation
of the terms of this chapter.
   (B)   (1)   Any person being aggrieved by reason of the conduct or action of
any such owner or driver may present his or her complaint to any police
officer.
      (2)   The complaint shall be promptly investigated by the Police
Department and the license of any person complained of may be suspended by City
Clerk upon recommendation of the Chief of Police.
(Prior Code, § 32-33) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
DRIVER’S LICENSE
§ 118.40 REQUIRED.
   Each person driving a taxicab or motor vehicle for hire shall obtain a
driver’s license pursuant to the provisions of the Michigan Motor Vehicles
Code.
(Prior Code, § 32-49) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
§ 118.41 PERMITTING PERSON TO OPERATE WITHOUT LICENSE PROHIBITED.
   No person shall permit any unlicensed driver or any driver whose license has
been suspended or revoked to operate any taxicab or motor vehicle for hire
within the city.
(Prior Code, § 32-50) (Ord. 85-2, passed 2-7-1985)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 119: MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS
Section
   
119.01   Title
   
119.02   Definitions
   
119.03   No marihuana establishments
 
   
119.99   Violations and penalties
§ 119.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as and may be cited as the City of Marine City
Prohibition of Marihuana Establishments Ordinance.
(Ord. 2019-004, passed 3-7-2019)
§ 119.02 DEFINITIONS.
   Words used herein shall have the definitions as provided for in Initiated
Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq., specifically at M.C.L.A. §
333.27953, or as otherwise codified or amended.
(Ord. 2019-004, passed 3-7-2019)
§ 119.03 NO MARIHUANA ESTABLISHMENTS.
   The city hereby prohibits all marihuana establishments within the boundaries
of the city pursuant to Initiated Law 1 of 2018, M.C.L.A. §§ 333.27951 et seq.,
specifically at M.C.L.A. § 333.27956, or as otherwise codified or amended.
(Ord. 2019-004, passed 3-7-2019)
§ 119.99 VIOLATIONS AND PENALTIES.
   (A)   Any person who disobeys, neglects or refuses to comply with any
provision of this chapter or who causes, allows or consents to any of the same
shall be deemed to be responsible for the violation of this chapter. A
violation of this chapter is deemed to be a nuisance per se.
   (B)   A violation of this chapter is a municipal civil infraction, for which
the fines shall not be less than $100 nor more than $500, in the discretion of
the Court. The foregoing sanctions shall be in addition to the rights of the
city to proceed at law or equity with other appropriate and proper remedies.
Additionally, the violator shall pay costs which may include all expenses,
direct and indirect, which the city incurs in connection with the municipal
civil infraction.
   (C)   Each day during which any violation continues shall be deemed a
separate offense.
   (D)   The city may seek injunctive relief against persons alleged to be in
violation of this chapter, and such other relief as may be provided by law.
   (E)   This chapter shall be administered and enforced by the Ordinance
Enforcement Officer of the city or by such other person(s) as designated by the
City Manager or the City Commission from time to time.
(Ord. 2019-004, passed 3-7-2019)
CHAPTER 120: KEY LOCK BOXES
Section
   
120.01   Title
   
120.02   Purpose
   
120.03   Applicability
   
120.04   Knox box requirements
   
120.05   Hazardous materials management
   
120.06   Applications
   
120.07   Other rules and regulations
   
120.08   Nuisance
 
   
120.98   Violations
   
120.99   Penalty
§ 120.01 TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known as the Rapid Entry/Knox Box Ordinance.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
§ 120.02 PURPOSE.
   The purpose of this chapter is to promote the public health, safety and
welfare for the residents of the city by expediting entry of fire and rescue
personnel to locked premises. It is the intent of this chapter to permit rapid
entry to structures in order to save lives and property. This chapter provides
for the use of knox security/rapid access products because the products are
specifically designed for the goals of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
§ 120.03 APPLICABILITY.
   (A)   All newly constructed or significantly remodeled commercial and
industrial buildings,
regardless of use or occupancy, shall have installed a knox box system.
   (B)   This chapter shall not apply to residential structures, churches or
public educational facilities, unless requested by the owner, in which case,
the provisions of this chapter shall apply.
   (C)   Each existing structure that is constructed to provide medical or
health care to its residents or patients, lodging to the public, or commercial
housing of residents shall have installed a knox key box. Included in this
section shall be motels, hotels, inns, hospitals, care facilities, retirement
centers and apartment complexes.
   (D)   Industrial and commercial structures with sprinkler systems and/or
alarm systems whether monitored or not shall also install a knox key box.
   (E)   (1)   Knox key box system shall be installed within 8 feet of the main
entrance or other such location required by the Fire Chief. The lock box shall
be affixed in a location of not less than 4 feet and not more than 6 feet above
final grade and clearly visible. The box shall contain:
         (a)   Keys to locked points of external ingress to common areas of the
building.
         (b)   Keys to locked alarm, sprinkler control, mechanical, electrical,
or equipment rooms.
         (c)   Keys to elevator controls (if applicable).
         (d)   Keys to any outdoor storage or accessory buildings.
         (e)   Any other room as specified by the Fire Chief.
      (2)   All keys shall be labeled with tags for easy identification in the
field.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023) Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.04 KNOX BOX REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   A KNOX BOX is a secure box containing access key(s) to the premises
where the box is located. It shall be sufficiently large enough to hold the
keys and/or information required by this chapter.
   (B)   At the time of the knox box installation, the building owner shall
arrange for the Fire Chief to check that the access keys have been placed in
the box and to provide the access key for the box to the Public Safety
Department.
   (C)   The number of master keys needed shall be at the discretion of the
Fire Chief, depending on the occupancy and the life safety needs.
   (D)   Time for installation. All newly constructed structures subject to
this section or at the discretion of the Fire Chief shall have the key lock box
installed and operational prior to occupancy. All structures in existence on
November 9, 2023 shall have 6 months to have a key lock box installed and
operational.
   (E)   Fire Department approved padlock. Any structure meeting the
requirements of § 120.03 surrounded by a locked fence in an area barring access
to the structure shall be required to utilize a padlock in conjunction with the
knox box system which is utilized by the property/business owner, which is
keyed to match the approved knox box system as defined by this section. If
there are multiple locked entrances through the fence, only 1 shall be required
to utilize the Fire Department approved lock.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
§ 120.05 HAZARDOUS MATERIALS MANAGEMENT.
   Any facility, firm, or corporation that handles, uses, or stores hazardous
material in the (3) or (4) range of the NFPA 704M symbol and total aggregate is
more than 55 gallons, 500 pounds, or 200 cubic feet shall have a knox box for
hazardous material information for the public safety use. A weatherproof box or
cabinet shall be installed when appropriate. Exception: Not required for
underground fuel storage.
   (A)   The box shall contain the following:
      (1)   Binder of information with:
         (a)   A list of responsible persons and phone numbers (i.e., plant
manager, owner, all principal employees, management types, and major chemical
manufacturers);
         (b)   A blueprint of the facility, to include room numbering,
extinguishing systems (OSY, PI valves, Fire Department connections), drains,
secondary containment, ventilation systems, hydrant locations and electrical
schematics.
   (B)   Location. The hazardous material knox box shall be located on the
premises to the front of the building on a metal post or appropriate structure
erected to house the knox box, located at the furthest point away from the
building that is accessible to the Fire Department.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023) Penalty, see § 120.99
§ 120.06 APPLICATIONS.
   Application for a key box shall be made on forms provided by the Marine City
Area Fire Authority.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
§ 120.07 OTHER RULES AND REGULATIONS.
   The Fire Chief shall be authorized to implement rules and regulations for
the use of the lock box system.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
§ 120.09 NUISANCE.
   Violation of this chapter shall be deemed to create a nuisance, and the city
may at its option seek injunctive relief from a court of competent
jurisdiction.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
§ 120.98 VIOLATIONS.
   No certificate of occupancy or business license shall be issued by the city
for any building that fails to conform to provisions of this chapter.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
§ 120.99 PENALTY.
   Failure to comply with the requirements of this chapter shall be deemed a
municipal civil infraction which shall result in the assessment of a fine of
$500 per violation.
(Ord. 23-006, passed 11-2-2023)
TITLE XIII: GENERAL OFFENSES
Chapter
   
130.   GENERAL PROVISIONS
   
131.   OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
   
132.   OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
   
133.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
   
134.   OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
   
135.   WEAPONS
   
136.   FIREWORKS
   
137.   DRUGS; DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
CHAPTER 130: GENERAL PROVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
130.01   Obstruction of a police officer
   
130.02   Frequenting unlawful establishments
   
130.03   Window peeping
   
130.04   Loitering
   
130.05   False statements on license or permit applications
   
130.06   Oil or gas wells prohibited
   
130.07   Garbage and sewage installations prohibited
   
130.08   Radio interference prohibited; exceptions
   
130.09   Storage of abandoned appliances prohibited
Minors
   
130.20   Curfew
   
130.21   Use of alcoholic beverages
   
130.22   Parental responsibility
   
130.23   Adoption of Section 703 of Public Act 58 of 1998, M.C.L.A. § 436.1703
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 130.01 OBSTRUCTION OF A POLICE OFFICER.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to obstruct, resist, hinder or oppose
any member of the police force, or any peace officer in the discharge of his or
her duties as such.
(Prior Code, § 19-1) (Ord. passed 11-2-1967)
Statutory reference:
   Obstruction of police officer, see M.C.L.A. § 750.479
§ 130.02 FREQUENTING UNLAWFUL ESTABLISHMENTS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to frequent or loaf, loiter or idle in
or around, or to be an occupant of, or employed in any gambling establishment,
establishment where alcoholic beverages are sold without a license or any other
unlawful establishment,
(Prior Code, § 19-2)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory references:
   Frequenting gaming places, see M.C.L.A. § 750.309
   Persons loitering in or about unlawful establishments defined as disorderly
persons, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)
§ 130.03 WINDOW PEEPING.
   No person shall look, peer or peep into, or be found loitering around or
within view of any window not on his or her own property, with the intent of
watching or looking through the window.
(Prior Code, § 19-4)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Person window peeping defined as a disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167
(1)(c)
§ 130.04 LOITERING.
   (A)   A person commits a violation if he or she loiters or prowls in a
place, at a time, or in a manner not usual for law-abiding individuals under
circumstances that warrant alarm for the safety of persons or property in the
vicinity. Among the circumstances which may be considered in determining
whether alarm is warranted is the fact that the person takes flight upon
appearance of a police officer, refuses to identify himself or herself, or
manifestly endeavors to conceal himself or herself or any object. Unless flight
by the person or other circumstances makes it impractical, a police officer
shall, prior to any arrest for an offense under this section, afford the person
an opportunity to dispel any alarm which would otherwise be warranted, by
requesting the person to identify himself or herself and to explain his or her
presence or conduct. No person shall be convicted of an offense under this
section if the police officer did not comply with the preceding sentence, or if
it appears at trial that the explanation given by the person was true and, if
it had been believed by the police officer at the time, would have dispelled
the alarm. Any police officer may arrest any person suspected of being a
loiterer or prowler without a warrant if it reasonably appears that the delay
in arresting the suspect caused by obtaining a warrant would result in the
suspect's escape.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person, after first being warned by a
police officer, or where a “no loitering” sign or signs have been posted, to
loiter, stand, sit, or lie in or upon any public or quasi-public sidewalk,
street, curb, cross-walk, walkway area, mall or that portion of private
property utilized for public use, so as to hinder or obstruct unreasonably the
free passage of pedestrians or vehicles thereon. It shall be unlawful for any
person to block, obstruct, or prevent free access to the entrance to any
building open to the public.
   (C)   For the purpose of this section, PUBLIC PLACE has the following
definition unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different
meaning: an area generally visible to public view, including streets,
sidewalks, bridges, alleys, plazas, parks, driveways, parking lots, automobiles
(whether moving or not), and buildings open to the general public, including
those which serve food or drink or provide  entertainment, and the doorways and
entrances to buildings or dwellings and the grounds enclosing them.
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Certain loiterers defined as disorderly persons, see M.C.L.A. § 750.167(1)
(h)—(j)
§ 130.05 FALSE STATEMENTS ON LICENSE OR PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make a false statement on any
application made to obtain a license or permit under this code.
(Prior Code, § 19-6)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.06 OIL AND GAS WELLS PROHIBITED.
   The locating, sinking, drilling, casing, deepening or operating of oil and
gas wells, and test holes for the location of natural crude oil or natural dry
gas in the city is hereby prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 19-7) (Ord. 42, passed 10-23-1961)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.07 GARBAGE AND SEWAGE INSTALLATIONS PROHIBITED.
   No person shall erect, build or install within the city any garbage disposal
plant, garbage incinerator plant, sewage disposal plant or sewage disposal
tank, or construct or build any building to be used for the purpose of
disposing of garbage or sewage.
(Prior Code, § 19-8)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.08 RADIO INTERFERENCE PROHIBITED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No person shall maintain or operate any equipment, device, appliance
or apparatus in the city which generates or causes high frequency oscillations
which interfere with radio transmitting or reception; provided, that X-ray
pictures, examinations or treatments and diathermy treatments may be made if
the machine or apparatus therefor is equipped to avoid all unnecessary or
reasonably preventable interference and are not negligently operated.
   (B)   The Building Inspector may designate 1 of his or her employees as
radio inspector, to investigate complaints of radio transmitting and reception,
and he is hereby given authority, upon presenting his or her evidence of
authority, to have a right of access to any premises at any reasonable hour for
the purpose of inspecting any equipment, device, appliance or apparatus coming
within the terms of this section to determine if the equipment, device,
appliance and apparatus complies with the terms of this section, and no person
shall interfere with the Radio Inspector in making the inspection or refuse to
allow the Radio Inspector to enter upon the premises for such purpose.
   (C)   (1)   When an inspection and test shall have been made by the Radio
Inspector and it is found that the equipment, device, appliance or apparatus is
being operated in violation of this section, the person responsible for the
operation shall be notified in writing to discontinue the use of the equipment,
device, appliance or apparatus or to make additions, repairs or modifications
thereof, in order that the same may be operated in a manner which complies with
the provisions of this section.
      (2)   The notice may be given personally to the person or by registered
mail, addressed to the person. If the person, within 48 hours after receipt of
the notice to repair or discontinue the use of said equipment, device,
appliance or apparatus, does not discontinue its use or repair the same so that
it complies with this section, the person shall be deemed to be operating the
same in violation thereof.
   (D)   (1)   The operation of any machine, mechanical device, electrical
device or thing that interferes with or causes static in the operation of the
police radio system is hereby declared to be a public nuisance.
      (2)   The operator of the machine or device shall immediately discontinue
the use of the equipment, upon being notified of its interference with the
police radio system, and shall not again place the same in operation until it
has been repaired or modified so as not to interfere with the police radio
system.
   (E)   No provision of this section shall be construed as regulating any
equipment, device, appliance or apparatus used in interstate commerce where the
same is licensed or regulated by or under any act of Congress of the United
States.
(Prior Code, § 19-9)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 130.09 STORAGE OF ABANDONED APPLIANCES PROHIBITED.
   Any person who knowingly leaves, in a place accessible to children, any
abandoned, unattended or discarded icebox, refrigerator or other container of a
kind and size sufficient to permit the entrapment of a child therein, without
first removing the snaplock or other locking device from the lid or cover
thereof, is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 19-10) (Ord. 94-16, passed 6-16-1994)
MINORS
§ 130.20 CURFEW.
   (A)   Under 12. No minor under the age of 12 years shall loiter, idle or
congregate in or on any public street, highway, alley or park between the hours
of 10:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m., unless the minor is accompanied by a parent or
guardian.
(Prior Code, § 15-16)
   (B)   Under 18. No minor under the age of 18 years shall loiter, idle or
congregate in or on any public street, highway, alley or park between the hours
of 11:00 p.m. and 6:00 a.m. except where the minor is accompanied by a parent
or guardian.
(Prior Code, § 15-17)
(Am. Ord. 90-9, passed 8-2-1990; Am. Ord. 94-9, passed 3-17-1994; Am. Ord. 97-
1, passed 5-1-1997)
   (C)   Parental responsibility; assisting violation. Any parent, guardian or
other person having the care or custody of any minor who permits, suffers,
allows or encourages such minor to violate the provisions of this section; or
any other person of the age of 18 years or over who assists, abets, allows,
permits or encourages any minor under the age of 18 years to violate the
provisions of this section is guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-18)
(Ord. passed 11-3-1960; Am. Ord. 84-4, passed 3-15-1984)
   (E)   Exemptions. This section does not apply to a minor who is:
      (1)   Accompanied by the minor's parent or guardian;
      (2)   On an errand at the direction of the minor's parent or guardian,
without any detour or stop;
      (3)   In a motor vehicle involved in interstate travel;
      (4)   Engaged in an employment activity, or going to or returning home
from an employment activity, without any detour or stop;
      (5)   Involved in an emergency;
      (6)   On the sidewalk abutting the minor's residence or abutting the
residence of a next-door neighbor if the neighbor did not complain to the
police department about the minor's presence;
      (7)   Attending an official school, religious, or other recreational
activity supervised by adults and sponsored by the city, a civic organization,
or another similar entity that takes responsibility for the minor, or going to
or returning home from, without any detour or stop, an official school,
religious, or other recreational activity supervised by adults and sponsored by
the city, a civic organization, or another similar entity that takes
responsibility for the minor;
      (8)   Exercising First Amendment rights protected by the United States
Constitution, such as the free exercise of religion, freedom of speech, and the
right of assembly; or
      (9)   Married or had been married or had disabilities of minority removed
in accordance with state law.
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 722.751, M.C.L.A. § 722.752, M.C.L.A. §
722.753
§ 130.21 USE OF ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGES.
   (A)   Transportation in motor vehicles. Persons less than 21 years of age
shall not knowingly transport or possess in a motor vehicle alcoholic liquor
unless the person is employed by the Liquor Control Commission or is an agent
of the Liquor Control Commission or is a common carrier designated by the
Liquor Control Commission and is transporting or having the alcoholic liquor in
a motor vehicle under the person’s control during regular working hours and in
the course of the person’s employment. A person who violates this section is
guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-31) (Ord. passed 2-27-1975; Am. Ord. 79-7, passed 9-6-1979;
Am. Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-1990)
   (B)   Sold or furnished to those under 21. Alcoholic liquor shall not be
sold or furnished to a person unless the person has attained 21 years of age. A
person who is less than 21 years of age or who fails to make diligent inquiry
as to whether the person is less than 21 years of age is guilty of a
misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 15-32) (Ord. passed 4-11-1968; Am. Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-1990)
   (C)   Purchase, possession, or consumption of alcohol by persons under the
age of 21.
      (1)   A person less than 21 years of age shall not purchase or attempt to
purchase alcoholic liquor, consume or attempt to consume alcoholic liquor, or
possess or attempt to possess alcoholic liquor, except as provided in this
section and M.C.L.A. § 436.1701. A person less than 21 years of age who
violates this subsection is guilty of a misdemeanor punishable by the following
fines and sanctions:
         (a)   For the first violation, a fine of not more than $100 and may be
ordered to participate in substance abuse prevention or substance abuse
treatment and rehabilitation services as defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.6107, and
designated by the administrator of substance abuse services, and may be ordered
to perform community service and to undergo substance abuse screening and
assessment at his or her own expense as described in division (C)(3) below.
         (b)   For a second violation, a fine of not more than $200 and may be
ordered to participate in a substance abuse prevention or substance abuse
treatment and rehabilitation services as defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.6107 and
designated by the administrator of substance abuse services, to perform
community service, and to undergo substance abuse screening and assessment at
his or her own expense as described in division (C)(3) below. The person is
also subject to sanctions against his or her operator's or chauffeur’s license
imposed in division (C)(4) below.
         (c)   For a third or subsequent violation, a fine of not more than
$500 and may be ordered to participate in substance abuse prevention or
substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation services as defined in M.C.L.A. §
333.6107, and designated by the Administrator of Substance Abuse Services, to
perform community service and to undergo substance abuse screening and
assessment at his or her own expense as described in division (C)(3) below. The
person is also subject to sanctions against his or her operator's or
chauffeur’s license imposed in division (C)(4) below.
      (2)   A person who furnishes fraudulent identification to a person less
than 21 years of age, or notwithstanding division (C)(1) above, a person less
than 21 years of age who uses fraudulent identification to purchase alcoholic
liquor, is guilty of a misdemeanor. The court shall order the secretary of
state to suspend, pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 257.319, for a period of 90 days, the
operator or chauffeur license of a person who is convicted of furnishing or
using fraudulent identification in violation of this subsection and the
operator or chauffeur license of that person shall be surrendered to the court.
The court shall immediately forward the surrendered license and an abstract of
conviction to the secretary of state. A suspension ordered under this division
shall be in addition to any other suspension of the person’s operator or
chauffeur license.
      (3)   The court may order the person found violating division (C)(1)
above to undergo screening and assessment by a person or agency as designated
by the substance abuse coordinating agency as defined in M.C.L.A. § 333.6104,
in order to determine whether the person is likely to benefit from
rehabilitative services, including alcohol or drug education and alcohol or
drug treatment programs.
      (4)   Immediately upon the entry of a conviction or a probate court
disposition for a violation of division (C)(1) above the court shall consider
all prior convictions or probate court dispositions of division (C)(1) above,
or a local ordinance or law of this state or another state substantially
corresponding to division (C)(1) above, and shall impose the following
sanctions:
         (a)   If the court finds that the person has 1 such prior conviction
or probate court disposition, the court shall order the secretary of state to
suspend the operator’s or chauffeur’s license of the person for a period of not
less than 90 days or more than 180 days. The court may order the secretary of
state to issue to the person a restricted license after the first 30 days of
the period of suspension in the manner described in division (C)(5) below. In
the case of a person who does not possess an operator’s or chauffeur’s license,
the secretary of state shall deny the application for an operator’s or
chauffeur’s license for the applicable suspension period.
         (b)   If the court finds that the person has 2 or more such prior
convictions or probate court dispositions, the court shall order the secretary
of state to suspend the operator’s or chauffeur’s license of the person for a
period of not less than 180 days or more than 1 year. The court may order the
secretary of state to issue to the person a restricted license after the first
60 days of the period of suspension in the manner described in division (C)(5)
below and M.C.L.A. § 257.319. In the case of a person who does not possess an
operator’s or chauffeur’s license, the secretary of state shall deny the
application for an operator’s or chauffeur’s license for the applicable
suspension period.
      (5)   In those cases in which a restricted license is allowed under this
section, the court shall not order the Secretary of State to issue a restricted
license unless the person states under oath, and the court finds based upon the
record in open court, that the person is unable to take public transportation
to and from his or her work location, place of alcohol or drug education
treatment, probation department, court-ordered community service program, or
educational institution, and does not have any family members or others able to
provide transportation. The court order under division (C)(4) above and the
restricted license shall indicate the work location of the person to whom it is
issued, the approved route or routes and permitted times of travel, and shall
permit the person to whom it is issued only to do 1 or more of the following:
         (a)   Drive to and from the person’s residence and work location;
         (b)   Drive in the course of the person’s employment or occupation;
         (c)   Drive to and from the person’s residence and an alcohol or drug
education or treatment program as ordered by the court;
         (d)   Drive to and from the person’s residence and the court probation
department, or a court-ordered community service program, or both; or
         (e)   Drive to and from the person’s residence and an educational
institution at which the person is enrolled as a student.
      (6)   If license sanctions are imposed, immediately upon the entry of a
court-ordered sanction pursuant to division (C)(4) above, the court shall order
the person convicted for the violation to surrender to the court his or her
operator’s or chauffeur’s license. The court shall immediately forward a notice
of court-ordered license sanctions to the Secretary of State. If the license is
not forwarded to the Secretary of State, an explanation of the reason why the
license is absent shall be attached. If the finding is appealed to the Circuit
Court, the court may ex parte, order the secretary of state to stay the
suspension issued pursuant to this section pending the outcome of the appeal.
Immediately following imposition of the sanction, the court shall forward a
notice to the secretary of state indicating the sanction imposed.
      (7)   A law enforcement agency, upon determining that a person less than
18 years of age who is not emancipated pursuant to Act No. 293 of the Public
Acts of 1968, being sections M.C.L.A. §§ 722.1 to 722.6, allegedly consumed,
possessed, purchased or attempted to consume, possess or purchase alcoholic
liquor in violation of division (C)(1) above shall notify the parent or
parents, custodian or guardian of the person as to the nature of the violation
if the name of a parent, custodian or guardian of the person is reasonably
ascertainable by the law enforcement agency. The notice required by this
division shall be made not later than 48 hours after the law enforcement agency
determines that the person who allegedly violated division (C)(1) above is less
than 18 years of age and not emancipated pursuant to Act No. 293 of the Public
Acts of 1968. The notice may be made by any means reasonably calculated to give
prompt actual notice including, but not limited to, notice in person, by
telephone, or by first class mail. If a person less than 17 years of age is
incarcerated for violating division (C)(1) above, his or her parents or legal
guardian shall be notified immediately as provided in this division.
      (8)   This section does not prohibit a person less than 21 years of age
from possessing alcoholic liquor during regular working hours and in the course
of his or her employment if employed by a person licensed under state law, by
the Liquor Commission or by an agent of the Commission, if the alcoholic liquor
is not possessed for his or her personal consumption.
      (9)   This section shall not be construed to limit the civil or criminal
liability of the vendor or the vendor’s clerk, servant, agent or employee for a
violation of this act.
      (10)   The consumption of alcoholic liquor by a person less than 21 years
of age who is enrolled in a course offered by an accredited post secondary
educational institution in an academic building of the institution under the
supervision of a faculty member is not prohibited by this act if the purpose of
the consumption is solely educational and is a necessary ingredient of the
course.
      (11)   The consumption by a person less than 21 years of age of
sacramental wine in connection with religious services at a church, synagogue
or temple is not prohibited by this act.
      (12)   Division (C)(1) above does not apply to a person less than 21
years of age who participates in either or both of the following:
         (a)   An undercover operation in which the person less than 21 years
of age purchases or receives alcoholic liquor under the direction of the
person’s employer and with the prior approval of the local prosecutor’s office
as part of an employer-sponsored internal enforcement action.
         (b)   An undercover operation in which the person less than 21 years
of age purchases or receives alcoholic liquor under the direction of the state
police, the Liquor Commission or a local police agency as part of an
enforcement action except that any initial or contemporaneous purchase or
receipt of alcoholic liquor by the person less than 21 years of age is under
the direction of the state police, the Liquor Commission or a local police
agency and is part of the undercover operation. The state police, the Liquor
Commission or a local police agency shall not recruit or attempt to recruit a
person less than 21 years of age for participation in an undercover operation
at the scene of a violation of division (C)(1) above, M.C.L.A. § 436.1701.
      (13)   For the purpose of this division (C)(13), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         PROBATE COURT DISPOSITION. An order of disposition of the probate
court or the Family Division of the Circuit Court for a child found to be
within the provisions of chapter XIIA of Act No. 288 of the Public Acts of
1939, being M.C.L.A. §§ 712A.1 to 712A.32.
         WORK LOCATION. As applicable, either the specific place or places of
employment or the territory or territories regularly visited by the person in
pursuance of the person’s occupation or both.
(Prior Code, § 15-33) (Ord. passed 79-6, passed 9-6-1979; Am. Ord. 98-1, passed
3-5-1998; Am. Ord. 10-05, passed 10-21-2010)
   (D)   Use of alcoholic beverages and drugs by minors at open house parties.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (D), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         ADULT. A person 17 years of age or older.
         ALCOHOLIC BEVERAGE. Any beverage containing more than 0.5% of alcohol
by weight. The percentage of alcohol by weight shall be determined in
accordance with the provisions of M.C.L.A. § 436.1105, as the same may be
amended from time to time.
         CONTROL. Any form of regulation or dominion, including a possessory
right.
         DRUGS. A controlled substance as defined now or hereafter by the
Public Acts of the State of Michigan. Currently, such controlled substances are
defined by Article 7, Act No. 368 of the Public Acts of 1978 (M.C.L.A. §§
333.7101 et seq.).
         MINOR. A person not legally permitted by reason of age to possess
alcoholic beverages pursuant to M.C.L.A. § 436.1703, as the same may be amended
from time to time.
         OPEN-HOUSE PARTY. A social gathering of persons at a residence of
other than the owner or those with rights of possession or their immediate
family members.
         RESIDENCE. A home, apartment, condominium or other dwelling unit and
includes the curtilage of the dwelling unit.
      (2)   Regulation of use of alcoholic beverages and drugs. No adult having
control of any residence shall allow an open-house party to take place at the
residence if any alcoholic beverage or drug is possessed or consumed at the
residence by any minor where the adult knew or reasonably should have known
that an alcoholic beverage or drug was in the possession of or being consumed
by a minor at the residence and where the adult failed to take reasonable steps
to prevent the possession or consumption of the alcoholic beverage or drug at
the residence.
      (3)   Exception. The provisions of this section shall not apply to
legally protected religious observances or legally protected educational
activities.
      (4)   Penalties. The penalties for violation of this division (D) shall
be as follows:
         (a)   For the first violation, a fine not exceeding $500 or
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed 30 days or by both
such fine and imprisonment.
         (b)   For subsequent violations, a fine not exceeding $500 or
imprisonment in the county jail for a term not to exceed 90 days or by both the
fine and imprisonment.
(Prior Code, § 15-34) (Ord. 85-6, passed 11-21-1985; Am. Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-
1990)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 436.1101 to 436.2303
§ 130.22 PARENTAL RESPONSIBILITY.
   (A)   Definitions. For the purpose of this division (A), the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
      CRIMINAL ACTS. Those acts which violate the Laws of the United States,
the statutes of the state or the ordinances of the city and shall include
traffic violations.
      HABITUAL OFFENDER. One who commits 2 or more criminal acts, or including
4 or more moving traffic violations, within a 12-month period.
      MINOR. Any juvenile under the age of 17 residing with the parent as
defined in this section.
      PARENT. Mother, father, legal guardian and any other person having the
care or custody of a minor or such other adult with whom a minor may be found
residing.
(Prior Code, § 15-44)
   (B)   Parental neglect. It shall be unlawful for the parent of any minor to
fail to exercise reasonable parental control which results in the minor
committing any criminal act or to allow or encourage any minor to commit any
criminal act or become delinquent in accordance with the probate code of the
state as it pertains to juveniles.
(Prior Code, § 15-45)
   (C)   Notification and responsibility.
      (1)   When a minor shall be arrested or detained for the commission of
any criminal act within the city, the parent of the minor shall be immediately
notified by the Police Department advising the parent of the arrest or
detention, the reason therefor and their responsibility under this section.
      (2)   A record of the notifications shall be kept by the city’s Police
Department.
(Prior Code, § 15-46)
(Ord. 64, passed 11-18-1971) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 130.23 ADOPTION OF SECTION 703 OF PUBLIC ACT 58 OF 1998, M.C.L.A. § 436.1703.
   (A)   Purpose and intent. This is a section to adopt § 703 of Public Act 58
of 1998, M.C.L.A. § 436.1703, as amended at this time or as may be amended in
the future, by reference, for the purpose of regulating purchase, consumption,
or possession of alcoholic liquor by minor; attempt; violation; fines;
sanctions; furnishing fraudulent identification to minor; use by minor; prior
violation; screening and assessment; prior judgment; chemical breath analysis;
notice to parent, custodian, or guardian; exceptions; recruitment of minor for
undercover operation prohibited; affirmative defense; definitions.
   (B)   Adoption by reference. Section 703 of Public Act 58 of 1998, M.C.L.A.
§ 436.1703, as amended at this time or as may be amended in the future, is
hereby adopted by reference.
   (C)   Definition of minor. As defined in § 109 of Public Act 58 of 1998,
M.C.L.A. § 436.1109, as amended, MINOR means an individual less than 21 years
of age.
   (D)   Limitations. Violations of § 703 of Public Act 58 of 1998, M.C.L.A. §
436.1703, as amended at this time or as may be amended in the future, for which
the maximum period of imprisonment is greater than 93 days shall not be
enforced by the City of Marine City as an ordinance violation.
   (E)   Penalties. The penalties provided in § 703 of Public Act 58 of 1998,
M.C.L.A. § 436.1703, as amended at this time or as may be amended in the
future, are adopted by reference, subject to the limitations stated in division
(D) of this section.
(Ord 2018-004, passed 4-5-2018)
CHAPTER 131: OFFENSES AGAINST PERSONS
Section
   
131.01   Assault and battery
   
131.02   Jostling
   
131.03   Neglect of family
§ 131.01 ASSAULT AND BATTERY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit an assault or an assault and
battery.
(Prior Code, § 19-31)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Assaults, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.81 et seq.
§ 131.02 JOSTLING.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for a person to jostle or roughly crowd people
unnecessarily in a public place.
   (B)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of this code.
(Prior Code, §19-32) (Ord. 09-07, passed 12-3-2009)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Persons jostling in public defined as disorderly persons, see M.C.L.A. §
750.167(1)(k)
§ 131.03 NEGLECT OF FAMILY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have actually abandoned his wife or
child or to neglect or refuse to provide for his or her family, wife or child
in the city.
(Prior Code, § 19-33) (Ord. passed 11-2-1967)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Person neglecting family defined as disorderly person, see M.C.L.A. §
750.167(1)(a)
CHAPTER 132: OFFENSES AGAINST PROPERTY
Section
   
132.01   Trespassing
   
132.02   Damaging private or public property
   
132.03   Larceny
   
132.04   Possession of tools or articles used for stealing
   
132.05   Fraudulent schemes
   
132.06   Receiving or concealing stolen property
§ 132.01 TRESPASSING.
   Any person who shall willfully enter upon the lands or premises of another
without lawful authority, after having been forbidden to do so by the owner or
occupant, agent or servant of the owner or occupant, or any person being upon
the land or premises of another, upon being notified to depart therefrom by the
owner or occupant, the agent or servant of either, who without lawful authority
neglects or refuses to depart therefrom shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 19-45)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Trespass generally, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.546 et seq.
§ 132.02 DAMAGING PRIVATE OR PUBLIC PROPERTY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to willfully destroy, remove, damage,
alter or in any manner deface any property not his or her own, or any public
school building, or any public building, bridge, fire hydrant, alarm box,
streetlight, street sign, traffic-control device, railroad sign or signal,
parking meter, or shade tree belonging to the city or located in the public
places of the city, or mark or post handbills on, or in any manner mar the
walls of, any public building, or fence, tree, or pole within the city, or
destroy, take, or meddle with any property belonging to the city, or remove the
same from the building or place where it may be kept, placed or stored, without
proper authority; or disturb, tamper with, disconnect or damage any city water
meter without proper authority.
(Prior Code, § 19-46) (Ord. passed 11-2-1967)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Malicious mischief, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.377a et seq.
§ 132.03 LARCENY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to commit the crime of larceny by
stealing from any person or from or in any dwelling, house, house trailer,
automobile, truck or other vehicle, office, store, business place, gasoline
service station, shop, warehouse, mill, factory, hotel, school, barn, ship,
boat, vessel, church, house of worship, locker room or any building used by the
public, or who shall commit the crime of larceny anywhere within the limits of
the city.
(Prior Code, § 19-48) (Ord. passed 11-2-1967)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Larceny, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.356 et seq.
§ 132.04 POSSESSION OF TOOLS OR ARTICLES USED FOR STEALING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession any
tool or instrument used for the commission of burglary, larceny or for picking
locks or pockets, or any articles used for obtaining money or property under
false pretenses and who cannot give a good account for the possession of the
same.
(Prior Code, § 19-49) (Ord. passed 11-2-1967)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Possession of burglar’s tools, see M.C.L.A. § 750.116
§ 132.05 FRAUDULENT SCHEMES.
   No person shall engage in any fraudulent scheme, devise or trick to obtain
money or other valuable things from others.
(Prior Code, § 19-50)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory references:
   False pretenses and false representation, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.217a et seq.
   Gross frauds and cheats at common law, see M.C.L.A. § 750.280
§ 132.06 RECEIVING OR CONCEALING STOLEN PROPERTY.
   A person who buys, receives or aids in the concealment of any stolen,
embezzled or converted money, goods, or property of a value of $100 or less
knowing the same to have been stolen, embezzled or converted, is guilty of a
misdemeanor. Violation of this section shall be punishable as provided in §
10.99.
(Prior Code, § 19-51) (Ord. 81-3, passed 3-19-1981)
CHAPTER 133: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC PEACE
Section
   
133.01   Disturbing the peace generally
   
133.02   Disturbance of religious worship
   
133.03   Unlawful assembly
   
133.04   Fighting
   
133.05   Keeping a disorderly house
   
133.06   Prohibited operation of amplified sound system
§ 133.01 DISTURBING THE PEACE GENERALLY.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to act in a violent, boisterous,
turbulent, quarrelsome, indecent or disorderly manner, or to use profane,
obscene or vulgar language, or to commit any act or to do anything to disturb
the good order, peace and dignity of the city, its inhabitants or other
persons.
(Prior Code, § 19-61)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Disturbance in business or public place or of lawful meetings, see M.C.L.A.
§ 750.170
§ 133.02 DISTURBANCE OF RELIGIOUS WORSHIP.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to disturb or disquiet any congregation
or assembly met for religious worship by making any noise or making any profane
discourse or engaging in any indecent behavior at or near the place of worship
as to disturb the solemnity of the meeting.
(Prior Code, § 19-62)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.169, 752.525
§ 133.03 UNLAWFUL ASSEMBLY.
   It shall be unlawful for persons to collect in bodies or crowds for any
unlawful purpose.
(Prior Code, § 19-63)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Riots and unlawful assemblies, see M.C.L.A. §§ 752.541 et seq.
§ 133.04 FIGHTING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in or aid in any fight,
quarrel or other disturbance in the city.
(Prior Code, § 19-64)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.05 KEEPING A DISORDERLY HOUSE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to permit any indecent, loud, boisterous
or improper noise or disturbance in or about his or her house, tavern, inn,
saloon, cellar, shop, office or other place of residence or place of business,
or permit any persons to congregate in such house, tavern, inn, saloon, cellar,
shop, office or residence within this city, to the disturbance or annoyance of
citizens or others, or permit drunkards, gamblers, prostitutes or other
disorderly persons to resort or congregate in or about such house, tavern, inn,
saloon, cellar, shop, office or residence.
(Prior Code, § 19-65) (Ord. 79, passed 1-8-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 133.06 PROHIBITED OPERATION OF AMPLIFIED SOUND SYSTEM.
   (A)   (1)   No person operating or in control of a parked or moving vehicle
(including all motor vehicles, motorcycles, mopeds and bicycles), or any person
who owns, leases, or is in control of real property in the city, shall operate
or permit the operation of an electronic amplified sound system that is clearly
audible from the vehicle or property, as follows:
         (a)   At a distance of 50 feet from the vehicle located on a public
road, public right-of-way, private road, or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for parking of motor vehicles, between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00 p.m.;
         (b)   At a distance of 25 feet from a vehicle located on a public
road, public right-of-way or private road, or other place open to the general
public or generally accessible to motor vehicles, including an area designated
for parking of motor vehicles, between the hours of 10:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. of
the following day;
         (c)   At a distance of 25 feet beyond the property line of the
premises where such amplified sound is emitted between the hours of 10:00 p.m.
and 7:00 a.m. of the following day.
      (2)   An amplified sound system shall include, but not be limited to,
radios, phonographs, compact discs and tape players, televisions, musical
instruments, drums, sound amplifiers or similar devices which produce or
amplify sound either electronically or mechanically.
   (B)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of the code.
(Ord. 09-06, passed 12-3-2009)
CHAPTER 134: OFFENSES AGAINST PUBLIC MORALS
Section
   
134.01   Indecent exposure
   
134.02   Prostitution and moral perversion
   
134.03   Gambling; prima facie evidence
   
134.04   Obscene matter and conduct
§ 134.01 INDECENT EXPOSURE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make any immoral exhibition or
indecent exposure of himself or herself in any street, alley or public or
private place.
(Prior Code, § 19-78)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 750.335a
§ 134.02 PROSTITUTION AND MORAL PERVERSION.
   (A)   No person shall commit or offer or agree to commit a lewd act or an
act of prostitution or perversion.
   (B)   No person shall secure or offer another for the purpose of committing
a lewd act, or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (C)   No person shall be in or near any place frequented by the public, or
any public place for the purpose of inducing, enticing or procuring another to
commit a lewd act, or an act of prostitution or moral perversion.
   (D)   No person shall knowingly transport any person to any place for the
purpose of committing a lewd act, or an act of prostitution or moral
perversion.
   (E)   No person shall knowingly receive, or offer to or agree to receive any
person into any place or building for the purpose of performing a lewd act, or
an act of prostitution, or moral perversion, or to knowingly permit any person
to remain in any place or building for any such purpose.
   (F)   No person shall direct or offer to direct any person to any place or
building for the purpose of committing any lewd act, or act of prostitution or
moral perversion.
(Prior Code, § 19-79)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Prostitution, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.448 et seq.
§ 134.03 GAMBLING; PRIMA FACIE EVIDENCE.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to keep or maintain any common
gambling house or gaming room, or to permit on any premises owned, occupied or
controlled by him or her any apparatus or device used for gaming or gambling,
or to use such apparatus or device or to assist any other person to use same
for gaming or gambling purposes.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to have in his or her possession
any policy or pool slips, tickets, checks or any paper which is marked
additionally with any kind of notation indicating any form of gambling, and the
possession of the writing or device shall constitute prima facie evidence of
intention to use same for gambling.
(Prior Code, § 19-80)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory references:
   Bingo, see M.C.L.A. §§ 432.101 et seq.
   Gambling, see M.C.L.A. §§ 750.301 et seq.
   State lottery, see M.C.L.A. §§ 432.1 et seq.
§ 134.04 OBSCENE MATTER AND CONDUCT.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      COMMUNITY. This city.
      DISTRIBUTE. To transfer possession of, whether with or without
consideration.
      EXHIBIT. To show.
      KNOWINGLY. Being aware of the character of the matter or live conduct.
      MATTER. Any book, magazine, newspaper or other printed or written
material or any picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture or other pictorial
representation or any statue or other figure, or any recording, transcription
or mechanical, chemical or electrical reproduction or any other articles,
equipment, machines or materials.
      OBSCENE LIVE CONDUCT. Any physical human body activity, whether performed
or engaged in alone or with other persons, including but not limited to
singing, dancing, acting, simulating or pantomiming, where, taken as a whole,
the predominant appeal of such conduct to the average person within the
community, applying contemporary standards of the community, is to prurient
interest, i.e., a shameful or morbid interest in nudity, sex or excretion; and
is conduct which, taken as a whole, goes substantially beyond customary limits
of candor in description or representation of such matter.
      OBSCENE MATTER. Matter, taken as a whole, the predominant appeal of
which, to the average person within the community, applying contemporary
standards of the community, is to prurient interest, i.e., a shameful or morbid
interest in nudity, sex or excretion; and is matter which, taken as a whole,
goes substantially beyond customary limits of candor in description or
representation of such matter.
   (B)   Any person who knowingly engages in obscene live conduct for public
view, or either sells, lends, gives away, distributes, exhibits or transmutes
or offers either to sell, lend, give away, distribute or transmute, or
advertise in any manner, or who otherwise knowingly offers, for either loan,
gift, sale or distribution, any obscene book, magazine, pamphlet, newspaper,
story paper, writing, paper, phonograph record, picture, drawing, photograph,
motion picture film, figure, image, wire or tape recording or any written,
printed or recorded obscene matter which may or may not require mechanical or
other means to be transmuted into auditory, visual or sensory representations
of such character shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
   (C)   Whoever knowingly either sells, distributes or imports for the purpose
of selling or distributing to a person under the age of 18 years any obscene
book, magazine, pamphlet, newspaper, story paper, writing, paper, phonograph
record, picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture film, figure, image, wire
or tape recording or any written, printed or recorded obscene matter which may
or may not require mechanical or other means to be transmuted into auditory,
visual or sensory representations of the character, manifestly tending to
corrupt the morals of youth, or introduces into a family, school or place of
education, or buys, procures, receives or has in his possession any obscene
book, magazine, pamphlet, newspaper, story paper, writing, paper, phonograph
record, picture, drawing, photograph, motion picture film, figure, image, wire
or tape recording or any written, printed or recorded obscene matter which may
or may not require mechanical or other means to be transmuted into auditory,
visual or sensory representations of such character, either for the purpose of
sale, exhibition, loan or circulation to a person under the age of 18 years or
with intent to introduce the same into a family, school or place of education,
shall be guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 19-81) (Ord. 77-4, passed 7-21-1977)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Obscene literature, M.C.L.A.§ 750.390
CHAPTER 135: WEAPONS
Section
   
135.01   Concealed weapons
   
135.02   Discharge of firearms, bows and arrows
   
135.03   Throwing of objects
   
135.04   Hunting
§ 135.01 CONCEALED WEAPONS.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to have or carry any pistol, knife,
dirk, knuckles, slingshot or other dangerous weapon concealed on his or her
person.
(Prior Code, § 19-97)
Penalty, see § 10.99
Statutory reference:
   Carrying concealed weapons without a license, see M.C.L.A. § 750.227
§ 135.02 DISCHARGE OF FIREARMS, BOWS AND ARROWS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge any firearm or other
instrument producing a like effect and noise within the city, except in the
lawful defense of his person or property or as otherwise permitted by law.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to discharge or shoot any bow and
arrow or other instrument producing a like effect within the city except within
the confines of an enclosed building designed and operated for the safe
operation of the devices.
(Prior Code, § 19-98) (Ord. 83-10, passed 11-3-1983)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 135.03 THROWING OF OBJECTS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or propel any snowball,
missile or object from any moving automobile.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person to throw or propel any snowball,
missile or object toward any person or automobile.
(Prior Code, § 19-99) (Ord. passed 11-2-1967)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 135.04 HUNTING.
   (A)   For the purpose of this section, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      GAME. Both birds and animals of a wild nature even though confined or
bred in captivity.
      HUNT. To seek, harry, pursue or take any game.
      TRAP. To seek, harry, pursue, confine, take or entrap any game by means
of any trap, snare, bait, hook or other device.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for any person at any time of year to hunt or
trap any game of any type by firearm, bow and arrow, spear, dog, traps of any
kind, poison, baited hooks, chemical explosives or in any other manner.
(Prior Code, § 19-100) (Ord. 79, passed 1-8-1976)
Penalty, see § 10.99
CHAPTER 136: FIREWORKS
Section
   
136.01   Short title
   
136.02   Statement of purpose
   
136.03   Definitions
   
136.04   Ignition, discharge, and use of consumer fireworks
   
136.05   Possession of consumer fireworks by minor
   
136.06   Determination of violation; seizure
 
   
136.99   Penalty
§ 136.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the “Fireworks Ordinance”.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 11-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-18-2019)
§ 136.02 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   This is an ordinance to provide for the regulation of the ignition,
discharge and use of consumer fireworks, as allowed under the Michigan
Fireworks Safety Act, M.C.L.A. § 28.451 et seq., as amended.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 11-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-18-2019)
§ 136.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APA STANDARD 87-1. APA standard 87-1, standard for construction and approval
for transportation of fireworks, novelties, and theatrical pyrotechnics, 2001
Edition, published by the American Pyrotechnics Association of Bethesda, MD.
   CONSUMER FIREWORKS. Fireworks devices that are designed to produce visible
effects by combustion, that are required to comply with the construction,
chemical composition, and labeling regulations promulgated by the United States
Consumer Product Safety Commission under 16 CFR parts 1500 and 1507, and that
are listed in APA standard 87-1, 3.1.2, 3.1.3, or 3.5. CONSUMER FIREWORKS does
not include low-impact fireworks.
   FIREWORKS. Any composition or device, except for a starting pistol, a flare
gun, or a flare, designed for the purpose of producing a visible or audible
effect by combustion, deflagration, or detonation.
   LOW-IMPACT FIREWORKS. Ground and handheld sparkling devices as that phrase
is defined under APA standard 87-1, 3.1, 3.1.1.1 to 3.1.1.8 and 3.5.
   MINOR. An individual who is less than 18 years of age.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 11-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-18-2019)
§ 136.04 IGNITION, DISCHARGE, AND USE OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS.
   A person shall not ignite, discharge, or use consumer fireworks, except
after 11:00 a.m. on the following days:
   (A)   December 31 until 1:00 a.m. on January 1;
   (B)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Memorial Day until 11:45
p.m. on each of those days;
   (C)   June 29 to July 4 until 11:45 p.m. on each of those days;
   (D)   July 5, if that date is a Friday or Saturday, until 11:45 p.m.; and
   (E)   The Saturday and Sunday immediately preceding Labor Day until 11:45
p.m. on each of those days.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 11-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-18-2019) Penalty,
see §
136.99
§ 136.05 POSSESSION OF CONSUMER FIREWORKS BY MINOR.
   A minor shall not possess consumer fireworks.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 11-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-18-2019) Penalty,
see §
136.99
§ 136.06 DETERMINATION OF VIOLATION: SEIZURE.
   If a police officer determines that a violation of this chapter has
occurred, the officer may seize the consumer fireworks as evidence of the
violation.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 11-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-18-2019)
§ 136.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Municipal civil infraction. A violation of this chapter is a municipal
civil infraction, punishable by a fine of $1,000, of which $500 of the fine
collected must be remitted to the local law enforcement agency responsible for
enforcement of the ordinance.
   (B)   Disposal of evidence. Following final disposition of a finding of
responsibility for violating this chapter, the city may dispose of, or destroy,
any consumer fireworks retained as evidence in that prosecution.
(Ord. 12-03, passed 11-15-2012; Am. Ord. 2019-005, passed 4-18-2019)
CHAPTER 137: DRUGS; DRUG PARAPHERNALIA
Section
   
137.01   Definitions
   
137.01A   Illegal use or possession of marijuana prohibited
   
137.02   Possession of drug paraphernalia
   
137.03   Manufacture, delivery or sale of drug paraphernalia
   
137.04   Advertisement of drug paraphernalia
   
137.05   Exceptions
   
137.99   Penalty
§ 137.01 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
      (1)   All equipment, products and materials of any kind which are used,
intended for use, or designed for use, in planting, propagating, cultivating,
producing, processing, preparing, testing, analyzing, packaging, repackaging,
storing, containing, concealing, injecting, ingesting, inhaling or otherwise
introduced into the human body a controlled substance in violation of state or
local law. It includes but is not limited to:
         (a)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in planting,
propagating, cultivating, growing or harvesting of any species of plant which
is a controlled substance or from which a controlled substance can be derived;
         (b)   Kits used, intended for use, or designed for use in
manufacturing, compounding, converting, producing, processing or preparing
controlled substances;
         (c)   Isomerization devices used, intended for use, or designed for
use in increasing the potency of any pieces of plant which is a controlled
substance;
         (d)   Testing equipment used, intended for use or designed for use in
identifying, or in analyzing the strength, effectiveness or purity of
controlled substances;
         (e)   Scales and balances used, intended for use or designed for use
in weighing or measuring controlled substances;
         (f)   Dilutents and adulterants, such as quinine hydrochloride
mannitol, marmite, dextrose and lactose, used, intended for use, or designed
for use in cutting controlled substances;
         (g)   Separation gins and sitters used, intended for use or designed
for use in removing twigs and seeds from, or in otherwise cleaning or refining,
marijuana;
         (h)   Blenders, bowls, containers, spoons and mixing devices used,
intended for use or designed for use in compounding controlled substances;
         (i)   Capsules, balloons, envelopes and other containers used,
intended for use, or designed for use in packaging small quantities of
controlled substances;
         (j)   Containers and other objects used, intended for use, or designed
for use in storing or concealing controlled substances;
         (k)   Hypodermic syringes, needles and other objects used, intended
for use, or designed for use in parenterally injected controlled substances in
the human body;
         (l)   Objects used, intended for use, or designed for use in
ingesting, inhaling or otherwise introducing marijuana, cocaine, hashish or
hashish oil into the human body, such as:
            1.   Metal, wooden, acrylic, glass, stone, plastic or ceramic pipes
with or without screens, permanent screens, hashish heads or punctured metal
bowls;
            2.   Water pipes;
            3.   Carburetion tubes and devices;
            4.   Smoking and carburetion mask;
            5.   Roach clips: Meaning objects used to hold burning materials,
such as a marijuana cigarette, that has become too small or too short to be
held in the hand;
            6.   Miniature cocaine spoons and cocaine vials;
            7.   Chamber pipes;
            8.   Carburetor pipes;
            9.   Electric pipes;
            10.   Air-driven pipes;
            11.   Chillums;
            12.   Bongs; and
            13.   Ice pipes or chillers.
      (2)   In determining whether an object is DRUG PARAPHERNALIA, a court or
other authority should consider in addition to all other logically relevant
factors, the following:
         (a)   Statements by an owner or by anyone in control of the objects
concerning its use;
         (b)   Prior convictions, if any, of an owner, or of anyone in control
of the object, under any state or federal law relating to any controlled
substance;
         (c)   The proximity of the object, in time and space, to a direct
violation of state law;
         (d)   The proximity of the object to controlled substances;
         (e)   The existence of any residue of controlled substances on the
object;
         (f)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the intent of any owner, or
of anyone in control of the object, to deliver it to persons whom he knows,
intends to use the object to facilitate a violation of state or local law, the
innocence of an owner, or of anyone in control of the object, as to a direct
violation of state law shall not prevent a finding that the object is intended
for use, or designed for use as drug paraphernalia;
         (g)   Instruction, oral or written, provided with the object
concerning its use;
         (h)   Descriptive materials accompanying the object which explain or
depict its use;
         (i)   National and local advertising concerning its use;
         (j)   The manner in which the object is displayed for sale;
         (k)   Whether the owner, or anyone in control of the object, is a
legitimate supplier of like or related items to the community, such as a
licensed distributor or dealer of tobacco products;
         (l)   Direct or circumstantial evidence of the ratio of sales of the
object(s) to the total sales of the business enterprise;
         (m)   The existence and scope of legitimate uses for the object in the
community; and
         (n)   Expert testimony concerning its use.
(Prior Code, § 19-120) (Ord. 87-12, passed 5-21-1987)
§ 137.01A ILLEGAL USE OR POSSESSION OF MARIJUANA PROHIBITED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to use or have in his or her possession
or under his or her control marijuana or cannabis as defined by M.C.L.A. §
333.7106 unless pursuant to a valid prescription or except as otherwise
authorized by Article 7 of the Public Health Code.
(Ord. 02-2015, passed 5-7-2015) Penalty, see §
137.99
§ 137.02 POSSESSION OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to use, or to possess with intent to use, drug
paraphernalia to plant, propagate, cultivate, grow, harvest, manufacture,
compound, convert, produce, process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack,
store, contain, conceal, inject, ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the
human body a controlled substance in violation of state or local law.
(Prior Code, § 19-121) (Ord. 87-12, passed 5-21-1987)
Penalty, see § 137.99
§ 137.03 MANUFACTURE, DELIVERY OR SALE OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to deliver, sell, possess with intent to
deliver or sell, or manufacture with intent to deliver or sell, drug
paraphernalia, knowing that it will be used to plant, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of state law.
(Prior Code, § 19-122) (Ord. 87-12, passed 5-21-1987)
Penalty, see § 137.99
§ 137.04 ADVERTISEMENT OF DRUG PARAPHERNALIA.
   It is unlawful for any person to place in any newspaper, magazine, handbill,
sign, poster, or other publication any advertisement, knowing that the purpose
of the advertisement, in whole or in part, is to promote the sale of objects
designed or intended for use as drug paraphernalia.
(Prior Code, § 19-123) (Ord. 87-12, passed 5-21-1987)
Penalty, see § 137.99
§ 137.05 EXCEPTIONS.
   This chapter shall not apply to manufacturers, wholesalers, jobbers,
licensed medical technicians, technologists, nurses, hospitals, research
teaching institutions, clinical laboratories, medical doctors, osteopathic
physicians, dentists, chiropodists, veterinarians, pharmacists and embalmers in
the normal legal course of their respective business or profession, nor to
persons suffering from diabetes, asthma, or any other medical condition
requiring self-injection, to the extent that the objects so possessed or used
are related to the treatment of the condition.
(Prior Code, § 19-124) (Ord. 87-12, passed 5-21-1987)
§ 137.99 PENALTY.
   (A)   Civil forfeiture. Any drug paraphernalia used, sold, possessed with
intent to use or sell, or manufactured with intent to sell in violation of this
article shall be seized and forfeited to the City of Marine City.
(Prior Code, § 19-125)
   (B)   Penalties. Any person who shall be convicted of violating any of the
provisions of this chapter, except as specified in division (C) below, shall be
deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and shall be punished by a fine not to exceed
$500, or by imprisonment not to exceed 90 days, or both, in the discretion of
the court. Each day a violation continues shall be considered a separate
offense and may be punished accordingly.
(Prior Code, § 19-126)
   (C)   Delivery or sale to a minor. An individual 18 years of age or over who
violates §
137.03 by delivering or selling, to an individual under 18 years of age, drug
paraphernalia, knowing that it will be used to plant, convert, produce,
process, prepare, test, analyze, pack, repack, store, contain, conceal, inject,
ingest, inhale or otherwise introduce into the human body a controlled
substance in violation of state law shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor and
shall be punished by a fine of not less than $250 nor more than $500, and by
imprisonment of not less than 3 days nor more than 90 days, in the discretion
of the court.
(Prior Code, § 19-127)
(Ord. 87-12, passed 5-21-1987)
TITLE XV: LAND USAGE
Chapter
   
150.   WATERWAYS
   
151.   SWIMMING POOLS
   
152.   PLANNING
   
153.   MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
   
154.   SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
   
155.   HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
   
156.   FENCES
   
157.   FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
   
158.   BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
   
159.   SUBDIVISIONS
   
160.   ZONING
CHAPTER 150: WATERWAYS
Section
   
150.01   Rising waters; barriers and dikes
   
150.02   Motorboats prohibited from exceeding slow no-wake speed on Belle River
   
150.03   Swimming
   
150.04   Slow no-wake speed limit
   
150.05   No anchorage area at mouth of Belle River
   
150.06   Construction and alteration of permanent docks, wharves, and the like
   
150.07   Prohibition on overnight, non-emergency dockage
   150.08   Municipal marina regulations
Charter reference:
   Authority for control of streams and watercourses, see §
2.3(i)
§ 150.01 RISING WATERS; BARRIERS AND DIKES.
   (A)   Whenever the City Engineer finds that because of the rising of the
level of the waters in St. Clair River, or canals, rivers, navigable streams or
similar places in the city, the safety, health, property and general welfare of
the public is endangered by floodwaters and that immediate action is necessary
to protect the public interests, he or she shall notify the riparian owners
thereon, at the address given in the last assessment roll, and shall also post
a notice on every lot or building or structure thereon to immediately provide
adequate barriers, dikes or other embankments to protect against the overflow
of waters. Should any such owner fail to so provide, the City Manager, at the
direction of the Commission, shall proceed to provide barriers, dikes or
embankments by or through any officer or department of the city.
   (B)   If the owner or occupant of any lot or premises, when ordered by the
City Engineer to provide adequate barriers, dikes or other embankments, shall
neglect so to do, the City Engineer, at the direction of the Commission, as
aforesaid, may cause the same to be done under the direction of any officer of
the city, and the expense shall be charged against the lot or premises and
collected as a special assessment thereon as provided in the Charter, or such
expense may be recovered by the city in an action or debt or assumpsit against
the owner or occupant of any lot or premises.
(Prior Code, § 33-1)
§ 150.02 MOTORBOATS PROHIBITED FROM EXCEEDING SLOW NO-WAKE SPEED ON BELLE
RIVER.
   On the waters of the Belle River, within the limits of the city, no operator
of any motorboat shall exceed a slow no-wake speed, which means a very slow
speed whereby the wake or wash created by the motorboat would be minimal.
(Prior Code, § 33-2) (Ord. 55, passed 2-19-1970)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.03 SWIMMING.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to swim, wade or bathe in any waters
adjoining lands owned by the city, wheresoever situated, at any time, except in
such designated areas and at such times as established by the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 33-3) (Ord. 41, passed - -)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.04 SLOW NO-WAKE SPEED LIMIT.
   It is unlawful for the operator of a vessel to exceed a slow no-wake speed
on that portion of the St. Clair River located within the City of Marine City,
St. Clair County.
(Prior Code, § 33-4) (Ord. 86-5, passed 11-20-1986)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.05 NO ANCHORAGE AREA AT MOUTH OF BELLE RIVER.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to anchor any watercraft in the following area at
the mouth of the Belle River: beginning at the south-easternmost tip of
Catholic Pointe then due south for a distance of 300 feet; thence due west to
the shoreline of the St. Clair River; thence north along the shoreline to a
point due west of the south-easternmost tip of Catholic Pointe; thence east
across the mouth of the Belle River to the point of beginning.
   (B)   The prohibition shall not apply to commercial vessels unloading
materials at the McLouth Yard.
(Prior Code, § 33-5) (Ord. 91-7, passed 9-19-1991)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 150.06 CONSTRUCTION AND ALTERATION OF PERMANENT DOCKS, WHARVES, AND THE LIKE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or alter any permanent
dock, wharf, seawall, revetment, piling or fill in without compliance with all
federal, state, and local statutes, laws, regulations, and ordinances
applicable to such activity.
(Ord. 13-07, passed 8-1-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.07 PROHIBITION ON OVERNIGHT, NON-EMERGENCY DOCKAGE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to park, dock, or moor a personal
watercraft on any city dock, wharf, seawall, revetment, piling or fill in
between the hours of 11:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m. This prohibition shall not extend
to vessels so stationed due to weather or mechanical emergencies.
(Ord. 13-08, passed 8-1-2013) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 150.08 MUNICIPAL MARINA REGULATIONS.
   (A)   Hours. Watercraft mooring is between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 10:00
p.m. and no watercraft shall be moored for longer than 5 hours per day. No
overnight parking of any watercraft shall be permitted without permission of
the City Manager, Director of Public Works, or the Chief of Police. Exceptions
may be made for unsafe water conditions.
   (B)   General regulations.
      (1)   No reservations. Docking is on a first-come, first-served basis
during operating hours only. One boat per slip, no commercial activity
including loading/unloading passengers and no water or electric hook-ups. Must
provide your own lines and fenders. Dock at your own risk.
      (2)   Mooring lines. Mooring lines shall be of sufficient size (no less
than 3/8-inch nylon or equivalent) and be properly utilized to secure a
watercraft to the dock in a manner that will not cause damage to either the
dock or nearby watercrafts. Mooring lines should be tied in such a manner as to
protect adjacent watercrafts.
      (3)   Watercraft size limitation. All watercraft must not exceed a
maximum beam of 10 feet.
      (4)   Wake. Watercraft owners and operators must minimize speed and wake
while entering and exiting the dock areas so as to do no harm to the docks or
other watercrafts.
      (5)   Trailer parking. Parking trailers is prohibited at the Marina.
There is a DNR boat launch located along M-29 (South Parker Street) south of
Thompson Drive with parking for trailers.
      (6)   Life jackets. The use of life jackets is recommended for infants,
children, and nonswimmers while on the docks. Users of watercraft shall adhere
to all Michigan and U.S. Coast Guard laws and regulations.
      (7)   Supervision of children. No child under 16 years of age shall be on
the dock unsupervised. No watercraft operators under the age of 16 may utilize
the dock.
      (8)   Pets. All dogs shall be kept on leashes and not left unattended.
Pet owners are responsible for ensuring that the docks, walkways, and immediate
areas surrounding them are not used by pets for soiling. Owners are responsible
for cleanup of their pets.
      (9)   Dock cleanliness. No waste cans, paper, debris, or other refuse are
to be left the on the pier or docks or thrown into waterways. Removal of trash
from the premises is the responsibility of the watercraft owner or guest.
      (10)   Swimming. No swimming is allowed in the area of the docks, nor is
jumping into the water from the seawall, finger docks, or a moored watercraft.
      (11)   Fishing. Fishing is not allowed in the dock areas when watercraft
are moored.
      (12)   Fire. No fire of any kind, including fire contained in a charcoal
burner, is permitted on the pier or the docks or on a watercraft while it is
moored. Other uses such as barbeques, fire pits, and the like are allowed only
in areas designated by the city.
      (13)   Fireworks. No fireworks or other explosives may be launched from
the seawall, park, docks, or watercrafts. The only exceptions are fireworks
approved by the City Commission which will result in closing the entire park
and Marina with no mooring permitted at that time.
      (14)   Electrical devices. Use of electrical cords and electrical devices
are prohibited on the docks. Electrical hookup is not provided, and no method
of temporary power supply may be utilized. Electrical use in pavilion/comfort
stations areas is allowed only in areas designated by the city.
      (15)   Any damage to the Day Dock as a result of a vessel docking,
rafting, mooring, or anchoring is the responsibility of the boat owner. Failure
to pay for any damage costs shall result in legal action.
      (16)   The City Commission may waive the docking and use of the docks
during special events or at such times as may be necessary. Such restrictions
of use will be posted at the Marina.
      (17)   Vessels are prohibited from anchoring, rafting to, mooring, or
tying up to the docks for repairs. Commercial activities are prohibited at the
docks.
      (18)   The prohibitions set forth in this section shall not extend to
vessels so stationed due to weather or mechanical emergencies, however there
shall be a 72-hour maximum time limit. After such time limit has expired, the
city may have vessels towed/removed at the owners’ expense.
      (19)   A violation of this section is a municipal civil infraction
punishable as prescribed in § 10.99 of this code.
   (C)   Environmental regulations.
      (1)   These rules have been implemented in accordance with federal,
state, and local regulations.
      (2)   (a)   Winterization chemicals. The use of ethylene glycol-based
antifreeze for winterization is strictly prohibited. Use of non-toxic
antifreeze is mandatory.
         (b)   Oil disposal. Used engine oil and oil filters must be taken to
the oil pickup point in the Marina or removed from the Marina. There will be no
disposal of oil by dumping either on the ground, in a dumpster, into a drain or
overboard.
         (c)   Individual boat owners are responsible for providing these rules
and regulations to their outside contractors and for overseeing the
contractor’s compliance with this rule.
      (3)   Waste material. No garbage, sludge, refuse matter, sewage or waste
materials of any kind shall be thrown, deposited or permitted to be thrown or
deposited into the water or on the piers, docks or shore areas of the Marina
except in designated receptacles.
      (4)   Fueling. Gasoline containers are not permitted on any dock and no
fueling is permitted. If there is an accident caused by fuel, the offender will
be held liable for the damages.
      (5)   Bottom washing. There will be no power washing of boats inside the
Marina by boat owners.
      (6)   Sanding. There will be no sanding work of any sort carried out by
individual boat owners or their contractors.
      (7)   Painting. There will be no painting work of any sort carried out by
individual boat owners or their contractors.
      (8)   Batteries. Batteries cannot be disposed of at the Marina.
   (D)   Disturbances.
      (1)   Activities or operation of equipment in a manner that disturbs the
quiet, comfort, or repose of a reasonable person of normal sensitivities or
activities that endanger the safety or life of participants and spectators are
not permitted on the pier or docks. This includes the use of devices that
amplify sound, music, and/or voice.
      (B)   No commercial activity or usage. The docks and their facilities are
for pleasure usage only. No commercial activity or usage is allowed. No
watercraft shall be allowed which is in any way or at any time used for
commercial purposes or which charges or accepts a fee or any other form of
compensation either directly or indirectly. Exceptions may be approved by the
City Commission.
(Ord. 23-004, passed 9-7-2023) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 151: SWIMMING POOLS
Section
General Provisions
   
151.01   Definition
   
151.02   Strictest standards to apply in event of conflict
   
151.03   Supervision
   
151.04   Fence requirements; modification
   
151.05   Overhead electric wires prohibited
   
151.06   Electrical devices to be waterproofed
   
151.07   Yard requirements
   
151.08   Sanitary measures
   
151.09   Shielding lights
   
151.10   Unnecessary noise
   
151.11   Abatement of nuisances
Permit Provisions
   
151.25   Required
   
151.26   Application
   
151.27   Fees
   
151.28   Issuance
   
151.29   Cancellation
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 151.01 DEFINITION.
   The term SWIMMING POOL, when used in this chapter, shall mean any structure
or container, either above or below grade, located either in part or wholly
outside a permanently enclosed and roofed building, designed to hold water to a
depth of greater than 24  inches when filled to capacity, intended for
immersion of the human body, whether for swimming or wading or both.
(Prior Code, § 28-1) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
§ 151.02 STRICTEST STANDARDS TO APPLY IN EVENT OF CONFLICT.
   (A)   In the construction, operation and maintenance of any swimming pool,
state laws and the rules, regulations and requirements of the state’s
Department of Health as well as the Building Code and other city ordinances
shall be observed.
   (B)   If there is any conflict between the provisions of this chapter and
any provision of state law or requirements, rules or regulations of the state’s
Department of Health or the Building Code and city ordinances, the provision
imposing the higher standard or the more stringent requirement shall be
controlling.
(Prior Code, § 28-2) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
§ 151.03 SUPERVISION.
   No person shall maintain an outdoor swimming pool on his or her premises
without providing adequate supervision at all times when the swimming pool is
in use so that no person may be injured or drowned therein.
(Prior Code, § 28-3) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.04 FENCE REQUIREMENTS; MODIFICATION.
   (A)   For the protection of the citizens and general public, all swimming
pools permanently or temporarily constructed shall be completely enclosed by a
substantial wall or fence of not less than 4 feet in height. Any wall or fence
shall be constructed so as not to have openings, holes or gaps larger than 2
inches in any dimension except for doors and gates; and if a picket fence is
erected the horizontal dimensions between pickets shall not exceed 2 inches,
and all openings in the wall or fence shall be equipped with gates having a
self-latching, self-closing device with latch on the inside of the gate not
readily accessible for children to operate, and such gates shall be securely
locked when the swimming pool is unattended, or uncovered. All other types of
swimming pools and wading pools not fenced as required by this section shall,
when unattended, either be drained or securely covered.
   (B)   The City Commission may make modification in individual cases, upon
showing of good cause with respect to height, nature or location of the fence,
wall, gates or latches, or the necessity therefor, provided the protection as
sought hereunder is not reduced thereby. The City Commission may permit other
protective devices or structures to be used so long as the degree of protection
afforded by substitute devices or structures is not less than the protection
afforded by the wall, fence, gate and latch described herein.
(Prior Code, § 28-4) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959; Am. Ord. passed 7-21-1966)
§ 151.05 OVERHEAD ELECTRIC WIRES PROHIBITED.
   No electric service conductors or other overhead wires shall be located
above any swimming pool, and any existing conductors shall be rerouted, if
interference is unavoidable, either overhead to avoid confliction or installed
underground.
(Prior Code, § 28-5) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.06 ELECTRICAL DEVICES TO BE WATERPROOFED.
   Any electrical outlets or appliances or devices shall be waterproof and
grounded in accordance with the prevailing Electrical Code of the city if
installed or used within 8 feet of the perimeter of a swimming pool.
(Prior Code, § 28-6) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.07 YARD REQUIREMENTS.
   All swimming pools shall be constructed or placed so as to have a side yard
of not less than 5 feet in width on each side, a rear yard of not less than 5
feet in width and a front setback of not less than 30 feet.
(Prior Code, § 28-7) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.08 SANITARY MEASURES.
   (A)   Any outdoor swimming pool shall not be used unless adequate public
health measures are periodically taken to insure that the use thereof will not
cause the spread of disease. The water of all swimming pools shall be
sterilized by chlorinated water. The current standards set by the state’s
Department of Public Health and the county’s Department of Public Health to
protect public health in the use of the swimming pools are hereby adopted and
made a part of this chapter.
   (B)   There shall be no connection between any swimming pool and any public
sanitary or storm sewer, or combination thereof. Water connections to such
swimming pool shall be made to the public water supply system of the city and
all such water shall be billed by the city. The city’s Building Inspector shall
inspect or cause to be inspected all swimming pools within the city at such
times as he or she may deem necessary to carry out the intent of this chapter.
The Building Inspector is hereby authorized to enter upon any premises, public
or private, at all reasonable times, to take samples of water at such times as
he or she may deem necessary and to require the owner to comply with the
provisions of this chapter. If there is a failure of compliance after due
notice with the requirements of this chapter, the Building Inspector shall have
the power to abate or cause a suspension of the use of the swimming pool until
such time as the same is no longer a menace or hazard to health, safety or
morals.
(Prior Code, § 28-8) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.09 SHIELDING LIGHTS.
   Lights used to illuminate any swimming pool shall be so arranged and shaded
as to reflect light away from adjoining premises.
(Prior Code, § 28-9) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
§ 151.10 UNNECESSARY NOISE.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to make, continue or cause to be made or
continued at any swimming pool any loud, unnecessary or unusual noise or any
noise which annoys, disturbs, injures or endangers the comfort, repose, health,
peace or safety of others. In the operation of a swimming pool, the use or
permitting the use or operation of any radio, receiving set, musical
instrument, phonograph or other machine or device for the producing or
reproducing of sound in such manner as to disturb the peace, quiet and comfort
of the neighboring inhabitants or at any time with louder volume than is
necessary for the convenient hearing of the person who is in the swimming pool
premises shall be unlawful.
(Prior Code, § 28-10) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.11 ABATEMENT OF NUISANCES.
   Any swimming pool installed, operated or maintained in violation of
provisions of this chapter shall constitute a nuisance, and the city may, in
addition to the penalties set forth in §
10.99, maintain any proper action for the abatement of such nuisance.
(Prior Code, § 28-11) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 151.25 REQUIRED.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or maintain an outdoor
swimming pool without first making application to the city’s Building
Inspector, and obtaining a permit therefor.
(Prior Code, § 28-23) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 151.26 APPLICATION.
   (A)   Application for a permit under this chapter shall show the name of the
owner, the location of the proposed swimming pool, the manner in which its use
shall be supervised, the safety precautions to be made to protect those making
use thereof, or who might be endangered thereby, information showing the size,
depth and capacity of the swimming pool, and shall be accompanied by a copy of
the plans, which plans shall remain on deposit with the city’s Building
Inspector, and the application shall also provide other information as is
necessary for the protection of the public health and safety as may be required
by the city’s Building Inspector.
   (B)   There shall also be filed with the city’s Building Inspector a plot
plan of the property, which shall also remain on deposit with the city, showing
the location of the swimming pool thereon, and a detailed plan for the swimming
pool, which shall also remain on deposit with the city, which shall contain
full information as to the type, height and location of the fence surrounding
the swimming pool, and the number of gates therein.
(Prior Code, § 28-24) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
§ 151.27 FEES.
   The fee for a permit to construct a swimming pool or to make any additions,
improvements, alterations or for the remodeling of an existing swimming pool
shall be in compliance with the city’s Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 28-25) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
§ 151.28 ISSUANCE.
   Upon filing of an application and plans under §
151.26, showing compliance with this and other applicable ordinances of the
city, and upon payment of the permit fees required, the Building Inspector
shall issue a permit for the construction.
(Prior Code, § 28-26) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
§ 151.29 CANCELLATION.
   Construction of a swimming pool shall be completed within 6 months after
issuance of a permit, and if not so completed, the permit shall be cancelled,
and notice of the cancellation be given the owner of the property and the
person to whom the permit was issued, either by personal service or registered
mail.
(Prior Code, § 28-27) (Ord. 39, passed 10-15-1959)
CHAPTER 152: PLANNING
Section
Planning Commission
   
152.01   Creation
   
152.02   Composition
   
152.03   Ex officio members
   
152.04   Terms of members
   
152.05   Filling of vacancies
   
152.06   Compensation
   
152.07   Removal of members
   
152.08   Powers and duties generally
   
152.09   Gifts
   
152.10   Contracting for specialized services; use of regular city employees
   
152.11   Organization; records
Statutory reference:
   Municipal planning, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq.
PLANNING COMMISSION
§ 152.01 CREATION.
   A city Planning Commission is hereby created pursuant to the provisions of
Act No. 285, Public Acts of 1931 (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.31 et seq.), as amended, and
shall be known as the City’s Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 21-16)
§ 152.02 COMPOSITION.
   The City Planning Commission shall be composed of 7 members, who shall
represent insofar as possible different professions and occupations. One member
of the Planning Commission shall be a member of the City Commission to be
selected by resolution of the City Commission to serve as a member ex officio.
The term of the ex officio member shall be determined by the City Commission
and shall be state in the resolution selecting the ex officio member. The
remaining 6 members shall be appointed by the Mayor, subject to the approval of
the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 21-17) (Am. Ord. 07-01, passed 5-17-2007; Am. Ord. 07-07, passed
11-1-2007)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to create a Planning Commission, see M.C.L.A. § 125.32
§ 152.03 EX OFFICIO MEMBERS.
   The City Manager shall be a member ex officio of the Planning Commission and
shall attend all meetings and may participate in all discussions, but shall not
have any power to vote.
(Prior Code, § 21-19) (Am. Ord. 07-01, passed 3-17-2007)
§ 152.04 TERMS OF MEMBERS.
   The term of each member shall be 3 years, except in the case of the first
city’s Planning Commission appointed hereunder; 3 members shall be appointed
for a term of 1 year, 3 members shall be appointed for a term of 2 years, and 3
members shall be appointed for a term of 3 years. All such appointments shall
date from the first day of July, 1952. Each member shall hold office until his
or her successor has been appointed.
(Prior Code, § 21-20)
§ 152.05 FILLING OF VACANCIES.
   Vacancies occurring in the Planning Commission otherwise than through the
expiration of the term shall be filled for the unexpired term by the Mayor,
subject to the approval of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 21-21)
§ 152.06 COMPENSATION.
   All members of the Planning Commission shall serve without compensation.
(Prior Code, § 21-22)
§ 152.07 REMOVAL OF MEMBERS.
   Upon written charges, and after a public hearing, a member may be removed by
the City Commission for misfeasance, malfeasance, or nonfeasance in office,
provided however, that the ex officio City Commission member may be removed at
any time by a majority vote of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 21-23) (Am. Ord. 07-01, passed 5-17-2007)
§ 152.08 POWERS AND DUTIES GENERALLY.
   The city’s Planning Commission shall have such powers concerning the
preparation and adoption of a general community plan or any part thereof, the
making of surveys as a basis for the plan, the approval of public improvements,
the promotion of educational and publicity programs, the approval of plats, the
making of reports and recommendations to the City Commission, and such other
rights, powers, duties and responsibilities as are provided by law and in
accordance with the provisions of state law.
(Prior Code, § 21-24)
§ 152.09 GIFTS.
   The city’s Planning Commission may receive gifts for the purpose of
promoting its objectives and may expend any funds so received as it deems
proper; provided, however, that the expenditure is made to further the purposes
for which the city’s Planning Commission was created.
(Prior Code, § 21-25)
§ 152.10 CONTRACTING FOR SPECIALIZED SERVICES; USE OF REGULAR CITY EMPLOYEES.
   The city’s Planning Commission may contract with city planners, engineers,
architects and other persons for the specialized services as it may require;
provided, that expenditures for such services shall be within the amounts
appropriated by the City Commission. Regular city employees shall serve the
city’s Planning Commission as deemed necessary; provided, however, that the
work does not conflict with their assigned duties.
(Prior Code, § 21-26)
§ 152.11 ORGANIZATION; RECORDS.
   The city’s Planning Commission shall annually elect 1 of the members to
serve as chairperson and may create and fill such other offices it deems
appropriate and necessary. At least 1 regular meeting shall be held in each
calendar month. The city’s Planning Commission shall adopt such rules as it
deems necessary for the conduct of its business and shall keep a record of its
resolutions, transactions, findings and determinations. The record shall be
kept in the office of the City Clerk and shall be open to public inspection.
(Prior Code, § 21-27)
CHAPTER 153: MOBILE HOMES AND TRAILERS
Section
General Provisions
   
153.01   Definition
   
153.02   Parking and storage of mobile homes restricted
Regulations for Mobile Homes Located Outside of Mobile Home Parks
   
153.15   Intent
   
153.16   Location
   
153.17   Compatibility in appearance
   
153.18   Construction standards
   
153.19   Foundation
   
153.20   Unit size; additions
   
153.21   Anchoring
   
153.22   Lot size and coverage; building height and yard setbacks
   
153.23   Utility lines; hookups
   
153.24   Storage facilities
   
153.25   Sidewalks; driveways; parking
   
153.26   Fencing
Mobile Home Parks
   
153.40   Compliance with state act required
   
153.41   License required
Recreation Equipment
   
153.55   Definition
   
153.56   Parking or storage restrictions
Charter reference:
   Authority to regulate house trailers, see §
2.3(t)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 153.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure, transportable in 1 or more sections, which is
built on a chassis and designed to be used as a dwelling with or without
permanent foundation when connected to the required utilities and includes the
plumbing, heating, air-conditioning and electrical systems contained in the
structure.
(Prior Code, § 16-1) (Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 153.02 PARKING AND STORAGE OF MOBILE HOMES RESTRICTED.
   Except as provided in §§
153.15 et seq., the parking or storage of a mobile home is specifically
prohibited in the city except in a licensed mobile home park.
(Prior Code, § 16-2)
REGULATIONS FOR MOBILE HOMES LOCATED OUTSIDE OF MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 153.15 INTENT.
   While mobile homes offer an alternative to conventional single-family
housing in such areas as structural design, facility arrangement and cost, they
can have potential adverse impacts on a residential neighborhood because of
marked differences from single-family housing in design, placement, structure
and site size, and fire and wind resistance. Generally, mobile homes have been
restricted to locations within mobile home parks, positioned at areas
specifically zoned for them, in order to assure compatibility with nearby
residential uses. However, through the application of certain standards, mobile
homes and mobile home sites may be designed to more closely resemble nearby
conventional housing and be permitted outside mobile home parks and within
residential zoning districts. This subchapter presents specific conditions and
standards whereby mobile homes may be located outside of mobile home parks.
(Prior Code, § 16-3) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.16 LOCATION.
   Mobile homes may be located outside of mobile home parks provided that they
are located in zoning districts which permit them and further subject to site
plan approval by the Planning Commission.
(Prior Code, § 16-4) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.17 COMPATIBILITY IN APPEARANCE.
   To insure compatibility in appearance with single-family housing in the
neighborhood a mobile home shall meet the following design requirements:
   (A)   Roof. Must be pitched minimum 3:12 slope and shingled with a roof
overhang of not less than 6 inches on all sides. Roof must be permanently
attached to the mobile home and supported by the mobile home, not by exterior
supports. Additions and accessory buildings may have flat roofs that need not
be shingled.
   (B)   Exterior walls. Must have wood, aluminum or vinyl siding and/or brick
facing for all exterior walls, including additions and accessory buildings. All
siding must be placed in the same direction, except that minor variations for
styling purposes may be approved by the Planning Commission.
   (C)   Eave troughs. Must be provided where appropriate.
   (D)   Ceiling height. Minimum 7-1/2 feet for all rooms.
   (E)   Steps. Must be permanently attached on a concrete pad connected to the
exterior door areas or to porches connected to the door areas where a
difference in elevation requires the same.
   (F)   Doors. Must have a minimum of 2 exterior doors.
(Prior Code, § 16-5) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.18 CONSTRUCTION STANDARDS.
   Except as otherwise noted, minimum construction standards for a mobile home
shall be the same as required by city codes and ordinances for single-family
residential housing.
(Prior Code, § 16-6) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.19 FOUNDATION.
   A mobile home must be installed on a permanent foundation as required by
city codes and ordinances for single-family residential housing. Wheels and
axles shall be removed. A crawl space of not less than 24 inches shall be
provided between the bottom of the mobile home and the ground level. The crawl
space shall not be utilized for storage purposes.
(Prior Code, § 16-7) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.20 UNIT SIZE; ADDITIONS.
   That portion of the mobile home facing a public street shall have a minimum
width of 24 feet. The minimum floor area requirements for a mobile home,
including addition, shall correspond to the minimum floor area requirements for
the zoning district in which the mobile home is located. Any additions to a
mobile home must either be constructed by a licensed mobile home manufacturer
or satisfy the applicable city adopted ordinances for single-family residences.
Any addition must be similar in appearance, materials and foundation to the
mobile home itself. Any addition to a mobile home is subject to the same review
procedures of this subchapter as for the mobile home itself.
(Prior Code, § 16-8) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.21 ANCHORING.
   A mobile home shall be anchored by an anchoring system, in accordance with §
623.3.1 of BOCA Basic Building Code.
(Prior Code, § 16-9) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.22 LOT SIZE AND COVERAGE; BUILDING HEIGHT AND YARD SETBACKS.
   The minimum requirements for lot width and area, lot coverage, building
height and yard setbacks shall be the same as those required for single-family
residential housing.
(Prior Code, § 16-10) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.23 UTILITY LINES; HOOKUPS.
   All utility and service lines, including water, sewer, telephone,
electricity, heating and cooking fuels and television service, shall be located
underground, except in instances where the majority of single-family residences
in the neighborhood are serviced by above ground lines for the particular
service. Utility and service lines, except for electrical and natural gas,
shall be designed for permanent attachment to the mobile home using, wherever
feasible, the same designs and specifications as for single-family housing in
accordance with applicable city adopted codes and ordinances.
   (A)   Electrical service. Electrical service installation shall be in
accordance with applicable city adopted codes and ordinances for single-family
residential housing.
   (B)   Natural gas service. Natural gas service installation shall be in
accordance with the BOCA Building Code. The natural gas service pedestal shall
be screened from view from the adjoining street by the mobile home itself or by
opaque ornamental fencing.
   (C)   Fuel tank containers. If permitted by the Planning Commission, fuel
oil system shall comply with the BOCA Building Code. Fuel oil tanks, if
permitted by the Planning Commission, shall be installed, mounted and secured
in compliance with the National Fire Protection Association’s 1975 Standards
for Mobile Homes 501B, adopted herein by reference. Above ground fuel tanks
shall be screened from view from the adjoining street by the mobile home
itself, by enclosure in a storage shed, or by opaque ornamental fencing.
(Prior Code, § 16-11) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.24 STORAGE FACILITIES.
   A garage, storage shed and/or basement, or combination thereof containing at
least 480 square feet of floor area shall be located on the same site as the
mobile home and be constructed according to the same standards as for single-
family housing in accordance with applicable city adopted codes and ordinances.
Occupancy of the mobile home shall not be allowed until the completion of both
the mobile home and garage, storage shed and/or basement, or combinations
thereof.
(Prior Code, § 16-12) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.25 SIDEWALKS; DRIVEWAYS; PARKING.
   A mobile home site shall comply with the same city adopted codes and
ordinances relative to sidewalk, driveway and parking placement, sizing and
construction as for single-family housing.
(Prior Code, § 16-13) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
§ 153.26 FENCING.
   A mobile home site shall comply with the same city adopted codes and
ordinances relative to fencing as for single-family housing.
(Prior Code, § 16-14) (Ord. 81-15, passed 1-7-1982)
MOBILE HOME PARKS
§ 153.40 COMPLIANCE WITH STATE ACT REQUIRED.
   Mobile home parks shall comply with Act No. 96 of Public Acts of 1987
(M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 16-16) (Ord. 89-8, passed 4-5-1990)
§ 153.41 LICENSE REQUIRED.
   No person shall establish, maintain, conduct or operate a mobile home park
within the city without first obtaining a license therefor. No license shall be
issued to any applicant unless he or she first procures a license from the
state’s Director of Public Health.
(Prior Code, § 16-17)
RECREATION EQUIPMENT
§ 153.55 DEFINITION.
   When used in this subchapter, RECREATIONAL EQUIPMENT shall include:
      (1)   Boats and boat trailers which shall include boats, floats and
rafts, plus the normal equipment to transport the same on the highway;
      (2)   Folding tent trailer which is a folding structure, mounted on
wheels and designed for travel and vacation use;
      (3)   Motorized home which is a portable dwelling designed and
constructed as an integral part of a self-propelled vehicle;
      (4)   Pickup camper which is a structure designed primarily to be mounted
on a pickup or truck chassis and with sufficient equipment to render it
suitable for use as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational and vacation
uses;
      (5)   Travel trailer which is a vehicular, portable structure built on a
chassis, designed to be used as a temporary dwelling for travel, recreational
and vacation uses, permanently identified “travel trailer” by the manufacturer
or a movable or portable dwelling, 8 feet or less in width by 33 feet or less
in length constructed to be towed on its own chassis and connected to utilities
and designed without a permanent foundation for year-round living; and
      (6)   Utility trailer which is a vehicle used to transport motorcycles,
snowmobiles, go-carts or stock cars.
(Prior Code, § 16-29)
Statutory reference:
   Mobile home Commissions act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 et seq.
§ 153.56 PARKING OR STORAGE RESTRICTIONS.
   Any verified owner of recreational equipment may park or store such
equipment on single-family residential property subject to the following
conditions:
   (A)   The verified owner of the recreational equipment shall also be the
current lawful resident of the impacted single-family residential property.
   (B)   Recreational equipment parked or stored under this provision shall not
have fixed connections to electricity, water, gas or sanitary sewer facilities,
and at no time shall this recreational equipment be used for living or
housekeeping purposes.
   (C)   In no case shall recreational equipment be parked or stored within a
public right-of-way.
   (D)   In no case shall recreational equipment be parked or stored on vacant
property unless the vacant property is adjacent to the single family
residential property that is authorized to park and store recreational
equipment under this provision.
   (E)   Notwithstanding the provisions of division (D) above, recreational
equipment may be parked on the premises (except on the front lawn) or in the
public street for a period of not more than 72 hours for the purpose of
loading, unloading, and travel preparation. In no case shall slide outs be
extended while recreational vehicle is parked or stored in the public street.
   (F)   If the recreational equipment is parked or stored outside of a garage,
it shall be parked or stored to the rear of the front building line of the lot.
The setback requirement in the side or rear yard shall be a minimum of 2 feet.
   (G)   If it is not possible to park the recreational equipment within an
enclosed building and there is no parking or storage space available in the
rear yard or side yard, it may be parked subject to the following limitations:
      (1)   The recreational equipment shall not be parked within a front yard
during the period from December 1 through and including March 31.
      (2)   The recreational equipment shall be parked or stored no closer than
six (6) feet from any public sidewalk, or no closer than ten (10) feet from the
front lot line where no public sidewalk exists.
      (3)   No more than one (1) unit of recreational equipment shall be
permitted to be parked or stored upon any established driveway at one time. For
the purposes of this limitation, recreational units that are necessary to the
other recreational unit, such as a boat mounted on a boat trailer, shall be
considered as one unit.
      (4)   The City may impose additional conditions and safeguards to ensure
the protection of public health, safety and general welfare, to reduce traffic
hazards, to preserve the residential character of neighborhoods, or to ensure
access to residential structures in case of police, fire and health
emergencies.
   (H)   All recreational equipment must be kept in good repair and carry a
lawful license and/or registration.
   (I)   A person who violates this section shall be responsible for a
municipal civil infraction, and shall be subject to the penalty provisions of §
10.99 of the code.
(Prior Code, § 16-30) (Am. Ord. 2018-02, passed 7-19-2018) Penalty, see §
10.99
CHAPTER 154: SPECIAL ASSESSMENTS
Section
General Provisions
   
154.001   Definitions
   
154.002   Contract authorized in lieu of special assessment procedure
   
154.003   Single lot procedure
   
154.004   Illegal or invalid assessments
   
154.005   Combination of projects
   
154.006   Limitations on preliminary expenses
   
154.007   Failure to mail notice
Advisory Petition
   
154.020   Request by Commission or receipt voluntarily
   
154.021   Contents
   
154.022   Filing
   
154.023   Presentment by Manager to Commission
Determination by Commission
   
154.035   Initiatory resolution
   
154.036   Plans and specifications
   
154.037   Report of City Manager
   
154.038   Notice of hearing
   
154.039   Public hearing; objections and changes
   
154.040   Resolution of determination
Assessment Roll
   
154.055   Preparation
   
154.056   Certificate of Assessor
   
154.057   Notice of hearing on roll
   
154.058   Hearing; objections
   
154.059   Voting required on objections
   
154.060   Corrections and changes
   
154.061   Confirmation or rejection of roll
   
154.062   Contested assessments
Assessment Payments
   
154.075   Lien created
   
154.076   Lien to remain unimpaired
   
154.077   Due date; installment payments
   
154.078   Installment payments
   
154.079   Notice by publication
   
154.080   Notice by mail
   
154.081   Delinquent assessments
   
154.082   Adjustment of assessments to correspond to costs; additional
assessments; refunds
   
154.083   Limitation on assessments and use of funds
Charter reference:
   Detailed procedure to be fixed by ordinance, see §
11.2
   Special assessments generally, see
Ch. 11
Statutory reference:
   Powers re: special assessments, see M.C.L.A. §§ 117.4a, 117.4b, 117.4d,
117.5
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 154.001 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   COST. The expense of survey, spreading of roll, notices, advertising,
printing, financing, legal, engineering, construction, condemnation and all
other costs incidental to the making of the improvement.
   IMPROVEMENT. Any public project authorized by Charter
Chapter 11.
   LOT OR PARCEL OF LAND. Any subdivision lot or portion thereof as officially
platted, or any unplatted parcel of land as may be described upon any official
record.
   OWNER. The last recorded title holder of any lot or parcel of land, or the
person whose name is last listed upon the city assessment roll or tax roll as
owner of a certain piece or parcel of land.
(Prior Code, § 25-1)
§ 154.002 CONTRACT AUTHORIZED IN LIEU OF SPECIAL ASSESSMENT PROCEDURE.
   If all persons or property owners to be affected by any proposed improvement
agree that the proposed improvement be made and that a special assessment be
levied in connection therewith, the city may, in lieu of the procedure of this
chapter, enter into a written contract with all of the persons or property
owners affected thereby, which contract when properly approved and executed
shall operate as a complete special assessment procedure and the assessment
shall be made in accordance with the contract.
(Prior Code, § 25-2)
§ 154.003 SINGLE LOT PROCEDURE.
   When any expense shall have been incurred by the city upon or in respect to
any single lot or parcel of land, which expense is chargeable against the lot
or parcel of land and the owner thereof, or any Charter provision or ordinance
or state law, and is not of that class required to be prorated among several
lots or parcels of land in the Special Assessment District, the amount of labor
and material or any other expense or service for which the expense was
incurred, with a description of the lot or parcel of land upon or in respect to
which the expense was incurred, and the name of the owner, if known, shall be
reported by the City Manager to the Commission. The expense shall be charged as
a special assessment and the procedure and enforcement of payment shall conform
with the provisions of this chapter in the same manner as though the expense
were to be prorated and charged among several lots and parcels.
(Prior Code, § 25-3)
Charter reference:
   Assessments for removal of hazards and the like, see §
11.9
§ 154.004 ILLEGAL OR INVALID ASSESSMENTS.
   Whenever any special assessment shall, in the opinion of the Commission, be
invalid by reason of irregularity or informality in the proceedings, or if any
court of competent jurisdiction shall adjudge such assessment to be illegal,
the Commission shall, whether the improvement has been made or not or whether
any part of the assessments have been paid or not, have power to cause a new
assessment to be made for the same purpose for which the former assessment was
made. All proceedings on the reassessment and for the collection thereof shall
be conducted in the same manner as provided for the original assessment, and
whenever any sum or part thereof levied upon any property in the assessment so
set aside has been paid and not refunded, the payment so made shall be applied
upon the reassessment, or if the payments exceed the amount of the
reassessment, refunds shall be made. No judgment or decree nor any act of the
Commission vacating a special assessment shall destroy or impair the lien of
the city upon the premises assessed for the amount of the assessment as may be
equitably charged against the same or as by regular mode of proceeding might
have been lawfully assessed thereupon.
(Prior Code, § 25-4)
Charter reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
11.5
§ 154.005 COMBINATION OF PROJECTS.
   The Commission may combine several districts into 1 project for the purpose
of effecting a saving in the costs; provided, however, for each district there
shall be established separate funds and accounts to cover the cost of the
separate assessment rolls.
(Prior Code, § 25-5)
Charter reference:
   Special assessment accounts, see §
11.8
§ 154.006 LIMITATIONS ON PRELIMINARY EXPENSES.
   No public improvement to be financed in whole or part by special assessment
shall be made before the confirmation of the special assessment roll for the
improvement.
(Prior Code, § 25-6)
§ 154.007 FAILURE TO MAIL NOTICE.
   The requirement for mailing any notice required to be so mailed shall not be
a jurisdictional requirement for the making of any special assessment or any
special assessment roll. Failure to mail any notice required shall not
invalidate any special assessment or special assessment roll.
(Prior Code, § 25-7)
Charter reference:
   Similar provision, see §
11.10
ADVISORY PETITION
§ 154.020 REQUEST BY COMMISSION OR RECEIPT VOLUNTARILY.
   The City Commission, in order to ascertain whether or not a reasonable
number of property owners to be assessed desire any particular improvements to
be made, may request and receive a petition therefor, or may receive such a
petition voluntarily presented; but, in either event, the petition shall be
advisory only and shall not be jurisdictional.
(Prior Code, § 25-19)
§ 154.021 CONTENTS.
   All advisory petitions under this subchapter shall be addressed to the City
Commission and shall contain a brief description of the improvement sought to
be made or the nuisance or hazard sought to be abated, and shall be signed by
property owners only, whose signatures shall be followed by a brief description
of the property owned by them. The signatures on the petitions shall be
verified by the oath of 1 or more of the circulators of the petition, before
filing.
(Prior Code, § 25-20)
§ 154.022 FILING.
   Advisory petitions under this chapter shall be filed with the Clerk, who
shall check them for signatures and correctness and, if they are found to be in
order, he or she shall refer them to the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 25-21)
§ 154.023 PRESENTMENT BY MANAGER TO COMMISSION.
   The City Manager shall present all advisory petitions referred to him or her
to the City Commission at its next regular meeting or special meeting called
for that purpose, together with his or her recommendations.
(Prior Code, § 25-22)
DETERMINATION BY COMMISSION
§ 154.035 INITIATORY RESOLUTION.
   When, by the provisions of the Charter and the laws of the state, the City
Commission shall have power to make a public improvement by special assessment,
it shall by resolution set forth the improvement intended to be made and direct
the City Manager to prepare a report containing any information it may request
concerning the improvement.
(Prior Code, § 25-34)
§ 154.036 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   The City Manager shall prepare, or cause to be prepared, plans and
specifications of the improvement to be made, an estimate of the life of the
improvement and of the cost thereof, a description of the Assessment District
or lands affected, and such other pertinent information as the Commission may
have requested in the initiatory resolution.
(Prior Code, § 25-35)
§ 154.037 REPORT OF CITY MANAGER.
   The City Manager shall prepare his or her report and include in it a
schedule of all property affected by the proposed improvement, listing the
assessed valuation, tax delinquencies, whether land is vacant or improved, and
pertinent information on the parcels as are owned by public authorities, and
such other information as the Commission may have requested; and shall present
it to the Commission along with the plans and specifications covering the
project, together with his or her recommendations as to what proportion of the
cost should be paid by special assessment and what part, if any, should be a
general obligation of the city, the number of installments in which the
assessment should be spread, and the lands which should be included in the
Special Assessment District.
(Prior Code, § 25-36)
§ 154.038 NOTICE OF HEARING.
   After the filing of the report and plans and specifications referred to in §
154.037, the City Commission shall, by resolution, order the same filed with
the Clerk and provide for a public hearing before it on the improvement to be
made, which hearing shall be not less than 10 days after notice thereof has
been given by publication and by notice sent by first class mail to all
property owners in the proposed district as shown by the current assessment
roll of the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-37)
§ 154.039 PUBLIC HEARING; OBJECTIONS AND CHANGES.
   At the time and place specified in the notice for the public hearing, the
Commission shall meet and hear any person to be affected by the proposed public
improvement. The hearing may be adjourned from time to time by the Commission
and it may make any changes in the proposed work or assessment which shall seem
reasonable or proper in view of any objections, or for any other reason which
may appear to be in the best interests of the city; provided, that if the
improvement intended to be made is enlarged upon or additions made to the
district to be assessed, the same shall not be done until after another hearing
is held pursuant to notice as required for the original hearing.
(Prior Code, § 25-38)
§ 154.040 RESOLUTION OF DETERMINATION.
   After the public hearing, the City Commission may, by resolution, determine
to make the improvement and defray the whole or any part of the cost of the
improvement by special assessment upon the property especially benefitted in
proportion to the benefits derived or to be derived, and designate whether it
is to be assessed according to frontage, area, valuation, benefit or other
basis. By such resolution, the Commission shall approve the plans and
specifications for the improvement; determine the number of installments in
which assessments may be paid; determine the rate of interest to be charged on
installments, not to exceed 6% per annum; designate the district or land and
premises upon which special assessments shall be levied; direct the Assessor to
prepare a special assessment roll in accordance with the Commission’s
determination; and designate the name by which the assessment roll shall be
known and referred to.
(Prior Code, § 25-39)
Statutory reference:
   Higher interest permitted when there are obligations in anticipation of
special assessments, see M.C.L.A. § 141.2507
ASSESSMENT ROLL
§ 154.055 PREPARATION.
   The Assessor shall prepare a special assessment roll, including all lots and
parcels of land within the Special Assessment District designated by the City
Commission, and shall assess to each lot or parcel of land the relative portion
of the whole sum to be levied against all the lands in the Special Assessment
District as the benefit to the lot or parcel of land bears to the total benefit
to all lands in the district. There shall also be entered upon the roll the
amount which has been assessed to the city at large.
(Prior Code, § 25-51)
§ 154.056 CERTIFICATE OF ASSESSOR.
   When the Assessor shall have completed the assessment roll, he or she shall
attach thereto or endorse thereon his or her certificate to the effect that the
roll has been made by him or her pursuant to a resolution of the City
Commission (giving date of adoption of same) and that in making the assessments
therein, he or she has, as near as may be, according to his or her best
judgment, conformed in all respects to the directions contained in such
resolution and the City Charter and the provisions of this chapter. Thereupon,
he or she shall file the special assessment roll with the Clerk, who shall
present the same to the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 25-52)
§ 154.057 NOTICE OF HEARING ON ROLL.
   Upon receipt of the special assessment roll, the Commission shall order it
filed in the office of the Clerk for public examination and shall, by
resolution, fix the time and place when the Commission will meet and review the
roll, which meeting shall be held not less than 10 days after notice thereof,
specifying the purpose, time and place, has been published and after notice has
been sent by first class mail to all property owners in the proposed districts
as shown by the current assessment roll of the city.
(Prior Code, § 25-53)
§ 154.058 HEARING; OBJECTIONS.
   Any person deeming himself or herself aggrieved by the special assessment
roll may file his or her objections thereto in writing with the Clerk prior to
the close of the hearing, which written objections shall specify in which
respect he or she deems himself or herself aggrieved. The Commission shall meet
and review the special assessment roll at the time and place appointed or at an
adjourned date therefor, and shall consider any written objections thereto.
(Prior Code, § 25-54)
§ 154.059 VOTING REQUIRED ON OBJECTIONS.
   If, at or prior to final confirmation of any special assessment roll,
written objections to the proposed improvement have been filed by the owners of
property which will be required to bear more than 50% of the amount of the
special assessment, the improvement shall not be made by proceedings authorized
by this chapter without the affirmative vote of 5 members of the Commission.
(Prior Code, § 25-55)
§ 154.060 CORRECTIONS AND CHANGES.
   The City Commission may correct the special assessment roll as to any
assessment or description of any lot or parcel of land or other errors
appearing therein. Any changes made in the roll shall be noted in the
Commission minutes.
(Prior Code, § 25-56)
§ 154.061 CONFIRMATION OR REJECTION OF ROLL.
   (A)   After the hearing and review, the Commission may, by resolution,
confirm the special assessment roll with such corrections as may have been
made, if any, or may refer it back to the Assessor for revision, or may annul
it and any proceedings in connection therewith.
   (B)   The Clerk shall endorse the date of confirmation upon each special
assessment roll and, upon confirmation, the roll shall be final and conclusive.
(Prior Code, § 25-57)
§ 154.062 CONTESTED ASSESSMENTS.
   No suit or action of any kind shall be instituted or maintained for the
purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any special assessment,
unless within 30 days after the confirmation of the special assessment roll
written notice is given to the Commission of intention to file the suit or
action, stating the grounds on which it is claimed the assessment is illegal,
and unless the suit or action shall be commenced within 60 days after
confirmation of the roll. Regardless of whether or not any public improvement
is completed in any Special Assessment District, no owner of real property
located in the district shall be entitled to commence any suit or action for
the purpose of contesting or enjoining the collection of any such special
assessments after he or she has received the benefits from the substantial
completion of that portion of the public improvement for which he or she is
assessed.
(Prior Code, § 25-58)
Charter reference:
   Similar provisions, see §
11.6
ASSESSMENT PAYMENTS
§ 154.075 LIEN CREATED.
   Upon the confirmation of each special assessment roll, the special
assessment shall become a debt to the city from the persons to whom they are
assessed and shall, until paid, be a lien upon the property assessed for the
amount of the assessments and all interest and charges thereon. The lien shall
be of the same character and effect as created by the Charter for city taxes
and shall include accrued interest and charges thereon.
(Prior Code, § 25-71)
§ 154.076 LIEN TO REMAIN UNIMPAIRED.
   (A)   Generally. No judgment or decree, nor any action of the Commission
vacating a special assessment, shall destroy or impair the lien of the city
upon the premises assessed for the amount of the assessment as may be equitably
charged against the same, or as by regular mode of proceeding, might have been
lawfully assessed thereon.
   (B)   Failure to receive notice. Failure of any owner to receive any notice
required to be sent under the provisions of the Charter and this chapter shall
not invalidate any special assessment or special assessment roll.
   (C)   Special liability of owner. In addition to the property tax lien
created hereunder, any special assessment levied by the city shall constitute a
debt owed to the city and may be collected in the same manner as any contracted
debt, or in the same manner as provided by law for the collection of personal
property taxes.
(Prior Code, § 25-72)
§ 154.077 DUE DATE; INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   All special assessments shall become due upon confirmation of the
special assessment roll, and, if in annual installments, the City Commission
shall determine the first installments to be due annually thereafter, or, in
the discretion of the Commission, they may be spread upon and made a part of
each annual city tax roll thereafter until all are paid.
   (B)   Any assessment may be made payable in yearly installments not to
exceed 10 in number, as the Commission may determine at the time of
confirmation of the roll. If a division of the assessment operates to make any
installment less than $10, the Assessor shall reduce the number of installments
so that each installment shall be above and as near to $10 as possible.
(Prior Code, § 25-73)
§ 154.078 INSTALLMENT PAYMENTS.
   (A)   The first installment of any special assessment shall be spread upon a
special city tax roll in a column headed “special assessments”, or upon the
next annual city tax roll at the direction of the Commission.
   (B)   (1)   Annual installments shall be spread thereafter either on a
special assessment roll or on the annual city tax roll, as may have been
directed by the Commission, in the same manner and subject to the same
provisions as provided for first installments. The second installment shall be
collected as a part of the first city tax roll which becomes due 6 months or
more after the due date of the initial installment.
      (2)   All unpaid installments, from such date as the Commission shall
prescribe, shall bear interest not exceeding 6% per annum, which interest
computed to the following September 1 shall be spread yearly upon the city tax
roll together as 1 item with the amount of the installment then being spread.
      (3)   The Commission may provide for advance payment of unpaid
installments with interest computed to such date as the Commission prescribes.
(Prior Code, § 25-74)
§ 154.079 NOTICE BY PUBLICATION.
   The assessment roll shall be transmitted by the Clerk to the Treasurer for
collection immediately after confirmation, and if it is not a part of the
annual tax roll, the Treasurer shall give notice by publication that the
special assessment (describing it) has been filed in the Treasurer’s office and
specifying when and where payments may be made thereon.
(Prior Code, § 25-75)
Statutory reference:
   Higher interest permitted when there are obligations in anticipation of
special assessments, M.C.L.A. § 133.9
§ 154.080 NOTICE BY MAIL.
   The Treasurer may mail statements of the several assessments to the
respective owners as indicated by the records of the Assessor of the several
lots or parcels of land assessed, stating the amount of the assessment and the
manner in which it may be paid; provided, however, that failure to mail any
such statement shall not invalidate the assessment or entitle the owner to an
extension of time within which to pay the assessment.
(Prior Code, § 25-76)
§ 154.081 DELINQUENT ASSESSMENTS.
   Special assessments or initial installments which become due other than on
July 1 shall, if unpaid for 30 days or more on May 1 of any year, be certified
as delinquent to the Commission by the Treasurer, and the Commission shall
place such delinquent assessments on the tax roll for that year together as 1
item with accrued collection fees thereon to the following September 1 and such
interest and penalties as may be provided in the ordinance creating the special
assessment.
(Prior Code, § 25-78)
§ 154.082 ADJUSTMENT OF ASSESSMENTS TO CORRESPOND TO COSTS; ADDITIONAL
ASSESSMENTS; REFUNDS.
   (A)   The City Manager shall, within 60 days after the completion of each
local or special public improvement, compile the actual cost thereof and
certify the same to the Assessor, who shall adjust the special assessment roll
to correspond therewith.
   (B)   When any special assessment roll shall prove insufficient to pay the
cost of the improvement for which it was made (including the expense incidental
thereto and the principal and interest on bonds or other evidences of
obligation issued therefor), additional pro rata assessments may be made, but
the total amount assessed against any one parcel of land shall not exceed the
value of benefits received by the lot or parcel of land. The additional pro
rata assessment shall not exceed 25% of the assessment as originally confirmed,
unless a meeting of the Commission be held to review the additional assessment,
for which meeting notices shall be published and mailed as provided in the case
of the original special assessment roll.
   (C)   (1)   The excess by which any special assessment proves larger than
the actual cost of the improvement and expenses incidental thereto may be
placed in the general fund of the city if such excess is 5% or less of the
assessment, but should the assessment prove larger than necessary by more than
5%, the entire excess shall be refunded. The refund shall be credited against
future unpaid installments to the extent of the installments then existing, and
the balance of the refund shall be in cash.
      (2)   No refunds may be made which contravene the provisions of any
outstanding evidence of indebtedness secured in whole or part by the special
assessment.
(Prior Code, § 25-79)
Charter reference:
   Disposition of excessive special assessments, see §
11.4
§ 154.083 LIMITATION ON ASSESSMENTS AND USE OF FUNDS.
   (A)   The total amount assessed against any lot or parcel of land shall not
exceed the value of the benefits received from the improvement.
   (B)   Except as otherwise provided, moneys raised by special assessment for
any public debt improvement shall be credited to a special account and shall be
used only to pay for the costs of the improvement for which the assessment was
levied and money borrowed therefor.
   (C)   Each special assessment account shall be used only for the improvement
project for which the assessment was levied.
(Prior Code, § 25-80)
CHAPTER 155: HOUSING AND COMMUNITY DEVELOPMENT
Section
Community and Economic Development Board
   
155.001   Title
   
155.002   Definition
   
155.003   Purpose and authority
   
155.004   Composition
   
155.005   Compensation and expenses
   
155.006   Officers, quorum and meetings
Landlords
   
155.055   Purpose
   
155.056   Definitions
   
155.057   Registry of owners and premises
   
155.058   Inspections and licenses
   
155.059   Enforcement and appeals
   
155.060   Fees
Tax Exemption for Housing Developments
   
155.075   Title
   
155.076   Purpose and intent; description of housing development
   
155.077   Definitions
   
155.078   Class of housing developments to which tax exemption is applicable
   
155.079   Establishment of annual service charge
   
155.080   Limitation on the payment of annual service charge
   
155.081   Contractual effect
   
155.082   Payment of service charge
   
155.083   Duration
Historic District Regulations
   
155.095   Short title
   
155.096   Statement of purpose
   
155.097   Definitions
   
155.098   Historic District Study Committee and the Study Committee report
   
155.099   Establishing additional, modifying, or eliminating historic districts
   
155.100   The Historic District Commission
   
155.101   Historic District Commission meetings, recordkeeping and rules of
procedure
   
155.102   Delegation of minor classes or work
   
155.103   Ordinary maintenance
   
155.104   Review by the Commission
   
155.105   Design review standards and guidelines
   
155.106   Permit applications
   
155.107   Denials
   
155.108   Notice to proceed
   
155.109   Appeal of a Commission decision
   
155.110   Work without a permit
   
155.111   Demolition by neglect
   
155.112   Review of work in proposed districts
   
155.113   Emergency moratorium
   
155.114   Acceptance of gifts or grants
   
155.115   Acquisition of historic resources
   
155.116   Historic preservation as a public purpose
   
155.117   Ordinary maintenance and repair
   
155.118   Authority of city
Historic District
   
155.130   Establishing historic district
 
   
155.999   Penalty
COMMUNITY AND ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT BOARD
§ 155.001 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Community and Economic Development
Board Ordinance.”
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 6-6-2019; Am. Ord. 22-003, passed 9-15-2022)
§ 155.002 DEFINITION.
   When used in this chapter the word BOARD shall refer to the City of Marine
City, Michigan Community and Economic Development Board.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 6-6-2019; Am. Ord. 22-003, passed 9-15-2022)
§ 155.003 PURPOSE AND AUTHORITY.
   The purpose of this Board is to provide recommendations to the City
Commission on policies, initiatives, projects, and programs whose goal is to
improve the infrastructure, public facilities, services, economic prosperity
and sense of place of the city and to further the goals established by the
city's Master Plan and Parks and Recreation Plan. The Board shall have
authority to make decisions and take other actions to promote economic
development in the city. The Board may spend any funds raised or allocated to
the Board consistent with the city ordinances, including the annual budget
process. The Board may also:
   (A)   Prepare and submit recommendations to the Commission on a broad range
of matters generally related to community and economic development.
   (B)   Assist in the development of plans and programs for the purpose of
retaining and enhancing the existing commercial and industrial base of the
city.
   (C)   Review and advise the City Commission on the relative merits of
individual community and economic development proposals.
   (D)   Collect and disseminate information relating to availability of land,
financial tools and resources and other factors relating to successful
community and economic development.
   (E)   Perform such other duties and provide such additional information,
assistance and advice to the City Commission as the City Commission may request
or direct.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 6-6-2019; Am. Ord. 22-003, passed 9-15-2022)
§ 155.004 COMPOSITION.
   The Board shall consist of seven members:
   (A)   One member each appointed by the City Commission, the Planning
Commission, and the TIFA Board.
   (B)   One member representing the Chamber of Commerce, to be appointed by
the Chamber of Commerce.
   (C)   One member representing Marine City business, other than a Chamber of
Commerce member. This member will be chosen by submitting an application to the
City Clerk and will be appointed by the Mayor and approved by City Commission.
   (D)   Two city residents chosen by submitting an application to the City
Clerk and will be appointed by the Mayor and approved by City Commission.
      (1)   These members shall be considered "voting members" for the purpose
of passing motions brought before the membership.
      (2)   Term of office for these members shall be determined by their term
as members of their respective commissions or boards or for three years for
those appointed by the Mayor.
   (E)   In addition, the Board shall also include the City Manager and City
Attorney as non-voting members, and a clerk to record the minutes of the Board.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 6-6-2019; Am. Ord. 22-003, passed 9-15-2022)
§ 155.005 COMPENSATION AND EXPENSES.
   Members of the Board shall serve without compensation. Approval of the City
Commission shall be required prior to the Board or any members of the Board
incurring any expenses in the performance of its duties.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 6-6-2019; Am. Ord. 22-003, passed 9-15-2022)
§ 155.006 OFFICERS, QUORUM AND MEETINGS.
   (A)   At the first meeting following the establishment of the Board, and
annually thereafter, the Board shall select from among its members a
Chairperson and a Chairperson Pro Tem who shall serve for a one year term.
   (B)   The presence of four members of the Board shall constitute a quorum
for the transaction of business.
   (C)   Meetings shall be held regularly at a scheduled time and place
established by resolution of the Board and may be cancelled if there is no
business pending before the Board.
   (D)   All meetings of the Board shall be open to the public and held in
accordance with the Open Meetings Act, unless otherwise required or allowed by
state or federal law.
(Ord. 2019-008, passed 6-6-2019; Am. Ord. 22-003, passed 9-15-2022)
LANDLORDS
§ 155.055 PURPOSE.
   It is the declared policy of the city that the procedures set forth in this
subchapter are established in the public interest in order to protect the
safety and welfare of occupants of rental dwelling units and of the general
public.
(Prior Code, § 13-71) (Ord. 68, passed 6-21-1973; Am. Ord. 2018-008, passed 10-
4-2018)
§ 155.056 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a September 13, 2018
   DWELLING UNIT. A structure or part of a structure that is used as a home,
residence, or sleeping place by one or more persons.
   HOUSING CODE. The Housing Code of the city, adopted herein.
   LANDLORD. Any person, owner, individual, firm or corporation or any
combination thereof, engaged in the business of leasing or renting a dwelling
unit or part of a dwelling unit to another person.
(Prior Code, § 13-72) (Ord. 68, passed 6-21-1973; Am. Ord. 2018-008, passed 10-
4-2018)
§ 155.057 REGISTRY OF OWNERS AND PREMISES.
   (A)   The owners of dwellings containing units which will be offered for
rent or hire shall register with the city. Owners of rental dwelling units
which are to become occupied shall register with the city prior to the
occupancy of those units.
   (B)   Registration forms shall be available from the city and shall provide
for sufficient information for the efficient and effective administration of
this subchapter.
   (C)   A registry of all owners and premises shall be maintained by the city.
(Prior Code, § 13-73) (Ord. 68, passed 6-21-1973; Am. Ord. 2018-008, passed 10-
4-2018)
§ 155.058 INSPECTIONS AND LICENSES.
   (A)   Inspection required.
      (1)   Dwellings containing units which will be offered for rent or hire
shall be inspected systematically for compliance with this chapter and all
other applicable laws of the state and the city. Inspections are based on all
applicable state codes and city ordinances.
      (2)   Where a nonresidential business or activity, or a state-licensed
and inspected use occupies a portion of a building and premises which would
otherwise be subject to this section, the provisions of this section shall be
applicable to the residential and common or public areas of such building and
premises.
   (B)   Inspection frequency.
      (1)   All premises that will be offered for rent or hire shall be
inspected at least once every two years.
      (2)   Neither the common areas nor the dwelling or rooming units in
structures newly constructed shall be further inspected after the completion
and issuance of a certificate of occupancy for a period of two years from the
date of said certificate, unless a complaint is made thereof. Thereafter, said
units shall be inspected in accordance with the requirements of this section.
      (3)   Nothing in this section shall preclude the inspection of said
dwellings more frequently than every two years.
   (C)   Inspection - certificate required. No landlord shall rent, let or let
for occupancy any premises without having a valid, current license certifying
inspection for that premises.
   (D)   Inspection - procedure.
      (1)   If, upon completion of the biennial inspection, the premises are
found to be in compliance with all applicable city and state codes and
ordinances and the appropriate fee has been paid, the city shall issue a
license certifying inspection of the premises.
      (2)   If, upon completion of the biennial inspection, the premises are
found to be in violation of one or more provisions of applicable city codes and
ordinances, the city shall provide written notice of such violations and shall
set a re-inspection date before which such violation shall be corrected. If
such violation has been corrected within that period, the city shall issue a
license certifying inspection of the premises. If such violations have not been
corrected within that period, the city shall not issue the license and may take
any action necessary to enforce compliance with applicable city and state codes
and ordinances.
   (E)   License - expiration date.
      (1)   The licenses certifying inspection issued pursuant to this section
shall expire two years from the date of the biennial inspection.
      (2)   The license shall have the expiration date prominently displayed on
its face.
   (F)   License - transferability.
      (1)   A license issued pursuant to this section shall be transferable to
succeeding owners; provided, however, that within 7 days of the transfer, the
transferor shall provide written notice of said transfer to the building
department of the city. Such notice shall contain the name and address of the
succeeding owners. The failure to provide such notice shall result in the
revocation of the license. Further, upon receipt of written notice of transfer
of ownership, the city, at its option, reserves the right to conduct an
inspection of the premises to determine whether the premises are in compliance
with all applicable city and state codes and ordinances before approving a
license transfer.
   (G)   License - availability. Upon the request of an existing or prospective
tenant, the landlord shall produce the license certifying inspection.
   (H)   Suspension or revocation of license. If the building official
determines that any person has failed to comply with this section or any
applicable city or state code or ordinance, the building official may suspend
or revoke the license held by that person. A person aggrieved by such a
suspension or revocation or by any action taken by the city in regard to this
section or city and state codes and ordinances, may make an appeal in
accordance with this section.
(Prior Code, § 13-74) (Ord. 68, passed 6-21-1973; Am. Ord. 2018-008, passed 10-
4-2018)
§ 155.059 ENFORCEMENT AND APPEALS.
   (A)   Enforcement. The building official and/or his or her authorized
representative shall serve as ordinance officers for purposes of enforcement of
this section and shall be authorized to issue notices, orders, violations and
court appearance tickets relative to violations of this section.
      (1)   If any owner of dwellings containing units which will be offered
for rent or hire fails to comply with the registration requirements specified
herein, a final notice and order to comply shall be issued.
      (2)   If any owner of dwellings containing units which will be offered
for rent or hire fails to comply with the inspection requirements specified
herein after being properly notified, a final notice and order to comply shall
be issued. If the order is not complied with, each dwelling unit contained
therein shall be posted with a notice requiring that the occupant of the unit
provide entry for inspection purposes at a specified date and time, and an
administrative fee established by the City Commission per unit shall be added
to the prescribed inspection fees and assessed as a lien against the real
property containing such units.
      (3)   If any owner of dwellings containing units which will be offered
for rent or hire fails to correct the violations identified in the inspection
report, as required by this section, a final notice and order to comply shall
be issued. An administrative fee established by the City Commission per
noncomplying unit shall be charged to the owner of the substandard rental
property and court action to force compliance will be initiated.
   (B)   Conflict of laws. In any case where a provision of this section is
found to be in conflict with any provision of any state statute or any zoning,
building, fire, safety or health ordinance or code of the city, the provision
which established the higher standard for the promotion and protection of the
health, safety and welfare of the public shall prevail. Nothing in this section
shall be deemed or construed to impair the rights of the city under any
ordinance or code relating to condemnation of structures or under any related
code or ordinance regarding the maintenance, condition or safety of structures.
   (C)   Appeals.
      (1)   Any person affected by any notice which has been issued in
connection with the enforcement of this section may request and shall be
granted a hearing on the matter before the Hearing Board on Dangerous Buildings
provided that such person files, in the office of the building department, a
written petition requesting such hearing and containing a statement of the
grounds of the appeal within 20 days after the day the notice was served.
      (2)   The Hearing Board on Dangerous Buildings shall serve as the code
appeals board, with all the powers and duties afforded to it under chapter 158
of these codified ordinances.
(Prior Code, § 13-75) (Ord. 68, passed 6-21-1973; Am. Ord. 2018-008, passed 10-
4-2018)
§ 155.060 FEES.
   The City Commission shall establish appropriate fees for registration,
licensing, inspections and violations.
(Prior Code, § 13-76) (Ord. 68, passed 6-21-1973; Am. Ord. 07-02, passed 6-7-
2007; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed 11-1-2007; Am. Ord. 2018-008, passed 10-4-2018)
TAX EXEMPTION FOR HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS
§ 155.075 TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known and cited as the City Tax Exemption
Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 13-86) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.076 PURPOSE AND INTENT; DESCRIPTION OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   It is acknowledged that it is a proper public purpose of the State of
Michigan and its political subdivisions to provide housing for its citizens of
low income and to encourage the development of housing by providing for a
service charge in lieu of property taxes in accordance with the State Housing
Development Authority Act of 1966 (1966 Public Act 346, as amended, M.C.L.A. §§
125.1401 et seq.). The city is authorized by this Act to establish or change
the service charge to be paid in lieu of taxes by any or all classes of housing
exempt from taxation under this Act at any amount it chooses not to exceed the
taxes that would be paid but for this Act. It is further acknowledged that the
housing for persons of low income is a public necessity, and as the city will
be benefitted and improved by the housing, the encouragement of the same by
providing certain real estate tax exemption for the housing is a valid public
purpose; further, that the continuance of the provisions of this subchapter for
tax exemption and the service charge in lieu of taxes during the period
contemplated in this subchapter are essential to the determination of economic
feasibility of housing developments which are constructed and financed in
reliance on the tax exemption.
   (B)   The city acknowledges that Robert Hamlin has offered subject to
receipt of a mortgage loan from the Michigan State Housing Development
Authority, to erect, own and operate a housing development identified as Walnut
Village South on certain property located at: a parcel of land in Private Claim
598, City of Marine City, St. Clair County, Michigan described as: Commencing
at the intersection of the east line of Fractional Section 11 and the northerly
line of Private Claim 598, thence south 0 degrees 02 minutes 30 seconds east
518.67 feet along the extension of the easterly line of fractional Section 11
to the point of beginning, thence south 64 degrees 38 minutes 47 seconds east
1228.12 feet to a point on the westerly line of Michigan State Hwy M-29 (66
feet wide) (said point being 33 feet westerly of the existing centerline of
pavement), thence along the westerly line of M-29 south 38 degrees 14 minutes
44 seconds west 326.05 feet, thence north 64 degrees 38 minutes 47 seconds west
769.32 feet, thence south 25 degrees 21 minutes 13 seconds west 294.94 feet,
thence north 64 degrees 38 minutes 47 seconds west 95.15 feet, thence north 0
degrees 02 minutes 30 seconds west 678.32 feet along the extension of the
easterly line of fractional Section 11 to the point of beginning, containing
9.264 acres and being subject to easements and restrictions of record in the
city to serve persons of low income, and that the sponsor has offered to pay
the city on account of this housing development an annual service charge for
public services in lieu of all taxes.
(Prior Code, § 13-87) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.077 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ACT. The state’s Housing Development Authority Act, being Public Act 346 of
1966, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1401 to 125.1499c, of the State of Michigan, as
amended.
   ANNUAL SHELTER RENT. The total collections during an agreed annual period
from all occupants of a housing development representing rent or occupancy
charges, exclusive of charges for gas, electricity, heat or other utilities
furnished to the occupants.
   AUTHORITY. The Michigan State Housing Development Authority.
   CLASS. Elderly persons or persons of low income.
   CONTRACT RENTS. As defined by the U.S. Department of Housing and Urban
Development in regulations promulgated pursuant to the U.S. Housing Act of
1937, being 42 U.S.C. §§ 1437 et seq., as amended.
   HOUSING DEVELOPMENT. A development which contains a significant element of
housing for persons of low income and such elements of other housing,
commercial, recreational, industrial, communal and educational facilities as
the authority determines improve the quality of the development as it relates
to housing for persons of low income.
   MORTGAGE LOAN. A loan to be made by the authority to the sponsor for the
construction and/or permanent financing of the housing development.
   SPONSOR. Person(s) or entities which have applied to the authority for a
mortgage loan to finance a housing development.
   UTILITIES. Fuel, water, sanitary sewer service and/or electrical service
which are paid by the housing development.
(Prior Code, § 13-88) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.078 CLASS OF HOUSING DEVELOPMENTS TO WHICH TAX EXEMPTION IS APPLICABLE.
   It is determined that the class of housing developments to which the tax
exemption shall apply and for which a service charge shall be paid in lieu of
the taxes shall be low income, which are financed or assisted pursuant to the
Act. It is further determined that Walnut Village South is of this class.
(Prior Code, § 13-89) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.079 ESTABLISHMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   The housing development identified as Walnut Village South and the
property on which it shall be constructed shall be exempt from all property
taxes from and after the commencement of construction. The city, acknowledging
that the sponsor and the Authority have established the economic feasibility of
the housing development in reliance upon the enactment and continuing effect of
this subchapter and the qualification of the housing development for exemption
from all property taxes and a payment in lieu of taxes as established in this
subchapter, and in consideration of the sponsor’s offer, subject to receipt of
a mortgage loan from the Authority, to construct, own and operate the housing
development, agrees to accept payment of an annual service charge for public
services in lieu of all property taxes. The annual service charge shall be
equal to the percentage of the annual shelter rents as set out below:
Year Percent
Year Percent
1st  4.0
2nd  4.0
3rd  5.1
4th  5.1
5th  6.2
6th  6.2
7th  7.3
8th  7.3
9th  8.4
10th 8.4
11th 9.5
12th 9.5
13th 10.6
14th 10.6
15th 11.7
16th 11.7
17th 12.8
18th 12.8
19th 13.9
20th 13.9
21st 15.0
 
   (B)   The above schedule is subject to review and change in the sole
discretion of the City of Marine City for the fifteenth and subsequent years.
(Prior Code, § 13-90) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.080 LIMITATION ON THE PAYMENT OF ANNUAL SERVICE CHARGE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding §
155.079, the service charge to be paid each year in lieu of taxes for the part
of the housing development which is tax exempt and which is occupied by other
than low income persons or families shall be equal to the full amount of the
taxes which would be paid on that portion of the housing development if the
housing development were not tax exempt. For purposes of determining the full
tax service charge to be paid for the units, the City Assessor shall annually
determine the state equalized value of all units in the same manner as for
nonexempt property of a like kind.
   (B)   The term LOW INCOME PERSONS OR FAMILIES shall be those persons whose
income does not exceed 80% of the area median income. The sponsor shall certify
on December 31 of each year the units occupied by persons other than LOW INCOME
PERSONS OR FAMILIES, as defined herein. Vacant units shall be proportioned
between low income and fully taxable units in the same proportion as the
previous year.
   (C)   The sponsor shall require occupants to certify their income for
purposes of this subchapter upon occupancy and at the end of each 5-year period
thereafter during the period that service charges equal an amount less than
full taxes.
   (D)   For the initial year of operation, only the service charge shall not
exceed 4% for any unit should total occupancy not exceed 50% of the completed
units. The limitation on payment of annual service charges as set out herein
shall apply to all subsequent years.
(Prior Code, § 13-91) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.081 CONTRACTUAL EFFECT.
   Notwithstanding the provisions of § 15(a)(5) of the Act to the contrary, a
contract between the city and the sponsor with the authority as third party
beneficiary under the contract, to provide tax exemption and accept payments in
lieu of taxes, as previously described, is effectuated by enactment of this
subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-92) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.082 PAYMENT OF SERVICE CHARGE.
   The service charge in lieu of taxes as determined under the subchapter shall
be payable in the same manner as general property taxes are payable to the city
except that the annual payment shall be paid on or before July 1 of each year.
The amounts collected pursuant to this subchapter shall be distributed to the
several units having the general property tax in the same proportion as
prevailed with the general property tax in the previous calendar year so long
as the property subject to this subchapter shall not be affected by a tax
increment financing plan.
(Prior Code, § 13-93) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
§ 155.083 DURATION.
   This subchapter shall remain in effect and shall not terminate so long as
the mortgage loan remains outstanding and unpaid or the authority has any
interest in the property; provided, that construction of the housing
development commences within 1 year from the effective date of this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 13-94) (Ord. 86-2A1, passed 6-19-1986)
HISTORIC DISTRICT REGULATIONS
§ 155.095 SHORT TITLE.
   This subchapter shall be known as the "Historic District Ordinance of the
City of Marine City".
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.096 STATEMENT OF PURPOSE.
   (A)   Historic preservation is hereby declared to be a public purpose and
the City Commission of the City of Marine City may hereby regulate the
construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation, and demolition
of resources in historic districts within the city limits. The purpose of this
subchapter is to:
      (1)   Safeguard the heritage of the City of Marine City by preserving
districts which reflect elements of its history, architecture, archaeology,
engineering, or culture;
      (2)   Stabilize and improve property values in each district and
surrounding areas;
      (3)   Foster civic beauty;
      (4)   Strengthen the local economy and encourage tourism; and
      (5)   Promote the use of historic districts for the education, pleasure,
and welfare of the citizens of the City of Marine City and of the State of
Michigan.
   (B)   The City of Marine City has established an historic district as set
forth in §
155.130 of the Code of Ordinances. The city may, by ordinance, establish
additional districts.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.097 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   ALTERATION.  Work that changes the detail of a resource but does not change
its basic size or shape.
   CERTIFICATE OF APPROPRIATENESS.  The written approval of a permit
application for work that is appropriate and does not adversely affect a
resource.
   COMMISSION.  The Historic District Commission of the City of Marine City.
   COMMITTEE.  An historic district study committee appointed by the City
Commission.
   DEMOLITION.  The razing or destruction, whether entirely or in part, of a
resource and includes, but is not limited to, demolition by neglect.
   DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.  Neglect in maintaining, repairing, or securing a
resource that results in deterioration of an exterior feature of the resource
or the loss of structural integrity of the resource.
   DENIAL.  The written rejection of a permit application for work that is
inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource.
   DEPARTMENT.  The department of history, arts and libraries.
   FIRE ALARM SYSTEM.  A system designed to detect and annunciate the presence
of fire or by-products of fire. FIRE ALARM SYSTEM includes smoke alarms.
   HISTORIC DISTRICT.  An area, or group of areas, not necessarily having
contiguous boundaries, that contains one resource or a group of resources that
are related by history, architecture, archaeology, engineering, or culture.
   HISTORIC PRESERVATION.  The identification, evaluation, establishment, and
protection of resources significant in history, architecture, archaeology,
engineering, or culture.
   HISTORIC RESOURCE.  A publicly or privately owned building, structure, site,
object, feature or open space that is significant in the history, architecture,
archaeology, engineering, or culture of the city of Marine City, state of
Michigan, or the United States.
   NOTICE TO PROCEED.  The written permission to issue a permit for work that
is inappropriate and that adversely affects a resource, pursuant to a finding
under § 399.205(6) of Public Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. § 399.205(6) as
amended.
   OPEN SPACE.  Undeveloped land, a naturally landscaped area, or a formal or
man-made landscaped area that provides a connective link or buffer between
other resources.
   ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.  Keeping a resource unimpaired and in good condition
through ongoing minor intervention, undertaken from time to time, in its
exterior condition. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE  does not change the external
appearance of the resource except through the elimination of the usual and
expected effects of weathering. ORDINARY MAINTENANCE  does not constitute work
for the purposes of this subchapter.
   PROPOSED HISTORIC DISTRICT.  An area, or group of areas not necessarily
having contiguous boundaries, that has delineated boundaries and that is under
review by a committee or standing committee for the purpose of making a
recommendation as to whether it should be established as an historic district
or added to an established historic district.
   REPAIR.  To restore a decayed or damaged resource to good or sound condition
by any process. A REPAIR  that changes the external appearance of a resource
constitutes work for the purposes of this subchapter.
   RESOURCE.  One or more publicly or privately owned historic or non-historic
buildings, structures, sites, objects, features, or open spaces located within
an historic district.
   SMOKE ALARM.  A single-station or multiple-station alarm responsive to smoke
and not connected to a system. As used in this subdivision, a "single-station
alarm" means an assembly incorporation of a detector, the control equipment,
and the alarm sounding device into a single unit, operated from a power supply
either in the unit or obtained at the point of installation. "Multiple-station
alarm" means two or more single-station alarms that are capable of
interconnection such that actuation of one alarm causes all integrated separate
audible alarms to operate.
   WORK.  Construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation, or
demolition.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.098 HISTORIC DISTRICT STUDY COMMITTEE AND THE STUDY COMMITTEE REPORT.
   Before establishing an historic district, the City Commission shall appoint
an Historic District Study Committee. A majority of the persons appointed to
the Study Committee shall have a clearly demonstrated interest in or knowledge
of historic preservation. The Study Committee shall contain representation of a
least one member appointed from one or more duly organized local historic
preservation organizations. The Study Committee shall do all of the following:
   (A)   Conduct a photographic inventory of resources within each proposed
historic district following procedures established by the State Historic
Preservation Office of the Michigan Historical Center.
   (B)   Conduct basic research of each proposed historic district and historic
resources located within that district.
   (C)   Determine the total number of historic and non-historic resources
within a proposed historic district and the percentage of historic resources of
that total. In evaluating the significance of historic resources, the Committee
shall be guided by the selection criteria for evaluation issued by the United
States Secretary of the Interior for inclusion of resources in the National
Register of Historic Places, as set forth in 36 CFR, part 60, and criteria
established or approved by the State Historic Preservation Office of the
Michigan Historical Center.
   (D)   Prepare a preliminary Historic District Study Committee report that
addresses at a minimum all of the following:
      (1)   The charge of the Committee;
      (2)   The composition of Committee membership;
      (3)   The historic district(s) studied;
      (4)   The boundaries of each proposed historic district in writing and on
maps;
      (5)   The history of each proposed historic district;
      (6)   The significance of each district as a whole, as well as a
sufficient number of its individual resources to fully represent the variety of
resources found within the district, relative to the evaluation criteria;
      (7)   Transmit copies of the preliminary report for review and
recommendations to the local planning body, the State Historic Preservation
Office of the Michigan Historical Center, the Michigan Historical Commission,
and the State Historic Preservation Review Board; and
      (8)   Make copies of the preliminary report available to the public
pursuant to § 399.203(4) of Public Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. §§ 399.203
(4), as amended.
   (E)   Not less than 60 calendar days after the transmittal of the
preliminary report, the Historic District Study Committee shall hold a public
hearing in compliance with Public Act 267 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261
through 15.275, as amended. Public notice of the time, date and place of the
hearing shall be given in the manner required by Public Act 267. Written notice
shall be mailed by first class mail not less than 14 calendar days prior to the
hearing to the owners of properties within the proposed historic district, as
listed on the most current tax rolls. The report shall be made available to the
public in compliance with Public Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231
through 15.246, as amended.
   (F)   After the date of the public hearing, the Committee and the City
Commission have not more than one year, unless otherwise authorized by the City
Commission, to take the following actions:
      (1)   The Committee shall prepare and submit a final report with its
recommendations and the recommendations, if any, of the local planning body to
the City Commission as to the establishment of an Historic District. If the
recommendation is to establish an Historic District, the final report shall
include a draft of the proposed ordinance.
      (2)   After receiving a final report that recommends the establishment of
an Historic District, the City Commission, at its discretion, may introduce and
pass or reject an ordinance. If the City Commission passes an ordinance
establishing an historic district, the city shall file a copy of the ordinance,
including a legal description of the property or properties located within the
historic district with the Register of Deeds. The City Commission shall not
pass an ordinance establishing a contiguous historic district less than 60 days
after a majority of the property owners within the proposed historic district,
as listed on the tax rolls of the local unit, have approved the establishment
of the historic district pursuant to a written petition.
   (G)   A writing prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by
a committee in the performance of an official function of the Historic District
Commission should be made available to the public in compliance with Public Act
442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.231 through 15.246, as amended.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014; Am. Ord. 2024-004, passed 7-11-2024)
§ 155.099 ESTABLISHING ADDITIONAL, MODIFYING, OR ELIMINATING HISTORIC
DISTRICTS.
   (A)   The City Commission may at any time establish by ordinance additional
historic districts, including proposed districts previously considered and
rejected, may modify boundaries of an existing historic district, or may
eliminate an existing historic district. Before establishing, modifying, or
eliminating an historic district, an historic district study committee
appointed by the City Commission shall follow the procedures as stated in §
399.203(1-3) of Public Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. § 339.203(1) through
(3), as amended. To conduct these activities, the City Commission may retain
the initial committee, establish a standing committee, or establish a committee
to consider only specific proposed districts and then be dissolved. The
committee shall consider any previously written committee reports pertinent to
the proposed action.
   (B)   In considering elimination of an historic district, a committee shall
follow the procedures set forth in § 399.203 (1-3) of Public Act 169 of 1970,
being M.C.L.A. § 339.203(1) through (3), as amended for the issuance of a
preliminary report, holding a public hearing, and issuing a final report but
with the intent of showing one or more of the following:
      (1)   The historic district has lost those physical characteristics that
enabled the establishment of the district.
      (2)   The historic district was not significant in the way previously
defined.
      (3) The historic district was established pursuant to defective
procedures.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.100 THE HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Commission may establish by ordinance a commission to be
called an historic district commission. The commission may be established at
any time, but not later than the time the first historic district is
established. Each member of the commission shall reside within the city limits.
The commission shall consist of seven members. Members shall be appointed by
the City Commission. A majority of the members shall have a clearly
demonstrated interest in or knowledge of historic preservation. Members shall
be appointed for a term of three years, except the initial appointments of
three members for a term of two years and two members for a term of one year.
Subsequent appointments shall be for three-year terms. Members shall be
eligible for reappointment. In the event of a vacancy on the Commission,
interim appointments shall be made by the City Commission within 60 calendar
days to complete the unexpired term of such position. Two members shall be
appointed from a list submitted by duly organized local historic preservation
organizations. If such a person is available for appointment, one member shall
be an architect who has two years of architectural experience or who is duly
registered in the state of Michigan.
   (B)   The City Commission may prescribe powers and duties of the commission,
in addition to those prescribed in this subchapter, that foster historic
preservation activities, projects, and programs in the local unit.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.101 HISTORIC DISTRICT COMMISSION MEETINGS, RECORDKEEPING AND RULES OF
PROCEDURE.
   (A)   The Historic District Commission shall meet at least quarterly or more
frequently at the call of the Commission.
   (B)   The business that the Commission may perform shall be conducted at a
public meeting held in compliance with the Open Meetings Act, Public Act 267 of
1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 15.261 through 15.275, as amended. Public notice of the
date, time, and place of the meeting shall be given in the manner required by
Public Act 267. A meeting agenda shall be part of the notice and shall include
a listing of each permit application to be reviewed or considered by the
Commission.
   (C)   The Commission shall keep a record of its resolutions, proceedings and
actions. A writing prepared, owned, and used in the possession of or retained
by the Commission in the performance of an official function shall be made
available to the public in compliance with the Freedom of Information, Public
Act 442 of 1976, being M.C.L.A. §§ 155.231 through 155.246, as amended.
   (D)   The Commission shall adopt its own rules of procedure and shall adopt
design review standards and guidelines to carry out its duties under this act.
   (E)   Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The Historic District
Commission shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson
who shall serve in such capacities for the term as fixed by the Commission. The
Chairperson shall preside over the Commission and shall chair the meetings of
the Commission. The Chairperson shall have the right to vote on all matters
coming before the Commission unless precluded by law. The Vice-Chairperson
shall, in the absence or disability of the Chairperson, perform the duties and
functions of the Chairperson.
   (F)   Quorum and voting requirements; special meetings. Four members of the
Historic District Commission shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of
business at a meeting of the Commission. No motion or resolution shall be
adopted or passed nor shall any other official action be taken by the
Commission, except by the affirmative vote of at least four members of the
Commission. Special meetings of the Commission may be called by the Chairperson
or by at least four of the members of the Commission.
   (G)   Annual report. The Historic District Commission shall prepare and
submit to the mayor and the City Commission an annual report which shall detail
and describe the activities of the Commission during the previous year.
   (H)   Funding; budget. The City Commission may allocate city funds to be
used by and administered by the Historic District Commission. The Commission
shall prepare and submit to the City Commission an annual budget which shall be
subject to the review and approval of the City Commission. The annual budget of
the Commission shall be submitted to the City Commission as required by the
City Charter and as prescribed by the City Commission. All funds and accounts
of the Commission shall be audited on an annual basis as part of the annual
audit procedure of the city.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014; Ord. 24-009, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 155.102 DELEGATION OF MINOR CLASSES OR WORK.
   The Commission may delegate the issuance of certificates of appropriateness
for specified minor classes of work to its staff, or to another delegated
authority. The Commission shall provide to its delegated authority specific
written standards for issuing certificates of appropriateness under this
division. The Commission shall review the certificates of appropriateness
issued by the delegate on at least a quarterly basis to determine whether or
not the delegated responsibilities should be continued.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.103 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent ordinary
maintenance or repair of a resource within an historic district or to prevent
work on any resource under a permit issued by the inspector of buildings or
other duly delegated authority before the subchapter was enacted.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.104 REVIEW BY THE COMMISSION.
   The Commission shall review and act upon only exterior features of a
resource and shall not review and act upon interior arrangements unless
specifically authorized to do so by the City Commission or unless interior work
will cause visible change to the exterior of the resource. The Commission shall
not disapprove an application due to considerations not prescribed in § 399.205
(3) of Public Act 169 of 1970, being M.C.L.A. § 399.205(3), as amended.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.105 DESIGN REVIEW STANDARDS AND GUIDELINES.
   (A)   In reviewing plans, the Commission shall follow the U.S. Secretary of
Interior's Standards for Rehabilitation and guidelines for rehabilitating
historic buildings as set forth in 36 CFR, part 67. Design review standards and
guidelines that address special design characteristics of historic districts
administered by the Commission may be followed if they are equivalent in
guidance to the Secretary of Interior's Standards and guidelines and are
established or approved by the State Historic Preservation Office of the
Michigan Historical Center.
   (B)   In reviewing plans, the Commission shall also consider all of the
following:
      (1)   The historic or architectural value and significance of the
resource and its relationship to the historic value of the surrounding area;
      (2)   The relationship of any architectural features of the resource to
the rest of the resource and to the surrounding area;
      (3)   The general compatibility of the design, arrangement, texture, and
materials proposed to be used;
      (4)   Other factors, such as aesthetic value, that the Commission finds
relevant; and
      (5)   Whether the applicant has certified in the application that the
property where work will be undertaken has, or will have before the proposed
project completion date, a fire alarm system or smoke alarm complying with the
requirements of the Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code Act
1972 PA 230, M.C.L.A. §§ 125.1501 to 125.1531.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.106 PERMIT APPLICATIONS.
   (A)   A permit shall be obtained before any work affecting the exterior
appearance of a resource is performed within an historic district. The person,
individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization, institution, or
agency of government proposing to do that work shall file an application for a
permit with the inspector of buildings. Upon receipt of a complete application,
the inspector of buildings shall immediately refer the application, along with
all required supporting materials that make the application complete to the
Commission. A permit shall not be issued and proposed work shall not proceed
until the Commission has acted on the application by issuing a certificate of
appropriateness or a notice to proceed as prescribed in this subchapter. A
commission shall not issue a certificate of appropriateness unless the
applicant certifies in the application that the property where work will be
undertaken has, or will have before the proposed project completion date, a
fire alarm system or a smoke alarm complying with the requirements of the
Stille-DeRossett-Hale Single State Construction Code Act, 1972 PA 230, M.C.L.A.
§§ 125.1501 to 125.1531.
   (B)   The Commission shall file certificates of appropriateness, notices to
proceed, and denials of applications for permits with the inspector of
buildings. A permit shall not be issued until the Commission has acted as
prescribed by this subchapter.
   (C)   If an application is for work that will adversely affect the exterior
of a resource the Commission considers valuable to the City of Marine City, the
State of Michigan, or the nation, and the Commission determines that the
alteration or loss of that resource will adversely affect the public purpose of
the city, state, or nation, the Commission shall attempt to establish with the
owner of the resource an economically feasible plan for the preservation of the
resource.
   (D)   The failure of the Commission to act on an application within 60
calendar days after the date a complete application is filed with the
Commission, unless an extension is agreed upon in writing by the applicant and
the Commission, shall be considered to constitute approval.
   (E)   The local unit may charge a reasonable fee to process a permit
application.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.107 DENIALS.
   If a permit application is denied, the decision shall be binding on the
inspector or other authority. A Denial shall be accompanied by a written
explanation by the Commission of the reasons for denial and, if appropriate, a
notice that an application may be re-submitted for Commission review when the
suggested changes have been made. The denial shall also include the
notification of the applicant's right to appeal to the State Historic
Preservation Review Board and to the circuit court.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.108 NOTICE TO PROCEED.
   Work within an historic district shall be permitted through the issuance of
a notice to proceed by the Commission if any of the following conditions
prevail and if the proposed work can be demonstrated by a finding of the
Commission to be necessary to substantially improve or correct any of the
following conditions:
   (A)   The resource constitutes a hazard to the safety of the public or to
the structure's occupants.
   (B)   The resource is a deterrent to a major improvement program that will
be of substantial benefit to the community and the applicant proposing the work
has obtained all necessary planning and zoning approvals, financing, and
environmental clearance.
   (C)   Retaining the resource will cause undue financial hardship to the
owner when a governmental action, an act of God, or other events beyond the
owner's control created the hardship, and all feasible alternatives to
eliminate the financial hardship, which may include offering the resource for
sale at its fair market value or moving the resource to a vacant site within
the Historic District, have been attempted and exhausted by the owner.
   (D)   Retaining the resource is not in the interest of the majority of the
community.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.109 APPEAL OF A COMMISSION DECISION.
   (A)   An applicant aggrieved by a decision of the Commission concerning a
permit application may file an appeal with the State Historic Preservation
Review Board. The appeal shall be filed within 60 calendar days after the
decision is furnished to the applicant. The appellant may submit all or part of
the appellant's evidence and arguments in written form. The State Historic
Preservation Review Board shall consider an appeal at its first regularly
scheduled meeting after receiving the appeal. A permit applicant aggrieved by
the decision of the State Historic Preservation Review Board may appeal the
decision to the circuit court having jurisdiction over the Historic District
Commission whose decision was appealed to the State Historic Preservation
Review Board.
   (B)   Any citizen or duly organized historic preservation organization in
the City of Marine City, as well as resource property owners, jointly or
severally aggrieved by a decision of the Historic District Commission may
appeal the decision to the circuit court, except that a permit applicant
aggrieved by a decision rendered under this subchapter may not appeal to the
court without first exhausting the right to appeal to the State Historic
Preservation Review Board.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.110 WORK WITHOUT A PERMIT.
   When work has been done upon a resource without a permit, and the Commission
finds that the work does not qualify for a certificate of appropriateness, the
Commission may require an owner to restore the resource to the condition that
the resource was in before the inappropriate work or to modify the work so that
it qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the owner does not comply
with the restoration or modification requirement within a reasonable time, the
Commission may seek an order from the circuit court to require the owner to
restore the resource to its former condition or to modify the work so that it
qualifies for a certificate of appropriateness. If the owner does not comply or
cannot comply with the order of the court the Commission or its agents may
enter the property and conduct work necessary to restore the resource to its
former condition or modify the work so that it qualifies for a certificate of
appropriateness in accordance with the court's order. The costs of the work
done shall be charged to the owner, and may be levied by the City of Marine
City as a special assessment against the property. When acting pursuant to an
order of the circuit court, the Commission or its agents may enter a property
for purposes of this section.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.111 DEMOLITION BY NEGLECT.
   Upon a finding by the Commission that an historic resource within an
historic district or a proposed historic district subject to its review and
approval is threatened with demolition by neglect, the Commission may do either
of the following:
   (A)   Require the owner of the resource to repair all conditions
contributing to demolition by neglect; or
   (B)   If the owner does not make repairs within a reasonable time, the
Commission or its agents may enter the property and make such repairs as
necessary to prevent demolition by neglect. The costs of the work shall be
charged to the owner, and may be levied by the City of Marine City as a special
assessment against the property. The Commission or its agents may enter the
property for purposes of this section upon obtaining an order from the circuit
court.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.112 REVIEW OF WORK IN PROPOSED DISTRICTS.
   Upon receipt of substantial evidence showing the presence of historic,
architectural, archaeological, engineering, or cultural significance of a
proposed historic district, the City Commission may, at its discretion, adopt a
resolution requiring that all applications for permits within the proposed
historic district be referred to the Historic District Commission as prescribed
in §
155.106. The Historic District Commission shall review permit applications with
the same powers that would apply if the proposed historic district was an
established historic district. The review may continue in the proposed historic
district for not more than one year, or until such time as the City Commission
approves or rejects the establishment of the historic district by ordinance,
whichever occurs first.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.113 EMERGENCY MORATORIUM.
   If the City Commission determines that pending work will cause irreparable
harm to resources located within an established or proposed historic district,
the City Commission may by resolution declare an emergency moratorium on all
such work for a period not to exceed six months. The City Commission may extend
the emergency moratorium for an additional period not to exceed six months,
upon finding that the threat of irreparable harm to resources is still present.
Any pending permit application concerning a resource subject to an emergency
moratorium may be summarily denied.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.114 ACCEPTANCE OF GIFTS OR GRANTS.
   The City Commission may accept state or federal grants for historic
preservation purposes; may participate in state and federal programs that
benefit historic preservation, and may accept public or private gifts for
historic preservation purposes. The City Commission may appoint the Historic
District Commission to accept and administer grants, gifts, and program
responsibilities.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.115 ACQUISITION OF HISTORIC RESOURCES.
   If all efforts by the Commission to preserve a resource fail, or if it is
determined by the City Commission that public ownership is most suitable, the
City Commission, if considered to be the public interest, may acquire the
resource using public funds, public or private gifts, grants or proceeds from
the issuance of revenue bonds. The acquisition shall be based upon the
recommendation of the Commission. The Commission is responsible for maintaining
publicly owned resources using its own funds, if not specifically designated
for other purposes, or public funds committed for that use by the City
Commission. Upon recommendation of the Commission, the City may sell resources
acquired under this section with protective easements included in the property
transfer documents, if appropriate.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
§ 155.116 HISTORIC PRESERVATION AS A PUBLIC PURPOSE.
   Historic preservation is declared to be a public purpose to regulate the
construction, addition, alteration, repair, moving, excavation, and demolition
of resources in historic districts within the city limits pursuant to Public
Act No. 169 of 1970 (M.C.L.A. §§ 399.201 et seq.). The purpose of this
subchapter shall be to do one or more of the following:
   (A)   Safeguard the heritage of the city by preserving one or more historic
districts in the city that reflect elements of the city’s history,
architecture, archaeology, engineering, or culture.
   (B)   Stabilize and improve property values in each district and the
surrounding areas.
   (C)   Foster civic beauty.
   (D)   Strengthen the local economy.
   (E)   Promote the use of historic districts for the education, pleasure, and
welfare of the citizens of the city and of the state.
(Ord. 24-009, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 155.117 ORDINARY MAINTENANCE AND REPAIR.
   Nothing in this subchapter shall be construed to prevent ordinary
maintenance or repair of a resource within a historic district or to prevent
work on any resource under a permit, order or directive issued by the city or
other duly delegated authority before the effective date of the ordinance from
which this chapter derives.
(Ord. 24-009, passed 12-5-2024)
§ 155.118 AUTHORITY OF CITY.
   Nothing contained in this subchapter shall be construed as a limitation on
the power and authority of the city to take reasonable and necessary actions to
promote and protect the public health, safety and welfare with respect to
structures located within the city.
(Ord. 24-009, passed 12-5-2024)
 
HISTORIC DISTRICT
§ 155.130 ESTABLISHING HISTORIC DISTRICT.
   The City Hall Park as shown on the original plat of the Village of Marine,
being the block bounded by Broadway, North Main, Pearl, and Elizabeth is hereby
declared to be an historic district as provided in M.C.L.A. § 399.203.
(Ord. 08-04, passed 10-2-2008)
§ 155.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution, or agency of government that violates §§
155.095 through
155.115 is responsible for a civil violation and may be fined not more than
$5,000.
   (B)   A person, individual, partnership, firm, corporation, organization,
institution, or agency of government that violates §§
155.095 through
155.115 may be ordered by the court to pay the costs to restore or replicate a
resource unlawfully constructed, added to, altered, repaired, moved, excavated
or demolished.
(Ord. 14-4, passed 9-18-2014)
CHAPTER 156: FENCES
Section
General Provisions
   
156.01   Definition
   
156.02   Unlawful construction
   
156.03   Residential fences
   
156.04   Nonresidential fences
   
156.05   Corner clearance and visibility
   
156.06   Board of Appeals
Permit Provisions
   
156.20   Required
   
156.21   Application
   
156.22   Fee
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 156.01 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   FENCE. Any artificial permanent fence, partition, structure or gate erected
as a dividing marker, barrier or enclosure.
(Prior Code, § 10-1) (Ord. passed 1-5-1967; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016)
§ 156.02 UNLAWFUL CONSTRUCTION.
   It shall be unlawful for any person to construct or cause to have
constructed any fence upon any property within the city, except in accordance
with the requirements and restrictions provided in this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 10-2) (Ord. passed 1-5-1967; Am. Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016)
Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.03 RESIDENTIAL FENCES.
   Residential fences are permitted or required, subject to the following:
   (A)   Fences on all lots of record in all residential districts, which
enclose property and/or are within a side or rear yard that is not waterfront
to either the St. Clair River or the Belle River, shall not exceed 6 feet in
height. This height shall be measured from the average established grade to the
highest point of the fence. No fence, wall or hedge shall rise over 4 feet in
height in front of the house or any yard that is waterfront to the St. Clair
River or Belle River, or in the minimum front yard, whichever is greater; the
measuring technique employed shall be the same as stated above. In addition, no
fence, wall, or hedge shall be located within a public right-of-way, occupy a
clear vision zone as established by §
156.05, or interfere with visibility from a driveway. The Zoning Administrator
is hereby empowered to cause obstructions to be removed in the interest of
public safety.
   (B)   No obscuring fence or wall shall be located within the front yard or
any yard that is waterfront to either the St. Clair River or the Belle River.
All chain-link fencing is obscuring. Decorative fencing that does not
materially impede vision shall be permitted in a front or waterfront to either
the St. Clair River or the Belle River provided it does not exceed a height of
4 feet.
   (C)   Fences shall consist of at least 1 side of "finished" quality. The
term "finished" refers to the covering of raw material so as to protect it from
the natural elements; this includes but is not limited to the painting of
metal, and the painting or staining of wood. A finished side of the fence shall
be exposed to all adjacent properties including the St. Clair River and the
Belle River. The finished side shall generally be the side without post
exposure or with the least post exposure. The Building Inspector shall
determine the "finished" side.
   (D)   Fences shall not contain barbed wire, pointed or sharp extrusions on
the top, electric current, or charge of electricity. All fences shall be
constructed of treated wood, plastic, aluminum, or galvanized metal or similar
materials as approved by the Building Inspector and/or Zoning Administrator.
Temporary fencing such as chicken wire or plastic snow fencing, shall be
prohibited as permanent fencing material.
   (E)   All fences shall comply with the requirements of the applicable
building and zoning codes.
   (F)   All fences shall be maintained so as to not endanger life or property.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.04 NONRESIDENTIAL FENCES.
   (A)   Fences located in other than residential districts or on the boundary
between such districts shall not exceed 8 feet in height, measured from the
surface of the ground.
   (B)   Fences, which enclose public or institutional parks, playgrounds, or
public landscaped areas situated within an area developed with recorded lots,
shall not obstruct vision to an extent greater than 25% of the fences total
area. Fences bordering waterfront to the St. Clair River or the Belle River
shall not be obscuring.
   (C)   No fence, wall, or hedge shall be located within a public right-of-
way, occupy a clear vision zone established by §
156.05, or interfere with visibility from a driveway. The Zoning Administrator
is hereby empowered to cause all such obstructions to be removed in the
interest of public safety.
   (D)   Fences located within 25 feet of an intersection shall not exceed 30
inches in height.
   (E)   Fences shall not contain barbed wire, electric current, or charge of
electricity. In the case where the security of industrial and commercial
property is concerned, the Planning Commission may approve a fence 8 feet in
height with barbed or razor wire attached to the top as a part of the site plan
review.
   (F)   All fences shall comply with the requirements of the Building Code.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.05 CORNER CLEARANCE AND VISIBILITY.
   (A)   No fence, wall, structure or planting shall be erected, established or
maintained on any corner lot which will obstruct the view of a driver of a
vehicle approaching the intersection excepting shade trees which would be
permitted where all branches are not less than 8 feet above the road level.
Such unobstructed corner shall mean a triangular area formed by the street
property lines and a line connecting them at points 25 feet from the
intersection of the street lines or in the case of a rounded property corner
from the intersection of the street property lines extended. In the case of a
driveway/street intersection, the aforementioned technique shall also be used
however a 10 foot dimension shall be utilized situated along the driveway and
property line. Decorative fencing that would be approved on a corner could
include open weave, split rail or similar fencing. Refer to illustration 3-1.
Illustration 3-1 Corner Clearance and Visibility
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7c86b4a2f8a2820346aaf9e4261ae0ad9dff9e1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3145.png]
   (B)    For purpose of this chapter, an unobstructed vi ew bordering the
waterfront of the St. Clair River and/or the Belle River, shall include an
unobstructed view 90 degrees out from the corners of the main exterior wall
most parallel to the water. Fences, walls, or similar barriers may be permitted
by the Zoning Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016) Penalty, see §
10.99
§ 156.06 BOARD OF APPEALS.
   Upon appeal in writing by any person directly or indirectly affected hereby,
the Zoning Board of Appeals of the city, after a hearing in accordance with the
established procedure of the Board, may in its sound discretion and in the
interests of the public health, safety or welfare of the inhabitants of the
community, reduce or remit the requirements of this chapter in individual
cases.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016)
PERMIT PROVISIONS
§ 156.20 REQUIRED.
   Any person desiring to build or cause to be built a fence upon property
within the corporate limits of the city, shall first apply to the Building
Inspector for a permit to do so.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016)
§ 156.21 APPLICATION.
   Application for a permit under this chapter shall contain any and all
information, including drawings required and necessary for the determination of
whether the erection of such fence would be contrary to the provisions in this
chapter or the laws of the state.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016)
§ 156.22 FEE.
   A fee in the amount established by resolution of the City Commission shall
be paid for each permit under this chapter.
(Ord. 2016-02, passed 3-3-2016)
CHAPTER 157: FLOOD DAMAGE PREVENTION
Section
General Provisions
   
157.01   Statutory authorization
   
157.02   Definitions
   
157.03   Lands to which chapter applies
   
157.04   Basis for establishing the areas of special flood hazard
   
157.05   Compliance
   
157.06   Abrogation and greater restrictions
   
157.07   Interpretation
   
157.08   Warning and disclaimer of liability
Administration
   
157.20   Development permit
   
157.21   City Manager; designation; duties and responsibilities
   
157.22   Variance procedure
Technical Standards and Requirements
   
157.35   Generally
   
157.36   Base flood elevation
   
157.37   Mobile homes
   
157.38   Floodways
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 157.01 STATUTORY AUTHORIZATION.
   The legislature of the State of Michigan has in Public Act 207, 1921,
(M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 to 125.3702) as amended, delegated the responsibility to
local governmental units to adopt regulations designed to promote the public
health, safety and general welfare of its citizenry. Therefore, the City
Commission does ordain as follows in the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-1) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979; Am. Ord. 82-8, passed 6-
17-1982)
§ 157.02 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   APPEAL. A review of the City Manager’s interpretation of any provision of
this chapter or a request for a variance.
   AREA OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD. The land in the floodplain within a community
subject to a 1% or greater chance of flooding in any given year.
   BASE FLOOD. The flood having a 1% chance of being equaled or exceeded in any
given year.
   DEVELOPMENT. Any man-made change to improved or unimproved real estate,
including but not limited to, buildings or other structures, mining, dredging,
filling, grading, paving, excavation or drilling operations located within the
area of special flood hazard.
   EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into 2 or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot on which  the mobile
home is to be affixed is completed before the effective date of this chapter,
including, at a minimum, the installation of utilities, either final site
grading or the pouring of concrete pads and the construction of streets.
   EXPANSION TO AN EXISTING MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. The
preparation of additional sites by the construction of facilities for servicing
the lots on which the mobile homes are to be affixed, including the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or pouring of concrete or
the construction of streets.
   FLOOD or FLOODING. A general and temporary condition of partial or complete
inundation of normally dry land areas from:
      (1)   The overflow of inland or tidal waters; and/or
      (2)   The unusual and rapid accumulation or runoff of surface waters from
any source.
   FLOOD INSURANCE RATE MAP (FIRM). The official map on which the Federal
Insurance Administration has delineated both the areas of special flood hazards
and the risk premium zones applicable to the community.
   FLOOD INSURANCE STUDY. The official report provided in which the Federal
Insurance Administration has provided flood profiles, as well as the flood
boundary/floodway map and the water surface elevation of the base flood.
   FLOODWAY. The channel of a river or other watercourse and the adjacent land
areas that must be reserved in order to discharge the base flood without
cumulatively increasing the water surface elevation.
   HABITABLE FLOOR. Any floor usable for living purposes, which includes
working, sleeping, eating, cooking or recreation or a combination thereof. A
floor used only for storage purposes is not a HABITABLE FLOOR.
   MOBILE HOME. A structure that is transportable in 1 or more sections, built
on a permanent chassis and designed to be used with or without a permanent
foundation when connected to the required utilities. It does not include
recreational vehicles or travel trailers.
   NEW CONSTRUCTION. Structures for which the start of construction commenced
on or after the effective date of this chapter.
   NEW MOBILE HOME PARK OR MOBILE HOME SUBDIVISION. A parcel or contiguous
parcels of land divided into 2 or more mobile home lots for rent or sale for
which the construction of facilities for servicing the lot is completed on or
after the effective date of this chapter, including, at a minimum, the
installation of utilities, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete
pads and the construction of streets.
   START OF CONSTRUCTION. The first placement of permanent construction of a
structure other than a mobile home on a site, such as the pouring of slabs or
footings or any work beyond the stage of excavation. Permanent construction
does not include land preparation such as clearing, grading and filling, nor
does it include the installation of streets and/or walkways, nor does it
include excavation for a basement, footings, piers or foundations or the
erection of temporary forms; nor does it include the installation on the
property of accessory buildings such as garages or sheds not occupied as
dwelling units or not as part of the main structure. For a structure other than
a mobile home without a basement or poured footings, the START OF CONSTRUCTION
includes the first permanent framing or assembly of the structure or any part
thereof on its piling or foundation. For mobile homes not within a mobile home
park or mobile home subdivision, START OF CONSTRUCTION means the affixing of
the mobile home to its permanent site. For mobile homes within mobile home
parks or mobile home subdivisions, START OF CONSTRUCTION is the date on which
the construction of facilities for servicing the site on which the mobile home
is to be  affixed is completed; including, at a minimum, the construction of
streets, either final site grading or the pouring of concrete pads, and
installation of utilities.
   STRUCTURE. A walled and roofed building, a mobile home or a gas or liquid
storage tank that is principally above ground.
   SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT.
      (1)   Any repair, reconstruction or improvement of a structure, the cost
of which equals or exceeds 50% of the market value of the structure either:
         (a)   Before the improvement or repair is started; or
         (b)   If the structure has been damaged and is being restored, before
the damage occurred.
      (2)   For the purposes of this definition, SUBSTANTIAL IMPROVEMENT is
considered to occur when the first alteration of any wall, ceiling, floor or
other structural part of the building commences, whether or not that alteration
affects the external dimensions of the structure. The term does not, however,
include either:
         (a)   Any project for improvement of a structure to comply with
existing state or local health, sanitary or safety code specifications which
are solely necessary to assure safe living conditions; or
         (b)   Any alteration of a structure listed on the National Register of
Historic Places or a state inventory of historic places.
   VARIANCE. A grant of relief from the requirements of this chapter which
permits construction in a manner that would otherwise be prohibited by this
chapter.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-2) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.03 LANDS TO WHICH CHAPTER APPLIES.
   This chapter shall apply to all areas of special flood hazards within the
jurisdiction of the city.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-3) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.04 BASIS FOR ESTABLISHING THE AREAS OF SPECIAL FLOOD HAZARD.
   The areas of special flood hazard identified by the Federal Insurance
Administration in a scientific and engineering report entitled The Flood
Insurance Study for the City of Marine City, Michigan, dated August 1, 1979,
with accompanying flood insurance rate maps and flood boundary/floodway maps is
hereby adopted by reference and declared to be a part of this chapter. The
flood insurance study is on file at the office of the City Clerk, 300 Broadway,
Marine City, Michigan 48039.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-4) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.05 COMPLIANCE.
   No structure or land shall hereafter be constructed, located, extended,
converted or altered without full compliance with the terms of this chapter and
other applicable regulations.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-5) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.06 ABROGATION AND GREATER RESTRICTIONS.
   This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate or impair any existing
easements, covenants or deed restrictions. However, where this chapter and any
other ordinance, easement, covenant or deed restriction conflict or overlap,
whichever imposes the more stringent restrictions shall prevail.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-6) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.07 INTERPRETATION.
   In the interpretation and application of this chapter, all provisions shall
be:
   (A)   Considered as minimum requirements;
   (B)   Liberally construed in favor of the governing body; and
   (C)   Deemed neither to limit nor repeal any other powers granted under
state statutes.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-7) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.08 WARNING AND DISCLAIMER OF LIABILITY.
   The degree of flood protection required by this chapter is considered
reasonable for regulatory purposes and is based on scientific and engineering
considerations. Larger floods can and will occur on rare occasions. Flood
heights may be increased by man-made or natural causes. This chapter does not
imply that land outside the area of special flood hazards or uses permitted
within such areas will be free from flooding or flood damages. This chapter
shall not create liability on the part of the city, any officer or employee
thereof or the Federal Insurance Administration, for any flood damages that
result from reliance on this chapter or any administrative decision lawfully
made thereunder.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-8) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
ADMINISTRATION
§ 157.20 DEVELOPMENT PERMIT.
   (A)   Required. A development permit shall be obtained before construction
or development begins within any area of special flood hazard established in §
157.04.
   (B)   Application. Application for a development permit shall be made on
forms furnished by the City Manager and may include, but not be limited to,
plans in duplicate drawn to scale showing the nature, location, dimensions and
elevations of the area in question, existing or proposed structures, fill,
storage of materials, drainage facilities and the location of the foregoing.
Specifically, the following information is required:
      (1)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level, of the lowest floor,
including basement, of all structures;
      (2)   Elevation in relation to mean sea level to which any structure has
been floodproofed;
      (3)   Certification by a registered professional engineer or architect
that the floodproofing methods for any nonresidential structure meet the
floodproofing criteria in §
157.36; and
      (4)   Description of the extent to which any watercourse will be altered
or relocated as a result of proposed development.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-20) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.21 CITY MANAGER; DESIGNATION; DUTIES AND RESPONSIBILITIES.
   (A)   The City Manager or his or her designee is hereby appointed to
administer and implement this chapter by granting or denying development permit
applications in accordance with its provisions.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-21)
   (B)   Duties of the City Manager shall include, but not be limited to:
      (1)   Permit review. It shall be the duty of the City Manager to:
         (a)   Review all development permits to determine that the permit
requirements of this chapter have been satisfied;
         (b)   Review all development permits to determine that all necessary
permits have been obtained from those federal, state or local governmental
agencies from which prior approval is required;
         (c)   Review all development permits to determine if the proposed
development adversely affects the flood carrying capacity of the area of
special flood hazard. For purposes of this chapter, ADVERSELY AFFECTS means
that the cumulative effects of the proposed development when combined with all
other existing and anticipated development will not increase the water surface
elevation of the base flood; and/or
         (d)   Require for subdivision proposals and other proposed development
which contain at least 50 lots or 5 acres, whichever is less, base flood
elevation data.
      (2)   Information to be obtained and maintained. It shall be the duty of
the City Manager to:
         (a)   Obtain and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea
level of the lowest habitable floor, including basement, of all new or
substantially improved structures, whether or not the structure contains a
basement.
         (b)   For all new substantially improved floodproofed structures:
            1.   Verify and record the actual elevation in relation to mean sea
level; and
            2.   Maintain the floodproofing certifications required in §
157.20(B)(3).
         (c)   Maintain for public inspection all records pertaining to the
provisions of this chapter.
      (3)   Alteration of watercourses. It shall be the duty of the City
Manager to:
         (a)   Notify adjacent communities and the Michigan Department of
Natural Resources, Water Management Division, prior to any alteration or
relocation of a watercourse, and submit evidence of such notification to the
Federal Insurance Administration;
         (b)   Require that maintenance is provided within the altered or
relocated portion of said watercourse so that the flood carrying capacity is
not diminished.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-22)
(Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.22 VARIANCE PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   The Board of Zoning Appeals as established by the city shall hear
and decide appeals and requests for variances from the requirements of this
chapter.
      (2)   The Board of Zoning Appeals shall hear and decide appeals when it
is alleged there is an error in any requirement, decision or determination made
by the City Manager in the enforcement or administration of this chapter.
      (3)   Those aggrieved by the decision of the Board of Zoning Appeals, or
any taxpayer, may appeal the decision to the Circuit Court as provided by
statute.
      (4)   In passing upon the applications, the Board of Zoning Appeals shall
consider all technical evaluations, all relevant factors, standards specified
in other sections of this chapter, and the following:
         (a)   Danger that materials may be swept onto other lands to the
injury of others;
         (b)   Danger to life and property due to flooding or erosion damage;
         (c)   Susceptibility of the proposed facility and its contents to
flood damage and the effect of the damage on the individual owner;
         (d)   Importance of the services provided by the proposed facility to
the community;
         (e)   Necessity to the facility of a waterfront location, where
applicable;
         (f)   Availability of alternative locations for the proposed use which
are not subject to flooding or erosion damage;
         (g)   Compatibility of the proposed use with existing and anticipated
development;
         (h)   Relationship of the proposed use to the comprehensive plan and
floodplain management program of that area;
         (i)   Safety of access to the property in times of flood for ordinary
and emergency vehicles;
         (j)   Expected heights, velocity, duration, rate of rise and sediment
transport of the floodwaters and the effects of wave action, if applicable,
expected at the site; and
         (k)   Costs of providing governmental services during and after flood
conditions, including maintenance and repair of public utilities and facilities
such as sewer, gas, electrical and water systems and streets and bridges.
      (5)   Upon consideration of the factors of division (A)(4)(a) above and
the purposes of this chapter, the Board of Zoning Appeals may attach such
conditions to the granting of variances as it deems necessary to further the
purposes of this chapter.
      (6)   The City Manager shall maintain the records of all appeal actions,
including technical information, and report any variances to the Federal
Insurance Administration upon request.
   (B)   Conditions for variances.
      (1)   Generally, variances may be issued for new construction and
substantial improvements to be erected on a lot of 1/2 acre or less in size
contiguous to and surrounded by lots with existing structures constructed below
the base flood level, providing divisions (A)(4)(a) through (k) above have been
fully considered. As the lot size increases beyond the 1/2 acre, the technical
justification required for issuing the variance increases.
      (2)   Variances may be issued for the reconstruction, rehabilitation or
restoration of structures listed on the National Register of Historic Places or
the State Inventory of Historic Places, without regard to the procedures set
forth in the remainder of this section.
      (3)   Variances shall not be issued within any designated floodway if any
increase in flood levels during the base flood discharge would result.
      (4)   Variances shall only be issued upon a determination that the
variance is the minimum necessary, considering the flood hazard, to afford
relief.
      (5)   Variances shall only be issued upon:
         (a)   Showing of good and sufficient cause;
         (b)   Determination that failure to grant the variance would result in
exceptional hardship to the applicant; and
         (c)   Determination that the granting of a variance will not result in
increased flood heights, additional threats to public safety, extraordinary
public expense, create nuisances, cause fraud on or victimization of the public
as identified in division (A)(4) above or conflict with existing local laws or
ordinances.
      (6)   Any applicant to whom a variance is granted shall be given written
notice that the structure will be permitted to be built with a lowest floor
elevation below the base flood elevation and that the cost of flood insurance
will be commensurate with the increased risk resulting from the reduced lowest
floor elevation.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-23) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
TECHNICAL STANDARDS AND REQUIREMENTS
§ 157.35 GENERALLY.
   (A)   All new construction and substantial improvements within a flood
hazard area, including the placement of prefabricated buildings and mobile
homes, shall be:
      (1)   Designed and anchored to prevent flotation, collapse or lateral
movement of the structure;
      (2)   Constructed with materials and utility equipment resistant to flood
damage; and
      (3)   Constructed by methods and practices that minimize flood damage.
   (B)   All new and replacement water supply systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems.
   (C)   All new and replacement sanitary sewage systems shall minimize or
eliminate infiltration of floodwaters into the systems and discharges from
systems into floodwaters. On-site waste disposal systems shall be located to
avoid impairment to the system or contamination from the system during
flooding.
   (D)   All public utilities and facilities shall be designed, constructed and
located to minimize or eliminate flood damage.
   (E)   Adequate drainage shall be provided to reduce exposure to flood
hazards.
   (F)   The City Manager or his or her representative shall review development
proposals to determine compliance with the standards in this section and shall
transmit his or her determination to the Zoning Administrator.
   (G)   Land shall not be divided in a manner creating parcels or lots which
cannot be used in conformance with the requirements of this chapter.
   (H)   The flood carrying capacity of any altered or relocated watercourse
not subject to state or federal regulations designed to insure flood carrying
capacity shall be maintained.
   (I)   Available flood hazard data from federal, state or other sources shall
be reasonably utilized in meeting the standards of this section. Data furnished
by the Federal Insurance Administration shall take precedence over data from
other sources.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-35) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.36 BASE FLOOD ELEVATION.
   (A)   On the basis of the most recent available base flood elevation data
the following standards shall apply in the flood hazard area zone:
      (1)   All new construction and substantial improvements of residential
structures shall have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or
above the base flood level;
      (2)   All new construction and substantial improvements of nonresidential
structures shall either:
         (a)   Have the lowest floor, including basement, elevated to or above
the base flood level; or
         (b)   Be constructed such that below base flood level, together with
attendant utility and sanitary facilities, the structure is watertight with
walls substantially impermeable to the passage of water and with structural
components having the capability of resisting hydrostatic and hydrodynamic
loads and effects of buoyancy. A registered professional engineer or architect
shall certify that the standards of this division are satisfied, and that the
floodproofing methods employed are adequate to withstand the flood depths,
pressures, velocities, impact and uplift forces and other factors associated
with a base flood in the location of the structure. The certification shall be
submitted as provided in §
157.20 and shall indicate the elevation to which the structure is floodproofed.
   (B)   The most recent base flood elevation data received from the Federal
Insurance Administration shall take precedence over data from other sources.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-36) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.37 MOBILE HOMES.
   (A)   All mobile homes shall be anchored to resist flotation, collapse or
lateral movement by providing over-the-top and frame ties in accord with the
following specifications:
      (1)   Over-the-top ties shall be provided at each of the 4 corners of the
mobile home, with 2 additional ties per side at intermediate locations, except
that on mobile homes less than 50 feet in length 1 tie per side shall be
required;
      (2)   Frame ties shall be provided at each corner of the home with 5
additional ties per side at intermediate points, except that on mobile homes
less than 50 feet in length, 4 ties per side shall be required;
      (3)   All components of the anchoring system shall be capable of carrying
a force of 4,800 pounds;
      (4)   All additions to a mobile home shall be similarly anchored.
   (B)   An evacuation plan indicating alternate vehicular access and escape
routes shall be filed with the Michigan Department of Natural Resources, Water
Management Division, for mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions.
   (C)   Mobile homes within zones A1-30 on the flood insurance rate map shall
be located in accord with the following standards:
      (1)   All mobile homes shall be placed on stands or lots which are
elevated on compacted fill or on pilings so that the lowest floor of the mobile
home will be at or above the base flood level.
      (2)   Adequate surface drainage away from all structures and access for a
mobile home hauler shall be provided.
      (3)   In the instance of elevation on pilings, lots shall be large enough
to permit steps, piling foundations shall be placed in stable soil no more than
10 feet apart and reinforcement shall be provided for piers more than 6 feet
above ground level.
      (4)   In mobile home parks and mobile home subdivisions which exist at
the time this division is adopted, where repair, reconstruction or improvement
of streets, utilities and pads equals or exceeds 50% of the value of the
streets, utilities and pads before the repair, the standards in divisions (B)
(1) and (3) above shall be complied with.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-37) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
§ 157.38 FLOODWAYS.
   Located within areas of special flood hazard established in §
157.04 are areas designated as floodways. Since the floodway is an extremely
hazardous area due to the velocity of floodwaters which carry debris, potential
projectiles and erosion potential, the following provisions apply:
   (A)   Encroachments, including fill, new construction, substantial
improvements and other development, unless a technical evaluation demonstrates
that encroachments shall not result in any increase in flood levels during the
occurrence of the base flood discharge, are prohibited;
   (B)   If division (A) is satisfied, all new construction and substantial
improvements shall comply with all applicable flood hazard reduction provisions
of this chapter;
   (C)   Placement of any mobile homes, except in an existing mobile home park
or existing mobile home subdivision, is prohibited.
(Prior Code, § 11.5-38) (Ord. 79-3, passed 7-19-1979)
CHAPTER 158: BUILDING REGULATIONS; CONSTRUCTION
Section
Building Code
   
158.001   Adoption of Building Code
Enforcement Agencies
   
158.005   Enforcement of codes
Construction Board of Appeals
   
158.006   Created and established
   
158.007   Membership; appointment of members
   
158.008   Officers; meetings; rules of procedure; quorum and voting; records;
witnesses
   
158.009   Appeals before Board
   
158.010   Granting of variances
   
158.011   Appeals of decisions
   
158.012   Public hearings
   
158.013   Application fees and appeal fees
   
158.014   Effect of appeals
 
Property Maintenance Code
   
158.015   Adoption of Property Maintenance Code
   
158.016   Additions, insertions and changes
Electrical Code
   
158.030   Adoption of National Electrical Code
   
158.031   Installation procedure
   
158.032   Code interpretations
   
158.033   Deviation from requirements
   
158.034   Exemptions from provisions
   
158.035   Liability
   
158.036   Permit required; exceptions
   
158.037   Fees
   
158.038   Persons to whom issued
   
158.039   Plans and specifications
   
158.040   Temporary permits
   
158.041   Addition to permit
   
158.042   Additional permits
   
158.043   Home owners permits
   
158.044   Fraudulent application for permit illegal
   
158.045   Refunds of fee
   
158.046   Transfers; contractor to contractor; owner to contractor; contractor
to owner
   
158.047   Expiration
   
158.048   Revocation
   
158.049   Inspection authority
   
158.050   Right of access to buildings
   
158.051   Notification of readiness for inspection
   
158.052   Notices of inspection
   
158.053   Blueprints available on job
   
158.054   Representative for inspection
   
158.055   Carnivals, convention displays, product and street shows and the like
   
158.056   Incomplete installations; notification of quitting installation
required
   
158.057   Reinspection
   
158.058   Certificate of inspection
   
158.059   Approved materials
   
158.060   Record and review of inspections
   
158.061   Board of Electrical Examiners
   
158.062   Examinations
   
158.063   Legal address of licensees
   
158.064   License for independent contractor
   
158.065   Advertising by contractors
   
158.066   License for master electrician
   
158.067   License for journeyman electrician
   
158.068   Exemptions from license requirements
   
158.069   Fees
   
158.070   Issuance
   
158.071   Securing of permits
   
158.072   Display
   
158.073   Transferability
   
158.074   Expiration; renewal
   
158.075   Suspension; revocation
   
158.076   Recognition and registration of licenses from reciprocatory
municipalities
   
158.077   Recognition of out-of-state contractors having state licenses
Plumbing Code
   
158.095   Adoption of Plumbing Code
   
158.096   Inspector
   
158.097   Representation of apprentice as a journeyman
Dangerous Buildings
   
158.110   Definition
   
158.111   Prohibition
   
158.112   Notice
   
158.113   Hearing Board
   
158.114   Hearing
   
158.115   Order to abate
   
158.116   Review of order by City Commission
   
158.117   Assessment of city’s cost of abatement
   
158.118   Judicial review
Mechanical Code
   
158.130   Adoption of Mechanical Code
Blight Prevention
   
158.145   Purpose
   
158.146   Definitions
   
158.147   Prohibited conduct
   
158.148   Enforcement
Vacant or Abandoned Structure Prevention
   
158.155   Purpose
   
158.156   Definitions
   
158.157   Registration
   
158.158   Registration information
   
158.159   Registration and registration fee
   
158.160   Recovery of fees
   
158.161   Securing structures
   
158.162   Right of entry and inspection
   
158.163   Reuse and re-occupancy
   
158.164   Responsibility for violations
   
158.165   Penalty
BUILDING CODE
§ 158.001 ADOPTION OF BUILDING CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, 3 copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as The Michigan Building Code, as
published by the State of Michigan, is hereby adopted as the Building Code of
the city for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided.
   (B)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the Michigan Building Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-16) (Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 3-18-2004)
ENFORCEMENT AGENCIES
§ 158.005 ENFORCEMENT OF CODES.
   (A)   State Construction Code Enforcement. Pursuant to the provisions of the
State Construction Code, in agreement with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the
Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the Building Official of the City of Marine
City is hereby designated as the enforcing agency to discharge the
responsibility of the County of St. Clair under Act 230, of the Public Acts of
1972, as amended. State of Michigan. The City of Marine City assumes
responsibility for the administration and enforcement of said Act throughout
the corporate limits of the city.
   (B)   Construction Code Appendix Enforced. Pursuant to the provisions of the
State Construction Code, in accordance with Section 8b(6) of Act 230, of the
Public Acts of 1972, as amended, Appendix G of the Michigan Building Code shall
be enforced by the enforcing agency within the City of Marine City.
   (C)   Designation of Regulated Flood Prone Hazard Areas. The Federal
Emergency Management Agency (FEMA) Flood Insurance Study (FIS) entitled St.
Clair Co., MI and dated May 3, 2010, and the Flood Insurance Rate Maps(2)
(FIRMS) panel numbers of 26147C, 0509D, 0510D, 0526D, 0528D and dated May 3,
2010 are adopted by reference for the purposes of administration of the
Michigan Construction Code, and declared to be a part of Section 1612.3 of the
Michigan Building Code, and to provide the content of the “Flood Hazards”
section of Table R301.2(1) of the Michigan Residential Code.
(Ord. 10-01, passed 4-15-2010)
CONSTRUCTION BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 158.006 CREATED AND ESTABLISHED.
   Pursuant to the provisions of the State Construction Code, Public Act 230 of
the Public Acts of 1972, as amended, the city hereby creates and establishes a
Construction Board of Appeals to hear and decide all matters properly brought
before such Construction Board of Appeals as provided by such Act.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.007 MEMBERSHIP; APPOINTMENT OF MEMBERS.
   The Construction Board of Appeals created and established by §
158.006 shall be known as and designated as the "Construction Board of Appeals
of the City of Marine City." The Construction Board of Appeals shall consist of
five members, who shall be appointed by the City Commission. Members of the
Board shall be appointed to serve in such capacity for two-year terms, and such
members shall be qualified by experience or training to perform the duties of
members of the Board. Members of the Board may serve on the Construction Board
of Appeals of more than one governmental subdivision as provided by Public Act
No. 230 of 1972.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.008 OFFICERS; MEETINGS; RULES OF PROCEDURE; QUORUM AND VOTING; RECORDS;
WITNESSES.
   (A)   Election of Chairperson and Vice-Chairperson. The Construction Board
of Appeals shall elect from its membership a Chairperson and a Vice-Chairperson
who shall serve in such capacities for the term as fixed and established by the
Board. The Chairperson shall preside over the Board and shall chair the
meetings of the Board. The Chairperson shall have the right to vote on all
matters coming before the Board unless precluded by law. The Vice-Chairperson
shall, in the absence of or disability of the Chairperson, perform the duties
and functions of the Chairperson.
   (B)   Public meetings. The business which the Construction Board of Appeals
may perform shall be conducted at a public meeting of the Board and shall be
held in compliance with the open meetings act, Public Act No. 267 of 1976.
Public notice of the time, date and place of all meetings of the Board shall be
given in the manner required by such act.
   (C)   Rules of procedure. The Construction Board of Appeals shall adopt and
promulgate rules of procedure to govern and control its business and affairs
and all matters coming before it. The Board shall also create and approve all
necessary forms to be used by persons desiring to formally bring matters before
the Board.
   (D)   Scheduling and holding of meetings. Meetings of the Construction Board
of Appeals shall be held at the call of the Chairperson and at such other times
as the Board shall determine to be necessary and proper to carry out the
functions and duties of the Board.
   (E)   Quorum and voting requirements. Three members of the Construction
Board of Appeals shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business at a
meeting of the Board. No motion, resolution or other formal decision shall be
adopted, passed or taken except by the affirmative vote of at least three
members of the Board.
   (F)   Records. The Construction Board of Appeals shall keep and maintain
minutes of its meetings and proceedings, which such minutes shall indicate and
describe the nature of all matters coming before and/or decided by the Board
and the votes and/or actions of all members of the Board. Such minutes of the
meetings and proceedings of the Board shall be filed with the City Clerk. All
records of decisions made by the Board, properly indexed, and any other
writings prepared, owned, used, in the possession of, or retained by the Board
in the performance of an official function shall be considered to be public
records and shall be made available to the public in compliance with the
Freedom of Information Act, Public Act No. 442 of 1976.
   (G)   Witnesses. The Chairperson of the Construction Board of Appeals or, in
his or her absence, the Vice-Chairperson may compel the attendance of witnesses
at the meetings and proceedings of the Board and may administer oaths to any
such witnesses.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.009 APPEALS BEFORE BOARD.
   If an enforcing agency of the city, as the term "enforcing agency" is used
and defined in section 2 of Public Act No. 230 of 1972, refuses to grant an
application for a building permit or if the enforcing agency makes any other
decision pursuant to or related to such act or the single state construction
code, an interested person or the person's authorized agent may appeal in
writing to the Construction Board of Appeals. The Construction Board of Appeals
shall hear the appeal and render and file its decision with a statement of
reasons for the decision with the enforcing agency from which the appeal was
taken not more than 30 days after submission of the appeal. Failure by the
Construction Board of Appeals to hear an appeal and file a decision within the
time limit specified in this section shall be considered a denial of the appeal
for purposes of authorizing the institution of an appeal to the State
Construction Code Commission as provided under Public Act No. 230 of 1972. A
copy of the decision of the Construction Board of Appeals and a copy of the
statement of the reasons for the decision shall be delivered or mailed, before
filing, to the party taking the appeal.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.010 GRANTING OF VARIANCES.
   (A)   Requirements. After a public hearing, the Construction Board of
Appeals may grant a specific variance to a substantive requirement of the
single state construction code if the literal application of the substantive
requirement would result in an exceptional, practical difficulty to the
applicant and if both of the following requirements are satisfied:
      (1)   The performance of the particular item or part of the building or
structure with respect to which the variance is granted shall be adequate for
its intended use and shall not substantially deviate from performance required
by the single state construction code of that particular item or part for the
health, safety and welfare of the people of the state.
      (2)   The specific condition justifying the variance shall be neither so
general nor recurrent in nature as to make an amendment of the single state
construction code with respect to the condition reasonably practical or
desirable.
   (B)   Variances granted with conditions. The Construction Board of Appeals
may attach in writing any condition in connection with the granting of a
variance that in its judgment is necessary to protect the health, safety and
welfare of the people of the state. The breach of a condition shall
automatically invalidate the variance and any permit, license and certificate
granted on the basis of it. In no case shall more than a minimum variance from
the single state construction code be granted than is necessary to alleviate
the exceptional, practical difficulty.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.011 APPEALS OF DECISIONS.
   An interested person or the interested person's authorized agent may appeal
a decision of the Construction Board of Appeals to the State Construction Code
Commission within ten business days after filing of the decision with the
enforcement agency or, in case of an appeal because of failure of the
Construction Board of Appeals to act within the prescribed time, at any time
before filing of the decision, as provided by Public Act No. 230 of 1972.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.012 PUBLIC HEARINGS.
   When an appeal of an action or decision by the enforcing agency or a request
for a variance to a specific requirement of the single state construction code
has been filed with the Construction Board of Appeals in the proper manner on
the required form as prescribed by the Construction Board of Appeals, such
matter shall then be scheduled for a public hearing thereon by the Board within
a reasonable period of time. Notices of such public hearing indicating the
time, place and subject matter of the public hearing shall be served personally
or by mail at least seven days prior to the date of such public hearing upon
the applicant or appellant, upon the enforcing agency of the city, and upon the
owners of property within 300 feet of the subject property, as disclosed by the
most recent tax assessment rolls. Any interested party may appear at such
public hearing in person or by a duly authorized agent or by attorney.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.013 APPLICATION FEES AND APPEAL FEES.
   Pursuant to the provisions of section 22 of Public Act No. 230 of 1972, the
City Commission shall establish by resolution a reasonable fee to be charged to
and paid by all applicants and appellants filing an appeal or a request for a
variance before the Construction Board of Appeals. The enforcing agency of the
city shall collect all such fees established under this section pursuant to the
provisions of Public Act No. 230 of 1972.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
§ 158.014 EFFECT OF APPEALS.
   An appeal to the Construction Board of Appeals or to the State Construction
Code Commission pursuant to Public Act No. 230 of 1972 or to a court of
competent jurisdiction pursuant to Public Act No. 306 of 1969 does not stay a
stop construction order issued by an enforcing agency of the city or prevent an
enforcing agency of the city from seeking an order in a court of competent
jurisdiction enjoining the violation of a stop construction order. In other
cases, an appeal to the Construction Board of Appeals or to the State
Construction Code Commission pursuant to Public Act No. 230 of 1972 or to a
court of competent jurisdiction pursuant to Public Act No. 306 of 1969 shall
act as a stay upon an order, determination, decision or action appealed from,
unless the enforcing agency of the city establishes that immediate enforcement
of the order, determination, decision or action is necessary to avoid
substantial peril to life or property.
(Ord. 2019-012, passed 11-21-2019)
PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE
§ 158.015 ADOPTION OF PROPERTY MAINTENANCE CODE.
   A certain document, 3 copies of which are on file in the office of the City
Clerk, being marked and designated as International Property Maintenance Code,
as published by the State of Michigan, is hereby adopted as the Building Code
of the city for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided; and
each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and terms of
the International Property Maintenance Code are hereby referred to, adopted and
made a part hereof as if fully set out herein with the additions, insertions,
deletions and changes, if any, prescribed in §
158.016.
(Prior Code, § 7-23) (Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 158.016 ADDITIONS, INSERTIONS AND CHANGES.
   Section 101.1. Insert: City of Marine City.
   Section 103.6. Insert: All fees payable hereunder shall be set by resolution
of the City Commission.
   Section 303.14. Insert: May 1 to October 1.
   Section 602.3. Insert: October 1 to May1.
   Section 602.4. Insert: October 1 to May 1.
(Prior Code, § 7-24) (Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 3-18-2004)
ELECTRICAL CODE
§ 158.030 ADOPTION OF NATIONAL ELECTRICAL CODE.
   The Michigan Electrical Code is hereby adopted by reference. The purpose of
the code is for safeguarding life and property by regulating and providing for
the inspection of the installation, alteration, repairing, servicing and
maintenance of electrical equipment; and to provide for the administration and
enforcement thereof. Printed copies of the Michigan Electrical Code shall be
kept in the office of the City Clerk for public use, inspection and
distribution.
(Prior Code, § 7-26) (Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 158.031 INSTALLATION PROCEDURE.
   (A)   Electrical contractors shall in no case install permanent electrical
equipment that may be damaged by the roughing in of heating, ventilation and
plumbing construction and before the roof is covered.
   (B)   No installation of plumbing equipment, refrigeration equipment, space
heating equipment, duct work, cabinets, partitions or materials shall be made
in such a way as to render the wiring in any electrical service equipment,
distribution panel, outlet, splice, junction or pull box inaccessible.
(Prior Code, § 7-29) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.032 CODE INTERPRETATIONS.
   (A)   The Electrical Inspection Authority shall not be responsible for
electrical code interpretations or other information relative to electrical
installations given over the telephone.
   (B)   Requests for such information should be made in person or in writing.
(Prior Code, § 7-30) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.033 DEVIATION FROM REQUIREMENTS.
   In cases of practical difficulty or unnecessary hardship, the Electrical
Inspection Authority is hereby granted discretionary powers to permit deviation
from the provisions of this subchapter, provided that such a proposal to
deviate is first submitted for proper determination in order that health and
safety requirements, as they pertain to electrical equipment, shall be
obtained.
(Prior Code, § 7-31) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.034 EXEMPTIONS FROM PROVISIONS.
   The provisions of this subchapter shall not apply to the following:
   (A)   The installing of radio receiving sets and equipment. The installation
of convenience outlets for power supply to a radio set shall be subject to such
rules and regulations.
   (B)   Apparatus and equipment installed by or for any public utility
operating under jurisdiction of the state’s Public Service Commission in the
exercise of its function as a utility and when the apparatus or equipment is
used primarily for the generation or distribution of electric current or for
signal or communication purposes.
(Prior Code, § 7-32) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.035 LIABILITY.
   This subchapter shall not be construed to relieve from or lessen the
responsibility or liability of any party owning, operating, controlling or
installing any electric wiring, electric devices or electric material for
damages to person or property caused by any defect therein nor shall the city
be held as assuming any such liability by reason of the inspection authorized
herein, or certificate of inspection issued as herein provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-33) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.036 PERMIT REQUIRED; EXCEPTIONS.
   (A)   No alterations or additions shall be made in the existing wiring of
any building, nor shall any building be wired for the placing of any electric
lights, motors, heating devices or any apparatus requiring the use of
electrical current at a potential over 30 volts, nor shall any alterations be
made in the wiring in any building after inspection, without first notifying
the Inspection Authority and securing a permit therefor. Applications for the
permit, describing the work, shall be made by the person installing same and
the permit when issued shall be to the applicant.
   (B)   This section shall not apply to maintenance and repairs on the
premises of a person regularly employing qualified electricians for that
purpose, nor the minor repair work as repairing flush and snap switches,
replacing fuses, changing lamp sockets and receptacles, taping bare joints or
repairing drop cords.
(Prior Code, § 7-37) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.037 FEES.
   When an application is made for a permit required under the terms hereof, a
fee shall be paid in an amount as prescribed by the Inspection Authority of the
city.
(Prior Code, § 7-38) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.038 PERSONS TO WHOM ISSUED.
   (A)   Permits shall be issued under this division to the following persons:
      (1)   A holder of an electrical contractor’s license;
      (2)   A person employing a licensed electrical journeyman to actively
supervise the new installation of electrical equipment on premises owned or
occupied, and used by the applicant in the conduct of his or her business, and
at which premises the licensed electrician performs his or her duties in those
instances where business or industrial procedure requires the regular
employment of a licensed electrical journeyman. However, an affidavit form
furnished by the administrative authority shall be signed by both the employer
and the licensed journeyman. This affidavit shall be kept on file in the
offices of the administrative authority, and shall contain the following:
         (a)   Name and business address of the person employing the licensed
electrical journeyman;
         (b)   Name, address and current license number of the licensed
electrical journeyman;
         (c)   License numbers of 2 previous years, and the name of licensing
authority in order to establish the holding of a license for not less than 2
years; and
         (d)   Statement to the effect that the employer and the licensed
electrical journeyman will comply with the provisions of the code regulating
installation of electrical equipment in the state. A new affidavit shall be
filed before permits are issued if the licensed electrical journeyman
terminates his or her employment.
      (3)   A homeowner who comes under the jurisdiction of this subchapter.
   (B)   Permits covering the installation of electrical wiring or equipment in
the city shall be issued only in the names of persons authorized by division
(A) above to perform electrical work.
(Prior Code, § 7-39) (Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978; Am. Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-
1978)
§ 158.039 PLANS AND SPECIFICATIONS.
   A detailed set of plans and specifications shall be submitted with the
application for a building permit for any wiring or alterations to the
electrical system in all buildings using over 6 circuits except single- and 2-
family dwellings. The electrical drawings shall include such details as
lighting layout, circuiting, switching, conductor and raceway sizes, wattage
schedule, service location and riser diagram, calculations and proposed method
of construction drawn with symbols of a standard form. All conductors are
assumed to be copper unless otherwise stated on the plan. Specifications when
provided shall also include this information. The selection of suitable
disconnect and overcurrent devices to provide proper coordination and
interrupting capacity for a wiring system is the responsibility of the
designer. The Electrical Inspection Authority when approving electrical plans
assumes no responsibility for the design nor any deviations from any applicable
codes not explicitly agreed upon at the time of approval of electrical
drawings.
(Prior Code, § 7-40) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.040 TEMPORARY PERMITS.
   Temporary electrical permits must be obtained under any of the following
conditions:
   (A)   For connection to temporary service drop and for equipment to be used
for construction purposes, a temporary permit is required for the number of
circuits to be used or number of power units to be installed;
   (B)   For connection to permanent service or for installation of temporary
lighting or power equipment not included on original permit, a separate permit
based on the permit fee schedule is required, except that in single- or 2-
family dwellings, temporary connection of the permanent service equipment may
be included on the original wiring and fixture permit without additional fee
provided service is ready for inspection at the time of the first rough
inspection call;
   (C)   For connection to permanent service for heating equipment, a temporary
permit will be issued if a regular permit for permanent connection of the
heating equipment is issued or is on file at the time the temporary connection
is requested.
(Prior Code, § 7-41) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.041 ADDITION TO PERMIT.
   After an electrical permit has been issued and the fee deposited, no
additional work shall be included. In cases in which additional work is to be
installed, a new permit shall be secured and the fee paid, except when
additional circuits of wiring, additional sockets or fixtures, or additional
units for heat or power are installed, and on which inspection has been made on
the original call but not included in the permit, the fee for the additional
work shall apply.
(Prior Code, § 7-42) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.042 ADDITIONAL PERMITS.
   Additional permits shall be required as follows:
   (A)   If more than 1 inspection is necessary on any violation notice; and/or
   (B)   For special inspections required for the investigation of any
ordinance violations.
(Prior Code, § 7-43) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.043 HOME OWNERS PERMIT.
   A bona fide owner of a single-family residence which is, or will be on
completion, his or her own place of residence, and no part of which is used for
rental or commercial purposes, nor is now contemplated for such purpose, may do
his or her own work, providing he or she applies for and secures a permit, pays
the fee, does the work himself or herself in accordance with the provisions
hereof, applies for inspections and receives approval of his or her work by the
electrical Inspection Authority. Failure to comply with these requirements will
subject the owner’s permit to cancellation.
(Prior Code, § 7-44) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.044 FRAUDULENT APPLICATION FOR PERMIT ILLEGAL.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to present any fraudulent
information in making application for any permit from the Inspection Authority.
Furthermore, it shall be unlawful to use the name of another person in order to
secure an electrical permit unless regularly employed by and directly
authorized by the holder of the electrical contractor license.
   (B)   It shall be unlawful for an independent electrical contractor to file
an electrical permit for work contracted for or performed or to be performed by
others without specific permission of the electrical Inspection Authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-45) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.045 REFUNDS OF FEE.
   If no work has been done, an electrical permit grantee shall be entitled to
a refund on his or her permit in accordance with established rules of the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-46) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.046 TRANSFERS; CONTRACTOR TO CONTRACTOR; OWNER TO CONTRACTOR; CONTRACTOR
TO OWNER.
   (A)   Contractor to contractor. In case the electrical permit grantee gives
written permission or appears in person with another contractor and grants
permission, the permit shall be transferred to the latter licensed contractor,
provided the latter contractor pays established transfer fee. If permission is
not granted by the original permit holder, the contractor who completes the
installation shall secure a permit covering the work he does, and the latter
contractor shall be responsible in either case for all work done under his or
her supervision.
(Prior Code, § 7-47)
   (B)   Owner to contractor. An owner who secured a permit to make
installations of electrical equipment in his or her residence may transfer his
or her permit to a licensed contractor, providing the owner notifies the
Inspection Authority of his or her intention, receives inspection of the work
done by him or her and has his or her contractor pay the established transfer
fee to the Inspection Authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-48)
   (C)   Contractor to owner. Before proceeding with any electrical wiring
installation which has been started by any other permit grantee, an owner shall
request the Inspection Authority to inspect the installation for which a permit
was granted and also to inspect any work performed, and shall also obtain an
owner’s permit for the remaining part of the installation. The original permit
grantee may, if he or she desires, transfer his or her permit to the owner upon
the owner’s payment to the Inspection Authority of the established transfer
fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-49)
(Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.047 EXPIRATION.
   If work for which an electrical permit is issued is not started within 6
months of the date of issue or if work is abandoned for a period of 6 months,
the permit shall lapse and cease to be in effect. The Inspection Authority may
reinstate an expired permit within 1 year of its date of issue, but the
reinstatement shall not be obligatory. Permits which have expired, lapsed or
abandoned 1 year or more may only be reinstated by resolution of the Inspection
Authority in each case.
(Prior Code, § 7-50) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.048 REVOCATION.
   Any electrical permit issued in violation of the laws of the state, this
subchapter or any other ordinances, or as a result of false or fraudulent
information, or misinterpretation of conditions, shall be subject to revocation
at the direction of the Inspection Authority. The person holding the permit
shall be notified to appear and show cause why the permit should not be revoked
and failure to appear shall be deemed sufficient to cause the permit to be
revoked.
(Prior Code, § 7-51) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.049 INSPECTION AUTHORITY.
   The Board of Electrical Examiners, also referred to in this subchapter as
the Inspection Authority and Examining Board, shall have and hereby is given
jurisdiction, subject to review, over the inspection of all electrical
installations, including changes, repairs and additions thereto within the
city. The Inspection Authority shall appoint an electrical inspector who shall
inspect all electrical installations and report to the Inspection Authority.
This jurisdiction shall apply to the installation of wiring devices, apparatus
and equipment for connection to electricity supply systems having voltages over
30 volts, except as provided in §
158.036(B); however, jurisdiction shall apply in all systems and all voltages
when safety to life and property is involved.
(Prior Code, § 7-52) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.050 RIGHT OF ACCESS TO BUILDINGS.
   The Electrical Inspector or his or her deputy shall have the right during
reasonable hours to enter any building in the discharge of his or her official
duties for the purpose of making any inspection or test of the installation of
electric wiring, electric devices or electric material contained therein and
shall have the Authority to cause the turning off of all electric supply and
cut or disconnect, in cases of emergency, any wire where the electrical
currents are dangerous to life or property or may interfere with the work of
the Fire Department.
(Prior Code, § 7-53) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.051 NOTIFICATION OF READINESS FOR INSPECTION.
   Upon the completion of the wiring of any building, it shall be the duty of
the person installing the same to notify the Inspection Authority at least 24
hours before inspection is required, who shall notify the Electrical Inspector
to inspect the installation as soon as possible, and if it is found to be fully
in compliance with this subchapter and does not constitute a hazard to life and
property, he or she shall issue on request to the person for delivery to the
owner, a certificate of inspection authorizing connection to the electrical
service and the turning on of the current. All wires which are to be hidden
from view shall be inspected before concealment and any person installing the
wires shall notify the Inspection Authority, giving sufficient time in which to
make the required inspection before the wires are concealed.
(Prior Code, § 7-54) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-
1978)
§ 158.052 NOTICES OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   Any notice of inspection of electrical equipment shall be posted in or
on the job by the Electrical Inspector only.
   (B)   Inspection notices shall not be removed, defaced or altered by anyone
except by a representative of the Electrical Inspection Authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-55) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.053 BLUEPRINTS AVAILABLE ON JOB.
   Blueprints or plans approved by the Electrical Inspection Authority or a
certified copy thereof, where required, shall be available for the use of the
Electrical Inspector on the job.
(Prior Code, § 7-56) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.054 REPRESENTATIVE FOR INSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspection Authority reserves the right to require a
representative of the contractor to be on the job when inspection is made. A
licensed electrical journeyman or master electrician shall be present at all
times that electrical construction is in progress.
(Prior Code, § 7-57) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.055 CARNIVALS, CONVENTION DISPLAYS, PRODUCT AND STREET SHOWS AND THE
LIKE.
   Electrical equipment for carnivals, convention displays, product and street
shows and the like shall require a permit for inspection and approval must be
obtained prior to the time of opening. For special requirements, consult the
Electrical Inspection Authority.
(Prior Code, § 7-58) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.056 INCOMPLETE INSTALLATIONS; NOTIFICATION OF QUITTING INSTALLATION
REQUIRED.
   (A)   Should any person to whom a permit has been issued for an installation
and inspection of electrical equipment quit the installation for any reason, he
or she shall notify the Inspection Authority.
   (B)   If an installation has been partially completed, the person upon
quitting the installation shall notify the Inspection Authority and request an
inspection. Acceptance of or violations against the work installed shall be
recorded by the Inspector on the permit record according to the findings of the
Inspector. No refund shall be granted to the permit grantee of the permit fee
covering electrical equipment installed and inspected.
   (C)   If a permit grantee quits an installation after the electrical
equipment is installed and fails to notify the Inspection Authority, the owner
or his or her agent may notify the Inspection Authority and request inspection.
Upon inspection, the permit grantee shall be sent a notice of any violation.
The owner shall be notified that he or she may secure another licensed
contractor to proceed with the work.
(Prior Code, § 7-59) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.057 REINSPECTION.
   The Electrical Inspector may make periodically a thorough reinspection of
the installation in buildings of all electric wiring, electric devices and
electric material now installed or that may hereafter be installed, within the
city, and when the installation of any such wiring, devices or material is
found to be in a dangerous or unsafe condition, the person owning, using or
operating the same shall be notified and shall make the necessary repairs or
changes required to place the wiring, devices and material in a safe condition
and have the work completed within 15 days, or any longer period specified by
the Electrical Inspector in the notice. The Electrical Inspector is hereby
empowered to disconnect or order in writing the discontinuance of electrical
service to the wiring, devices or material so found to be defectively installed
until the installation of the wiring, devices and material has been made safe
as directed by the Electrical Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-60) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.058 CERTIFICATE OF INSPECTION.
   (A)   (1)   No certificate of inspection shall be issued unless the
electrical installation is in strict conformity with the provisions of this
subchapter, the statutes of the state, the rules and regulations issued by the
state’s Public Service Commission under the Authority of the state statutes;
and unless they are in conformity with approved methods of construction for
safety to persons and property.
      (2)   The regulations as laid down in the National Electrical Code, as
approved by the American Standards Association and in the National Electrical
Safety Code, as approved by the American Standards Association, and in the
Board of Electrical Examiners rules and regulations established as provided in
§
158.061(B) shall be prima facie evidence of the approved methods.
   (B)   Certificate of inspection shall be issued on request from any person
to whom permit is issued, but shall not be issued until after the installation
has been tested with current on wires and all electrical equipment permanently
installed, or if this is not possible, until after every outlet has been tested
by the applicant or his or her representatives in the presence of the Inspector
and approved by that Inspector.
(Prior Code, § 7-61) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978; Am. Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.059 APPROVED MATERIALS.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful to install or use any electrical device,
apparatus or equipment designed for attachment to, or installation on any
electrical circuit or system for heat, light or power that is not of good
design and construction and safe and adequate for its intended use. The
Electrical Inspector shall have power to disapprove the use or installation of
devices not fulfilling these requirements. Devices, apparatus and equipment
approved by such generally recognized authorities as United States Bureau of
Standards, Electrical Testing Laboratories of New York, or Underwriters
Laboratories shall be held to have the approval of the Electrical Inspector
unless explicitly disapproved by the Authority for reasons of faulty design and
poor construction involving danger to persons or property.
   (B)   It shall be the duty of the Electrical Inspector from time to time to
inspect devices, apparatus and equipment offered to the public for use in
installation to see that such items conform to the above requirements.
(Prior Code, § 7-62) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.060 RECORD AND REVIEW OF INSPECTIONS.
   (A)   The Inspection Authority shall keep complete records of all permits
issued and inspections made and other official work performed under the
provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   When the Electrical Inspector condemns all or part of any electrical
installation the owner or his or her agent may, within 5 days after receiving
written notice from the Electrical Inspector, file a petition in writing for
review of the action of the Electrical Inspector with the Board of Electrical
Examiners, upon receipt of which the Board of Electrical Examiners shall at
once proceed to determine whether the electrical installation complies with
this subchapter, and within 3 days shall make a decision in accordance with its
findings.
(Prior Code, § 7-63) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968)
§ 158.061 BOARD OF ELECTRICAL EXAMINERS.
   (A)   (1)   A Board of Electrical Examiners is hereby constituted consisting
of the Electrical Inspector, representative of an electrical utility company, a
licensed electrical contractor who is also a licensed master electrician, a
licensed journeyman electrician, and the master electrician and journeyman
electrician shall have had at least 10-years’ experience in electrical work.
      (2)   The members of the Board of Examiners shall be appointed by the
City Commission and a representative of the City Commission shall be an ex
officio member of this Board for such terms as shall be designated at the time
of appointment; this Board shall examine all applicants for either master
electrician’s or journeyman electrician’s licenses.
   (B)   (1)   The Board of Electrical Examiners is hereby empowered and it
shall be their duty to promulgate and recommend such rules and regulations
concerning electrical work in the city as may be required to properly provide
for the situations therein.
      (2)   The rules and regulations so made by the Board of Electrical
Examiners shall be effective upon approval by the City Commission, and shall
take precedence over plans, specifications and National Electrical Code rules.
(Prior Code, § 7-64) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.062 EXAMINATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Electrical Examiners shall prepare the application
blanks, prescribe the examination and meet at least once a month or on call of
the Electrical Inspector to hold examinations. Due notice shall be given
applicants of the date of examination.
   (B)   All applications for examination shall be in writing. The examination
shall consist of an oral or written examination as the Examining Board shall
determine, and such other practical tests in examination at the discretion of
the Examining Board.
   (C)   Applicants failing to pass will not be eligible for reexamination in
any reciprocating municipality for a period of 30 days.
(Prior Code, § 7-65) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.063 LEGAL ADDRESS OF LICENSEES.
   All applicants for licenses hereunder shall designate their legal address as
the location of their residence in the case of journeyman and master
electricians, and their legal address as the principal place of business in the
case of electrical contractors. All electrical contractors, master electricians
and journeyman electricians having their legal address within the corporate
limits of the city shall secure their license from the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-66) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.064 LICENSE FOR INDEPENDENT CONTRACTOR.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage as an independent
contractor in the installation, alteration, maintenance or repair of electrical
wiring, equipment, apparatus or fixtures for light, heat or power purposes
where the electromotive force exceeds 30 volts in or about buildings or
structures located within the city without first having procured a license.
   (B)   An applicant for an electrical contractor’s license shall be over 18
years of age and shall be the holder of a master electrician’s license, or
shall regularly employ a person who is the holder of a master electrician’s
license who shall be actively in charge of work for the applicant.
(Prior Code, § 7-67) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.065 ADVERTISING BY CONTRACTORS.
   It shall be unlawful for a person to use any word or words in any sign,
display, business form or document, or advertising medium which indicates, or
tends to indicate, that a person is qualified to supervise, install, repair,
replace, remove or service any electrical work which requires a permit or
inspection hereunder from the Inspection Authority, unless such is uttered,
published or displayed by Authority of a licensed electrical contractor whose
licensed name and license number is included in such media, and such shall be
given prominence at least equal to that of the advertiser’s name
(Prior Code, § 7-68) (Ord. 78-4, passed 3-16-1978)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.066 LICENSE FOR MASTER ELECTRICIAN.
   An applicant for a master electrician license shall submit to the
examination provided and have attained the age of 18 years. The applicant for a
master electrician license shall have passed the examination for and had issued
to him or her a journeyman electrician license for a period of at least 2
years. He or she shall further agree that if a master electrician license is
issued, he or she will notify the Board in writing within 72 hours (3 working
days) of a change of employment where the employment was necessary to qualify
his or her employer as an electrical contractor. Willful or negligent failure
to give the notice to the Board shall be grounds for suspension or revocation
of the license.
(Prior Code, § 7-69) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.067 LICENSE FOR JOURNEYMAN ELECTRICIAN.
   (A)   It shall be unlawful for any person to engage in the occupation trade
of journeyman electrician in the installation, alteration, maintenance or
repair of electrical wiring equipment, apparatus or fixtures for light, heat,
power or medical purposes where the electromotive force exceeds 30 volts in or
about buildings or structures within the city without having first taken the
examination and obtained a license as herein provided. This provision shall not
apply to helpers and apprentices, provided the work as they may do is performed
under the direction and supervision of licensed journeyman electricians who
shall be on the premises at all times when the helpers or apprentices are
performing the work on the premises.
   (B)   An applicant, in order to qualify for examination for a journeyman
electrician license, shall have attained the age of 18 years and shall be able
to show 4 years of practical experience in the type of electrical construction
or maintenance work for which a license is required. In lieu of 4 years of
practical experience, an applicant shall present evidence of a total of not
less than 4 years in a combination of practical experience and training at a
recognized trade or technical school, provided this includes a minimum of 1
year practical experience. Evidence in writing from employers and technical
schools shall be submitted by the applicant, showing type of work performed and
length of time employed. All applicants shall submit to an examination as
provided.
(Prior Code, § 7-70) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.068 EXEMPTIONS FROM LICENSE REQUIREMENTS.
   A licensed electrician shall not be required for any wiring in or on a home
and accompanying outbuildings owned, occupied or to be occupied by the person
performing the installation, alteration or repair of wiring, devices,
appliances and appurtenances, providing the Inspector deems the person
qualified to perform the work and the person obtains a permit as required by
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-71) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.069 FEES.
   The fee for an electrical contractor’s, master electrician’s and journeyman
electrician’s license shall be prescribed by resolution by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 7-72) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.070 ISSUANCE.
   Electrical contractor’s, master electrician’s and journeyman electrician’s
licenses shall be issued by the City Manager upon recommendation of the
Examining Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-73) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.071 SECURING OF PERMITS.
   Electrical contractor’s licenses under the terms hereof shall not secure
permits for work to be done by any person not employed by the electrical
contractor, and the license may be revoked for violation of this rule.
(Prior Code, § 7-74) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.072 DISPLAY.
   Licenses issued hereunder shall be displayed when required.
(Prior Code, § 7-75) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.073 TRANSFERABILITY.
   Licenses hereunder shall be nontransferable.
(Prior Code, § 7-76) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-
1978)
§ 158.074 EXPIRATION; RENEWAL.
   Licenses hereunder shall expire on December 31 of each year, and shall be
renewed upon application by the licensee, together with the payment of the
required fee. After March 1, all licenses not renewed shall be considered
canceled and may not be renewed except upon approval of the Examining Board.
(Prior Code, § 7-77) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.075 SUSPENSION; REVOCATION.
   Any electrical contractor’s, master or journeyman’s license may, after a
hearing, be suspended or revoked by the Examining Board having issued a license
upon evidence presented that false statements have been made upon application
for license or upon evidence presented that the person holding the license
willfully or by reason of incompetence repeatedly violates any rules and
regulations relating to the inspection, maintenance, alteration or repair of
electrical wiring, devices, appliances or equipment.
(Prior Code, § 7-78) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.076 RECOGNITION AND REGISTRATION OF LICENSES FROM RECIPROCATORY
MUNICIPALITIES.
   (A)   (1)   The Inspection Authority shall permit electrical contractors
lawfully licensed by other municipalities of the state to install, alter or
repair electrical wiring, equipment, apparatus or fixtures for light, heat or
power purposes within the corporate limits of the city, upon payment of a
registration fee, provided that the municipalities reciprocate in recognizing
electrical contractors who are duly licensed under the provisions hereof by
granting them the same privilege and charging the same uniform license and
registration fees.
      (2)   Provided further, that the licensing ordinances are substantially
equal to the requirements hereof and have an Examining Board.
   (B)   Journeyman electricians duly licensed by any municipality cooperating
in the reciprocal arrangement shall be permitted to work in the city without
the payment of a registration fee; provided, however, that any journeyman
electrician doing work within the city, and holding a license from a
cooperating municipality, shall register with the city.
   (C)   No electrical contractors’ licenses shall be recognized, for the
purpose of registration, by the city of applicants who maintain their principal
place of business in a municipality which fails to approve, by affirmative
action of its legislative body, the reciprocal and mutually interchangeable
licensing arrangements covered hereby.
(Prior Code, § 7-79) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
§ 158.077 RECOGNITION OF OUT OF STATE CONTRACTORS HAVING STATE LICENSES.
   Corporations applying for electrical contractors’ licenses, whose principal
place of business is not in the state, should obtain the license from the
state’s Electrical Administrative Board upon the payment of the prescribed fee.
(Prior Code, § 7-80) (Ord. 50, passed 1-4-1968; Am. Ord. passed 3-15-1973; Am.
Ord. 78-2, passed 3-16-1978)
PLUMBING CODE
§ 158.095 ADOPTION OF PLUMBING CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, 3 copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as The Michigan Plumbing Code, as
published by the State of Michigan, is hereby adopted as the Building Code of
the city for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided.
   (B)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the Michigan Plumbing Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made a
part hereof as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-81) (Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 3-18-2004)
§ 158.096 INSPECTOR.
   (A)   There shall be appointed a plumbing inspector, qualified as required
by law, whose duty it shall be to enforce the provisions of this subchapter.
   (B)   The Inspector may be employed or retained upon such basis as shall
appear most practicable and advantageous, and shall be responsible to the City
Manager, or to the person designated by the City Manager.
(Prior Code, § 7-83) (Ord. 51, passed 5-16-1968)
§ 158.097 REPRESENTATION OF APPRENTICE AS A JOURNEYMAN.
   Any master plumber who shall employ an apprentice on plumbing, representing
him or her to be a journeyman, shall be deemed guilty of a misdemeanor.
(Prior Code, § 7-84) (Ord. 51, passed 5-16-1968)
DANGEROUS BUILDINGS
§ 158.110 DEFINITION.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   DANGEROUS BUILDING. Any building or structure which has any of the following
defects or is in any of the following conditions:
      (1)   Whenever any door, aisle, passageway, stairway or other means of
exit does not conform to the Fire Code of the city;
      (2)   Whenever any portion has been damaged by fire, wind, flood, or by
any other cause in such a manner that the structural strength or stability is
appreciably less than it was before the catastrophe and is less than the
minimum requirements of this subchapter or the Building Code of the city for a
new building or similar structure, purpose or location;
      (3)   Whenever any portion or member or appurtenance is likely to fall or
to become detached or dislodged, or to collapse and thereby injure persons or
damage property ;
      (4)   Whenever any portion has settled to such an extent that walls or
other structural portions have materially less resistance to winds than is
required in the case of new construction by this subchapter or the Building
Code of the city;
      (5)   Whenever the building or structure or any part, because of
dilapidation, deterioration, decay, faulty construction or because of the
removal or movement of some portion of the ground necessary for the purpose of
supporting the building or portion thereof, or for other reason, is likely to
partially or completely collapse, or some portion of the foundation or
underpinning is likely to fall or give away;
      (6)   Whenever for any reason whatsoever the building or structure or any
portion is manifestly unsafe for the purpose for which it is used;
      (7)   Whenever the building or structure has been so damaged by fire,
wind or flood, or has become so dilapidated or deteriorated as to become an
attractive nuisance to children who might play therein to their danger, or as
to afford a harbor for vagrants, criminals or immoral persons, or as to enable
persons to resort thereto for the: purpose of committing a nuisance or unlawful
or immoral acts ;
      (8)   Whenever a building or structure used or intended to be used for
dwelling purposes, because of dilapidation, decay, damage or faulty
construction or arrangement or otherwise, is unsanitary or unfit for human
habitation or is in a condition that is likely to cause sickness or disease
when so determined by the City Manager, or is likely to work injury to the
health, safety or general welfare of those living within; and/or
      (9)   Whenever any building becomes vacant, dilapidated and open at door
or window, leaving the interior of the building exposed to the elements or
accessible to entrance by trespassers.
(Prior Code, § 7-111) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
Statutory reference:
   Similar provisions, see M.C.L.A. § 125.538
§ 158.111 PROHIBITION.
   It is unlawful for any owner or agent thereof to keep or maintain any
dwelling or part thereof which is a dangerous building.
(Prior Code, § 7-112) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
Penalty, see § 10.99
§ 158.112 NOTICE.
   (A)   Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter, when the whole
or any part of any building or structure is found to be in a dangerous or
unsafe condition, the Building Inspector shall issue a notice of the dangerous
and unsafe condition.
   (B)   The notice shall be directed to each owner of or party in interest in
the building in whose name the property appears on the last local tax
assessment records.
   (C)   The notice shall specify the time and place of a hearing on the
condition of the building or structure at which time and place the person to
whom the notice is directed shall have the opportunity to show cause why the
building or structure should not be ordered to be demolished or otherwise made
safe.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall file a copy of the notice of the
dangerous and unsafe condition with the Hearing Board.
   (E)   All notices shall be in writing and shall be served upon the person to
whom they are directed personally, or in lieu of personal service may be mailed
by certified mail—return receipt requested addressed to such owner or party in
interest at the address shown on the tax records, at least 10 days before the
date of the hearing described in the notice. If any person to whom a notice is
directed is not personally served, in addition to mailing the notice a copy
thereof shall be posted upon a conspicuous part of the building or structure.
(Prior Code, § 7-113) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
§ 158.113 HEARING BOARD.
   A hearing board shall be appointed by the City Commission to serve under
this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 7-114) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
§ 158.114 HEARING.
   The Hearing Board shall take testimony of the Building Inspector, the owner
of the property and any interested party. The Hearing Board by majority vote
shall render a decision either closing the proceedings or ordering the building
to be demolished or otherwise made safe. Three members of this Board shall
constitute a quorum for all purposes.
(Prior Code, § 7-115) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
§ 158.115 ORDER TO ABATE.
   (A)   If it is determined by the Hearing Board that a building or structure
should be demolished or otherwise made safe, it shall so order, fixing a time
in the order for the owner, agent or lessee to comply therewith.
   (B)   (1)   If the owner, agent or lessee fails to appear at the hearing or
neglects or refuses to comply with the order, the Hearing Board shall file a
report of its findings and a copy of the order with the City Commission and
request that the necessary action be taken to demolish or otherwise make safe
the building or structure.
      (2)   A copy of the findings and order of the Hearing Board shall be
served on the owner, agent or lessee in the manner prescribed in §
158.112.
(Prior Code, § 7-116) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
§ 158.116 REVIEW OF ORDER BY CITY COMMISSION.
   (A)   The City Commission shall fix a date for a hearing, reviewing the
findings and order of the Hearing Board and shall give notice to the owner,
agent or lessee in the manner prescribed in §
158.112 of the time and place of the hearing.
   (B)   At the hearing, the owner, agent or lessee shall be given the
opportunity to show cause why the building should not be demolished or
otherwise made safe and the City Commission shall either approve, disapprove or
modify the order for the demolition or making safe of the building or
structure.
(Prior Code, § 7-117) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
§ 158.117 ASSESSMENT OF CITY’S COST OF ABATEMENT.
   (A)   The cost of the demolition or making a building safe under this
subchapter shall be a lien against the real property and shall be reported to
the assessing officer of the city who shall assess the cost against the
property on which the building or structure is located.
   (B)   (1)   The owner or party in interest in whose name the property
appears upon the last local tax assessment records shall be notified of the
amount of the cost by first class mail at the address shown on the records.
      (2)   If he or she fails to pay the same within 30 days after mailing by
the Assessor of the notice of the amount thereof, the Assessor shall add the
same to the next tax roll of the city and the same shall be collected in the
same manner in all respects as provided by law for the collection of taxes by
the city.
(Prior Code, § 7-118) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
§ 158.118 JUDICIAL REVIEW.
   An owner aggrieved by any final decision or order of the City Commission
under §
158.114 may appeal the decision or order to the Circuit Court by filing a
petition for an order of superintending control within 20 days from the date of
the decision.
(Prior Code, § 7-119) (Ord. 81-14, passed 12-1-1981)
MECHANICAL CODE
§ 158.130 ADOPTION OF MECHANICAL CODE.
   (A)   A certain document, 3 copies of which are on file in the office of the
City Clerk, being marked and designated as The Michigan Mechanical Code, as
published by the State of Michigan, is hereby adopted as the Mechanical Code of
the city for the control of buildings and structures as herein provided.
   (B)   Each and all of the regulations, provisions, penalties, conditions and
terms of the Michigan Mechanical Code are hereby referred to, adopted and made
a part hereof as if fully set out herein.
(Prior Code, § 7-130) (Am. Ord. 04-01, passed 3-18-2004)
BLIGHT PREVENTION
§ 158.145 PURPOSE.
   It is the purpose of this subchapter to prevent, reduce, or eliminate blight
by preventing and eliminating contributing factors and causes of blight in the
city.
(Prior Code, § 7-141) (Ord. 94-14, passed 5-5-1994; Am. Ord. 13-04, passed 7-
19-2013)
§ 158.146 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this subchapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLIGHTED STRUCTURE. Any dwelling, garage, outbuilding, factory, shop, store,
office, building, warehouse, or any other structure or part of a structure
which, because of fire, wind, other natural disaster, or physical
deterioration, is unfit for human occupancy or the useful purpose for which it
was originally intended; or any originally intended, or any partially completed
structure which is not being built pursuant to a valid building permit issued
by the city.
   BUILDING MATERIALS. Lumber, bricks, concrete blocks, cinder blocks, plumbing
materials, electrical wiring or equipment, heating ducts or equipment,
shingles, mortar, concrete, cement, nails, screws, or any other materials
commonly used in construction.
   ENFORCEMENT OFFICER. The building inspector, code enforcement officer,
police officer, or any other person designated by City Commission to enforce
this subchapter.
   FIREWOOD. Logs, lumber, kindling, or other materials intended for burning in
a wood stove, fireplace, or other heat-producing device.
   JUNK. Any abandoned, discarded, unusable, or unused objects or equipment;
including, but not limited to furniture, stoves, refrigerators, freezers, cans,
implements, parts of motor vehicles, machinery, cloth, rubber, bottles, metals,
boxes, cartons, or crates.
   JUNK AUTOMOBILES. Any motor vehicle which is not licensed for use by the
State of Michigan for a period in excess of 30 days; or, any motor vehicle,
whether licensed or not, which is inoperable for any reason in excess of 30
days.
   UNMAINTAINED VACANT BUILDING. Any building which is unoccupied and not kept
securely locked; with windows glazed or neatly boarded up; and protected from
the elements, vandals, rodents, and other animals.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 7-19-2013)
§ 158.147 PROHIBITED CONDUCT.
   It shall be unlawful for any owner, lessee, occupant; or any agent,
assignee, representative, or employee of such owner, lessee, or occupant to do
any of the following upon any premises within the city owned or occupied by him
or her:
   (A)   To maintain or permit the existence of a blighted structure for any
period in excess of 30 days;
   (B)   To maintain or permit the existence of any unmaintained vacant
building as defined by §
158.146;
   (C)   To store, accumulate, or permit the storage or accumulation of junk or
junk automobiles unless the items are stored within a completely enclosed
building which meets with all applicable city codes and zoning ordinances;
   (D)   To store, accumulate, or permit the storage or accumulation of any
building materials for any period longer than reasonably necessary for the
immediate use of such building materials, but in no event for longer than 60
days;
   (E)   To permit or maintain any growth of weeds, grass, or rank vegetation
to a greater height than 8 inches on the average; or any accumulation of dead
weeds, grass, or brush;
   (F)   To permit or maintain any growth of poison ivy, ragweed, or other
poisonous plants;
   (G)   To permit any accumulation of garbage except in tightly covered
containers;
   (H)   To fail to stack firewood in an orderly fashion to a height not to
exceed 64 inches; or, if stacked adjacent to a fence, to a height not to exceed
the height of the fence;
   (I)   To have, place, deposit, or cause to have placed or deposited any dead
animal, putrefying carcass, carrion, animal or vegetable offal, unclean or
nauseous water, any filthy or decaying matter, or any other offensive substance
to the detriment of the public health; or
   (J) To permit any excrement, unclean or nauseous water, garbage, or any
filthy or offensive substance to remain on any premises to the detriment of the
public health.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 7-19-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-001, passed 2-7-2019) Penalty, see
§
10.99
§ 158.148 ENFORCEMENT.
   (A)   Written notice of violation. Before commencing prosecution under this
subchapter, the enforcement officer shall notify the alleged violator of the
existence of the alleged violation of this subchapter in writing. The written
notice shall specify the alleged violation of this subchapter; the potential
for creation of a lien against the property as set forth division (E) of this
section; and shall be served upon the alleged violator either at the common
address of the property or at the last known address of the alleged violator.
   (B)   Time to remedy alleged violation. An alleged violator shall have ten
days from the date of mailing of the written notice required by division (A) of
this section in which to correct or remedy the alleged violation. Additional
time may be granted by the enforcement officer where the alleged violator
initiates good faith efforts to remove or eliminate the alleged violation.
   (C)   Ongoing violations. Each day that a violation of this subchapter
continues to exist after the expiration of the ten day period set forth in
division (B) of this section shall constitute a separate violation of the
subchapter subject to the penalties established in division (D) of this
section.
   (D)   Penalties. A violation of this subchapter is a misdemeanor offense
subjecting the violator to the penalties set forth in § 10.99.
   (E)   Lien created. If the alleged violator fails to remedy the alleged
violation within the time period set forth in division (B) of this section, the
enforcement officer shall cause the blight to corrected, remedied, removed, or
eliminated. The actual cost of this remedial effort, plus an administrative
charge as set by City Commission resolution, shall become a lien against the
premises and the property owner shall be invoiced. If by October 31, the debt
is still outstanding, the fee shall become a lien against the premises and
shall be placed on the December tax roll for collection. The remedial effort
may be completed by the Department of Public Works or an agent retained by the
city.
(Ord. 13-04, passed 7-19-2013)
VACANT OR ABANDONED STRUCTURE PREVENTION
§ 158.155 PURPOSE.
   (A)   It is the purpose of this subchapter to prevent, reduce, or eliminate
blight by preventing and eliminating contributing factors and causes of it in
the city. This subchapter addresses vacant or abandoned buildings which the
City Commission determines to contribute to blight.
   (B)   By way of this subchapter, the city encourages proper occupied use of
commercial and industrial buildings within their zoning districts. It is
recognized that blight lowers property values, leads to deteriorating
conditions, undermines the quality of life, affects the public health, safety,
and general welfare, potentially results in human injury, and potentially
invites criminal activities.
   (C)   It is also determined that vacant or abandoned structures demand an
inordinate amount of city administrative and ordinance enforcement resources.
As such, the City Commission finds the prolonged presence of vacant or
abandoned structures to be unacceptable to the citizens of Marine City.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.156 DEFINITIONS.
   The following words, terms, and phrases, when used in this subchapter, shall
have the meanings ascribed to them in this section, except where the context
clearly indicates a different meaning. Absent a definition, plain language
shall apply.
   (A)   VACANT OR ABANDONED COMMERCIAL STRUCTURE. Means and includes:
      (1)   Any single tenant building located in a commercially zoned district
which has been unoccupied for a period of 90 consecutive days or which
satisfies one of the supplementary conditions defined in division (H), below;
or
      (2)   Any multi-tenant building located in a commercially zoned district
which is more than 50% unoccupied for a period of 90 consecutive days or which
satisfies one of the supplementary conditions defined in division (H), below.
   (B)   VACANT OR ABANDONED INDUSTRIAL STRUCTURE. Means and includes:
      (1)   Any single tenant building located in an industrially zoned
district which has been unoccupied for a period of 90 consecutive days or which
satisfies one of the supplementary conditions defined in division (G), below;
or
      (2)   Any multi-tenant building located in an industrially zoned district
which is more than 50% unoccupied for a period of 90 consecutive days or which
satisfies one of the supplementary conditions defined in division (G), below.
   (C)   VACANT OR ABANDONED STRUCTURE. Means and includes commercial or
industrial structure as defined herein.
   (D)   ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate structure on the same premises as
the main structure, the use of which would be naturally and normally incidental
to that of the main structure, whether the main structure is a vacant or
abandoned structure or not, such as, but not limited to, a garage, barn, or
storage shed.
   (E)   OWNER. Any person with legal or equitable ownership interest in the
property.
   (F)   SECURED. A building which has all points of entry into the structure
either:
      (1)   Closed by use of windows and doors which are in proper working
order, intact, without holes, broken elements, and are locked; or
      (2)   Secured by exterior grade plywood in compliance with this
subchapter.
   (G)   UNOCCUPIED. Without occupants, void of zoning use; vacant or
abandoned.
   (H)   SUPPLEMENTARY CONDITIONS. Shall mean and include the following:
      (1)   Is open to casual entry or trespass;
      (2)   Is damaged by fire, flood, weather, or vandalism;
      (3)   Is the site of loitering or vagrancy;
      (4)   Demonstrates a lack of proper Maintenance Code, Fire Prevention
Code, Heating Code, Building Code, or State Construction Code;
      (5)   Is under notice for being in violation of a city ordinance;
      (6)   Has been secured or boarded up for at least 90 days;
      (7)   Has taxes in arrears to the city for more than 365 days;
      (8)   Has utilities disconnected or not in use;
      (9)   Is under condemnation notice or legal order to vacate;
      (10)   Is structurally unsound;
      (11)   Is a potential hazard or danger to persons; or
      (12)   The use of the building is inconsistent with zoning ordinance.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.157 REGISTRATION.
   Owners of vacant or abandoned structures shall register such properties with
the city and pay a monthly registration fee as set forth in the then current
city fee schedule. The duty to register an abandoned structure shall not
require prior notice to the owner by the city. Registration of a vacant or
abandoned structure does not preclude the city from taking appropriate actions
to secure the property or to issue orders to repair or abate dangerous,
hazardous, or unlawful conditions or from acting to eliminate an imminent
hazard to public health and safety.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.158 REGISTRATION INFORMATION.
   (A)   For each vacant or abandoned structure, each owner shall register with
the city and provide the following information on a vacant or abandoned
structure registration form available from the city:
      (1)   The address of the vacant or abandoned structure;
      (2)   The complete mailing address of all owners;
      (3)   Telephone number of each owner, including cell phone numbers;
      (4)   Proof of identification of each owner;
      (5)   The name, address, and telephone number of any local agent or
representative authorized by the owner to handle the affairs of the property;
      (6)   The reason for vacancy of the property;
      (7)   The estimated length of time the property is expected to remain
vacant; and
      (8)   Any plans for restoration, reuse, or removal with an accompanying
timeline and work schedule.
   (B)   An owner shall notify the city and file an amended registration form
within seven days of any change in the registration information required by
this section.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.159 REGISTRATION AND REGISTRATION FEE.
   (A)   An owner of a vacant or abandoned structure, whether registered or
not, shall pay a vacant or abandoned structure registration fee and a monthly
administrative fee for the time during which such structure remains unused for
the purposes for which the property is zoned or otherwise lawfully permitted.
The vacant or abandoned structure registration fee and monthly administrative
fee shall be the same amount as the inspection department administrative fee
established in the city's most current fee schedule, which may be amended from
time to time at the sole discretion of the city.
   (B)   Fees under this section shall be established to support the services
rendered by the city in the course of its duties related to vacant or abandoned
structures. Failure to register a vacant or abandoned structure or pay the
registration fee and monthly administrative fees shall be cause for penalties
to be assessed and are a criminal violation of this subchapter.
   (C)   The monthly administrative fee shall be paid so that it is received by
the city on or before the seventh day of each month, following each month
during which the structure was a vacant or abandoned structure for 15 days or
more.
   (D)   A late fee, in an amount equal to 50% of the inspection department
administrative fee rounded up to the next whole dollar amount, shall also be
payable by an owner of a vacant or abandoned structure when the monthly
administrative fee is not paid by the due date referenced herein and pursuant
to the city's most current fee schedule.
   (E)   Exceptions for the monthly registration fee may be considered by the
building official or City Manager if it can be adequately demonstrated that the
property is held up in probate and a resolution is forthcoming, under
construction with a reopen date established, or for sale with proven attempts
to actively sell the property. Initial registration and registration fee is
required.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.160 RECOVERY OF FEES.
   If all or part of the fees required by this subchapter are not paid or are
overdue, the city may recover such sums by filing suit against the owner for
entry of civil money judgment or any other means available by law. The city
shall be entitled to all attorney fees and costs incurred in obtaining a
warrant or to obtain a judgment against an owner for any overdue or unpaid fees
associated with any vacant or abandoned structures.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.161 SECURING STRUCTURES.
   (A)   Unless otherwise specified by the building inspection department, a
city order to secure a vacant or abandoned structure shall be complied with by
the owner within 72 hours. If the securing has not been completed or does not
comply with the requirements for securing the structure under this subchapter,
the city may secure the structure and bill the owner of record for all costs
incurred, including service fee, and administrative costs. The amount so billed
shall constitute a personal debt of the owner and may be recovered in the same
manner permitted for the recovery of fees under this subchapter.
   (B)   All points of entry on a vacant or abandoned structure that are
suitable for animal or human entry shall be secured as follows:
      (1)   Unless otherwise specified by the building inspection department,
on all first story and ground accessible points of entry, such shall be secured
by the use of exterior grade plywood or its equivalent, of at least one-half-
inch thickness, cut to the size of the opening and secured by the use of
Phillips-headed two-inch-long screws; and
      (2)   Unless otherwise specified by the building inspection department,
on entry points being secured above the first story or where not accessible
from the ground level, such shall be secured by the use of exterior grade
plywood or its equivalent of at least one-half-inch thickness, cut to the size
of the opening and secured by the use of 16 penny common nails.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.162 RIGHT OF ENTRY AND INSPECTION.
   If the owner has failed to secure a property the city may, after obtaining a
warrant or appropriate court order from a court of competent jurisdiction,
enter to secure the structure or reenter the structure to conduct necessary
inspections to ensure compliance with the requirements of this subchapter and
to determine if there are any emergency or hazardous conditions.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.163 REUSE AND RE-OCCUPANCY.
   (A)   Re-occupancy of vacant or abandoned commercial or industrial
structure. The owner of a vacant or abandoned commercial or industrial
structure shall be required to obtain and pay for special inspections
including, but not limited to, building, electrical, HVAC, and plumbing
inspections. The fees set forth in the fee schedule shall be in addition to
those required by any section of the city ordinances. The owner of a vacant or
abandoned commercial or industrial structure shall obtain all necessary permits
and pay all related fees in full for work identified as being necessary during
a special inspection. Permits shall be obtained and all fees paid in full for
any work previously completed without the requisite permit. Each inspection
shall be conducted and approved in accordance with the Marine City Code of
Ordinances, state codes, Property Maintenance Code, Fire Prevention Code, and
Heating Code.
   (B)   Certificate of re-occupancy for vacant or abandoned commercial or
industrial structure. A certificate of re-occupancy shall be issued after all
of the following conditions are satisfied:
      (1)   All fees, including but not limited to late charges and re-
inspection fees are paid in full;
      (2)   All inspections and approvals have been obtained from the director
of inspection; and
      (3)   All outstanding fees, charges, and monies owed by the owner of the
abandoned structure to the City of Marine City have been paid in full.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.164 RESPONSIBILITY FOR VIOLATIONS.
   All nuisance and building related code violations will be cited and noticed
to the owner of record and shall become the owner's responsibility. The owner
of any abandoned structure shall be obligated to provide written notice to any
prospective purchaser of any vacant or abandoned structure of any violations,
fees, or obligations imposed by the city regarding that vacant or abandoned
structure. Failure of an owner to comply with this section shall constitute a
violation of this chapter. If the owner sells or otherwise disposes of the
property to another party, the new owner shall not be entitled to any extension
of time to correct or address such violations as existed at the time of sale,
transfer, or conveyance of the property.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
§ 158.165 PENALTY.
   (A)   A violation of this subchapter is a misdemeanor offense subjecting the
violator to the penalties set forth in §
10.99.
   (B)   Each day that an owner of a vacant or abandoned structure fails to
comply with the requirements of this subchapter shall constitute a separate
offense.
   (C)   In addition to any other penalty provided for in this section, this
subchapter may be enforced by suit for injunction, action for damages, or any
equitable relief appropriate to the enforcement of this subchapter.
(Ord. 22-002, passed 7-21-2022)
CHAPTER 159: SUBDIVISIONS
Section
General Provisions
   
159.01   Short title
   
159.02   Purposes
   
159.03   Definitions
   
159.04   Compliance standards
   
159.05   Interpretation
   
159.06   Review fees
   
159.07   Variance for hardship
   
159.08   Variance for complete neighborhood
Platting Procedure
   
159.20   Phases
   
159.21   Initial investigation
   
159.22   Pre-preliminary plat
   
159.23   Preliminary plat
   
159.24   Final plat
Design Layout Standards
   
159.35   Generally
   
159.36   Streets
   
159.37   Blocks
   
159.38   Lots
   
159.39   Subdivision open space plan; planned unit development
   
159.40   Natural features
   
159.41   Flood plains
Improvements
   
159.55   Generally
   
159.56   Deposit
   
159.57   Maintenance bond
   
159.58   Streets
   
159.59   Utilities
   
159.60   Sidewalks
   
159.61   Trees
   
159.62   Street signs
Statutory reference:
   Subdivision Control Act, see M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 159.01 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be designated as the City of Marine City
Subdivision Regulations Ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 27-1) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.02 PURPOSES.
   The purposes of this chapter are to provide for the orderly growth and
harmonious development of the community; to secure adequate traffic circulation
through coordinated street systems with relation to major thoroughfares,
adjoining subdivisions, and public facilities; to achieve individual property
lots of maximum utility and livability; to secure adequate provisions for water
supply, drainage and sanitary sewerage, and other health requirements; to
secure adequate provisions for recreational areas; school sites and other
public facilities; and, to provide logical procedures for the achievement of
these purposes.
(Prior Code, § 27-2) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.03 DEFINITIONS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
   BLOCK. Property abutting 1 side of a street and lying between the 2 nearest
intersecting streets, or between the nearest such street and railroad right-of-
way, unsubdivided acreage, river or live stream; or between any of the
foregoing and any other barrier to the continuity of development.
   EASEMENT. A grant by the owner of the use of a strip of land by the public,
a corporation, or persons, for specific uses and purposes, to be designated as
a “public” or “private” easement depending on the nature of the use.
   ENGINEER. The staff engineer or consulting engineer of the city.
   FILING DATE. For the purpose of these regulations, the filing date shall be
the initial meeting date at which the plan for preliminary plat (stage 1),
preliminary plat (stage 2), tentative on final, and final plat review appears
on the Planning Commission or City Commission’s regular meeting agenda.
   IMPROVEMENTS. Grading, street surfacing, curb and gutter, sidewalks,
crosswalks, water mains and lines, sanitary sewers, storm sewers, culverts,
bridges, utilities, other additions to the natural state of land which
increases its value, utility or habitability.
   LOT. A measured portion of a parcel or tract of land, which is described or
fixed in a recorded plat.
   MAJOR STREETS OR THOROUGHFARE PLAN. The part of the master plan which sets
forth the location, alignment and dimensions of existing and proposed streets
and thoroughfares.
   MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive land use plan for the city, including graphic
and written proposals indicating the general locations recommended for the
streets, parks, schools, public  buildings, zoning districts, and all physical
developments of the city, and includes any unit or part of the plan separately
adopted, and any amendments to the plan or parts thereof duly adopted by the
Planning Commission.
   PLANNER. The staff planner or consulting planner of the city.
   PARCEL or TRACT. A continuous area or acreage of land which can be described
as provided for in the Subdivision Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.
   PLAT. A map or chart of a subdivision of land.
      (1)   PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 1). A map indicating the proposed layout of
the subdivision in sufficient detail to provide adequate basis for review and
to meet the requirements and procedures set forth in this chapter.
      (2)   PRELIMINARY PLAT (STAGE 2). A map showing the salient features of a
proposed subdivision submitted to an approving authority for purposes of
preliminary consideration prepared in conformance with the Subdivision Act.
      (3)   FINAL PLAT. A map of all or part of a subdivision providing
substantial conformance to the preliminary plat (stage 2) of the subdivision
prepared in conformance with the requirements of the Subdivision Act and this
chapter, and suitable for recording by the county’s Register of Deeds.
   PROPRIETOR. A natural person, firm, association, partnership, corporation or
combination of any of them which may hold any ownership interest in land,
whether recorded or not.
   STREET. Any street, avenue, boulevard, road, lane, parkway, viaduct, alley
or other way which is an existing state, county or city roadway; or a street or
way shown in a plat heretofore approved pursuant to law or approved by official
action; or, a street or way on a plat duly filed and recorded in the office of
the county’s Register of Deeds. A street includes the land  between the street
lines, whether improved or unimproved, and may comprise pavement, shoulders,
gutters, sidewalks, parking areas and lawns.
      (1)   MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street of great continuity which is
intended to serve as a large volume trafficway for both the immediate city area
and region beyond, and may be designated in the city’s major thoroughfare plan
as a major thoroughfare, parkway, expressway or equivalent term to identify
those streets comprising the basic structure of the street plan.
      (2)   COLLECTOR STREET. A street intended to serve as a major street
means of access from minor streets to major thoroughfares which has
considerable continuity within the framework of the major thoroughfare plan.
      (3)   MINOR STREET. A street of limited continuity used primarily for
access to abutting residential properties.
      (4)   MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A minor street paralleling and adjacent to
a major thoroughfare which provides access to abutting properties and
protection from through traffic.
      (5)   BOULEVARD STREET. A street developed to 2-lane, 1-way pavements
separated by a median.
      (6)   TURNAROUND. A short boulevard street permanently terminated by a
vehicular turnaround.
      (7)   CUL-DE-SAC STREET. A short minor street having 1 end permanently
terminated by a vehicular turnaround.
      (8)   ALLEY. A minor service street used primarily to provide secondary
vehicular access to the rear or side of properties otherwise abutting on a
street.
   SUBDIVISION. The partitioning or dividing of a parcel or tract of land by
the proprietor thereof or by his or her heirs, executors, administrators, legal
representatives, successors or assigns for the purpose of sale, or lease of
more than 1 year, or building development, where the act of division creates 5
or more parcels of land, each of which is 10 acres or less in area; or 5 or
more parcels of land, each of which is 10 acres or less in area are created by
successive divisions within a period of 10 years.
   SUBDIVISION ACT. The Subdivision Control Act, Michigan Public Act 288 of
1967, as amended (M.C.L.A. §§ 560.101 et seq.).
(Prior Code, § 27-3) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.04 COMPLIANCE STANDARDS.
   The approvals required under the provisions of this chapter shall be
obtained prior to the installation of any subdivision or project improvements
within the city, in public streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way and
public easements, or under the ultimate jurisdiction of the city. All
subdivision or project improvements within the city installed in public
streets, public alleys, public rights-of-way, or public easements, or under the
ultimate jurisdiction of the city shall comply with all of the provisions and
requirements of this chapter or any other related ordinance.
(Prior Code, § 27-4) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.05 INTERPRETATION.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be held to be the minimum requirements
adopted for the promotion and preservation of public health, safety and general
welfare of the city. This chapter is not intended to repeal, abrogate, annul or
in any manner interfere with existing regulations or laws of the city, nor
conflict with any statutes of the state or county, except that this chapter
shall prevail in cases where this chapter imposes a greater restriction than is
provided by existing statutes, laws or regulations.
(Prior Code, § 27-5) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.06 REVIEW FEES.
   (A)   Preliminary plat (stage 1 and 2) and final plat review fees, planning
fees, engineering fees, attorney fees, inspection fees, water and sewer
connection charges and other applicable development charges shall be paid by
the proprietor as may be provided for as follows, by ordinance of the city, or
by resolution of the City Commission as a condition of final plat approval.
   (B)   Fees shall be charged for the review of preliminary plats (stage 1) by
the planner on the basis of the following schedule. There shall be no
additional planner review fee charged for preliminary plats (stage 2) or final
plats which are in substantial conformance to a previously approved preliminary
plat (stage 1):
      (1)   Conventional subdivision plats: $25, plus $0.50 per lot.
      (2)   Subdivision open space plats: $100, plus $0.75 per lot.
      (3)   Multiple-family residential plats: $50, plus $1 per dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, § 27-6) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.07 VARIANCE FOR HARDSHIP.
   (A)   The City Commission may authorize a variance from this chapter when,
in its opinion, undue hardship may result from strict compliance. In granting
any variance, the City Commission shall prescribe only conditions that it deems
necessary to or desirable for the public interest. In making its findings, as
required herein below, the City Commission shall take into account the nature
of the proposed use of land and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the
number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the
probable effect of the proposed subdivision upon traffic conditions in the
vicinity.
   (B)   No variance shall be granted unless the City Commission finds:
      (1)   That there are special circumstances or conditions affecting the
property such that the strict application of the provisions of this chapter
would deprive the applicant of the reasonable use of his or her land;
      (2)   That the variance is necessary for the preservation and enjoyment
of a substantial property right of the petitioner; and
      (3)   That the granting of the variance will not be detrimental to the
public welfare or injurious to other property in the territory in which the
property is situated.
(Prior Code, § 27-7) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.08 VARIANCE FOR COMPLETE NEIGHBORHOOD.
   (A)   Conditions. The City Commission may authorize a variance from this
chapter in case of a plan for a complete community or neighborhood where the
development is permitted by the zoning ordinance and which, in the judgment of
the City Commission, and after a recommendation is had from the Planning
Commission, provides adequate public spaces and includes provisions for
efficient circulation, light and air and other needs. In making its findings,
as required herein below, the City Commission shall take into account the
nature of the proposed use of and the existing use of land in the vicinity, the
number of persons to reside or work in the proposed subdivision and the
probable effect of the proposed development upon traffic conditions in the
vicinity. The City Commission shall find:
      (1)   That there is adequate acreage and population in the proposed plan
so as to support at least 1 elementary school;
      (2)   That the standards and requirements of the zoning ordinance of the
city are met;
      (3)   That the Planning Commission has reviewed the plan and recommends
its approval as having met the standards and intent of the master plan of land
use as it relates to facility needs;
      (4)   That in granting the variance, it shall be valid only as long as
the plan for the complete neighborhood is carried out as approved; any
departure from the plan shall immediately rescind any variance granted;
      (5)   That the City Commission shall establish a time schedule to be met
on the various aspects of the complete neighborhood plan.
   (B)   Application. Application for any variance under this section shall be
submitted in writing by the proprietor at the time the preliminary plat (stage
1) is filed, stating fully and clearly all facts relied upon by the proprietor
and shall be supplemented with maps, plans or other additional data which may
aid in the analysis of the proposed project. The plans for such development
shall include such covenants, restrictions or other legal provisions necessary
to guarantee the full achievement of the plan.
(Prior Code, § 27-8) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
PLATTING PROCEDURE
§ 159.20 PHASES.
   The preparation of a subdivision for platting shall be carried out through 3
phases: pre-preliminary plat, preliminary plat and final plat, all in
accordance with the procedure as follows in this subchapter.
(Prior Code, § 27-21) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.21 INITIAL INVESTIGATION.
   (A)   Prior to the preparation of a pre-preliminary plat, it is suggested
that the proprietor meet informally with the city departments concerned to
investigate the procedures and standards of the city with reference to this
chapter and with the proposals of the master plan as they affect the area in
which the proposed subdivision is located. The proprietor should not submit a
pre-preliminary plat at this time.
   (B)   The proprietor should concern himself or herself with the following
factors:
      (1)   The proprietor shall secure a copy of the zoning ordinance,
subdivision regulations, engineering specifications and other similar
ordinances or controls relative to the subdivision and improvement of land so
as to make himself aware of the requirements of the city.
      (2)   The area for the proposed subdivision shall be properly zoned for
the intended use.
      (3)   An investigation of adequacy of existing schools and the adequacy
of public open spaces including parks and playgrounds to serve the proposed
subdivision shall be made by the proprietor.
      (4)   The relationship of the proposed subdivision with respect to major
thoroughfares and plans for widening of thoroughfares shall be investigated by
the proprietor.
      (5)   Standards for sewage disposal, water supply and drainage of the
city shall be investigated by the proprietor.
(Prior Code, § 27-22) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.22 PRE-PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The procedure for preparation and submittal of a pre-preliminary plat of the
land area to be subdivided shall be as follows:
   (A)   Filing.
      (1)   Ten copies of the pre-preliminary plat of the proposed subdivision,
together with written application in triplicate, shall be submitted to the
Clerk for the Planning Commission.
      (2)   Submittal with the Clerk shall be at least 10 days prior to the
regular Planning Commission meeting (which meeting shall be considered as the
date of filing) at which the proprietor will be scheduled to appear. Should any
of the data required in this section be omitted, the Clerk shall notify the
proprietor of the additional data required and Planning Commission action shall
be delayed until the required data is received. The Planning Commission shall
act on the pre-preliminary plat within 60 days after the date of filing unless
the proprietor agrees to an extension of time in writing.
   (B)   Identification and description. The pre-preliminary plat shall
include:
      (1)   Proposed name of subdivision;
      (2)   Location by section, town and range, or by other legal description;
      (3)   Names and addresses of the proprietor, owner proprietor, and the
planner, designer, engineer or surveyor who designed the subdivision layout;
the proprietor shall also indicate his or her interest in the land;
      (4)   Scale of plat, 1 inch equals 100 feet as minimum acceptable scale;
      (5)   Date;
      (6)   North point.
   (C)   Existing conditions. The pre-preliminary plat shall include:
      (1)   An overall area map at a scale of not less than 1 inch equals 2,000
feet showing the relationship of the subdivision to its surroundings such as
section lines and/or major streets or collector streets shall be provided;
      (2)   Boundary line of proposed subdivision, section or corporation lines
within or adjacent to the tract and overall property dimensions;
      (3)   Property lines of adjacent tracts of subdivided and unsubdivided
land shown in relation to the tract being proposed for subdivision including
those of areas across abutting roads;
      (4)   Locations, widths and names of existing or prior platted streets
and private streets, and public easements within or adjacent to the tract being
proposed for subdivision, including those located across abutting roads;
      (5)   Location of existing sewers, water mains, storm drains and other
underground facilities within or adjacent to the tract being proposed for
subdivision;
      (6)   Topography drawn as contours with an interval of at least 2 feet;
topography to be based on United States Geodetic Survey datum;
      (7)   The school board or school board superintendent of the school
district having jurisdiction in the area concerned shall be informed and made
aware of the proposed pre-preliminary plat by the proprietor. A letter or
document from the school board or school board superintendent indicating
awareness of the proprietor’s intentions shall be submitted to the Planning
Commission as part of the pre-preliminary plat.
   (D)   Proposed conditions. The pre-preliminary plat shall include:
      (1)   Layout of streets indicating proposed street names, right-of-way
widths and connections with adjoining platted streets and also the widths and
locations of alleys, easements and public walkways;
      (2)   Layout, numbers and dimensions of lots, including building setback
lines showing dimensions;
      (3)   Indication of parcels of land intended to be dedicated or set aside
for public use or for the use of property owners in the subdivision;
      (4)   An indication of the ownership, and existing and proposed use of
any parcels identified as “excepted” on the pre-preliminary plat; if the
proprietor has an interest or owns any parcel so identified as “excepted,” the
pre-preliminary plat shall indicate how this property could be developed in
accordance with the requirements of the existing zoning district in which it is
located and with an acceptable relationship to the layout of the proposed pre-
preliminary plat;
      (5)   Indication of system proposed for sewage by a method approved by
the City Commission and the Engineer;
      (6)   An indication of system proposed for water supply by a method
approved by the City Commission and the Engineer;
      (7)   An indication of storm drainage proposed by a method approved by
the City Commission and the engineer and, if involving county drains, the
proposed drainage shall be acceptable to the county’s Drain Commissioner;
      (8)   In the case where the proprietor wishes to subdivide a given area,
but wishes to begin with only a portion of the total area, the pre-preliminary
plat shall include the proposed general layout for the entire area. The part
which is proposed to be subdivided first shall be clearly superimposed upon the
overall plan in order to illustrate clearly the method of development which the
proprietor intends to follow. Each subsequent plat shall follow the same
procedure until the entire area controlled by the proprietor is subdivided; If
the subdivision is proposed to be developed under the subdivision open space
plan, the subdivision shall meet with the requirements of §
159.39.
   (E)   Review by Planning Commission.
      (1)   The Clerk shall receive and check for completeness the pre-
preliminary plat as required under divisions (A) through (D) above. If complete
and basically in conformance with applicable municipal requirements, the Clerk
shall place the proposal on the agenda of the next regular Planning Commission
meeting.
      (2)   The Clerk shall transmit a copy of the pre-preliminary plat to the
Engineer and the planner for their technical review and recommendation.
      (3)   The Planning Commission shall review all details of the proposed
subdivision within the framework of the zoning ordinance, within the various
elements of the master plan and within the standards of this chapter.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall approve conditionally, disapprove or
approve the pre-preliminary plat.
         (a)   Should the approval be a conditional approval and therefore
tentative, the pre-preliminary plat shall not be forwarded to the City
Commission until the conditions have been satisfied by the proprietor.
         (b)   Should the Planning Commission disapprove the pre-preliminary
plat, it shall record the reasons in the minutes of the regular meeting. A copy
of the minutes shall be sent to the proprietor.
         (c)   Should the Planning Commission find that all conditions have
been satisfactorily met, it may give approval to the pre-preliminary plat. The
Chairperson shall make a notation to that effect on each copy of the pre-
preliminary plat and distribute copies of same as follows:
            1.   Return 1 copy to the proprietor;
            2.   Retain 1 copy which shall become a matter of permanent record
in the Planning Commission files;
            3.   Forward 1 copy to the school board or school superintendent of
the school district having jurisdiction in the area concerned; and
            4.   Forward the remaining copies to the City Commission via the
Clerk’s office with recommendations for approval.
   (F)   Review by City Commission.
      (1)   The City Commission will not review a pre-preliminary plat until it
has received the review and recommendations of the Planning Commission.
Following the receipt of such recommendations, the City Commission shall
consider the pre-preliminary plat at such meeting that the matter is placed on
the regularly scheduled agenda. The City Commission shall take action on the
pre-preliminary plat within 90 days of the date of filing, as defined in
division (A)(2) above.
      (2)   Should the City Commission approve the pre-preliminary plat, it
shall be deemed to confer upon the proprietor the right to proceed with the
preparation of a preliminary plat.
      (3)   Approval of the pre-preliminary plat shall not constitute approval
of the preliminary plat. It shall be deemed as approval of the layout submitted
on the pre-preliminary plat as a guide to the preparation of a preliminary
plat.
      (4)   The approval of the City Commission shall be effective for a period
of 12 months. Should the preliminary plat in whole or in part not be submitted
within this time limit, a pre-preliminary plat must again be submitted to the
Planning Commission for approval.
      (5)   No installation or construction of any improvements shall be made
at this time.
(Prior Code, § 27-23) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.23 PRELIMINARY PLAT.
   The procedure for the preparation and review of a preliminary plat requires
tentative and final approval as follows:
   (A)   Tentative approval.
      (1)   Filing.
         (a)   Ten copies of a valid and complete preliminary plat of the
proposed subdivision, together with written application in triplicate and any
other information required to be submitted under the Subdivision Act shall be
filed with the Clerk.
         (b)   The preliminary plat shall conform substantially to the pre-
preliminary plat as approved, and it may constitute only that portion of the
approved pre-preliminary plat which the proprietor proposed to record and
develop at the time; provided, however, that such portion conforms to this
chapter.
         (c)   The Clerk shall check the proposed plat for completeness. Should
any of the data required in the Subdivision Act, or division (B) above, be
omitted, the Clerk shall be directed to inform the proprietor of the data
required, and that the application will be delayed until the required data is
received.
         (d)   The Clerk shall transmit a copy of the valid and complete
preliminary plat to the engineer and planner for their technical review and
recommendation.
      (2)   Planning Commission review.
         (a)   The Clerk shall place the preliminary plat on the next regular
Planning Commission agenda, at which meeting the proprietor will be scheduled
to appear. The Planning Commission shall act on the preliminary plat within 60
days after the date of filing unless the proprietor agrees to an extension, in
writing, of the time required for approval by the City Commission and Planning
Commission.
         (b)   It shall be the duty of the Clerk to send a notice by registered
or certified mail to the owners of land immediately adjoining the property to
be platted of the presentment of the preliminary plat and the time and place of
the meeting of the Planning Commission to consider the preliminary plat; the
notice shall be sent not less than 5 days before the date fixed therefor.
         (c)   The preliminary plat shall be reviewed by the Engineer as to
compliance with the approved pre-preliminary plat and plans for utilities and
other improvements.
         (d)   The Engineer shall notify the Planning Commission of his or her
recommendation for either approval or rejection of the preliminary plat.
         (e)   The preliminary plat documents shall be reviewed by the Planning
Commission as to compliance with the approved pre-preliminary plat.
         (f)   Should the Planning Commission find that the preliminary plat is
in close agreement with the pre-preliminary plat, it shall approve same and
notify the City Commission of this action in its official minutes and forward
the same, together with all accompanying data, to the City Commission for their
review.
         (g)   Should the Planning Commission find that the preliminary plat
does not conform substantially to the previously approved pre-preliminary plat
and that it is not acceptable, they shall record the reason in their official
minutes and forward same together with all accompanying data to the City
Commission; and recommend that the City Commission disapprove the preliminary
plat until the objections causing disapproval have been changed to meet with
the approval of the Planning Commission.
      (3)   City Commission review.
         (a)   The City Commission will not review a preliminary plat until it
has received the review and recommendations of the Planning Commission.
Following the receipt of the recommendations, the City Commission shall take
action on the preliminary plat within 90 days of the date of initial filing of
the plat with the Clerk, as required in division (A)(1)(a) above.
         (b)   Should the City Commission tentatively approve the preliminary
plat, they shall record their approval on the plat and return the copy to the
proprietor.
         (c)   Tentative approval shall not constitute final approval of the
preliminary plat.
         (d)   Tentative approval of the City Commission shall be effective for
a period of 12 months. Should the preliminary plat in whole or in part not be
submitted for final approval within this time limit, the preliminary plat must
again be submitted to the Planning Commission and City Commission for approval
unless an extension is applied for by the proprietor, and such request is
granted in writing by the City Commission.
   (B)   Final approval by City Commission.
      (1)   The proprietor shall file a valid preliminary plat with the Clerk
together with a certified list of all authorities required for approval in §§
112 to 119 of the Subdivision Act. The proprietor shall also provide approved
copies of plats from each of the required authorities.
      (2)   The City Commission shall take action on the preliminary plat
within 20 days of the submission of all necessary approved plats.
      (3)   If the preliminary plat conforms substantially to the plat
tentatively approved by the City Commission and meets all conditions laid down
for tentative approval, the City Commission shall give final approval to the
preliminary plat.
      (4)   The Clerk shall promptly notify the proprietor of approval or
rejection in writing; if rejected, reasons shall be given.
      (5)   Final approval shall be effective for a period of 2 years from the
date of final approval. The 2 year period may be extended if applied for by the
proprietor and granted by the City Commission in writing.
      (6)   No installation or construction of any improvements shall be made
before the preliminary plat has received final approval of the City Commission,
engineering plans have been approved by the engineer, and any deposits required
hereunder, have been received by the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-24) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.24 FINAL PLAT.
   The procedure for preparation and review of a final plat shall be as
follows:
   (A)   Preparation.
      (1)   The final plat shall comply with the provisions of the Subdivision
Act.
      (2)   The final plat shall conform substantially to the preliminary plat
as approved and it may constitute only that portion of the approved preliminary
plat which the proprietor proposed to record and develop at the time; provided,
however, that such portion conforms to this chapter.
      (3)   The proprietor shall submit as evidence of title, an abstract of
title certified to date with the written opinion of an attorney-at-law thereon,
or at the option of the proprietor, a policy of title insurance for examination
in order to ascertain as to whether or not the proper parties have signed the
plat.
   (B)   Review.
      (1)   Five Mylar copies and 3 paper prints of the final plat shall be
filed by the proprietor with the City Clerk and shall deposit such sums of
money as the City Commission may require herein or by other ordinances.
      (2)   The final plat shall be reviewed by the Engineer as to compliance
with the approved preliminary plat and plans for utilities and other
improvements.
      (3)   The Engineer shall notify the City Commission of his or her
recommendation for either approval or rejection of the final plat.
      (4)   The City Commission shall review all recommendations and take
action on the final plat within 20 days of its date of filing.
      (5)   (a)   Upon the approval of the final plat by the City Commission,
the subsequent approvals shall follow the procedure set forth in the
Subdivision Act.
         (b)   The 3 prints of the final plat shall be forwarded: 1 to the
Clerk, 1 to the Planning Commission and 1 to the Building Department.
         (c)   The 5 Mylar copies shall be forwarded to the Clerk of the
county’s Plat Board.
(Prior Code, § 27-25) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
DESIGN LAYOUT STANDARDS
§ 159.35 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The subdivision design layout standards set forth under this
subchapter are development guides for the assistance of the proprietor.
   (B)   All final plans must be reviewed and approved by the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 27-37) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.36 STREETS.
   Streets shall conform to at least all minimum requirements of the general
specifications and typical cross-sections as set forth in this subchapter and
other conditions set forth by the City Commission.
   (A)   Location and arrangement.
      (1)   The proposed subdivision shall conform to the various elements of
the master plan and shall be considered in relation to the existing and planned
major thoroughfares and collector streets, and such part shall be platted in
the location and width indicated on the plan.
      (2)   The street layout shall provide for continuation of collector
streets in the adjoining subdivisions or of the proper projection of streets
when adjoining property is not subdivided; or conform to a plan for a
neighborhood unit drawn up and adopted by the Planning Commission.
      (3)   The street layout shall include minor streets so laid out that
their use by through traffic shall be discouraged.
      (4)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain an existing or
proposed major thoroughfare, the Planning Commission may require marginal
access streets, reverse frontage or such other treatment as may be necessary
for adequate protection of residential properties and to afford separation and
reduction of traffic hazards.
      (5)   (a)   Should a proposed subdivision border on or contain a
railroad, expressway, or other limited access highway right-of-way, the
Planning Commission may require the location of a street approximately parallel
to and on each side of the right-of-way at a distance suitable for the
development of an appropriate use of the intervening land such as for parks in
residential districts.
         (b)   The distances shall be determined with due consideration of the
minimum distance required for approach grades to future grade separation.
      (6)   Half streets shall be prohibited, except where absolutely essential
to the reasonable development of the subdivision in conformity with the other
requirements of these regulations, and where the Planning Commission finds it
will be practicable to require the dedication of the other half when the
adjoining property is developed. Wherever there exists adjacent to the tract to
be subdivided, a dedicated or platted and recorded half street, the other half
shall be platted.
   (B)   Right-of-way widths. Street right-of-way widths shall conform to at
least the following minimum requirements:
Street Type Right-of-Way Widths (feet)
Street Type                                        Right-of-Way Widths (feet)
Major thoroughfare                                 100
Collector streets                                  80
Industrial                                         60
Multiple-family residential streets, where platted 60
Minor single-family residential streets            60
Marginal access streets                            34
Turn-around (Loop) street                          120
Alley                                              20
Cul-de-sac streets—Turnarounds
1. Industrial                                      75 (radius)
2. Residential and others                          60 (radius)
Maximum length for residential cul-de-sac streets shall generally be 500 feet.
Maximum length for industrial and other cul-de-sac streets may exceed 500 feet
subject to the approval of the Planning Commission.
 
   (C)   Street grades. For adequate drainage, the minimum street grade shall
not be less than 0.5%. The maximum street grade shall be 6% except that the
Planning Commission may make an exception to this standard on the
recommendation of the Engineer.
   (D)   Street geometries. Standards for maximum and minimum street grades,
vertical and horizontal street curves and sight distances shall be established
by ordinance or published rules of the City Commission and shall in no case be
less restrictive than the standards of the county road Commission.
   (E)   Street intersections. Streets shall be laid out so as to intersect as
nearly as possible to 90 degrees. Curved streets, intersecting with major
thoroughfares and collector thoroughfares shall do so with a tangent section of
centerline 50 feet in length, measured from the right-of-way line of the major
or collector thoroughfare.
   (F)   Grading and centerline gradients. Per plans and profiles approved by
the Engineer.
   (G)   Street jogs. Street jogs with centerline offsets of less than 125 feet
shall be avoided.
(Prior Code, § 27-38) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969; Am. Ord. passed 2-15-1973)
§ 159.37 BLOCKS.
   Blocks within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Sizes.
      (1)   Maximum length for blocks shall not exceed 1,400 feet in length,
except where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, conditions may justify
a greater distance.
      (2)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the layout
and shall be suited to the intended layout.
   (B)   Public walkways.
      (1)   Location of public walkways or crosswalks may be required by the
Planning Commission to obtain satisfactory pedestrian access to public or
private facilities such as, but not limited to, schools and parks.
      (2)   Widths of public walkways shall be at least 12 feet and shall be in
the nature of an easement for this purpose.
   (C)   Easements.
      (1)   Location of utility line easements shall be provided along the rear
of side lot lines as necessary for utility lines. Easements shall give access
to every lot, park or public groups. Such easements shall be a total of not
less than 12 feet wide, 6 feet from each parcel.
      (2)   Recommendations on the proposed layout of telephone and electric
company easements should be sought from all of the utility companies serving
the area. It shall be the responsibility of the proprietor to submit copies of
the preliminary plat to all appropriate public utility agencies.
      (3)   Easements 3 feet in width shall be provided where needed along side
lot lines so as to provide for street light dropouts. Prior to the approval of
the final plat for a proposed subdivision, a statement shall be obtained from
the appropriate public utility indicating that easements have been provided
along specific lots. A notation shall be made on the final plat indicating:
“The side lot lines between lots (indicating lot numbers) are subject to street
light dropout rights granted to the (name of utility company).”
(Prior Code, § 27-39) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.38 LOTS.
   Lots within subdivisions shall conform to the following standards:
   (A)   Sizes and shapes.
      (1)   The lot size, width, depth and shape in any subdivision proposed
for residential uses shall be appropriate for the location and the type of
development contemplated.
      (2)   Lot areas and widths shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance for the district in which the subdivision
is proposed.
      (3)   Building setback lines shall conform to at least the minimum
requirements of the zoning ordinance.
      (4)   Corner lots in residential subdivisions shall be platted at least
10 feet wider than the minimum width permitted by the zoning ordinance.
      (5)   Excessive lot depth in relation to width shall be avoided. A depth-
to-width ratio of 3 to 1 shall normally be considered a maximum.
      (6)   Lots intended for purposes other than residential use shall be
specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate provision for
off-street parking, setbacks and other requirements in accordance with the
zoning ordinance.
   (B)   Arrangement:
      (1)   Every lot shall front or abut on a street.
      (2)   Side lot lines shall be at right angles or radial to the street
lines.
      (3)   Residential lots abutting major thoroughfares or collector streets,
where marginal access streets are not desirable or possible to attain, shall be
platted with reverse frontage lots, or with side lot lines parallel to the
major traffic streets, or shall be platted with extra depth to permit generous
distances between building and the trafficway.
      (4)   Lots shall have a front-to-front relationship across all streets
where possible.
      (5)   Where lots border upon bodies of water, the front yard may be
designated as the water front side of the lot provided the lot has sufficient
depth to provide adequate setback on the street side to maintain a setback for
all structures equal to the front setback on the street side as well as on the
waterfront side.
(Prior Code, § 27-40) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.39 SUBDIVISION OPEN SPACE PLAN; PLANNED UNIT DEVELOPMENT.
   The following requirements apply in addition to all other requirements of
this chapter where a preliminary plat (stage 1) is filed for approval under the
subdivision open space plan section of the zoning ordinance.
   (A)   Statement of principles. Consideration by the Planning Commission and
the City Commission of proposed optional use of the subdivision open space plan
shall reflect the following basic principles:
      (1)   The subdivision open space section of the zoning ordinance provides
an optional method of subdividing property, and approval of any subdivision
open space plan is subject to the discretion of the City Commission.
      (2)   Particular attention shall be given to the effect of a subdivision
open space plan upon the immediate area, where the character of that area has
been established by previous development. Major attention shall be given by the
Planning Commission and the City Commission to the benefits to be derived by
the residents of the proposed subdivision and the city because of the
subdivision open space plan with minor consideration to be given to the
proprietor.
      (3)   The following objectives shall govern the approval or disapproval
of the proposed subdivision open space plan:
         (a)   To provide a more desirable living environment by preserving the
natural character of the terrain features;
         (b)   To encourage developers to use a more creative approach in the
development of residential areas;
         (c)   To encourage a more efficient, aesthetic and desirable use of
the land while recognizing a reduction in development costs and by allowing the
developer to bypass natural obstacles;
         (d)   To encourage the provision of open space so benefits may accrue
directly to residents of the subdivision and to further encourage the
development of recreational facilities.
   (B)   Application for approval. The application for approval of a
subdivision open space plan shall contain the following in addition to the
information required by other sections of this chapter:
      (1)   A complete description of the land proposed to be dedicated to the
city or to the common use of lot owners (herein called open land) shall be
provided, including the following as a minimum:
         (a)   Legal description of open land;
         (b)   Topographical survey of open land;
         (c)   Type of soil in open land;
         (d)   Description of natural features on open land (stands of trees or
other vegetation, streams or other bodies of water and the like); and
         (e)   Other relevant factors.
      (2)   The proposed plan of development of the open land shall be
contained in the application and shall include the following as a minimum:
         (a)   The proposed manner in which the title to land and facilities is
to be held by the owners of land in the subdivision;
         (b)   The proposed manner of collection of maintenance costs,
financing costs or assessments so that nonpayment will constitute a lien on the
property, thus avoiding city responsibility in the future;
         (c)   The proposed manner of regulating the use of the common
facilities and areas so as to eliminate possible nuisances to other property
owners and cause for enforcement by the City Commission;
         (d)   The proposed method of notifying the city when any change is
contemplated in plans that would affect the original specifications approved by
the city;
         (e)   The proposed method of setting up assessments to cover
contingencies, insurance against casualty and liability and payment of taxes
relating to these properties;
         (f)   The proposed uses of open land and the proposed improvements
which are to be constructed by the proprietor.
      (3)   The application shall contain a statement of the benefits to be
realized by the residents of the proposed subdivision and the city by approval
of the proposed subdivision open space plan with particular reference to the
objectives stated in the zoning ordinance.
   (C)   Planning Commission approval. If the Planning Commission is satisfied
that the proposed subdivision open space plan meets the letter and spirit of
the zoning ordinance and should be approved, it shall recommend such approval
to the City Commission with the conditions upon which such approval should be
based. Thereafter, the City Commission shall take action upon such application
in accordance with §
159.22.
   (D)   Planning Commission rejection. If the Planning Commission is not
satisfied that the proposed subdivision open space plan meets the letter and
spirit of the zoning ordinance or finds that the approval of the subdivision
open space plan will be detrimental to existing development in the general area
and should not be approved, it shall communicate the disapproval to the City
Commission with the reasons therefor. The proprietor shall be entitled to a
hearing upon the proposal therefor. The proprietor shall be entitled to a
hearing upon the proposal before the City Commission upon written request
therefor filed with the Clerk.
   (E)   Approval. If the City Commission gives approval to the proposed
subdivision open space plan, it shall instruct the City Attorney to prepare a
contract setting forth the conditions upon which the approval is based, which
contract after approval by the City Commission, shall be entered into between
the city and the proprietor prior to the approval of any preliminary plat
(stage 2) based upon the approved preliminary plat (stage 1).
(Prior Code, § 27-41) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.40 NATURAL FEATURES.
   (A)   The natural features and character of lands must be preserved whenever
possible.
   (B)   Due regard must be shown for all natural features such as large trees,
natural groves, watercourses and similar community assets that will add
attractiveness and value to the property, if preserved.
   (C)   The preservation of drainage and natural stream channels must be
considered by the proprietor and the dedication and provision of adequate
barriers, where appropriate, shall be required.
(Prior Code, § 27-42) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.41 FLOOD PLAINS.
   Any areas of land within the proposed subdivision which lie either wholly or
in part within the flood plain of a river, stream, creek or lake, or any other
areas which are subject to flooding or inundation by storm water shall require
specific compliance with the Subdivision Act and its review by the Water
Resources Commission of the Department of Conservation.
(Prior Code, § 27-43) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
IMPROVEMENTS
§ 159.55 GENERALLY.
   (A)   The improvements set forth under this subchapter are to be considered
as the minimum acceptable standard to be provided by the proprietor.
   (B)   All those improvements for which standards are not specifically set
forth shall have the standards set by ordinance or published rules of the City
Commission.
   (C)   All improvements must meet the approval of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, § 27-55) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.56 DEPOSIT.
   (A)   (1)   Prior to the undertaking of any improvements, the proprietor
shall deposit with the Clerk cash, a certified check or irrevocable bank letter
of credit running to the city, whichever the proprietor selects, to insure
faithful completion of all improvements within the time specified.
      (2)   The amount of the deposit shall be set by the City Commission based
on an estimate by the Engineer.
   (B)   All improvements shall be constructed and approved by the city within
a length of time agreed upon from the date of approval of the final plat by the
City Commission.
   (C)   The City Commission shall release funds for the payment of work as it
is completed and approved by the city.
(Prior Code, § 27-56) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.57 MAINTENANCE BOND.
   Prior to the acceptance by the city of improvements, a 2-year maintenance
bond in an amount set by the City Commission shall be posted by the proprietor.
(Prior Code, § 27-57) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.58 STREETS.
   (A)   Generally.
      (1)   All streets and appurtenances thereto shall be constructed in
accordance with details and specifications approved by the City Commission.
      (2)   All pavements, accepted as noted below, shall be concrete pavement
with curb and gutter on each side.
   (B)   Street pavement width standards.
Street Type Pavement Width (measured from face of curb to face of curb in feet)
Street Type                Pavement Width (measured from face of curb to face
                           of curb in feet)
Major thoroughfare         In conformance with the standards and specifications
                           established by the City Commission
Collector streets          36
Industrial streets         40
Multiple-family residential streets
Dedicated streets          36
Undedicated streets        31 (asphaltic or concrete pavement with concrete
                           curb and gutter on each side)
Minor residential streets  28
Marginal access streets    24
Turn-around (loop) streets Not less than 80-foot diameter at terminating loop
Alley                      20
Cul-de-Sac Streets-Turn-Arounds
Industrial                 65 (radius)
Residential and other      45 (radius)
 
(Prior Code, § 27-58) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.59 UTILITIES.
   (A)   Requirements for underground wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all lines for telephone, electric, television and other
similar services distributed by wire or cable to be placed underground entirely
throughout a subdivided area, except for major thoroughfare right-of-way, and
such conduits or cables shall be placed within private easements provided to
such service companies by the developer or within dedicated public ways,
provided only that overhead lines may be permitted upon written recommendation
of the Engineer, Planner, Planning Commission, and the approval of the City
Commission at the time of final plat approval where it is determined that
overhead lines will not constitute a detriment to the health, safety, general
welfare, plat design and character of the subdivision. All such facilities
placed in dedicated public ways shall be planned so as not to conflict with
other underground utilities. All such facilities shall be constructed in
accordance with standards of construction approved by the state’s Public
Service Commission. All drainage and underground utility installations which
traverse privately owned property shall be protected by easements granted by
the proprietor.
   (B)   Sewage disposal. A sanitary sewer system including all appurtenances
shall be required in all subdivisions which shall connect and outlet into a
city sanitary sewer system.
   (C)   Water supply. A water supply system including appurtenances shall be
required in all subdivisions which shall be connected to a city water supply
system.
   (D)   Storm drainage system. An adequate storm drainage system including
necessary storm sewers, catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges, and other
appurtenances shall be required in all subdivisions. Adequate provision shall
be made for proper drainage of storm water run-off from residential rear yards.
Each yard shall be self-contained and shall be drained from rear to front
except where topography or other natural features require otherwise.
(Prior Code, § 27-59) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.60 SIDEWALKS.
   (A)   Major thoroughfares. A 5-foot wide concrete sidewalk located 1 foot
from the property line on the side or sides of the roadway abutting the
subdivision shall be provided. In those instances where no good purpose would
be served by the provision of sidewalks, the City Commission may waive this
requirement.
   (B)   Collector streets. A 5-foot concrete sidewalk located 1 foot from the
property line on each side of the roadway shall be provided. In those instances
where no good purpose would be served by the provision of sidewalks, the City
Commission may waive this requirement.
   (C)   Minor streets. A 5-foot concrete sidewalk located 1 foot from the
property line on each side of the roadway shall be provided. In those instances
where no good purpose would be served by the provision of sidewalks, the City
Commission may waive this requirement.
   (D)   Marginal access streets. A 5-foot sidewalk located 1 foot from the
property line on the private property side of the roadway shall be provided. In
those instances where no good purpose would be served by the provision of
sidewalks, the City Commission may waive this requirement.
   (E)   Public walkways. The surface of the walkways shall be developed in
concrete. Planting pockets shall be provided in public walkways for tree and
shrub planting. The planting plan and surface treatment shall meet the approval
of the Planning Commission. Fences or other improvements may also be required
if the Planning Commission or City Commission determines they are necessary to
protect the adjacent property owners.
(Prior Code, § 27-60) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.61 TREES.
   Existing trees near street rights-of-way shall be preserved by the
proprietor. Street trees shall be provided at least 1 per lot, and shall be
placed in the separation strip at such location as required by the Planning
Commission.
(Prior Code, § 27-61) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
§ 159.62 STREET SIGNS.
   Street name signs shall be placed at all street intersections within or
abutting the subdivision, and they shall be located as follows in order of
preference of the proprietor:
   (A)   Next to stop sign;
   (B)   At northeast corner of intersection; and
   (C)   At southeast corner of intersection.
(Prior Code, § 27-62) (Ord. 53, passed 8-21-1969)
CHAPTER 160: ZONING
Section
General Provisions
   
160.001   Title
   
160.002   Preamble
   
160.003   Short title
   
160.004   Construction of language
   
160.005   Definitions
Zoning Districts and Map
   
160.020   Districts
   
160.021   Boundaries
   
160.022   Zoning of vacated areas
   
160.023   Zoning of annexed areas
   
160.024   Application of district regulations
R-1A and R-1B, One-Family Residential Districts
   
160.035   Intent
   
160.036   Principal uses permitted
   
160.037   Uses permitted subject to special conditions
   
160.038   Area and bulk requirements
R-M, Multiple-Family Residential Districts
   
160.050   Intent
   
160.051   Principal uses permitted
   
160.052   Uses permitted subject to special conditions
   
160.053   Area and bulk requirements
   
160.054   Required conditions
MHP, Mobile Home Park District
   
160.065   Intent
   
160.066   Principal uses permitted
   
160.067   Development standards
   
160.068   Area, height and placement requirements
   
160.069   Campgrounds, travel trailer parks and tent sites
B-1, Central Business District
   
160.080   Intent
   
160.081   Principal uses permitted
   
160.082   Uses permitted subject to special conditions
   
160.083   Required conditions
   
160.084   Area and bulk requirements
B-2, General Business District
   
160.095   Intent
   
160.096   Principal uses permitted
   
160.097   Uses permitted subject to special conditions
   
160.098   Area and bulk requirements
   
160.099   Site development standards for planned shopping centers
W-M, Waterfront Recreation and Marina District
   
160.110   Intent
   
160.111   Principal uses permitted
   
160.112   Uses permitted subject to special conditions
   
160.113   Area and bulk requirements
   
160.114   Required conditions
I-1, Light Industrial District
   
160.125   Intent
   
160.126   Principal uses permitted
   
160.127   Uses permitted subject to special conditions
   
160.128   Required conditions
   
160.129   Area and bulk requirements
I-2, Heavy Industrial Districts
   
160.140   Intent
   
160.141   Principal uses permitted
   
160.142   Area and bulk requirements
P-1, Vehicular Parking District
   
160.155   Intent
   
160.156   Uses permitted
   
160.157   Limitation of use
   
160.158   Entrance and exit
   
160.159   Minimum distances and setbacks
   
160.160   Screening and landscaping
   
160.161   Surface of parking area
   
160.162   Lighting
   
160.163   Approval and modifications
Nautical Mile District
   
160.175   Intent
   
160.176   Principal uses permitted
   
160.177   Uses subject to special conditions
   
160.178   Development review and site plans
   
160.179   Architectural standards and nautical/historical motif
   
160.180   Off-street parking
   
160.181   Exterior lighting
   
160.182   Permitted, special use signage
   
160.183   Landscaping requirements
Regulations Schedule
   
160.195   Schedule
   
160.196   Notes to schedule
General Provisions
   
160.210   Conflicting regulations
   
160.211   Scope
   
160.212   Nonconforming lots, nonconforming uses of land, nonconforming
structures and nonconforming uses of structures and premises
   
160.213   Accessory buildings and structures
   
160.214   Off-street parking requirements
   
160.215   Off-street parking space layout, standards, construction and
maintenance
   
160.216   Off-street loading and unloading
   
160.217   Uses not otherwise included within a specified use district
   
160.218   Performance standards
   
160.219   Landscaping, screening, greenbelts, buffers, and fencing
   
160.220   Signs
   
160.221   Obscuring walls and fences
   
160.222   Residential entranceway
   
160.223   Corner clearance
   
160.224   Use restriction
   
160.225   Exterior lighting
   
160.226   Waterfront lots
   
160.227   Division of parcels of land and splitting lots
   
160.228   Regulation of condominium developments
   
160.229   Lot limitations
   
160.230   Frontage
   
160.231   Sidewalks along public streets
   
160.232   Permitted exterior wall building materials
   
160.233   On-site use wind systems
   
160.234   Outdoor displays of materials
   
160.235   Outdoor café service
   
160.236   Planned development
   
160.237   Home occupations
General Exceptions as to Area, Height and Use
   
160.245   Generally
   
160.246   Essential services
   
160.247   Voting place
   
160.248   Height limit
   
160.249   Lot area
   
160.250   Lots adjoining alleys
   
160.251   Yard regulations
   
160.252   Multiple dwelling side yard
   
160.253   Projections into yards
   
160.254   Fences and walls
   
160.255   Lot coverage
   
160.256   Access through yards
   
160.257   Terrace
Special Land Use Approval Requirements
   
160.270   Intent
   
160.271   Authority to grant permits
   
160.272   Application and fee
   
160.273   Data, exhibits and information required in application
   
160.274   Public hearings and notices
   
160.275   Required standards and findings for making determinations
   
160.276   Determination and imposition of conditions
   
160.277   Approval and appeal procedures
   
160.278   Voiding of special approval use permit
Administration and Enforcement
   
160.290   Enforcement
   
160.291   Duties of Building Inspector
   
160.292   Plot plan
   
160.293   Permits
   
160.294   Certificates
   
160.295   Final inspection
   
160.296   Fees
   
160.297   Interpretation, purpose and conflict
   
160.298   Zoning Commission
   
160.299   Planning Commission approval
   
160.300   Site plan review required in specific districts
   
160.301   Changes and amendments
   
160.302   Fees; petition for amendment
   
160.303   Validity
   
160.304   Requirements for traffic impact studies
   
160.305   Public notification
   
160.306   Conditional rezoning
Board of Appeals
   
160.315   Creation and membership
   
160.316   Meetings
   
160.317   Appeal
   
160.318   Jurisdiction
   
160.319   Exercising powers
   
160.320   Notice
   
160.321   Miscellaneous
   
160.322   Appeal to Circuit Court
 
   
160.999   Penalty
Charter reference:
   Mandate for zoning ordinance, see §
3.19
   Zoning authority, see §
2.3(n)
Statutory reference:
   Authority to regulate land use, see M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 to 125.3702
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 160.001 TITLE.
   An ordinance enacted under Act 207, Public Acts of 1921, as amended
[M.C.L.A. §§ 1253101 to 125.3702, governing the incorporated portions of the
City of Marine City, St. Clair County, Michigan, to regulate and restrict the
location and use of buildings, structures and land for trade, industry,
residence and for public and semipublic or other specified uses; and to
regulate and limit the height and bulk of buildings and other structures; to
regulate and to determine the size of yards, courts and open spaces; to
regulate and limit the density of population, and for said purposes to divide
the city into districts and establishing the boundaries thereof providing for
changes in the regulations, restrictions and boundaries of the districts,
defining certain terms used herein; providing for enforcement, establishing a
Board of Appeals, imposing penalties for the violation of this chapter.
(Prior Code, App., Title)
§ 160.002 PREAMBLE.
   Pursuant to the authority conferred by the Public Acts of the State of
Michigan in such case, made and provided and for the purpose of promoting and
protecting the public health, safety, peace, morals, comfort, convenience and
general welfare of the inhabitants of the City of Marine City by protecting and
conserving the character and social and economic stability of the residential,
commercial, industrial and other use areas; by securing the most appropriate
use of land; preventing overcrowding of land and undue congestion of
population; providing adequate light, air, and reasonable access; and
facilitating adequate and economical provision of transportation, water,
sewers, schools, recreation and other public requirements and by other means,
all in accordance with a comprehensive plan.
(Prior Code, App., Preamble)
§ 160.003 SHORT TITLE.
   This chapter shall be known and may be cited as the City of Marine City
Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, App., § 100)
§ 160.004 CONSTRUCTION OF LANGUAGE.
   The following rules of construction apply to the text of this chapter.
   (A)   The particular shall control the general.
   (B)   In case of any difference of meaning or implication between the text
of this chapter and any caption or illustration, the text shall control.
   (C)   The word “shall” is always mandatory and not discretionary. The word
“may” is permissive.
   (D)   Words used in the present tense shall include the future; and words
used in the singular number shall include the plural, and the plural the
singular, unless the context clearly indicates the contrary.
   (E)   A “building” or structure includes any part thereof.
   (F)   The phrase “used for” includes “arranged for”, “designed for”,
“intended for”, “maintained for” or “occupied for”.
   (G)   The word “person” includes an individual, a corporation, a
partnership, an incorporated association or any other similar entity.
   (H)   Unless the context clearly indicates the contrary, where a regulation
involves 2 or more items, conditions, provisions or events connected by the
conjunction “and”, “or”, “either...or”, the conjunction shall be interpreted as
follows:
      (1)   “And” indicates that all the connected items, conditions,
provisions, or events shall apply.
      (2)   “Or” indicates that the connected items, conditions, provisions or
events may apply singly or in any combination.
      (3)   “Either...or” indicates that the connected items, conditions,
provisions or events shall apply singly but not in combination.
   (I)   Terms not herein defined shall have the meaning customarily assigned
to them.
(Prior Code, App., § 200)
§ 160.005 DEFINITIONS.
   (A)   For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions shall apply
unless the context clearly indicates or requires a different meaning.
      ACCESSORY BUILDING. A subordinate building, the use of which is clearly
incidental to that of the main building or to the use of the land.
      ACCESSORY USE. A use subordinate to the main use on a lot and used for
purposes clearly incidental to those of the main use.
      ADULT FOSTER CARE. As defined by the Adult Foster Care Facility Licensing
Act (Public Act 218 of 1979, as amended): a governmental or nongovernmental
establishment that provides foster care to adults. Adult foster care facility
includes facilities and foster care homes for adults who are aged, mentally
ill, developmentally disabled, or physically disabled who require supervision
on an ongoing basis, but who do not require continuous nursing care.
         (a)   ADULT FOSTER CARE HOME, FAMILY. A private residence with the
approved capacity to receive 6 or fewer adults to be provided with foster care
for 5 or more days a week for 2 or more consecutive weeks. The licensee shall
be a member of the household and an occupant of the residence.
         (b)   ADULT FOSTER CARE HOME, SMALL GROUP. An adult foster care
facility with the approved capacity to receive 12 or fewer adults to be
provided with foster care for 5 or more days a week for 2 or more consecutive
weeks.
         (c)   ADULT FOSTER CARE HOME, LARGE GROUP. An adult foster care
facility with the approved capacity to receive at least 13, but not more than
20 adults to be provided with foster care for 5 or more days a week for 2 or
more consecutive weeks.
         (d)   ADULT FOSTER CARE CONGREGATE FACILITY. An adult foster care
facility with the approved capacity to receive more than 20 adults to be
provided with foster care.
      AGRICULTURAL LAND. Substantially undeveloped land devoted to the
production of plants and animals useful to humans, including, but not limited
to, forage and sod crops, grains, feed crops, field crops, dairy products,
poultry and poultry products, livestock, herbs, flowers, seeds, grasses,
nursery stock, fruits, vegetables, Christmas trees, and other similar uses and
activities.
      ALLEY. Any dedicated public way affording a secondary means of vehicular
access to abutting property, and not intended for general traffic circulations.
      ALTERATIONS. Any change, addition or modification in construction or type
of occupancy, any change in the structural members of a building, such as walls
or partitions, columns, beams or girders, the consummated act of which may be
referred to herein as ALTERED or RECONSTRUCTED.
      APARTMENT. A dwelling unit in a multiple-dwelling building as defined
herein:
         (a)   EFFICIENCY APARTMENT. A dwelling unit consisting of not more
than 1 room in addition to kitchen and necessary sanitary facilities.
         (b)   ONE-BEDROOM UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of not more than 2
rooms in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities.
         (c)   TWO-BEDROOM UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of not more than 3
rooms in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities.
         (d)   THREE-BEDROOM UNIT. A dwelling unit consisting of not more than
4 rooms in addition to kitchen, dining and necessary sanitary facilities.
      AUTOMOBILE REPAIR STATION. A place where, along with the sale of engine
fuels, the following services may be carried out: general repair, engine
rebuilding, rebuilding or reconditioning of motor vehicles; collision service,
such as body, frame, or fender straightening and repair; painting and
undercoating.
      AUTOMOBILE SERVICE STATION. A place where gasoline (stored only in
underground tanks) kerosene or motor oil and lubricants or grease (for the
operation of motor vehicles) are retailed directly to the public on the
premises, including the sale of minor accessories and services for automobiles.
      BASEMENT. The portion of a building which is partly or wholly below grade
but so located that the vertical distance from the average grade to the  floor
is greater than the vertical distance from the average grade to the ceiling. A
BASEMENT shall not be counted as a story.
      BOARD. The Board of Zoning Appeals.
      BUILDING. Any structure, either temporary or permanent, having a roof,
and used or built for the shelter or enclosure of persons, animals, chattels or
property of any kind. This term shall include tents, awnings or vehicles
situated on private property and used for purposes of a building.
      BUILDING HEIGHT. The vertical distance measured from the established
grade to the highest point of the roof surface for flat roofs; to the deck line
of mansard roofs; and to the average height between eaves and ridge for gable,
hip, and gambrel roofs. Where a building is located on sloping terrain, the
height may be measured from the average ground level of the grade at the
building wall.
      BUILDING LINE. A line formed by the face of the building, and for the
purposes of this chapter, a minimum building line is the same as a front
setback line.
      BUILDING, MAIN OR PRINCIPAL. A building in which is conducted the
principal use of the lot on which it is situated.
      CHILD CARE ORGANIZATION. As defined by the Child Care Organizations Act
(Public Act 116 of 1973, as amended): a governmental or nongovernmental
organization having as its principal function the receiving of minor children
for care, maintenance, training and supervision, notwithstanding that
educational instruction may be given. CHILD CARE ORGANIZATIONS include
organizations, agencies, children's camps, child care centers, day care
centers, nursery schools, parent cooperative preschools, foster homes, day care
group homes, or day care family homes.
         (a)   DAY CARE HOME, FAMILY. A private home in which 1 to 6 minor
children are received for care and supervision for periods of less than 24
hours a day, unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related
to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. A FAMILY DAY-
CARE HOME includes a home that gives care to an unrelated minor child for more
than 4 weeks during a calendar year.
         (b)   DAY CARE HOME, GROUP. A private home in which more than 6 but
not more than 12 minor children are given care and supervision for periods of
less than 24 hours a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except
children related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or
adoption. A GROUP DAYCARE HOME includes a home that gives care to an unrelated
minor child for more than 4 weeks during a calendar year.
         (c)   CHILD CARE CENTER. A facility, other than a private residence,
receiving 1 or more preschool or school-age children for periods of less than
24 hours a day, and where parents or guardians are not immediately available to
the child. It includes a facility which provides care for not less than 2
consecutive weeks, regardless of the number of hours of care per day. May also
be referred to as a day nursery, nursery school, parent cooperative preschool,
play group, or drop-in center.
      CHURCH. A building, the primary use of which is assembly of persons for
religious worship or services together with reasonably closely related
activities or uses. Such definition may include temples, synagogues, mosques or
other similar places of worship.
      CLUB. An organization of persons for special purposes or for the
promulgation of sports, arts, sciences, literature, politics or the like, but
not operated for profit.
      COMMON ELEMENTS. The portions of the condominium other than the
condominium units.
      CONDOMINIUM ACT. Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to
559.276, as amended.
      CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION. For the purposes of this chapter, a condominium
subdivision shall be equivalent to the term SUBDIVISION as used in this Zoning
Ordinance and the City Subdivision  Control Ordinance. If no City Subdivision
Control Ordinance is in effect, the term shall be equivalent to the term
SUBDIVISION as used in the Subdivision Control Act (Public Act 288 of 1967, as
amended).
      CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN. The site, survey, and utility plans; floor
plans and sections, as appropriate (if buildings are proposed), showing the
existing and proposed structures and improvements including the location
thereof on the land. The condominium subdivision plan shall show the size,
location, area, and vertical boundaries and volume for each unit comprised of
enclosed air space. A number shall be assigned to each condominium unit. The
CONDOMINIUM SUBDIVISION PLAN shall include the nature, location and approximate
size of common elements.
      CONDOMINIUM UNIT. That portion of the condominium project designed and
intended for separate ownership and use, as described in the master deed.
      CONTRACTIBLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project from which any portion of
the submitted land or buildings may be withdrawn pursuant to express provisions
in the condominium documents and in accordance with this chapter and the
Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.276.
      CONVERTIBLE AREA. A unit or a portion of the common elements of the
condominium project referred to in the condominium documents within which
additional condominium units or general or limited common elements may be
created pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
to 559.276.
      DAY CARE HOME, FAMILY. A private home in which 1 to 6 minor children are
received for care and supervision for periods of less than 24 hours a day,
unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children related to an adult
member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. A FAMILY DAY-CARE HOME
includes a home that gives care to an unrelated minor child for more than 4
weeks during a calendar year.
      DAY CARE HOME, GROUP. A private home in which more than 6 but not more
than 12 minor children are given care and supervision for periods of less than
24 hours a day unattended by a parent or legal guardian, except children
related to an adult member of the family by blood, marriage or adoption. A
GROUP DAYCARE HOME includes a home that gives care to an unrelated minor child
for more than 4 weeks during a calendar year.
      DISTRICT. A portion of the city within which certain regulations and
requirements or various combinations thereof apply under the provisions of this
chapter.
      DRIVE-IN RESTAURANT. A business establishment for the serving of food
and/or beverages so developed that its retail or service character is
substantially dependent on providing a driveway approach or parking spaces for
motor vehicles so as to serve patrons while in the motor vehicle rather than
within a building or structure; or to permit patron self-service and return to
motor vehicle.
      DWELLING UNIT. A building, or a portion thereof, which is used
exclusively as a residence and provides complete, independent living facilities
for one or more persons, including permanent provisions for living, sleeping,
eating, cooking and sanitation.
      DWELLING, MULTIPLE-FAMILY. A building, or portion thereof, consisting of
3 or more dwelling units.
      DWELLING, ONE-FAMILY. A building designed exclusively for occupancy by 1
family.
      DWELLING, TWO-FAMILY. A building consisting of two dwelling units such as
duplex dwelling unit.
      ERECTED. Built, constructed, altered, reconstructed, moved upon, or any
physical operations on the premises which are required for the construction.
Excavation, fill, drainage, and the like, shall be considered a part of
ERECTION.
      ESSENTIAL SERVICES. The erection, construction, alteration or maintenance
by public utilities or municipal departments of underground, surface or
overhead gas, electrical, steam, fuel or water transmission or distribution
system, collection, communication, supply or disposal systems, including
towers, poles, wires, mains, drains, sewers, pipes, conduits, cables, fire
alarm and police callboxes, traffic signals, hydrants and similar equipment in
connection herewith, but not including buildings, which are necessary for the
furnishing of adequate service by such utilities or municipal departments for
the general health, safety or welfare.
      EXCAVATION. Any breaking of ground, except common household gardening and
ground care.
      EXCEPTION. A use permitted only after review of an application by the
Board of Appeals or Planning Commission other than the Administrative Official
(Building Inspector), the review being necessary because the provisions of this
chapter covering condition, precedent or subsequent, are not precise enough to
all applications without interpretation, and the review is required by this
chapter.
      EXPANDABLE CONDOMINIUM. A condominium project to which additional land
may be added pursuant to express provision in the condominium documents and in
accordance with this chapter and the Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101
to 559.276.
      FAMILY. One or 2 persons or parents, with their direct lineal descendants
or adopted children or foster children (and including the domestic employees
thereof) together with not more than 2 persons not so related, living together
in the whole or part of a dwelling comprising a single housekeeping unit. Every
additional group of 2 or less persons living in the housekeeping unit shall be
considered a separate family for the purpose of this chapter.
      FLOOR AREA. For the purposes of computing the minimum allowable floor
area in a residential dwelling unit, the sum of the horizontal areas of each
story of the building measured from the exterior faces of the exterior walls.
The FLOOR AREA measurement is exclusive of areas of basements, unfinished
attics, attached garages, breezeways and enclosed and unenclosed porches.
      FLOOR AREA, USABLE. (For the purposes of computing parking) is that area
used for or intended to be used for the sale of merchandise or services or for
use to serve patrons, clients or customers. The floor area which is used or
intended to be used principally for the storage or processing of merchandise,
or for utilities shall be excluded from the computation of FLOOR AREA, USABLE.
Measurement of floor area shall be the sum of the gross horizontal areas of the
several floors of the building, measured from the interior faces of the
exterior walls. For the purposes of computing parking for those uses not
enclosed within a building, the area used for the sale of merchandise, display
of merchandise, and/or area used to serve patrons or clients shall be measured
to determine necessary parking spaces.
      GENERAL COMMON ELEMENTS. The common elements other than the limited
common elements.
      GRADE. A ground elevation established for the purpose of regulating the
number of stories and the height of the building. The BUILDING GRADE shall be
the level of the ground adjacent to the walls of the building if the finished
grade is level. If the ground is not entirely level, the grade shall be
determined by averaging the elevation of the ground for each face of the
building.
      HOME OCCUPATION. An occupation, profession, activity, or use that is
clearly a customary, incidental, and secondary use of a residential dwelling
unit and which does not alter the exterior of the property or affect the
residential character of the neighborhood.
      IMPROVEMENTS. Those features and actions associated with a project that
are considered necessary by the body or official granting zoning approval to
protect natural resources or the health, safety, and welfare of the residents
of the City of Marine City and future users or inhabitants of the proposed
project or project area, including roadways, lighting, utilities, sidewalks,
screening, and drainage. Improvements do not include the entire project that is
the subject of zoning approval.
      INTENSITY OF DEVELOPMENT. The height, bulk, area, density, setback, use,
and other similar characteristics of development.
      JUNKYARDS. An open area where waste, used or secondhand materials are
bought and sold, exchanged, stored, baled, packed, disassembled or handled
including, but not limited to, scrap iron and other metals, paper, rags, rubber
tires, and bottles. A JUNKYARD includes automobile wrecking yards and includes
any area of more than 200 square feet for storage, keeping or abandonment of
junk but does not include uses established entirely within enclosed buildings.
      KENNEL. Any lot or premises on which 4 or more dogs and/or cats, 4 months
old or older, are kept either temporarily or permanently for purposes of
boarding, breeding, buying, selling, letting for hire, or training for a fee.
      LIMITED COMMON ELEMENTS. A portion of the common elements reserved in the
master deed for the exclusive use of less than all of the co-owners.
      LOADING SPACE. An off-street space on the same lot with a building or
group of buildings, for temporary parking of a commercial vehicle while loading
and unloading merchandise or materials.
      LOT. A parcel of land occupied, or intended to be occupied, by a main
building, or utilized for the principal use and uses accessory thereto,
together with such open spaces as are required under the provisions of this
chapter. A LOT may or may not be specifically designated as such on public
records.
      LOT AREA. The total horizontal area within the lot lines of a lot.
      LOT, CORNER. A lot where the interior angle of 2 adjacent sides at the
intersection of 2 streets is less than 135 degrees. A lot abutting upon a
curved street or streets shall be considered a corner lot for the purposes of
this chapter if the arc is of less radius than 150 feet and the tangents to the
curve, at the 2 points where the lot lines meet the curve or the straight
street line extended form an interior angle of less than 135 degrees.
      LOT COVERAGE. That part or percent of the lot occupied by buildings,
including accessory buildings.
      LOT DEPTH. The horizontal distance between the front and rear lot lines,
measured along the median between the side lot lines.
      LOT, DOUBLE FRONTAGE. Any interior lot having frontages on 2 more or less
parallel streets as distinguished from a corner lot. In the case of a row of
double frontage lots, all sides of said lots adjacent to streets shall be
considered frontage, and front yards shall be provided as required.
      LOT, INTERIOR. Any lot other than a corner lot.
      LOT LINES. The lines bounding a lot as defined herein:
         (a)   FRONT LOT LINE. In the case of an interior lot, the lot line
separating said lot from the street. In the case of a corner lot, or double
frontage lot, is that line separating the lot from that street which is
designated as the front street in the plat and the request for a building
permit.
         (b)   REAR LOT LINE. The lot line opposite the front lot line. In the
case of a lot pointed at the rear; the rear lot line shall be an imaginary line
parallel to the front lot line, not less than 10 feet long lying farthest from
the front lot line and wholly within the lot.
         (c)   SIDE LOT LINE. Any lot lines other than the front lot lines or
rear lot lines. A side lot line separating a lot from a street is a side street
lot line. A side lot line separating a lot from another lot or lots is an
interior side lot line.
      LOT OF RECORD. A parcel of land, the dimensions of which are shown on a
recorded plat on file with the County Register of Deeds, at the time of
adoption of this chapter, or in common use by Municipal or County Officials,
and which actually  exists as so shown, or any part of such parcel held in a
record ownership separate from that of the remainder thereof.
      LOT WIDTH. The straight line distance between the side lot lines measured
at the 2 points where the minimum building line, or setback, intersects the
side lot lines.
      MAIN BUILDING. A building in which is conducted the principal use of the
lot upon which it is situated.
      MAIN USE. The principal use to which the premises are devoted and the
principal purpose for which the premises exists.
      MAJOR THOROUGHFARE. An arterial street which is intended to serve as a
large volume trafficway for both the immediate city area and the region beyond,
and may be designated as a major throughfare, parkway, freeway, expressway or
equivalent term to identify those streets comprising the basic structure of the
street plan. Any street with right-of-way width, existing or proposed, of 120
feet or greater shall be considered a MAJOR THROUGHFARE.
      MARGINAL ACCESS STREET. A service street or roadway parallel to a major
thoroughfare or arterial street and which provides access to abutting
properties and protection from through traffic.
      MASTER DEED. The condominium document recording the condominium project
as approved by the city, to which is attached as exhibits and incorporated by
reference the approved bylaws for the project and the approved condominium
subdivision plan.
      MASTER PLAN. The comprehensive plan including graphic and written
proposals indicating the general location for streets, parks, schools, public
buildings and all physical development of the municipality, and includes any
unit or part of such plan, and any amendment to such plan or parts  thereof.
The plan or part thereof may or may not be adopted by the Planning Commission
and/or City Commission.
      MEZZANINE. An intermediate or fractional story between the floor and
ceiling of a main story occupying not more than 1/3 of the floor area of the
main story.
      MOTEL. A series of attached, semi-detached or detached rental units
containing bedroom, bathroom, and closet space. Units shall provide for
overnight lodging and are offered to the public for compensation, and shall
cater primarily to the public traveling by motor vehicle.
      NONCONFORMING BUILDING. A building or portion thereof, existing at the
effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the provisions of this chapter relative to height, bulk, area or
yards for the district in which it is located.
      NONCONFORMING USE. A use which lawfully occupied a building or land at
the effective date of this chapter, or amendments thereto, and that does not
conform to the use regulations of the district in which it is located.
      NURSERY, PLANT MATERIAL. A space, building or structure, or combination
thereof, for the storage of live trees, shrubs or plants offered for retail
sale on the premises including products used for gardening or landscaping. The
definition of NURSERY within the meaning of this chapter does not include any
space, building or structure used for the sale of fruits, vegetables or
Christmas trees.
      OFF-STREET PARKING LOT. A facility other than for single family dwellings
providing vehicular parking spaces along with adequate drives and aisles, for
maneuvering, so as to provide access for entrance and exit for the parking of
more than 3 vehicles.
      ON-SITE USE WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy system that is intended to
primarily serve the needs of the on-site consumer.
      OPEN FRONT STORE. A business establishment other than a restaurant, bank,
automobile service or repair stations, so developed  that service to the patron
may be extended beyond the walls of the building, not requiring the patron to
enter the building.
      PARKING SPACE. An area of definite length and width, the area shall be
exclusive of drives, aisles or entrances giving access thereto, and shall be
fully accessible for the storage or parking of permitted vehicles.
      PLANNING COMMISSION. The Planning Commission of the City of Marine City.
      PUBLIC UTILITY. Any person, firm, corporation, municipal department,
board or Commission duly authorized to furnish and furnishing under federal,
state or municipal regulations to the public: gas, steam, electricity; sewage
disposal, communication, telegraph, transportation or water.
      SETBACK. The distance required to obtain the front, side or rear yard
open space provisions of this chapter.
      SIGN. The use of any words, numerals, figures, devices, designs or
trademarks by which anything is made known such as are used to show an
individual firm, profession or business, and are visible to the general public.
         (a)   ACCESSORY SIGN. A sign which is accessory to the principal use
of the premises.
         (b)   NON-ACCESSORY SIGN. A sign which is not accessory to the
principal use of the premises.
         (c)   GROUND SIGN. A freestanding sign supported by 1 or more
uprights, braces or pylons located in or upon the ground or to something
requiring location on the ground including “billboards” or “poster panels” so
called.
         (d)   PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which is affixed to any building or part
thereof, or structure, which extends beyond the building wall or  parts
thereof, or structures, by more than 12 inches. A PROJECTING SIGN shall not
include a ground sign as herein defined.
         (e)   RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCEWAY SIGN. A permanent structure, including
but not limited to walls, columns and gates, marking entrances to single family
subdivisions or multiple housing projects and identifying the subdivision or
project by name, symbol or otherwise.
         (f)   ROOF SIGN. A sign which is erected, constructed or maintained
upon, and projects above or beyond the roof or parapet.
         (g)   WALL SIGN. A sign attached to or placed flat against the
exterior wall or surface of any building, no portion of which projects more
than 12 inches from the wall, but which may or may not project above the roof
or parapet.
      SITE CONDOMINIUM. A subdivision of land created and recorded pursuant to
the Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.276 (Public Act 59 of
1978, as amended), and the provisions of this chapter, containing 2 or more
units of land designed and intended for separate ownership and use, and which
may or may not contain general and limited common elements. Except as otherwise
specifically provided, a condominium unit is not a “lot” or “parcel” as those
terms are used in this chapter.
      SITE PLAN. Includes the documents and drawings required by this chapter
to ensure that a proposed land use or activity is in compliance with local
ordinances and state and federal statutes.
      STABLE, PRIVATE. A stable for the keeping of horses for the noncommercial
use of the residents of the principal use and shall not include the keeping of
horses for others, or for commercial boarding.
      STABLE, PUBLIC. A stable other than a private stable.
      STATE LICENSED RESIDENTIAL FACILITY. A structure constructed for
residential purposes that is licensed by the state under the Adult Foster Care
Facility Licensing Act, Public Act 218 of 1979 or the Child Care Organizations
Act, Public Act 116 of 1973, and provides residential services for 6 or fewer
individuals under 24-hour supervision or care.
      STORY. That part of a building, except a mezzanine as defined herein,
included between the surface of 1 floor and the surface of the next floor, or
if there is no floor above, then the ceiling next above.  A STORY thus defined
shall not be counted as a story when more than 50%, by cubic content, is below
the height level of the adjoining ground.
      STORY, HALF. An uppermost story lying under a sloping roof, the usable
floor area of which, at a height of 4 feet above the floor does not exceed 2/
3 of the floor area in the story directly below, and the height above at least
200 square feet of floor space is 7 feet 6 inches.
      STREET. A public thoroughfare, other than an alley, which affords the
principal means of access to abutting property. Access to property by means of
private drive, private roadways or other vehicular access ways (such as private
drives in multiple-family developments) and where maintenance is provided by
other than the public-at-large shall not be considered as streets under this
definition. Except that, in the case of a “site condominium,” as defined and as
regulated by this chapter, the principal means of access to abutting “units of
ownership” shall be considered a street, provided it is constructed and
maintained to meet the same standard for public streets within the city, as
established by the city. The streets within a “site condominium” may be
dedicated to the public or owned and maintained by the association of co-
owners.
      STRUCTURE. Anything constructed or erected, the use of which requires
location on the ground or attachment to something having location on the
ground.
      TEMPORARY USE OR BUILDING. A use or building permitted by the Board of
Appeals to exist during periods of construction of the main building or use, or
for special events.
      TRAILER COACH. Any vehicle designed, used or so constructed as to permit
its being used as a conveyance upon the public streets or highways and duly
licensable as such, and constructed in such a manner as will permit occupancy
thereof as a dwelling or sleeping place for 1 or more persons.
      TRAILER COURT. Any plot of ground upon which 2 or more trailer coaches,
occupied for dwelling or sleeping purposes are located.
      USE. The purpose for which land or a building is arranged, designed or
intended, or for which land or a building is or may be occupied.
      UTILITY GRID WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy system that is designed
and built to provide electricity to the electric utility grid.
      VARIANCE.
         (a)   A modification of the literal provisions of the Zoning Ordinance
granted when strict enforcement of the Zoning Ordinance would cause undue
hardship owing to circumstances unique to the individual property on which the
variance is granted.
         (b)   The crucial points of VARIANCE are:
            1.   Undue hardship;
            2.   Unique circumstances; and
            3.   Applying to property.
         (c)   A VARIANCE is not justified unless all 3 elements are present in
the case.
      VETERINARY CLINIC. A place where animals or pets are given medical or
surgical treatment with use as a kennel limited to short-time boarding which is
incidental to the medical use.
      WIND ENERGY SYSTEM. A wind energy conversion system which converts wind
energy into electricity through the use of a wind turbine generator and
includes the turbine, blades, and tower as well as related electrical
equipment. This does not include wiring to connect the wind energy system to
the grid.
      YARD. The open spaces on the same lot with a main building, unoccupied
and unobstructed from the ground upward except as otherwise provided in this
chapter and as defined herein:
         (a)   FRONT YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot,
the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the front lot
line and the nearest line of the main building.
         (b)   REAR YARD. An open space extending the full width of the lot,
the depth of which is the minimum horizontal distance between the rear lot line
and the nearest line of the main building.
         (c)   SIDE YARD. An open space between a main building and the side
lot line, extending from the front yard to the rear yard, the width of which is
the horizontal distance from the nearest point of the side lot line to the
nearest point of the main building.
   (B)   Wherever the term DURABLE DUSTLESS shall be used herein, it shall mean
a paved hard surface with proper drainage.
(Prior Code, App., § 201) (Ord. passed 9-19-1974; Am. Ord. 89-4, passed 5-4-
1989; Am. Ord. 97-2, passed 6-5-1997; Am. Ord. 08-01, passed 5-15-2008; Am.
Ord. 13-06, passed 8-1-2013; Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
ZONING DISTRICTS AND MAP
§ 160.020 DISTRICTS.
   For the purposes of this chapter, the city is hereby divided into the
following districts:
   (A)   R-1A—One-Family Residential District;
   (B)   R-1B—One-Family Residential District;
   (C)   R-M—Multiple-Family Residential District;
   (D)   MHP—Mobile Home Park District;
   (E)   B-1—Central Business District;
   (F)   B-2—General Business District;
   (G)   W-M—Waterfront Recreation and Marina District;
   (H)   I-1—Light Industrial District;
   (I)   I-2—Heavy Industrial District; and
   (J)   P-1—Vehicular Parking District.
(Prior Code, App., § 300) (Ord. 91-4, passed 9-5-1991)
§ 160.021 BOUNDARIES.
   The boundaries of these districts are hereby established as shown on the
Zoning Map which accompanies this Zoning Ordinance and which map with all
notations, references and other information shown thereon shall be as much a
part of this chapter as if fully described herein:
   (A)   Unless shown otherwise, the boundaries of the districts are lot lines,
the center lines of streets, alleys, roads or the lines extended, and the
limits of the city. Where district boundaries are shown coinciding with street,
alley or road right-of-way lines, the boundary shall be the center line of the
right-of-way.
   (B)   Where, due to the scale, lack of detail, or illegibility of the Zoning
Map accompanying this chapter, there is an uncertainty, contradiction, or
confliction as to the intended location of any district boundaries shown
thereon, interpretation concerning the exact location of district boundary
lines shall be determined upon written application to, or upon its own motion,
by the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, App., § 301)
§ 160.022 ZONING OF VACATED AREAS.
   Whenever any street, alley or other public way within the city shall be
vacated, such street, alley or other public way or portion thereof shall
automatically be classified in the same zone district as the property to which
it attaches.
(Prior Code, App., § 302)
§ 160.023 ZONING OF ANNEXED AREAS.
   Any area annexed to the City of Marine City which has not been zoned
pursuant to the master plan or zoning ordinance of any other municipality shall
immediately upon the annexation be automatically classified as a temporary R-1B
District until a zoning map for the area has been adopted by the City
Commission. The Planning Commission shall recommend appropriate zoning for the
temporary R-1B District within 3 months after the matter is referred to the
Planning Commission by the City Commission. In the case of annexed area which
is presently classified as zoned property pursuant to a master plan or zoning
ordinance of any other adjacent municipality the property shall retain its
present zoning classification upon annexation.
(Prior Code, App., § 303) (Ord. 79-9, passed 10-18-1979)
§ 160.024 APPLICATION OF DISTRICT REGULATIONS.
   (A)   The regulations herein established within each zoning district shall
be the minimum regulations for promoting and protecting the public health,
safety, and general welfare and shall be uniform for each class of land,
building, structure, or uses throughout each district.
   (B)   No building shall hereafter be erected, altered, or moved, nor shall
any building or premises hereafter be used for any purpose other than is
permitted in the district in which said building or premises is located, except
by appeal as herein described by this Ordinance. Wherever the requirements of
this Ordinance are at variance with the requirements of any other adopted
regulations, or ordinances, the most restrictive or those imposing the higher
standards shall govern.
   (C)   Uses in districts.
      (1)   Permitted uses. Permitted uses shall be permitted by right only if
specifically listed as principal permitted uses in the various zoning district
or are similar, as determined by the Planning Commission, to such listed uses.
      (2)   Accessory uses and buildings.  Accessory uses are permitted only if
such uses are clearly incidental to the permitted principal uses.
      (3)   Special uses. Special uses are permitted as listed or if similar,
as determined by the Planning Commission, to the listed special uses.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
R-1A AND R-1B, ONE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 160.035 INTENT.
   The R-1A and R-1B One-Family Residential Districts are designed to be the
most restrictive of the residential districts. The intent is to provide for an
environment of medium-density one-family dwelling units along with certain
residentially related facilities which serve the residents in the district.
(Prior Code, App., § 400)
§ 160.036 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In a One-Family Residential District (R-1A and R-1B), no building or land
shall be used and no building shall be erected except for one or more of the
following specified uses, unless otherwise provided in this chapter:
   (A)   One-family detached dwellings;
   (B)   Agriculture on those parcels of land separately owned outside the
boundaries of either a proprietary or supervisor’s plat, having an area of not
less than 5 acres, all subject to the health and sanitation provisions of the
City of Marine City;
   (C)   Publicly owned and operated libraries, parks, parkways and
recreational facilities;
   (D)   Cemeteries which lawfully occupied land at the time of adoption of
this chapter;
   (E)   Adult foster care family home;
   (F)   Family day care home;
   (G)   Public, parochial and other private elementary, intermediate schools
and/or high schools offering courses in general education, not operated for
profit. All structures on the site shall be setback from abutting properties
zoned for residential use not less than 25 feet;
   (H)   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto on the same
property, including secular counseling services, such as family and individual
counseling (not including dormitory use), whether provided directly or under
lease with other charitable or governmental organizations. All structures on
the site shall be set back from abutting properties zoned for residential use
not less than 25 feet. Buildings of greater than the maximum height allowed
herein, may be allowed provided front, side and rear yards are increased above
the 25 feet minimum requirements by 1 foot for each foot of building that
exceeds the maximum height allowed;
   (I)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed 1 year;
   (J)   Accessory buildings, provided that they shall be located as required
herein;
   (K)   Name plates and signs as provided herein; and
   (L)   Automobile parking space to be provided as required herein.
(Prior Code, App., § 401) (Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.037 USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the
Planning Commission:
   (A)    Adult foster care small group homes. Adult foster care small group
homes shall be constructed, maintained, and operated in conformance with
applicable local, state, and federal laws.
   (B)   Utility and public service buildings and uses (without storage yards)
when operating requirements necessitate the locating of said building within
the district in order to serve the immediate vicinity.
   (C)   Nursery schools, day nurseries and child care centers (not including
dormitories); provided that for each child so cared for, there shall be
provided and maintained a minimum of 150 square feet of outdoor play area. Such
play space shall have a total minimum area of not less than 5,000 square feet
and shall be screened from any adjoining lot in any Residential District.
   (D)   Private noncommercial recreational areas; institutional or community
recreation centers; nonprofit swimming pool, all subject to the following
restrictions:
      (1)   Any use permitted herein shall be developed only on acreage of at
least 1 acre in area.
      (2)   The proposed site for any of the uses permitted herein shall have
one property line abutting a major throughfare, and the site shall be so
planned as to provide ingress and egress directly onto said major throughfare.
      (3)   Front, side, and rear yards shall be at least 80 feet wide except
when abutting a nonresidential district, and shall be landscaped in trees,
shrubs and grass. All such landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a
healthy growing condition neat and orderly in appearance.
      (4)   Buildings erected on the premises shall not exceed 1 story in
height except where due to topography a lower level shall be permitted when
said lower level is entirely below the grade of the major throughfare abutting
the parcel in question.
      (5)   All lighting shall be shielded to reduce glare and shall be so
arranged as to reflect the light away from all residential districts.
      (6)   Off-street parking shall be provided so as to accommodate at least
1/2 of the member families and/or individual members. By-laws of the
organization shall be provided in order to establish the membership involved
for computing parking requirements. For a use permitted herein and not
requiring formal membership, off-street parking requirements shall be
determined by the Planning Commission on the basis of usage.
      (7)   Wherever the off-street parking lot is adjacent to land zoned for
any residential purposes, a continuous obscuring masonry wall 4 feet 6 inches
in height or a heavily planted greenbelt 10 feet in width, shall be provided
along the sides of the parking area adjacent to the residentially zoned land.
The wall or greenbelt shall further be subject to the provisions hereof.
      (8)   All parking areas shall be surfaced as required herein.
      (9)   Whenever a swimming pool is involved, the pool area shall be
provided with a protective fence 6 feet in height and entry shall be provided
by means of a controlled gate or turnstile.
      (10)   Where storm sewers are nonexistent or capacity is not ample,
adequate on site take-off facilities shall be provided and shall be reviewed
and approved by the City Commission as being adequate.
   (E)   Golf courses, which may or may not be operated for profit, subject to
the following conditions:
      (1)   The site shall be so located as to provide all ingress and egress
directly onto or from a major throughfare either existing or proposed.
      (2)   The site plan shall be laid out to achieve a relationship between
the major throughfare and any proposed service roads, entrances, driveways, and
parking areas which will encourage pedestrian and vehicular traffic safety.
      (3)   Development features including the principal and accessory
buildings and structures shall be so located and related as to minimize the
possibilities of any adverse effects upon adjacent property. This shall mean
that all principal or accessory buildings shall be not less than 200 feet from
any property line of abutting residentially zoned lands; provided that where
topographic conditions are such that buildings would be screened from view, the
Planning Commission may modify this requirement.
      (4)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces to be provided
shall be 6 spaces per hole plus 1 space per employee plus spaces as required
hereunder, for each accessory use, such as a restaurant or bar.
      (5)   Whenever a swimming pool is to be provided, said pool shall be
provided with a protective fence 6 feet in height, and entry shall be by means
of a controlled gate.
   (F)   Colleges, universities and other such institutions of higher learning,
public and private, offering courses in general, technical, or religious
education and not operated for profit, all subject to the following conditions:
      (1)   Any use permitted herein shall be developed only on sites of at
least 40 acres in area, and shall not be permitted on any portion of a recorded
subdivision plat.
      (2)   All ingress to and egress from said site shall be directly on to a
major throughfare either existing or proposed.
      (3)   No building other than a structure for residential purposes shall
be closer than 80 feet to any property line when said property line is adjacent
to any Residential District.
   (G)   Public riding and/or boarding stables may be permitted in Residential
Districts on special permit issued by the Board of Appeals (renewable each year
after review by the Board of Appeals) subject to the following minimum
conditions and any other reasonable condition which the Board of Appeals may
impose.
      (1)   Public riding and/or boarding stables may be permitted on
unsubdivided parcels of not less than 20 acres.
      (2)   Stables, paddock areas for instruction or paddock areas for the
confinement of horses near stables shall be at least 300 feet from any property
line.
      (3)   Bridle paths, and all other riding areas shall be confined to the
site of continuous acreage.
      (4)   Off-street parking shall be provided on the site in the ratio of 1
space per horse to be stabled on the site.
      (5)   Lighting for exterior illumination shall be directed away from and
shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
      (6)   A plot plan drawn to scale, designating all of the above areas,
shall be submitted to the Board of Appeals.
   (H)   Private stable, as an accessory use, for not more than 1 horse on a
lot where the lot is not less than 2 acres in area and provided further, that
for each additional horse stabled thereon 1 acre of land shall be provided. All
confinement areas and/or stables shall in all instances be located in the rear
yard. In no instance shall a horse be confined nearer than 75 feet to any
property line. No horse shall be allowed to run at large.
   (I)   Plant material nurseries and greenhouses subject to the following
conditions:
      (1)   The minimum site size shall be 5 acres and so located as to provide
all ingress and egress directly onto or from a major throughfare.
      (2)   Front, side, and rear yards shall be at least 50 feet wide except
when abutting a nonresidential district.
      (3)   All buildings or structures shall be set back not less than 50 feet
from any property line abutting any residential district.
   (J)   Bed-and-breakfast operations. A use which is subordinate to the
principal use of a dwelling unit as a single-family dwelling unit, and a use in
which transient guests are provided a sleeping room and board in return for
payment. The use shall conform to the following conditions:
      (1)   The dwellings shall be located only in the B-1 and B-2 Business
Districts, or R-1 Residential, subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   A business license is obtained in accordance with
Chapter 111 of the code.
         (b)   The exterior appearance of the structure shall not be altered
from its single family character.
      (2)   The establishment shall be located within a residence which is the
principal dwelling unit on the property, and said dwelling is the principal
residence of the establishment operator.
      (3)   Not more than 25% of the total floor area of the dwelling unit
shall be used for bed-and-breakfast sleeping rooms.
      (4)   There shall be no separate cooking facilities used for the bed-and-
breakfast sleeping rooms.
      (5)   A sign identifying the operation may be located on the premises
only after the Planning Commission shall have approved its design, size,
location and height.
      (6)   In addition to the parking requirements required for the principal
use hereby, 1 additional space shall be provided for each rental room. Such
additional spaces as are required shall be located in the side or rear yard and
be constructed and enclosed as directed by the Planning Commission. The
Planning Commission may require additional space for employee parking.
   (K)   State-licensed group day-care homes, subject to the following:
      (1)   the hours of operation shall be limited to the period between 6:00
a.m. and 10:00 p.m.
      (2)   No sign accessory to the home shall be permitted.
      (3)   Not less than 1,200 square feet of outdoor play area suitable for
play activity shall be provided and maintained on the premises of the group
day-care home.
      (4)   The rear yard of the group day-care home shall be fenced to a
height of not less than 4 feet nor more than 6 feet.
      (5)   There shall be 1 off-street parking space for each nonresident
care-giver, and there shall be 2 additional off-street or on-street parking
spaces available for ingress and egress.
      (6)   The zoning lot occupied by the group day-care home shall not be
located within 1,500 feet of any of the following:
         (a)   Another licensed group child care home.
         (b)   An adult foster care small group home or large group home
licensed under the adult foster care facility licensing act, Public Act 218 of
1979, as amended.
         (c)   A facility offering substance abuse treatment and rehabilitation
service to 7 or more people licensed under article 6 of the public health code,
Public Act 368 of 1978, as amended.
         (d)   A community correction center, resident home, halfway house, or
other similar facility which houses an inmate population under the jurisdiction
of the department of corrections.
   (L)   Adaptive reuse and/or mixed use of existing structures. Certain
structures, because of unique or peculiar circumstances with regard to
location, type or size of building, and/or architectural style may be deemed
desirable of preservation by the Planning Commission. Such structures may no
longer be useful for the purposes for which they were designed and used because
of obsolescence of a previous use, changing land use pattern or changing zoning
districts. Certain uses or combination of uses (mixed uses) for the structure
may be compatible and desirable if the proposed adaptive reuse of an existing
structure is determined by the Planning Commission to be peculiar or unique and
cannot otherwise conform with existing district regulations. In addition to all
requirements in §
160.270 et seq., “Special Land Use Approval Requirements,” and other
regulations which might apply, the following conditions shall apply to all
structures that are redeveloped as an adaptive reuse of an existing structure:
      (1)   A development plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
containing the following:
         (a)   The building floor plan for all floors and the proposed use of
each floor;
         (b)   The proposed use for each portion of floor in the case of a
mixed use;
         (c)   The location of all walls;
         (d)   Each room shall be identified for its proposed use;
         (e)   The location of all utilities including electrical, heating,
cooling and plumbing;
         (f)   The total square footage of the proposed project. Square footage
of each portion of floor proposed for use in mixed-use developments shall also
be submitted;
         (g)   The location of all doors and windows, existing and proposed;
         (h)   The location of all parking areas, including the number of
parking spaces; and
         (i)   Recent color photographs of all sides of the structures shall be
submitted with the site plan and kept by the Planning Commission in the
development plan file.
      (2)   The structure shall not be enlarged nor shall its exterior be
altered so that it is more out of character with surrounding buildings or uses.
      (3)   Landscaping elements and existing topographic features shall not be
removed or altered so as to change the visual and environmental character of
the site. In cases where site modification and improvements for parking,
loading, or access require the removal of trees or shrubbery, new trees and
shrubbery shall be replanted adjacent to the modified area providing an
aggregate diameter or volume equal to the diameter or volume of the trees or
shrubbery removed.
      (4)   No other principal building or structure shall be constructed
except that an accessory building may be allowed, provided that the building is
located on the same parcel of land and is not involved in the conduct of any
business and provided that the development plan is amended by the applicant and
approved in writing by the Planning Commission if the accessory building is
proposed for construction after the development plan has been approved.
      (5)   Structures determined to have historic significance due to unique
architecture, age or culture and are capable of preservation to the exterior
shall be preserved and maintained to its current or historic style and
condition, whenever possible.
      (6)   Parking shall be provided according to regulations of the district
that the proposed use most closely resembles in the case of mixed uses. Parking
requirements shall apply for each use separate from the district that each is
most closely associated with. On-street parking and/or municipal parking lots
may be utilized to meet all or part of the parking requirements, provided that
said parking is located not more than 300 feet from the subject lot or parcel.
The expected use of on-street parking shall not be such that it would cause
undue negative impact upon other uses within the immediate vicinity that may
rely upon the availability of such parking.
      (7)   The applicant shall submit supporting documents demonstrating
compliance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives, intent and purpose of this section;
         (b)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, maintained and managed
so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with existing or intended
character of the general vicinity;
         (c)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services, such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal or that the persons or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any such
service;
         (d)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses; and
         (e)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services.
      (8)   Any change in use for any floor or portion of floor shall require
that the development plan be amended and said amendment be approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (9)   Prior to acting on a request under this section, the Planning
Commission shall obtain a written opinion from the Historic District
Commission, or other similar body charged with historic preservation
responsibilities within the city.
(Prior Code, App., § 402) (Ord. 77, passed 3-6-1975; Am. Ord. 84-6, passed 5-
17-1984; Am. Ord. 87-10, passed 5-21-1987; Am. Ord. 88-8, passed 10-20-1988;
Am. Ord. 88-10, passed 1-5-1989; Am. Ord. 89-3, passed 4-6-1989; Am. Ord. 89-4,
passed 5-4-1989; Am. Ord. 07-08, passed 1-17-2008; Am. Ord. 10-02, passed 6-3-
2010;Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.038 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
160.195 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, the maximum density permitted, and providing minimum
yard setback requirements.
(Prior Code, App., § 403)
R-M, MULTIPLE-FAMILY RESIDENTIAL DISTRICTS
§ 160.050 INTENT.
   The R-M Multiple-Family Residential Districts are designed to provide sites
for multiple-dwelling structures which will generally serve as zones of
transition between the business or industrial districts and lower density
single-family districts. The Multiple-Family District is further provided to
serve the limited needs for the apartment-type of unit in an otherwise single-
family residential community.
(Prior Code, App., § 500)
§ 160.051 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   In the R-M Multiple-Family Residential Districts, no building or land,
except as otherwise provided in this chapter, shall be erected or used except
for 1 or more of the following specified purposes and shall be permitted
subject to the review and approval of the site plan by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The review of the site plan is required in order to minimize the
possibility of adverse effects upon adjacent property; and, furthermore, to
find proper relationships between the following development features as they
relate to traffic safety, service roads, driveways, parking areas; accessory
buildings and uses, and open space:
      (1)   All uses permitted and as regulated in the R-1B One-Family
Residential Districts;
      (2)   Two-family dwellings, provided such dwellings shall be served by
public sewer and water systems;
      (3)   Multiple-family dwellings, provided such dwellings shall be served
by public sewer and water systems; and
      (4)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the
above uses.
(Prior Code, App., § 501)
§ 160.052 USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the
Planning Commission:
   (A)   General hospitals, except those for criminals and those solely for the
treatment of persons who are mentally ill or have a contagious disease, not to
exceed 4 stories, when the following conditions are met:
      (1)   All such hospitals shall be developed only on sites consisting of
at least 5 acres in area.
      (2)   The proposed site shall have at least 1 property line abutting a
major thoroughfare, and all ingress and egress for the site shall be directly
from said major thoroughfare.
      (3)   The minimum distance of any main or accessory building from
bounding lot lines or streets shall be at least 100 feet for front, rear, and
side yards for all 2-story structures. For every story above 2, the minimum
yard distance shall be increased by not less than 10 feet.
      (4)   Ambulance and delivery areas shall be obscured from all residential
view with a continuous and obscuring masonry wall 6 feet in height and the wall
shall be further subject to the requirements hereof.
   (B)   Housing for the elderly, adult foster care large group homes and adult
foster care congregate facilities, not to exceed a height of 2 stories, when
the following conditions are met:
      (1)   All housing for the elderly shall be provided as a planned
development consisting of at least 5 acres and may provide for the following:
         (a)   Cottage type dwellings and/or apartment type dwelling units.
         (b)   Common services containing, but not limited to: Central dining
rooms, recreational rooms, central lounge, and workshops.
      (2)   All dwellings shall consist of at least 350 square feet of floor
area per unit (not including kitchen and sanitary facilities).
      (3)   Total coverage of all buildings (including dwelling units and
related service buildings) shall not exceed 25% of the total site exclusive of
any dedicated public right-of-way.
      (4)   Housing for the elderly, adult foster care large group homes and
adult foster care congregate facilities shall be constructed, maintained, and
operated in conformance with applicable local, state, and federal laws.
   (C)   Convalescent homes, not to exceed a height of 2 stories, when the
following conditions are met:
      (1)   The site shall be developed as to create a land to building ratio
on the lot or parcel whereby for each 1 bed in the convalescent home there
shall be provided not less than 1,500 square feet of open space. The 1,500
square feet of land area per bed shall provide for landscape setting, off-
street parking, service drives, loading space, yard requirements and space
required for accessory uses. The 1,500 square feet requirement is over and
above the building coverage area.
      (2)   No building shall be closer than 40 feet from any property line.
   (D)   Boarding, rooming or lodging house.
   (E)   Accessory buildings and uses customarily incident to any of the above
uses.
   (F)   Adaptive reuse and/or mixed use of existing structures. Certain
structures, because of unique or peculiar circumstances with regard to
location, type or size of building, and/or architectural style may be deemed
desirable of preservation by the Planning Commission. Such structures may no
longer be useful for the purposes for which they were designed and used because
of obsolescence of a previous use, changing land use pattern or changing zoning
districts. Certain uses or combination of uses (mixed uses) for the structure
may be compatible and desirable if the proposed adaptive reuse of an existing
structure is determined by the Planning Commission to be peculiar or unique and
cannot otherwise conform with existing district regulations. In addition to all
requirements in §
160.270 et seq., "Special Land Use Approval Requirements," and other
regulations which might apply, the following conditions shall apply to all
structures that are redeveloped as an adaptive reuse of an existing structure:
      (1)   A development plan shall be submitted to the Planning Commission
containing the following:
         (a)   The building floor plan for all floors and the proposed use of
each floor;
         (b)   The proposed use for each portion of floor in the case of a
mixed use;
         (c)   The location of all walls;
         (d)   Each room shall be identified for its proposed use;
         (e)   The location of all utilities including electrical, heating,
cooling and plumbing;
         (f)   The total square footage of the proposed project. Square footage
of each portion of floor proposed for use in mixed-use developments shall also
be submitted;
         (g)   The location of all doors and windows, existing and proposed;
         (h)   The location of all parking areas, including the number of
parking spaces; and
         (i)   Recent color photographs of all sides of the structures shall be
submitted with the site plan and kept by the Planning Commission in the
development plan file.
      (2)   The structure shall not be enlarged nor shall its exterior be
altered so that it is more out of character with surrounding buildings or uses.
      (3)   Landscaping elements and existing topographic features shall not be
removed or altered so as to change the visual and environmental character of
the site. In cases where site modification and improvements for parking,
loading, or access require the removal of trees or shrubbery, new trees and
shrubbery shall be replanted adjacent to the modified area providing an
aggregate diameter or volume equal to the diameter or volume of the trees or
shrubbery removed.
      (4)   No other principal building or structure shall be constructed
except that an accessory building may be allowed, provided that the building is
located on the same parcel of land and is not involved in the conduct of any
business and provided that the development plan is amended by the applicant and
approved in writing by the Planning Commission if the accessory building is
proposed for construction after the development plan has been approved.
      (5)   Structures determined to have historic significance due to unique
architecture, age or culture and are capable of preservation to the exterior
shall be preserved and maintained to its current or historic style and
condition, whenever possible.
      (6)   Parking shall be provided according to regulations of the district
that the proposed use most closely resembles in the case of mixed uses. Parking
requirements shall apply for each use separate from the district that each is
most closely associated with. On-street parking and/or municipal parking lots
may be utilized to meet all or part of the parking requirements, provided that
said parking is located not more than 300 feet from the subject lot or parcel.
The expected use of on-street parking shall not be such that it would cause
undue negative impact upon other uses within the immediate vicinity that may
rely upon the availability of such parking.
      (7)   The applicant shall submit supporting documents demonstrating
compliance with the following requirements:
         (a)   Will be harmonious with and in accordance with the general
objectives, intent and purpose of this section;
         (b)   Will be designed, constructed, operated, maintained and managed
so as to be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with existing or intended
character of the general vicinity;
         (c)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and
services, such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage
structures, refuse disposal or that the persons or agencies responsible for the
establishment of the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any such
service;
         (d)   Will not be hazardous or disturbing to existing or future
neighboring uses; and
         (e)   Will not create excessive additional requirements at public cost
for public facilities and services.
      (8)   Any change in use for any floor or portion of floor shall require
that the development plan be amended and said amendment be approved by the
Planning Commission.
      (9)   Prior to acting on a request under this section, the Planning
Commission shall obtain a written opinion from the Historic District
Commission, or other similar body charged with historic preservation
responsibilities within the city.
(Prior Code, App., § 502) (Am. Ord. 07-08, passed 1-17-2008; Am. Ord. 2019-002,
passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.053 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
160.195 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, the minimum size of lot
permitted by land use, maximum density permitted, and providing minimum yard
setback requirements.
(Prior Code, App., § 503)
§ 160.054 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Roadways within multiple family developments. In multiple-family housing
developments where internal roadways are provided to serve attached or detached
dwelling units which have individual driveways leading to or serving as the
parking area for each dwelling unit, the roadways shall be designed and
constructed to meet the standards set forth in the City Code for subdivision
streets.
(Prior Code, App., § 504) (Ord. 97-2, passed 6-5-1997)
MHP, MOBILE HOME PARK DISTRICT
§ 160.065 INTENT.
   This district is designed to create a residential zoning district which will
permit and encourage single-family development in mobile homes. Unlike the
typical one-family subdivision in which the individual lot provides the open
space and amenities for family living, the overall development pattern would be
similar to that of multifamily development. The mobile home park will be
managed, organized, and regulated by the developer. Streets, utilities, open
space, recreation and amenities will be provided and regulated by the
developer. As a result, the City of Marine City has recognized the need to
locate such zoning districts along major transportation routes and in areas of
adequate utilities and public services. Similar to multiple-family
developments, the mobile home parks would be designed to provide adequate space
and land use separation consistent with the city’s other zoning districts. The
rules and regulations as promulgated by the State of Michigan Mobile Home
Commission shall be applicable, except as modified by the following sections.
(Prior Code, App., § 500.1) (Ord. 91-4, passed 9-5-1991)
§ 160.066 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   In all MHP Districts, no building or land except as otherwise provided in
this chapter, shall be erected or used except for 1 or more of the following
specified uses.
   (A)   Mobile home parks, subject to the requirements as established and
regulated by 1987 Public Act 96, being M.C.L.A. §§ 125.2301 to 125.2350, as
amended, and all applicable codes and ordinances of the City of Marine City;
   (B)   Mobile home condominium projects;
   (C)   Accessory commercial uses such as manager’s offices, laundry and dry
cleaning facilities, and other services for the residents of the park shall be
permitted. Adequate parking for such services shall be provided as required by
the Michigan Mobile Home Commission (Rules 925 and 926). The park proprietor or
management may display for-sale mobile homes and accessories (provided the
accessories are contained within a mobile home or an approved permanent
structure for such purpose). The sales are allowed to permit the development of
the park and are not intended to be a retail operation. The sales shall cease
with the total development of the park;
   (D)   One sign, not larger than 32 square feet in area, for identification
of the premises and use (without additional advertising), may be placed at the
main entrance of the mobile home park. One sign, not larger than 10 square feet
limited to the same identification contained on the entrance sign, may be
erected on any secondary entrance to the mobile home park adjoining a public
road. The identification sign shall be a part of a permanent decorative
entranceway and shall be compatible with the surrounding area. In addition,
individual homeowners or their agents may place “For Sale” signs no larger than
16 square feet in area upon their lots or on their homes. All signs shall
observe the requirements cited herein.
(Prior Code, App., § 501.1) (Ord. 91-4, passed 9-5-1991)
§ 160.067 DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS.
   (A)   Minimum site size. Each mobile home park must have a site of not less
than 10 acres of land.
   (B)   Maximum heights. The maximum height of any service buildings, signs or
other structures shall not exceed 2 stories or 35 feet.
   (C)   Paving. All roads, drives and parking areas within a mobile home park
shall be hard surfaced in accordance with the provisions of Rule 920(1)(a) and
Rule 922 of the Michigan Mobile Home Commission. Roadway drainage shall be
appropriately designed such that storm water from the roadway will not drain
onto the mobile home lots. All main access drives shall be maintained free of
on-street parking.
   (D)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be required along the streets and roads and
those leading to service facilities such as the clubhouse, laundry, parking
areas or recreation facilities. All sidewalks shall be constructed of concrete
and be no less than 3 feet in width. When located adjacent to an access drive,
the sidewalk shall be placed no less than 3 feet from the edge of the roadway
curb.
   (E)   Plumbing, electrical and TV. All electrical and telephone wiring shall
be underground. Where a master antenna is provided, service shall be
constructed and maintained with underground leads servicing each mobile home
site.
   (F)   Parking. A minimum of 2 off-street parking spaces shall be provided
for each mobile home unit. The spaces may be provided side by side on the
individual site or may be grouped in parking lots.
   (G)   Screening and screening belt. When the mobile home park adjoins a site
zoned R-1A, R-1B, R-M, W-M, or a site improved and presently used for one-
family residential use, a screening or greenbelt as provided hereunder shall be
installed on the park site along the boundary line of the residential site.
   (H)   Storage and skirting. There shall be no storage of any kind permitted
under a mobile home. All mobile homes shall be skirted. The skirting shall be
installed upon the mobile home within 90 days after its placement upon a lot.
   (I)   Occupancy requirements. No person shall occupy a mobile home until
such time as a building permit and a certificate of occupancy shall be issued.
   (J)   Fuel tanks. Individual fuel oil, liquid petroleum or other fuel tanks
shall not be permitted in a mobile home park. The park operator may determine
whether or not outdoor gas grills will be permitted.
   (K)   Storage. No personal property shall be stored outside or under any
mobile home. Storage sheds may be used to store property but need not be
supplied by the owner of the mobile home development.
   (L)   Site plan. In accordance with M.C.L.A. § 125.2311 of the Mobile Home
Commission Act, as amended, a person desiring to develop a mobile home park
shall submit a preliminary plan to the Planning Commission for review and
approval. The preliminary plan shall include the location, layout, general
design and a general description of the project. The Planning Commission shall
work with the proprietor and his or her architect to preserve the natural
resources where possible and to encourage a good circulation system, building
groupings and adequate recreation and parking.
   (M)   Storage parking. If boats, boat trailers and utility trailers are
permitted to be parked within the mobile home park, adequate parking spaces for
the vehicles in a central or collective parking area shall be provided. This
area shall be in addition to the parking requirements herein.
   (N)   Smoke alarms. Smoke alarms shall be installed and maintained in
workable condition in each mobile home.
   (O)   Water supply and sanitary system. Each mobile home occupied as a
dwelling unit upon a lot within a mobile home park shall be connected to the
Marine City water supply and sewage disposal system and approved by the
Michigan Department of Public Health.
   (P)   Anchoring. Each mobile home shall be anchored by an anchoring system
meeting the standards and specifications of Rule 125.1605 of the Michigan
Administrative Code.
(Prior Code, App., § 502.1) (Ord. 91-4, passed 9-5-1991)
§ 160.068 AREA, HEIGHT AND PLACEMENT REQUIREMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to each mobile home site:
   (A)   Lot size.
      (1)   The mobile home park shall be developed with sites averaging 5,500
square feet per mobile home unit. This 5,500 square feet for any one site may
be reduced by 20% provided that the individual site shall be equal to at least
4,400 square feet.
      (2)   For each square foot of land gained through a reduction of a site
below 5,500 square feet, at least an equal amount of land shall be dedicated as
open space, but in no case shall the open and distance requirements be less
than that required under Rule 125.1946, Rule 946 and R 125.1941 and R 125.1944,
Rules 941 and 944 of the Michigan Administrative Code.
   (B)   Setbacks. No mobile home or any other buildings shall be closer than
50 feet to a public right-of-way, or 30 feet to any adjacent property owner’s
property line.
   (C)   Floor space. There shall be not less than 750 square feet of floor
area within each mobile home. The floor area of any porch, sun deck or other
structure above the roof or outside the floor or walls of the mobile home shall
not be used to meet the 750 square foot requirement.
(Prior Code, App., § 503.1) (Ord. 91-4, passed 9-5-1991)
§ 160.069 CAMPGROUNDS, TRAVEL TRAILER PARKS AND TENT SITES.
   The following uses shall be permitted, subject to conditions imposed for
each use and subject further to the review and approval of the Planning
Commission:
   Campgrounds, travel trailer parks and tent sites as regulated in the W-
M Waterfront Recreation and Marina Districts.
(Ord. 11-07, passed 10-6-2011)
B-1, CENTRAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 160.080 INTENT.
   The B-1 Central Business District is designated to serve as the major
shopping center for the trade area of Marine City in addition to serving as a
shopping center for tourist trade. This district is typified by uses which are
compatible one to another and are not interrupted by automotive uses or
facilities creating a break in the continuity of stores which would be caused
by driveway cuts for self service types of stores or services. It is the intent
of this chapter to provide for such uses which cause interruption of the
continuity of the B-1 District in other districts.
(Prior Code, App., § 600)
§ 160.081 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Office buildings and uses including medial offices and hospitals;
   (B)   Any generally recognized retail business which supplies commodities on
the premises, such as but not limited to: groceries, meats, dairy products,
baked goods or other foods, drugs, dry goods and notions, hardware, furniture
and clothing;
   (C)   Any personal service establishment which perform services, on the
premises, such as: shoe repair, tailor shops, beauty parlors, or barbershops or
any service establishments of an office showroom or workshop nature of an
electrician, decorator, dressmaker, baker, printer, upholsterer, dry cleaners
or establishments doing radio, television or home appliance repair,
photographic reproduction and similar establishments that require a retail
adjunct;
   (D)   Hotels, motels, restaurants and taverns wherein such establishment
does not extend as an integral part of, or accessory thereto, any service of a
drive-in nature;
   (E)   Theaters, auditoriums, assembly halls, concert halls or similar places
of assembly when conducted completely within enclosed buildings;
   (F)   Banks, with drive-in facilities permitted when the drive-in facilities
are incidental to the principal function;
   (G)   Publicly owned and operated parks and recreational facilities;
municipal or governmental office buildings and post office;
   (H)   Newspaper office;
   (I)   Churches and other facilities normally incidental thereto on the same
property, including secular counseling services, such as family and individual
counseling (not including dormitory use), whether provided directly or under
lease with other charitable or governmental organizations. Buildings of greater
than the maximum height allowed herein, may be allowed.
   (J)   Other uses similar to the above uses;
   (K)   Public or private parking lots;
   (L)   Accessory structures, uses and accessory signs customarily incidental
to the above permitted uses, subject to the following restrictions:
      (1)   Accessory signs as permitted herein and only when pertaining to the
sale, rental or use of the premise on which it is located or to goods sold or
activities conducted thereon.
      (2)   All lighting for parking areas or for the external illumination of
buildings shall be directed away from and shall be shielded from adjacent
residential districts; and
   (M)   Residential units on upper floors above permitted uses on the ground
floor.
(Prior Code, App., § 601) (Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019; Am. Ord. passed
10-21-2021)
§ 160.082 USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Under such conditions as the Planning Commission, after hearing, finds the
use as not being injurious to the B-1 District and environs and not contrary to
the spirit and purpose of this chapter and subject further to the conditions
hereinafter imposed for each use, the following uses may be permitted:
   (A)   Publicly owned buildings, public utility buildings, telephone exchange
buildings, electric transformer stations and substations, gas regulator
stations with service yards, but without storage yards; water and sewage
pumping stations;
   (B)   Business schools or private schools operated for profit including, but
not limited to: dance studios, music and voice schools and art schools;
   (C)   Arcades, as defined and as licensed pursuant to this code of
ordinances, provided that, so as to prevent an undue concentration of such
facilities, another licensed arcade is not located within 350 feet. Curfew
requirements for persons under 16 years of age, as set forth in this code of
ordinances, shall apply to the operation of any arcade approved under this
section.
(Prior Code, App., § 602) (Ord. passed 5-16-1974; Am. Ord. 87-15, passed 8-20-
1987; Am. Ord. 99-2, passed 2-4-1999; Am. Ord. 2018-006, passed 11-1-2018; Am.
Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.083 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   (1)   All business establishments shall be retail or service
establishments dealing directly with consumers.
      (2)   All goods produced on the premises shall be sold at retail on
premises where produced.
   (B)   All business, servicing or processing, except for off-street parking
or loading, shall be conducted within a completely enclosed building, except
that approved by the Planning Commission, per §
160.082(D).
   (C)   The outdoor storage of goods or materials shall be prohibited.
   (D)   All business establishments shall close for business between the hours
of 2:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m. 7 days per week excepting those days where the
Michigan Liquor Control laws allow for service to be extended beyond 2:30 a.m.
(Prior Code, App., § 603) (Ord. 87-15, passed 8-20-1987; Am. Ord. 90-10, passed
8-2-1990)
§ 160.084 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
160.195 limiting height and bulk of buildings and minimum size of lot by
permitted land use.
(Prior Code, App., § 604)
B-2, GENERAL BUSINESS DISTRICT
§ 160.095 INTENT.
   The B-2 General Business District is designed to furnish areas served by the
B-1 Central Business District with a variety of automobile services and goods
incompatible with the uses in such B-1 Central Business District. The B-
2 General Business District is characterized by More diversified business types
and is located to serve transient traffic in addition to tourist accommodations
and services.
(Prior Code, App., § 700)
§ 160.096 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   All principal and special conditions uses permitted and as regulated
in the B-1 Districts except as hereinafter modified;
   (B)   Auto laundries, when completely enclosed in building;
   (C)   Bus passenger stations;
   (D)   New car sales showrooms and garages and Marine sales.
   (E)   Governmental office or other governmental use; public utility offices,
exchanges, transformer stations, pump stations, and service yards but not
including outdoor storage;
   (F)   Greenhouses and florist provided there shall be no outdoor growing of
plant material or outdoor storage permitted;
   (G)   Private clubs or lodge halls, fraternal organizations;
   (H)   Retail cold storage establishments;
   (I)   Bowling alley, billiard hall, indoor archery range, indoor skating
rink, and similar forms of indoor commercial recreation;
   (J)   Other uses similar to the above uses;
   (K)   Accessory structures, uses and accessory signs customarily incidental
to the above permitted uses subject to the requirements hereof; and
   (L)   Planned shopping centers.
(Prior Code, App., § 701) (Am. Ord. 04-07, passed 8-19-2004)
§ 160.097 USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   Under such conditions as the Planning Commission, after hearing, finds the
use as not being injurious to the B-2 District and environs, and not contrary
to the spirit and purpose of this chapter, and subject further to the
conditions hereinafter imposed for each use, the following uses may be
permitted:
   (A)   Outdoor sales space for exclusive sale of automobiles, house trailers,
or boats subject to the following:
      (1)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
      (2)   Ingress and egress to the outdoor sales area shall be at least 60
feet from the intersection of any 2 streets.
      (3)   A 4-foot obscuring wall or obscuring fence shall be provided when
abutting districts are zoned for residential use.
      (4)   No major repair or major refinishing shall be done on the lot
except in enclosed buildings provided for this purpose.
   (B)   Motel or hotel, subject to the following:
      (1)   Provided that it can be demonstrated that all points of ingress and
egress do not conflict with adjacent business uses and are directly onto a
major thoroughfare.
      (2)   A 4-foot obscuring wall or obscuring fence shall be provided where
abutting districts are zoned for residential use.
      (3)   Each unit shall contain not less than 200 square feet of floor
area.
   (C)   Business in the character of a drive-in, or open front store subject
to the following:
      (1)   A setback of at least 60 feet from the right-of-way line of any
existing or proposed street must be maintained.
      (2)   Ingress and egress points shall be located at least 60 feet from
the intersection of any 2 streets.
      (3)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
      (4)   A 4-foot completely obscuring wall or obscuring fence shall be
provided where abutting districts are zoned for residential use.
   (D)   Commercially used outdoor recreational space for children’s amusement
parks, carnivals, miniature golf courses, subject to the following:
      (1)   Children’s amusement park must be fenced on all sides with a 4-foot
wall or fence.
      (2)   Adequate parking shall be provided off the road right-of-way and
shall be fenced with a 4 foot wall or fence where adjacent to the use.
   (E)   Mortuary establishments subject to the following:
      (1)   The minimum lot area shall be 20,000 square feet and so arranged
that adequate assembly area is provided off-street for vehicles to be used in a
funeral procession. This assembly area shall be provided in addition to any
required off-street parking area.
      (2)   The site shall be so located as to have at least 1 property line
abutting a major thoroughfare and all ingress and egress for the site shall be
directly onto the major thoroughfare, or a marginal access service drive
thereof.
      (3)   Points of ingress and egress for the site shall be so laid out as
to minimize possible conflicts between traffic on adjacent major throughfares
and funeral processions or visitors entering or leaving the site.
      (4)   No building shall be located closer than 25 feet to the outer
perimeter (property line) of the district when the property line abuts any
residential district.
      (5)   A caretakers residence may be provided within the main building of
the mortuary establishment.
      (6)   Loading and unloading area used by ambulance, hearse, or other such
service vehicles shall be obscured from all residential view with a wall or
fence 6 feet in height and the wall or fence, plus any other required wall or
fence shall be further subject to the requirements hereof.
   (F)   Veterinary hospitals or clinics, provided all activities are conducted
within a totally enclosed main building and provided further that no abutting
property be zoned in any residential classification.
   (G)   Gasoline service station for sale of gasoline, oil and minor
accessories only, and where no repair work is done, other than incidental
service, but not including steam cleaning and subject to the following:
      (1)   The curb cuts for ingress and egress to a service station shall not
be permitted at such locations that will tend to create traffic hazards in the
streets immediately adjacent thereto. Entrances shall be no less than 25 feet
from a street intersection or from adjacent residential districts.
      (2)   The minimum lot area shall be 10,000 square feet, and so arranged
that ample space is available for motor vehicles which are required to wait.
      (3)   There shall be provided, on those sides abutting or adjacent to a
residential district, a 4 foot completely obscuring wood or masonry wall.
      (4)   All lighting shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts.
(Prior Code, App., § 702)
§ 160.098 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
160.195 limiting the height and bulk of buildings and minimum size of lot by
permitted land use.
(Prior Code, App., § 703)
§ 160.099 SITE DEVELOPMENT STANDARDS FOR PLANNED SHOPPING CENTERS.
   (A)   A PLANNED SHOPPING CENTER is hereby defined as a grouping of retail
and service uses on a single site with common parking facilities.
   (B)   The following development standards shall apply to all sites developed
as planned shopping centers as defined above and are in addition to any of the
applicable requirements of this section:
      (1)   Building facades greater than 100 feet in length shall incorporate
recesses and projections along at least 20% of the length of the facade.
Windows, awnings and arcades must total at least 60% of a facade length
abutting a public street.
      (2)   Architectural interest shall be provided through the use of
repeating patterns of changes of color, texture and material modules. At least
1 of these elements shall repeat horizontally. All elements should repeat at
intervals of no more than 50 feet, either horizontally or vertically.
      (3)   There shall be variations in roof lines to reduce the massive scale
of the structure and to add visual interest. Roofs shall have at least 2 of the
following features:
         (a)   Parapets concealing flat roofs and rooftop equipment;
         (b)   Overhanging eaves;
         (c)   Sloped roofs; and
         (d)   Three or more roof surfaces.
      (4)   Each principal building with an anchor tenant shall have a clearly
defined, highly visible customer entrance with features such as canopies or
porticos, arcades, arches, wing walls and integral planters.
      (5)   Facade colors shall be of a low reflectance, subtle, neutral or
earth tone colors. The use of high intensity colors, metallic colors, black or
fluorescent colors is prohibited.
      (6)   Building trim may consist of brighter colors, but neon tubing as a
building accent is prohibited.
      (7)   Loading docks, trash collection, outdoor storage and similar
facilities and functions shall be incorporated into the overall design of the
building and the landscaping so that the visual and acoustic impacts of these
functions are fully contained and out of view from adjacent properties and
public streets. Use of screening materials that are different from or inferior
to the principal materials of the building and landscape is prohibited. No
delivery, loading, trash removal, exterior property maintenance, or similar
operations are permitted between the hours of 9:00 p.m. and 7:00 a.m., except
in special circumstances and where steps are taken to reduce noise impacts.
      (8)   Each planned shopping center must contribute to the establishment
or enhancement of the community and public spaces by providing at least 2
community amenities such as a patio/seating area, water feature, clock tower,
pedestrian plaza with benches, public art and the like.
   (C)   Retail stores with a gross floor area of 50,000 square feet or more
shall be developed in accordance herewith, as stated in this section.
(Ord. 04-07, passed 8-19-2004)
W-M, WATERFRONT RECREATION AND MARINA DISTRICT
§ 160.110 INTENT.
   The waterfront of the City of Marine City is a limited community resource;
therefore, it is the intent of the Waterfront Recreation and Marina District,
aside from residential use, to allow only those recreational, public and
business uses which are related to the waterfront and which, therefore, cannot
feasibly be located elsewhere. Such districts are intended to encourage safe
and efficient development of waterfront areas and facilitate navigation.
(Prior Code, App., § 800) (Ord. 98-3, passed 3-19-1998)
§ 160.111 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Public or private facilities for the berthing, launching, handling or
servicing of recreational boats, except as otherwise provided in this
subchapter;
   (B)   Public beaches and recreation areas directly related to the
waterfront;
   (C)   Retail businesses which supply products primarily and directly for
persons using the facilities of the district, such as sale of boats, equipment
and accessories, fishing equipment and bait and other similar items;
   (D)   Indoor storage of boats in a permanent structure;
   (E)   Accessory uses and buildings as follows:
      (1)   Private launching ramps;
      (2)   Outdoor storage of recreational boats on the paved off-street
parking surface required herein. No parking lot shall be occupied by stored
boats during the months of June, July and August. All such storage shall be
arranged in an orderly manner and at least 1/2 of the parking area shall be
conveniently available for customer parking by May 15;
      (3)   Other approved accessory uses and buildings when located on the
same lot as a principal use, provided that such accessory use or building shall
be clearly incidental to the permitted use; and
      (4)   Temporary buildings and uses for construction purposes for a period
not to exceed 1 year.
(Prior Code, App., § 801) (Ord. 98-3, passed 3-19-1998)
§ 160.112 USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the
Planning Commission.
   (A)   Boat fuel stations;
   (B)   Clubs, lounges or restaurants;
   (C)   Engine and hull repair shops;
   (D)   Marine construction and maintenance equipment use and storage;
   (E)   Municipal or private facilities for the berthing, launching, handling
or servicing of commercial boats;
   (F)   Any use permitted in any residential district, which is part of a
planned development, provided that such use shall comply with all of the zoning
regulations of the highest residential district in which it is first allowed;
   (G)   Hotels or other such facilities to provide temporary home-port
accommodations; and
   (H)   Stack storage.
   (I)   Campgrounds, travel trailer parks and tent sites, subject to the
following:
      (1)   Minimum parcel size shall be 2 acres. The parcel shall provide
vehicular access to a public road.
      (2)   One off-street parking space shall be provided for each camping
site.
      (3)   Camping sites shall be located no closer to a property line than
the minimum yard setback distance. Within a side yard, a lesser distance may be
approved by the Planning Commission where a 6-foot masonry wall is constructed
along the property line.
      (4)   The purpose of the campground or travel trailer park shall be to
provide temporary recreational sites and opportunities and not intermediate or
long term housing. Occupancy within the park shall be limited to between April
1 and December 1.
      (5)   Trailers shall be removed from camping sites between December 1 and
April 1 but may be stored on-site within a storage area designated as such on
the site plan.
      (6)   No retail sales shall be permitted to operate on the parcel, except
that a convenience goods shopping building may be provided on a parcel
containing more than 80 sites. Convenience goods sold shall be primarily for
the benefit of the campground users and not the general public, unless allowed
by the special conditional use permit.
      (7)   All sanitary facilities shall be designed and constructed in strict
conformance to all applicable St. Clair County health regulations.
      (8)   All campgrounds shall be licensed by the State of Michigan and
shall comply with all applicable state and county rules and regulations,
including Part 125 of the Public Health Code (PA 368 of 1978).
(Prior Code, App., § 802) (Ord. 98-3, passed 3-19-1998; Am. Ord. 11-07, passed
10-6-2011)
§ 160.113 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
160.195 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, and minimum size of lot by
permitted land use.
(Prior Code, App., § 803) (Ord. 98-3, passed 3-19-1998)
§ 160.114 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   (A)   All open areas, setback and all other portions of the site not used
for approved boat storage, parking, driveways, buildings and launching shall be
provided with landscaping, approved by the Planning Commission, and so
maintained in attractive condition.
   (B)   Lighting of the site shall be as approved by the Planning Commission
in accordance herewith and as specified for each district, and shall not
include floodlighting, building-mounted or otherwise (except as may be
permitted by the Commission on a finding that such lighting produces no adverse
effects to neighboring properties and rights-of-way).
   (C)   All dredging, construction, bulkheading or development shall be
subject to the requirements of codes and ordinances of City of Marine City; St.
Clair County, and applicable state and federal laws and rules.
   (D)   The addition or alteration of slips, boathouses, moorings on the
shoreline shall require site plan review.
   (E)   Slip dimensions shall be in accordance with the following maximum
requirements:
 
Slip length (ft):            25 30 35 40 45 50 55 60 65 +
Width, floating slips (ft.): 10 11 12 14 15 17 18 18 19
Width, fixed slips (ft):     11 12 14 16 18 19 19 20 22
 
   (F)   Permitted outside storage of boats and equipment necessary and
accessory to the principal use shall comply with the following conditions:
      (1)   All storage or parking shall be set back as specified in § 160.113
and be at least 25 feet from any adjacent residential district.
      (2)   Equipment storage areas shall be continuously maintained.
      (3)   Whenever a different material is to be stored than that agreed upon
in the original request, a new approval shall be required from the Planning
Commission.
      (4)   The Planning Commission shall also find, before granting this
approval, it will not tend to further:
         (a)   Impair the adequate supply of light and air to the adjacent
property;
         (b)   Increase in hazard from fire, flood and other dangers to the
site or adjacent property;
         (c)   Diminish the market value of adjacent land and buildings;
         (d)   Increase the congestion on the public streets; and
         (e)   Otherwise impair the public health, safety, comfort and general
welfare.
      (5)   The most appropriate method of screening the stored materials from
view, such as solid masonry wall, landscaped earth berm and the like will be
determined by the Planning Commission, as provided herein.
   (G)   Facilities shall be provided at the marina for disposal of refuse from
boat holding tanks in a sanitary manner. Each marina shall provide suitable,
safe and sanitary toilet refuse facilities within buildings designed for this
purpose. No less than 1 toilet shall be provided for each 50 boat spaces or
less within not more than 1,000 feet of walking distance of each boat space.
Refuse and garbage containers shall be provided and kept in clean and sanitary
condition for the use of boat owners within not more than 150 feet of walking
distance of each boat space. All such facilities shall be subject to the
approval of the St. Clair County Health Department.
   (H)   Public launchings permitted in any marina having a public launching
ramp shall be limited as follows: The number of public launchings permitted
shall be limited to the number of parking spaces available to the general
public for the parking of vehicles and boat carriers in any such marina. The
number of public launchings shall be limited in direct proportion to the
available harbor spaces in any such marina as hereinafter required, whichever
number of parking spaces or harbor spaces is the smaller. Parking spaces for
vehicles with boat trailers shall not be less than 12 feet in width and 49 feet
in length. Any such spaces shall be in addition to other required off-street
parking.
   (I)   Any marina having a public launching ramp shall provide harbor space
or spaces directly connected with such marina, capable of accommodating as many
boats as there are parking spaces for vehicles and boat carriers on the lands
of such marina. The foregoing requirements as to harbor space are to assure
protection to boats launched at such public ramp from the turbulent waters
caused by storms or high winds. Before any use shall be made of the public
launching ramp, an application shall be filed with the Zoning Administrator to
determine if all the provisions of this section have been complied with. Based
upon the Zoning Administrator’s findings, special approval may be granted or
denied by the Planning Commission.
   (J)   Signs and off-street parking improvements shall be provided in
accordance with this code of ordinances.
   (K)   There shall be no year-round occupancy of any moored watercraft in any
marina, and the uses permitted under this subchapter do not contemplate any use
of a moored watercraft as a residence or dwelling. Overnight occupancy of any
moored watercraft is prohibited at all times during the off-season (beginning
November 1 and ending March 31). All marina operators shall maintain a log book
documenting all overnight stays, which shall be available and open to
inspection by the city. Any occupancy of a moored watercraft for a cumulative
total of more than 30 days during the boating season (beginning April 1 and
ending October 31) shall be deemed to be in violation of this restriction and
shall subject the watercraft owner and the occupant of the moored watercraft to
the penalties as provided herein, except as provided as follows:
      (1)   For reasons of extreme hardship, such as mechanical failure or
damage to the watercraft or for other meritorious reasons, a watercraft owner
may make written application to the City Manager for an extension of time in
which to comply with the above restriction.
      (2)   The application shall be made only by the individual watercraft
owner, on his or her own behalf, and shall state the reasons which would
require an extension of time beyond the period limited herein. The application
shall be accompanied by a permit fee payable to the City Clerk, in accordance
with the following schedule:
         (a)   For the first 30-days’ extension: $50 permit fee.
         (b)   For the second 30-days’ extension: $100 permit fee.
         (c)   For the third 30-days’ extension: $150 permit fee.
         (d)   No fourth extension is authorized without specific approval of
the City Commission.
      (3)   The City Manager is hereby granted discretion to grant or deny said
application for good cause shown, but shall not extend the waiver beyond 90
days additional, but shall refer any such further application to the City
Commission for a determination.
(Prior Code, App., § 804) (Ord. 98-3, passed 3-19-1998)
I-1, LIGHT INDUSTRIAL DISTRICT
§ 160.125 INTENT.
   (A)   The I-1 Light Industrial Districts are designed so as to primarily
accommodate wholesale and warehouse activities, and industrial operations whose
external, physical effects are restricted to the area of the districts and in
no manner affect in a detrimental way any of the surrounding districts. The I-
1 District is so structured as to permit, along with any specified uses, the
manufacturing, compounding, processing, packaging, assembly and/or treatment of
finished or semifinished products from previously prepared material. It being
the intent of this section that the processing of raw material for shipment in
bulk form, to be used in an industrial operation at another location, not be
permitted.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all I-1 Districts and no
building, structure or premises, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
shall be erected, altered, or used except for 1 or more of the following uses.
(Prior Code, App., § 900)
§ 160.126 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Any of the following uses when the manufacturing, compounding or
processing is conducted wholly within a completely enclosed building. That
portion of the land used for open storage facilities for materials or equipment
used in the manufacturing, compounding or processing shall be totally obscured
by a wall or obscuring fence not less than 5 feet in height, on those sides
abutting any residential district, and on any front yard abutting a public
thoroughfare. In I-1 Districts the extent of such wall may be determined by the
Planning Commission on the basis of usage.
      (1)   The manufacture, compounding, processing, packaging or treatment of
such products as: bakery goods, candy, cosmetics, pharmaceuticals, toiletries,
food products, hardware and cutlery; tool; die, gauge and machine shops;
      (2)   The manufacture, compounding, assembling or treatment of articles
or merchandise from the following previously prepared materials; bone, canvas,
cellophane, cloth, cork, feathers, felt, fiber, fur, glass, hair, horn,
leather, paper, plastics, precious or semiprecious metals or stones, sheet
metal (excluding large stampings such as automobile fenders or bodies), shell,
textiles, tobacco, wax, wire, wood (excluding saw and planing mills) and yarns;
      (3)   The manufacture of pottery and figurines or other similar ceramic
products using only previously pulverized clay, and kilns fired only by
electricity or gas;
      (4)   Manufacture of musical instruments, toys, novelties, and metal or
rubber stamps, or other small moulded rubber products;
      (5)   Manufacture or assembly of electrical appliances, electronic
instruments and devices, radios and phonographs;
      (6)   Laboratories: experimental, film or testing;
      (7)   Manufacture and repair of electric or neon signs, light sheet metal
products, including heating and ventilating equipment, cornices, eaves and the
like;
      (8)   Warehouse and wholesale establishments and truck terminal
facilities;
      (9)   Central dry cleaning plants or laundries provided that such plants
shall not deal directly with consumer at retail; and
      (10)   All public utilities, including buildings, necessary structures,
storage yards and other related uses.
   (B)   Trade or industrial schools;
   (C)   Truck rental and leasing (S.I.C. Code 7513), provided all display
areas are paved and properly drained in accordance with the City Code;
   (D)   Any use charged with the principal functions of basic research, design
and pilot or experimental product development;
   (E)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incident to the above
permitted uses;
   (F)   Nonaccessory, freestanding signs; and
   (G)   Other uses of a similar and no more objectionable character to those
principal uses permitted.
(Prior Code, App., § 901) (Ord. 98-4, passed 5-21-1998)
§ 160.127 USES PERMITTED SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   The following uses shall be permitted, subject to the conditions hereinafter
imposed for each use and subject further to the review and approval of the
Planning Commission.
   (A)   Restaurants or other places serving food or beverage except those
having the character of a drive-in so called, automobile service stations,
newsstands and tobacco shops, which in the opinion of the Planning Commission
are intended to serve the convenience needs of persons working in the I-
1 District, subject to the regulations applicable to such uses;
   (B)   Automobile repair station, automobile or other machinery assembly
plants, painting and varnishing shops, undercoating shops;
   (C)   Storage facilities for building materials, sand, gravel, stone lumber,
open storage or construction contractor’s equipment and supplies, provided such
is enclosed within a building or within an obscuring wall or fence on those
sides abutting any residential district and on any front yard abutting a public
thoroughfare. In I-1 Districts the extent of such wall may be determined by the
Planning Commission on the basis of usage. Such wall shall be not less than 5
feet in height and may, depending upon land usage, be required to be 8 feet in
height, and shall be subject further to the requirements hereof;
   (D)   Metal plating, buffing and polishing, subject to appropriate measures
to control the type of process to prevent noxious results and/or nuisances; and
   (E)   Other uses of a similar and no more objectionable character, and which
will not be injurious or have an adverse effect on adjacent areas, any may
therefore be permitted subject to such conditions, restrictions and safeguards
as may be deemed necessary in the interest of public health, safety and
welfare.
(Prior Code, App., § 902)
§ 160.128 REQUIRED CONDITIONS.
   Any use established in the I-1 District after the effective date of this
chapter shall be operated so as to comply with the performance standards set
forth hereinafter.
(Prior Code, App., § 903)
§ 160.129 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
160.195 limiting the height and bulk of buildings and the minimum size of lot
by permitted land use.
(Prior Code, App., § 904)
I-2, HEAVY INDUSTRIAL DISTRICTS
§ 160.140 INTENT.
   (A)   The I-2 Heavy Industrial Districts are designed primarily for
manufacturing, assembling, and fabrication activities including large scale or
specialized industrial operations, whose external effects will be felt to some
degree by surrounding districts. The I-2 District is so structured as to permit
the manufacturing, processing and compounding of semi-finished or finished
products from raw material as well as from previously prepared material.
   (B)   The following regulations shall apply to all I-2 Districts and no
building, structure or premises, except as otherwise provided in this chapter,
shall be erected, altered or used, except for 1 or more of the following uses.
(Prior Code, App., § 1000)
§ 160.141 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   (A)   Any use first permitted in an I-I District;
   (B)   Heating and electric power generating plants, and all necessary uses;
   (C)   Any production, processing, cleaning, servicing, testing, repair, or
storage of materials, goods or products which shall conform with the
performance standards as set forth herein, (except such uses specifically
excluded from the City of Marine City by Ordinance), and which shall not be
injurious or offensive to the occupants of adjacent premises by reason of the
emission or creation of noise, vibration, smoke, dust or particulate matter,
toxic and noxious materials, odors, fire or explosive hazards or glare or heat;
   (D)   Junkyards, provided such are entirely enclosed within a building or
within a 10 foot obscuring wall of sufficient strength, to serve as a retaining
wall, and provided further that all property lines shall abut the I-2 District.
There shall be no outdoor burning on the site and all industrial processes
involving the use of equipment for cutting, compressing or packaging shall be
conducted within a completely enclosed building. There shall be no stocking of
any material above the height of the wall, except that movable equipment used
on the site may exceed the wall height; and
   (E)   Accessory structures and uses customarily incidental to the above
permitted uses.
(Prior Code, App., § 1001)
§ 160.142 AREA AND BULK REQUIREMENTS.
   See §
160.195 limiting the height and bulk of buildings, and the minimum size of lot
by permitted land use.
(Prior Code, App., § 1002)
P-1, VEHICULAR PARKING DISTRICT
§ 160.155 INTENT.
   The P-1 Vehicular Parking Districts are designed to accommodate the off-
street parking for those uses which are not able to provide adequate space
within their own district boundaries.
(Prior Code, App., § 1100)
§ 160.156 USES PERMITTED.
   Premises in such districts shall be used only for an off-street vehicular
parking area and shall be developed and maintained subject to such regulations
as are hereinafter provided.
(Prior Code, App., § 1101)
§ 160.157 LIMITATION OF USE.
   (A)   The parking area shall be accessory to and for use in connection with
1 or more business or industrial establishments, or in connection with 1 or
more existing professional or institutional office buildings or institutions;
   (B)   Parking area shall be used solely for parking of private passenger
vehicles, for periods of less than 1 day;
   (C)   No commercial repair work or service of any kind, or sale or display
thereof, shall be conducted in such parking area;
   (D)   No signs of any kind, other than signs designating entrances, exits
and conditions of use, shall be maintained on such parking area;
   (E)   No building other than those for shelter of attendants shall be
erected upon premises and they shall not exceed 15 feet in height;
   (F)   Such parking lots shall be contiguous to a B-1, B-2, I-1 or I-
2 District, and in all cases shall be adjacent successive lots from the above
mentioned use districts. There may be a private driveway or public street or
public alley between the above stated Districts and the P-1 District.
(Prior Code, App., § 1102)
§ 160.158 ENTRANCE AND EXIT.
   (A)   Adequate entrance and exit for vehicles to premises used as a parking
area shall be provided and shall be by means of streets or alleys adjacent to
or extending through B-1, B-2, I-1 or I-2 Districts, or by means of private
roadways extending through such districts. All such roadways shall be surfaced
in a manner at least equivalent with that which is hereinafter provided for the
parking area.
   (B)   Each entrance and exit to and from such parking lot shall be at least
20 feet distant from any adjacent property located in any residential district.
(Prior Code, App., § 1103)
§ 160.159 MINIMUM DISTANCES AND SETBACKS.
   (A)   Side yards. Where the P-1 District is contiguous to side lot lines of
premises within a residentially zoned district, the required wall or obscuring
fence shall be located on the property line.
   (B)   Front yards. Where the P-1 District is contiguous to a residentially
zoned district which has a common frontage on the same block with residential
structures, or wherein no residential structures have been yet erected, there
shall be a setback equal to the required residential setback for the
residential district, or a minimum of 25 feet, or whichever is the greater. The
required wall, or obscuring fence shall be located on this minimum setback
line.
(Prior Code, App., § 1104)
§ 160.160 SCREENING AND LANDSCAPING.
   (A)   The parking area shall be provided with a continuous and completely
obscuring wood or masonry wall or obscuring fence, 4 feet in height measured
from the surface of the parking area. This wall or obscuring fence shall be
provided on all sides where the next zoning district is designated as a
residential district. Whenever such wall or obscuring fence is required, all
land between the wall or obscuring fence and boundaries of the P-1 District
shall be kept free from refuse and debris and shall be landscaped with
deciduous shrubs, evergreen material and ornamental trees, and shall conform
with the requirements hereof. The ground area shall be planted and kept in
lawn. All such landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a healthy
growing condition, neat and orderly in appearance.
   (B)   All planting plans shall be submitted to the Planning Commission for
approval as to suitability of planting material and arrangement thereof, in
accordance with the provisions of the preceding paragraph, and in accordance
herewith.
(Prior Code, App., § 1105)
§ 160.161 SURFACE OF PARKING AREA.
   (A)   The parking area shall be provided with a durable and dustless surface
and shall be graded and drained as to dispose of all surface water accumulated
within the area.
   (B)   The parking area shall be surfaced within 1 year of occupancy of the
use it is to serve if it is for a new use, and within 6 months of the effective
date of rezoning for P-1 Vehicular Parking use if the parking area is to serve
an existing use or uses.
(Prior Code, App., § 1106)
§ 160.162 LIGHTING.
   Where lighting facilities are provided, they shall be so arranged as to
reflect the light away from all residential districts.
(Prior Code, App., § 1107)
§ 160.163 APPROVAL AND MODIFICATIONS.
   (A)   The Board of Appeals, upon application by the property owner of the
parking area, may modify the yard and wall requirements where, in unusual
circumstances no good purpose would be served by compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   (B)   In all cases where a wall extends to an alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to a parking area, it shall be permissible to end the wall
not more than 10 feet from such alley line in order to permit a wider means of
access to the parking area.
(Prior Code, App., § 1108)
NAUTICAL MILE DISTRICT
§ 160.175 INTENT.
   (A)   The nautical mile is of special public interest because of its unique
location along the St. Clair River as a focal point of community redevelopment
activities. The Nautical Mile District (NMD) is intended to encourage the
redevelopment of the Nautical Mile in a compatible mixture of housing,
recreation, entertainment, commercial, office, cultural, public and hotel uses
through the flexible application of land regulatory standards. Such uses may be
located in various combinations of mixed-use and single-use development. It is
also the intent of the District to encourage a high quality of private
development with reasonable public amenities to improve the overall living,
working, shopping and recreational environment of the Nautical Mile. The
Nautical Mile encompasses property as designated by the City’s Zoning Map. The
Nautical Mile District is an overlay district and does not replace or restrict
the range of uses allowed in the underlying use district. The overlay district
provides additional development options and standards which must be met.
   (B)   The establishment of special development regulations is designed to
achieve the following objectives:
      (1)   Ensure that development is guided by provisions of the Marine City
Master Plan and other policy documents, as may be adopted by the City,
supporting the overall redevelopment program of the Nautical Mile;
      (2)   Encourage the development of public parks and recreation facilities
which recognize and enhance the unique waterfront location, public needs and
amenities of Nautical Mile;
      (3)   Provide commercial activity which will serve as an attraction draw
to the regional trade area and meet the needs of local residents for convenient
shopping;
      (4)   Ensure that all new construction and renovation is designed and
located in a manner which capitalizes upon the unique waterfront environment
and the mid-19th to mid-20th Century charm of the district;
      (5)   Provide for unification of the area through landscaping, signage,
lighting and street furniture;
      (6)   Ensure that the location, design, visual appearance and
construction of individual buildings and structures is consistent with overall
design objectives and redevelopment efforts; and
      (7)   Encourage the preservation of historic structures and resources
within the district.
(Prior Code, App., § 2000) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. 2019-002,
passed 2-21-2019; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-2021)
§ 160.176 PRINCIPAL USES PERMITTED.
   The principal uses specified in the underlying district as well as the
principal uses specified in the B-1 Central Business District shall be
permitted.
(Prior Code, App., § 2001) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-
2021)
§ 160.177 USES SUBJECT TO SPECIAL CONDITIONS.
   (A)   The special condition uses specified in the underlying district as
well as the special condition uses specified in the B-1 Central Business
District shall be permitted, subject to the conditions imposed by each use and
subject further to the review and approval of the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The following uses shall not be permitted in this zone:
      (1)   Junkyards and other mobile home parks;
      (2)   Storage or parking of moving vans and the like;
      (3)   Outdoor storage or parking of wrecked or partially dismantled
vehicles;
      (4)   Drive-in theaters;
      (5)   Drive-in restaurants; and
      (6)   Automotive wash establishments.
(Prior Code, App., § 2002) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-
2021)
§ 160.178 DEVELOPMENT REVIEW AND SITE PLANS.
   Site plan review and approval of all development proposals within the
Nautical Mile District is required in accordance with the provisions of Section
160.300.
(Prior Code, App., § 2003) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-
2021)
§ 160.179 ARCHITECTURAL STANDARDS AND NAUTICAL/HISTORICAL MOTIF.
   (A)   New or remodeled buildings within the Nautical Mile District shall be
designed in harmony with the guidelines set forth in the Marine City Master
Plan or a Nautical Mile District Sub- Area Plan, as may be adopted by the City.
   (B)   Design review shall occur by the City as part of site plan review in
accordance with Section
160.300. The purpose of design review is to advise on actions which may or may
not be compatible with the desirable nautical/historical theme, architectural
or cultural aspects of the District. The City may consider Standards for
Rehabilitation and Guidelines for Rehabilitation of Historic Buildings,
prepared by the U.S. Department of Interior, for reviewing actions within the
NMD.
   (C)   The provisions of this section shall not be construed to prevent the
ordinary maintenance or repair of any exterior feature in an NMD district.
Further, the provisions of this section shall not prevent the construction,
alteration, restoration or demolition of any feature which the Building
Inspector certifies is required because of a threat to public safety.
(Prior Code, App., § 2004) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-
2021)
§ 160.180 OFF-STREET PARKING.
   In recognition of it’s pedestrian-oriented and mixed-use character, as well
as the availability of public parking, the following provisions shall apply to
lands within the Nautical Mile District.
   (A)   Special Parking Districts. Off-street parking shall be provided based
on the Nautical Mile District Special Parking Areas map and requirements
herein.
      (1)   Lands within Special Parking Area A are exempt from the off-street
parking space requirements of Section
160.214(B)(12).
      (2)   Within Special Parking Area B, a reduction of 50% shall be applied
against the minimum number of off-street parking spaces by type as required by
Section
160.214(B)(12). The Planning Commission may further reduce such requirements
based on upon evidence presented by the property owner showing that the
reasonable ability to provide any or all of the required parking spaces does
not exist.
[https://export.amlegal.com/media/7c86b4a2f8a2820346aaf9e4261ae0ad9dff9e1c/
IMAGES/0-0-0-3324.png]
 
(Prior Code, App., § 2005) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-
2021)
§ 160.181 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   The requirement for exterior lighting is intended to protect the
security and safety of pedestrians and motorists using public plazas,
pedestrian corridors, off-street parking areas and other spaces open to the
public located on private property.
   (B)   This section is also intended to regulate the spillover of light and
glare on operators of motorized and nonmotorized vehicles, pedestrians and land
uses in the proximity of the light source.
      (1)   Whenever plazas, pedestrian corridors, off-street parking areas and
other spaces open to the public are provided on private property, the site plan
shall incorporate exterior lighting concepts designed in harmony with the
guidelines set forth in the Nautical Mile District Design Guidelines document,
as may be adopted by the City Commission;
      (2)   The site plan shall illustrate the location and type of lighting
fixtures, amount of illumination provided and direction of illumination;
      (3)   Exterior lighting shall provide sufficient illumination to ensure
public safety and security; and
      (4)   Exterior lighting shall be located and directed in a manner which
does not produce a glare which is a nuisance to nearby land uses or a safety
hazard to motorized and non-motorized vehicles or pedestrians.
(Prior Code, App., § 2006) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-
2021)
§ 160.182 PERMITTED, SPECIAL USE SIGNAGE.
   (A)   The requirement for signage is intended to protect public safety,
maintain quality in the visual appearance of the Nautical Mile, protect the
value and economic stability of adjacent land use and allow for the conduct of
competitive commerce. The intent of this section is to regulate the height,
area, number, location and style of signs within the Nautical Mile District. It
is also the intent to encourage signs erected in the District to be designed in
a nautical concept. All requirements of Section
160.220 shall apply within the Nautical Mile District, in addition to the
requirements of this Section.
   (B)   Application of sign requirements:
      (1)   No sign may be erected or altered without the issuance of a zoning
compliance permit.
      (2)   When a site plan is required by this chapter, a scaled drawing
illustrating sign details, including design, color, area and height shall be
submitted. The location of all signs shall be illustrated on the site plan.
Sign details and location shall be considered part of site plan review and
approval.
      (3)   When a site plan is not required by this chapter, the Building
Inspector shall require a zoning compliance permit for signs erected or altered
in the Nautical Mile District. The application for the zoning compliance permit
shall be accompanied by a scaled drawing illustrating sign details, including
design, color, area and height.
   (C)   General provisions:
      (1)   All sign types allowed and regulated in Section
160.220(B)(4)(b) for the B-1, B-2, W-M and P-1 district shall be allowed within
the Nautical Mile District.
      (2)   Projecting signs shall also be permitted within the Nautical Mile
Overlay District for all structures other than single-family detached
dwellings, subject to the following requirements:
         (a)   Projecting signs shall not extend more than 4 feet from the wall
of the building, and shall not be closer than 3 feet from the back of curb
line.
         (b)   Minimum height. No portion of any sign which extends over the
public right-of-way shall be less than 8 feet from the surface below.
         (c)   All projecting signs shall be safely and securely attached to
structural members of the building by means of metal anchors, bolts or
expansion screws. In no case shall any projecting sign be secured with wire,
strips of wood or nails. The method of attachment shall be stated on the permit
application. All plans for the erection of signs shall be submitted to the
Building Inspector for review and approval and shall be further subject to all
codes and ordinances of the city.
   (D)   Temporary and portable signs shall be allowed subject to Section
160.220(B)(6)(b) and (c).
(Prior Code, App., § 2007) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed
8-4-2011; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-2021)
§ 160.183 LANDSCAPING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   The owner of a parking lot or vehicular use area which abuts a public
right-of-way shall install and maintain landscaping between such area and such
right-of-way, unless the parking lot or vehicular use area is visually screened
by a building or structure or existing landscaping which meets the buffering
requirements.
   (B)   Where an off-street parking lot or vehicular use area in the NMD
zoning district abuts a public right-of-way, screening shall be placed at all
locations, excluding sidewalks and driveways, which are between any portion of
the right-of-way and the parking lot or vehicular use area visible from the
right-of-way as follows:
      (1)   A strip of land at least 5 feet in width located between the
abutting right-of-way and the parking or vehicular use area exposed to the
abutting right-of-way.
      (2)   One tree per 50 feet lineal, or fraction thereof, located between
the abutting right-of-way and parking or vehicular use area.
      (3)   A hedge wall, berm, change of grade or any combination of these
landscape elements forming a continuous screen at least 3 feet in height. If a
wall or fence is used, a minimum average of 1 shrub or vine per 10 lineal feet
of wall length shall be provided.
      (4)   Grass or ground cover shall be planted and maintained on all
portions of the required landscape strip not occupied by other landscape
material or existing vegetation.
      (5)   In cases where the parking areas or vehicular use areas are 50 feet
or more from the public right-of-way, and provided that such an area has trees
and shrubs which serve to buffer the parking area or vehicular use area,
buffering (as required in this section) may be reduced, provided the intent of
this section is carried out to the satisfaction of the Building Inspector.
(Prior Code, App., § 2008) (Ord. 88-1, passed 3-17-1988; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-
2021)
REGULATIONS SCHEDULE
§ 160.195 SCHEDULE.
   Table follows below.
   SCHEDULE LIMITING HEIGHT, BULK DENSITY AND AREA BY ZONING DISTRICT
 Minimum Zoning Maximum Height Minimum Yard     Minimum Floor  Max. % of Lot
 Lot Size Per   of Structures  Setback (per lot Area Per Unit  Area Coverage by
 Unit                          in feet)         (sq. ft.)      All Buildings
             Minimum                                                 Max. % of
             Zoning Lot   Maximum      Minimum Yard Minimum Floor    Lot Area
             Size Per     Height of    Setback (per Area Per Unit    Coverage
             Unit         Structures   lot in feet) (sq. ft.)        by All
                                                                     Buildings
Zoning       Area   Width In      In         Each
District     in sq. in    Stories Feet Front Side   Rear
             ft.    feet
R-1A One-    7,200  60(B) 2       25   25    8(d,0) 40(o)   (e)      35%
family Res.  (a)                       (c,o)
R-1B One-    9,600  80    2       25   30(c) 10(d)  40      (e)      35%
family Res.  (a)
R-1D Duplex  9,600  80    2       25   30(c) 10(d)  40      (e)      35%
Res.
             (a,f)  (f)   2       25   30(g) 30(g)  30(g)   1 BR=500 35%
R-                                                          2 BR=700
M Multiple-                                                 3 BR=900
family Res.                                                 4
                                                            BR=1,100
B-1 Central  —    —   3       40   —   (h)    (i)     —      —
Business
B-2 General  —    —   3       40   25(j) (j,h)  (j,i)   —      —
Business
W-
M Waterfront
and          15,000 100   3       40   25(j) (j,m)  (j,k,n) —      —
Recreational
Marina
I-1 Light    —    —   —     40   50(j) 20     (j,l,i) —      —
Industrial                                   (j,l)
I-2 Heavy    —    —   —     60   50(j) 20     (j,l,i) —      —
Industrial                                   (j,l)
                    Minimum Floor Area Requirements
                    With Basement of At      With Basement of Less Than 40 Sq.
                    Least 440 Sq. Ft.        Ft.
1 Story             1,040 sq. ft.            1,120 sq. ft.
1-1/2 Story 1st     880 sq. ft.              960 sq. ft.
Floor
1-1/2 Story 2nd     212 sq. ft.              212 sq. ft.
Floor
2 Story 1st Floor   720 sq. ft.              800 sq. ft.
2 Story 2nd Floor   720 sq. ft.              720 sq. ft.
 
(Prior Code, App., § 1200) (Ord. 83-5, passed 7-7-1983; Am. Ord. 87-11, passed
5-21-1987; Am. Ord. 98-3, passed 3-19-1998; Am. Ord. 99-1, passed 2-4-1999; Am.
Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.196 NOTES TO SCHEDULE.
   (A)   The minimum lot area requirement per dwelling unit in those areas with
neither City Commission approved public sewer nor water systems shall be at
least 15,000 square feet with a minimum width of 100 feet, when either one or
the other approved systems is available the minimum lot area shall be at least
12,000 square feet with a minimum frontage of 100 feet.
   (B)   Corner lots shall be platted not less than 75 feet in width.
   (C)   In residential districts where lots border on a lake, river, or canal,
the established water or shoreline may be considered the front of such lots. A
setback of 30 feet for all principal and accessory structures shall be provided
on the street side of any lot or parcel of land. The setback from the water or
shoreline shall equal the average setback of those buildings on abutting
properties or where no building exists on abutting properties the setback shall
equal the average of those existing in the block or as established by the Board
of Appeals.
   (D)   In the case of a rear yard abutting a side yard, or when a side yard
is adjacent to a front yard across a common separating street, the side yard
abutting a street shall not be less than the minimum front yard of the district
in which located. In the case of a common rear yard relationship, the side yard
abutting upon a street shall not be less than 10 feet.
   (E)   The following minimum floor area requirements shall apply to each
residence hereafter erected. Tri-levels shall be computed using the total
square footage of the two upper most levels. Bi-levels shall be computed using
the total square footage of that floor at or above the approximate grade of the
address street. The total square footage so computed for the tri-levels and bi-
levels shall be equal to at least the minimum square footage requirements for 1
story residence in their respective districts.
   (F)   (1)   In an R-M Multiple-Family District the total number of rooms of
80 square feet or more (not including kitchen, dining and sanitary facilities)
shall not be more than the area of the parcel in square feet divided by 1,200.
All units shall have at least 1 living room and 1 bedroom, except that not more
than 10% of the units may be of an efficiency apartment type. In an R-
M District for the purpose of computing the permitted number of dwelling units
per acre the following room assignments shall control:
         (a)   Efficiency: 1 room;
         (b)   One bedroom: 2 rooms;
         (c)   Two bedroom: 3 rooms;
         (d)   Three bedroom: 4 rooms; and
         (e)   Four bedroom: 5 rooms.
      (2)   Plans presented showing 1, 2 or 3 bedroom units and including a
den, library or other extra room shall count such extra room as a bedroom for
the purpose of computing density.
      (3)   In an R-M District, the area used for computing density shall be
the total site area exclusive of any dedicated public right-of-way of either
interior or bounding roads.
   (G)   In an R-M District front, side, or rear yards need not refer to
spacing between building for a planned development for 2 or more buildings on
the same parcel. In such cases of 2 or more buildings on a single parcel the
minimum distance between any 2 buildings on the parcel shall be regulated as
follows:
Minimum Distance Between Buildings
Building Relationship         (1)
Front to front                60 feet(2)
Front to rear                 80 feet(2)
Front to side                 50 feet(2)
Minimum Distance Between Buildings
Rear to rear                  50 feet(3)
Rear to side                  30 feet(3)
Side to side                  20 feet(3)
Corner to corner              15 feet(3)
Corner to front, side or rear 40 feet(2)
 
      (1)   Distance between any 2 buildings shall be measured horizontally at
right angles from the nearest point of one building to the nearest point of the
other building.
      (2)   No parking shall be permitted to occupy any required minimum
distance between buildings. Parking may be located between buildings provided
the area to be used for parking is in addition to the required minimum distance
between buildings. In no instance shall there be less than 15 feet of yard
space between the parking area and multiple family building.
      (3)   Parking may be permitted to occupy the minimum distance between
buildings provided that there shall be not less than 10 feet of yard space
between the parking area and the multiple family building. The “front” and
“rear” of the multiple family building shall be considered to be the faces
along the longest dimensions of the building. The “front” of the building shall
be considered to be the direction faced by the living rooms of the dwelling
units in said building; the “rear” of the building shall be considered to be
the direction faced by the kitchen and/or service entrance of the dwelling
units in the building and the sides of the building shall be considered to be
the face along the narrowest dimensions of the building. In order to preserve
the general open character of the district, multiple family buildings shall be
limited to 180 feet in length.
   (H)   (1)   No side yards are required along the interior side lot lines of
the District, except as otherwise specified in the Building Code, provided that
if walls of structures facing such interior side lot lines contain windows, or
other openings, side yards of not less than 10 feet shall be provided.
      (2)   On a corner lot which borders on a residential district there shall
be provided a setback of 20 feet on the side or residential street. On an
exterior side yard abutting a residential district there shall be provided a
setback of 10 feet in width.
   (I)   Off-street loading space shall be provided in the rear yard in the
ratio of at least 1 space per each establishment and shall be provided in
addition to any required off-street parking area. Off-street loading space
shall further meet the requirements hereof.
   (J)   Parking shall be permitted in required yard space after approval of
the parking plan layout and points of access by the Planning Commission.
   (K)   Site plan review by the Planning Commission shall be required to
determine proper setback in the case of rear yards. For those lots or parcels
bounded on opposite sides by a waterway, the rear yard shall be considered that
yard abutting the waterway for setback purposes.
   (L)   No building or structure shall be located closer than 50 feet to the
outer perimeter (property line) of the district when the property line abuts
any residential district. A completely obscuring wall not less than 6 feet in
height or a 6-foot chain link type fence and a 20-foot wide greenbelt planted
in accord with the minimum requirements as provided herein, shall be provided
when side or rear yards are abutting land zoned for residential use. Required
side yard may be used for off-street parking or loading and unloading provided
that in such instances the Planning Commission shall review and approve the
proposed parking and site plan to determine that sufficient access to the rear
of the building is provided for fire fighting or other emergency type
equipment.
   (M)   Side yard: 10 feet. Every lot on which a structure is erected shall be
provided with a side yard on each side of the lot. Each side yard shall be
increased by 1 foot for each 10 feet, or part thereof, by which width of the
structure exceeds 50 feet in overall dimension facing the street lot line. On
the exterior side yard which borders on a residential district, there shall be
provided a setback of not less than 50 feet on the side abutting the
residential district.
   (N)   Yard setback from the established fill or bulkhead line for buildings
and other uses, except as provided in this paragraph, shall be 20 linear feet.
No building or uses, except covered boat wells, slips or berths, shall be less
than 15 feet from the waters edge. Launching ramps and docks may be constructed
to the waters edge and into the water, where appropriate.
   (O)   Reduced setbacks for nonconforming lots of record (and for lots that
are otherwise conforming but have a depth of less than 120 feet) located in the
R-1A District and which were lawfully created prior to the effective date of
this chapter shall be permitted in accordance with the following schedule:
      (1)   For lots having a depth of less than 120 feet, and for corner lots
having a width of less than 75 feet, the minimum required front yard setback
may be reduced to 20% of the average depth of the lot provided that:
         (a)   It shall not be less than the average of the front setbacks of
principal structures on adjacent lots fronting on the same street (or the
average front setbacks of principal structures in the block fronting on the
same street).
         (b)   In no instance shall it be less than 15 feet.
      (2)   For lots having a depth of less than 120 feet the minimum required
rear yard setback may be reduced to 1/3 of the average depth of the lot
provided that:
         (a)   In no instance shall it be less than 25 feet except as provided
below.
         (b)   In computing the depth of a rear yard for any building where the
rear line of the lot adjoins an alley, 1/2 of the width of such alley may be
included as rear yard depth; provided, that the rear yard depth actually on the
lot shall not be less than 15 feet.
      (3)   For lots having a width of less than 60 feet, and for corner lots
having a width of less than 75 feet, side yard setbacks may be reduced to 10%
of the lot width provided that in no instance shall it be less than 5 feet.
(Prior Code, App., § 1200) (Ord. 98-3, passed 3-19-1998; Am. Ord. 99-1, passed
2-4-1999)
GENERAL PROVISIONS
§ 160.210 CONFLICTING REGULATIONS.
   Whenever any provision of this chapter imposes more stringent requirements,
regulations, restrictions or limitations than are imposed or required by the
provisions of any other law or ordinance, then the provisions of this chapter
shall govern. Whenever the provisions of any other law or ordinance impose more
stringent requirements than are imposed or required by this chapter, then the
provisions of such ordinance shall govern.
(Prior Code, App., § 1300)
§ 160.211 SCOPE.
   No building or structure, or part thereof shall hereafter be erected,
constructed or altered and maintained, and no new use or change shall be made
or maintained of any building, structure or land, or part thereof, except in
conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, App., § 1301)
§ 160.212 NONCONFORMING LOTS, NONCONFORMING USES OF LAND, NONCONFORMING
STRUCTURES, AND NONCONFORMING USES OF STRUCTURES AND PREMISES.
   (A)   Intent.
      (1)   It is the intent of this chapter to permit legal nonconforming
lots, structures or uses to continue until they are removed but not to
encourage their survival.
      (2)   It is recognized that there exists within the districts established
by this chapter and subsequent amendments, lots, structures and uses of land
and structures which were lawful before this chapter was passed or amended
which would be prohibited, regulated or restricted under the terms of this
chapter or future amendments.
      (3)   Such uses are declared by this chapter to be incompatible with
permitted uses in the districts involved. It is further the intent of this
chapter that nonconformities shall not be enlarged upon, expanded or extended,
nor be used as grounds for adding other structures or uses prohibited elsewhere
in the same district.
      (4)   A nonconforming use of a structure, a nonconforming use of land, or
a nonconforming use of a structure and land shall not be extended or enlarged
after passage of this chapter by attachment on a building or premises of
additional signs intended to be seen from off the premises, or by the addition
of other uses of a nature which would be prohibited generally in the district
involved.
      (5)   To avoid undue hardship, nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to
require a change in the plans, construction or designated use of any building
on which actual construction was lawfully begun prior to the effective date of
adoption or amendment of this chapter, and upon which actual building
construction has been diligently carried on. Actual construction is hereby
defined to include the placing of construction materials in permanent position
and fastened in a permanent manner except that where demolition or removal of
an existing building has been substantially begun preparatory to rebuilding,
such demolition or removal shall be deemed to be actual construction, provided
that work shall be diligently carried on until completion of the building
involved.
   (B)   Nonconforming lots.
      (1)   In any district in which single-family dwellings are permitted,
notwithstanding limitations imposed by other provisions of this chapter, a
single-family dwelling and customary accessory buildings may be erected on any
single lot of record at the effective date of adoption or amendment of this
chapter. This provision shall apply even though such lot fails to meet the
requirements for area or width, or both, that are generally applicable in the
district; provided that yard dimensions and other requirements not involving
area or width or both, of the lot shall conform to the regulations for the
district in which such lot is located. Yard requirement variances may be
obtained through approval of the Board of Appeals.
      (2)   If 2 or more lots or combinations of lots and portions of lots with
continuous frontage in single ownership are of record at the time of passage or
amendment of this chapter, and if all or part of the lots do not meet the
requirements for lot width and area as established by this chapter, the lands
involved shall be considered to be an undivided parcel for the purposes of this
chapter, and no portion of the parcel shall be used or occupied which does not
meet lot width and area requirements established by this chapter, nor shall any
division of the parcel be made which leaves remaining any lot with width or
area below the requirements stated in this chapter.
   (C)   Nonconforming uses of land. Where, at the effective date of adoption
or amendment of this chapter, lawful use of land exists that is made no longer
permissible under the terms of this chapter as enacted or amended such use may
be continued, so long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following
provisions:
      (1)   No such nonconforming use shall be enlarged or increased nor
extended to occupy a greater area of land than was occupied at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (2)   No such nonconforming use shall be moved in whole or in part to any
other portion of the lot or parcel occupied by such use at the effective date
of adoption or amendment of this chapter.
      (3)   If such nonconforming use of land ceases for any reason for a
period of more than 30 days, any subsequent use of such land shall conform to
the regulations specified by this chapter for the district in which such land
is located.
   (D)   Nonconforming structures. Where a lawful structure exists at the
effective date of adoption or amendment of this chapter that could not be built
under the terms of this chapter by reason of restrictions on area, lot
coverage, height, yards or other characteristics of the structure or its
location on the lot, the structure may be continued so long as it remains
otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No such structure may be enlarged or altered in a way which
increases its nonconformity, for example, existing residences on lots of a
width less than required herein may add a rear porch provided that other
requirements relative to yard space and land coverage are met.
      (2)   Should such structure be destroyed by any means to an extent of
more than 60% of its replacement cost, exclusive of the foundation at the time
of destruction, it shall not be reconstructed except in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. This provision shall not apply to nonconforming
residential structures provided the residential structure is rebuilt in the
exact location and manner in which it was originally constructed as determined
by the Building Official. If the Building Official determines the proposed
reconstruction is substantially different than that of the original structure,
all applicable requirements of the ordinance shall be met. If the structure was
located within the existing dedicated public right-of-way or easement, the
structure shall not be reconstructed in that location.
      (3)   Should such structure be moved for any reason for any distance
whatever, it shall thereafter conform to the regulations for the district in
which it is located after it is removed.
   (E)   Nonconforming uses of structures and land. If a lawful use of a
structure, or of structure and land in combination, exists at the effective
date of adoption or amendment of this chapter, that would not be allowed in the
district under the terms of this chapter, the lawful use may be continued so
long as it remains otherwise lawful, subject to the following provisions:
      (1)   No existing structure devoted to a use not permitted in this
chapter in the district in which it is located shall be enlarged, extended,
constructed, reconstructed, moved or structurally altered except in changing
the use of the structure to a use permitted in the district in which it is
located. This provision shall not apply to nonconforming residential structures
provided th residential structure is rebuilt in the exact location and manner
in which it was originally constructed as determined by the Building Official.
If the structure was located within the existing dedicated public right-of-way
or easement, the structure shall not be reconstructed within the existing
right-of-way or easement.
      (2)   Any nonconforming use may be extended throughout any parts of a
building which were manifestly arranged or designed for such use, and which
existed at the time of adoption or amendment of this chapter, but no such use
shall be extended to occupy any land outside such building.
      (3)   In any “B”, “W-M” or “I” District if no structural alterations are
made, any nonconforming use of structure or structure and premises, may be
changed to another nonconforming use of the same or a more restricted
classification provided that the Board of Appeals, either by general rule or by
making findings in the specific case, shall find that the proposed use is
equally appropriate or more appropriate to the district than the existing
nonconforming use. In permitting such change, the Board of Appeals may require
appropriate conditions and safeguards in accord with the purpose and intent of
this chapter. Where a nonconforming use of a structure, land or structure and
land in combination is hereafter changed to a more restrictive classification,
it shall not thereafter be changed to a less restricted classification.
      (4)   Any structure, or structure and land in combination, in or on which
a nonconforming use is superseded by a permitted use, shall thereafter conform
to the regulations for the district in which such structure is located, and the
nonconforming use may not thereafter be resumed.
      (5)   When a nonconforming use of a structure, or structure and premises
in combination, is discontinued or ceases to exist for 6 consecutive months or
for 18 months during any 3 year period, the structure, or structure and
premises in combination, shall not thereafter be used except in conformance
with the regulations of the district in which it is located. Structures
occupied by seasonal uses shall be excepted from this provision.
      (6)   Where nonconforming use status applies to a structure and premises
in combination, removal or destruction of the structure shall eliminate the
nonconforming status of the land.
   (F)   Repairs and maintenance. On any building devoted in whole or in part
to any nonconforming use, work may be done in any period of 12 consecutive
months on ordinary repairs, or on repair or replacement of nonbearing walls,
fixtures, wiring or plumbing to an extent not exceeding 50% of the assessed
value of the building, provided that the cubic content of the building as it
existed at the time of passage or amendment of this chapter shall not be
increased. Nothing in this chapter shall be deemed to prevent the strengthening
or restoring to a safe condition of any building or part thereof declared to be
unsafe by any official charged with protecting the public safety, upon order of
such official.
   (G)   Uses under exception provisions not nonconforming uses. Any use for
which a special exception is permitted as provided in this chapter shall not be
deemed a nonconforming use, but shall without further action be deemed a
conforming use in such district.
   (H)   Change of tenancy or ownership. There may be a change of tenancy,
ownership or management of any existing nonconforming uses of land, structures
and premises provided there is no change in the nature or character of such
nonconforming uses.
(Prior Code, App., § 1302) (Am. Ord. 11-05, passed 8-4-2011)
§ 160.213 ACCESSORY BUILDINGS AND STRUCTURES.
   Accessory buildings, except as otherwise permitted in this chapter, shall be
subject to the following regulations:
   (A)   Where the accessory building is structurally attached to a main
building, it shall be subject to, and must conform to, all regulations of this
chapter applicable to main building.
   (B)   Accessory buildings shall not be erected in any required yard, except
a rear yard.
   (C)   An accessory building not exceeding 1 story or 14 feet in height may
occupy not more than 25% of a required rear yard, plus 40% of any non-required
rear yard, provided that in no instance shall the accessory building exceed the
ground floor area of the main building.
   (D)   No detached accessory building shall be located closer than 10 feet to
any main building nor shall it be located closer than 3 feet to any side or
rear lot line. In those instances where the rear lot line is coterminous with
an alley right-of-way, the accessory building shall not be closer than 2 feet
to such rear lot line. In no instance shall an accessory building be located
within a dedicated easement right- of-way.
   (E)   No detached accessory building in an R-1A, R-1B, R-M, B-1 or P-
1 District shall exceed 1 story or 14 feet in height. Accessory buildings in
all other districts may be constructed to equal the permitted maximum height of
structures in said districts.
   (F)   (1)   When an accessory building is located on a corner lot, the
exterior side lot line of which is substantially a continuation of the front
lot line of the lot to its rear, or is adjacent to a front lot line across a
common separating street, the building shall not project beyond the front yard
line required on the lot in rear of the corner lot.
      (2)   An accessory building shall in no case be located nearer than 10
feet to a street right-of-way.
   (G)   When an accessory building in any Residential or Business District is
intended for other than the storage of private motor vehicles, the construction
will conform to existing conventional construction of other buildings on the
property and in the immediate area.
   (H)   A building permit shall be obtained prior to the erection of any
accessory building, unless it is exempted from permit requirements per the
Building Code, in which case such accessory building shall only require a
zoning compliance permit.
   (I)   Satellite receiving dish installations.
      (1)   A SATELLITE RECEIVING DISH is defined as being any dish-shaped
antenna designed to receive direct satellite signals.
      (2)   A building permit shall be obtained for the installation of a
satellite receiving dish.
      (3)   Location of a satellite receiving dish shall be subject to all
setback requirements of this chapter and shall in no instance be installed
closer to a side or rear lot line than a distance equal to its height as
measured from the ground to its highest vertical extension.
      (4)   The receiving dish shall be securely mounted and anchored in
accordance with the requirements of the manufacturer and the Marine City
Building Code.
      (5)   A satellite receiving dish shall not be mounted in any front or
side yard.
(Prior Code, App., § 1303) (Ord. 83-6, passed 7-7-1983; Am. Ord. 84-25, passed
1-3-1985; Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.214 OFF-STREET PARKING REQUIREMENTS.
   (A)   There shall be provided in all districts at the time of erection or
enlargement of any main building or structure, automobile off-street parking
space with adequate access to all spaces.
   (B)   The number of off-street parking spaces, in conjunction with all land
or building uses shall be provided, prior to the issuance of a certificate of
occupancy as hereinafter prescribed.
      (1)   Off-street parking may be located within any non-required yard and
within the rear yard setback unless otherwise provided in this chapter. Off-
street parking shall not be permitted in a required front or side yard setback
unless otherwise provided in this chapter.
      (2)   Off-street parking for other than residential use shall be either
on the same lot or within 300 feet of the building it is intended to serve,
measured from the nearest point of the building to the nearest point of the
off-street parking lot. Ownership shall be shown of all lots or parcels
intended for use as parking by applicant.
      (3)   Residential off-street parking spaces shall consist of a permanent
hard surface parking strip, parking bay, driveway, garage, or combination
thereof and shall be located on the premises they are intended to serve. For
the purposes of this section, hard surface shall mean concrete, asphalt, brick,
cut stone or similar material and shall not include crushed materials, gravel,
wood chips or natural surfacing. Off-street parking for single-family and two-
family dwellings shall further be subject to the following:
         (a)   Off street parking shall not be permitted within the front yard,
except within such parking strip, parking bay, driveway, garage, or combination
thereof. This requirement shall not apply to parking for temporary special
events normally associated with the residential use of the property, such as
graduation and holiday parties, or during City designated snow emergencies.
         (b)   Within the front yard, the total surface area for any parking
strip, parking bay, driveway or combination thereof shall not exceed fifty
percent (50%) of the total front yard area.
      (4)   Any area once designated as required off-street parking shall never
be changed to any other use unless and until equal facilities are provided
elsewhere.
      (5)   Off-street parking existing at the effective date of this chapter
in connection with the operation of an existing building or use shall not be
reduced to an amount less than hereinafter required for a similar new building
or new use.
      (6)   Two or more buildings or uses may collectively provide the required
off-street parking in which case the required number of parking spaces shall
not be less than the sum of the requirements for the several individual uses
computed separately.
      (7)   In the instance of dual function of off-street parking spaces where
operating hours of buildings do not overlap, the Board of Appeals may grant an
exception.
      (8)   The storage of merchandise, motor vehicles for sale, trucks or the
repair of vehicles is prohibited.
      (9)   For those uses not specifically mentioned, the requirements for
off-street parking facilities shall be in accord with a use which the Planning
Commission considers is similar in type.
      (10)   When units or measurements determining the number of required
parking spaces result in the requirement of a fractional space, any fraction up
to and including ½ shall be disregarded and fractions over ½ shall require 1
parking space.
      (11)   For the purpose of computing the number of parking spaces
required, the definition of USABLE FLOOR AREA shall govern.
      (12)   The minimum number of off-street parking spaces by type of use
shall be determined in accordance with the following schedule. Lands within the
Nautical Mile District shall be subject to the off-street parking requirements
of Section
160.180.
Use Number of Minimum Parking Spaces Per Unit of Measure
                                                                                 Number of
                                                                                 Minimum
Use                                                                              Parking
                                                                                 Spaces Per
                                                                                 Unit of
                                                                                 Measure
Business and Commercial
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 100 square
   Planned commercial or shopping center located in any “B” district      feet of
                                                                                 usable floor
                                                                                 area.
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 1 employee.
                                                                                 In addition,
                                                                                 reservoir
                                                                                 parking
                                                                                 spaces equal
                                                                                 in number to
                                                                                 5 times the
                                                                                 maximum
                                                                                 capacity of
                                                                                 the auto wash
                                                                                 for
                                                                                 automobiles
                                                                                 awaiting
                                                                                 entrance to
                                                                                 the auto wash
                                                                                 shall be
                                                                                 provided.
                                                                                 Maximum
                                                                                 capacity of
                                                                                 the auto wash
   Auto wash                                                                  for the
                                                                                 purpose of
                                                                                 determining
                                                                                 the required
                                                                                 reservoir
                                                                                 parking shall
                                                                                 mean the
                                                                                 greatest
                                                                                 number
                                                                                 possible or
                                                                                 automobiles
                                                                                 undergoing
                                                                                 some phase of
                                                                                 washing at
                                                                                 the same
                                                                                 time, which
                                                                                 shall be
                                                                                 determined by
                                                                                 dividing the
                                                                                 length in
                                                                                 feet of each
                                                                                 was line by
                                                                                 20.
                                                                                 Three spaces
                                                                                 for each of
                                                                                 the first 2
                                                                                 beauty or
   Beauty parlor or barbershop                                                barber
                                                                                 chairs, and
                                                                                 1-1/2 spaces
                                                                                 for each
                                                                                 additional
                                                                                 chair.
                                                                                 Five for each
   Bowling alleys                                                             1 bowling
                                                                                 lane.
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 3 persons
                                                                                 allowed
                                                                                 within the
                                                                                 maximum
   Dance halls, pool or billiard parlors, roller or skating rinks, exhibition occupancy
halls, and assembly halls without fixed seats                                    load as
                                                                                 established
                                                                                 by local,
                                                                                 county, or
                                                                                 state fire,
                                                                                 building, or
                                                                                 health codes.
                                                                                 One for each
   Establishments for sale and consumption on the premises, of beverages, food100 square
or refreshments                                                                  feet of
                                                                                 usable floor
                                                                                 space.
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 800 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 usable floor
                                                                                 area. (For
                                                                                 that floor
   Furniture and appliance, household equipment, repair shops, showroom of a  area used in
plumber, decorator, electrician, or similar trade, shoe repair and other similar processing, 1
uses                                                                             additional
                                                                                 space shall
                                                                                 be provided
                                                                                 for each 2
                                                                                 persons
                                                                                 employed
                                                                                 therein.)
                                                                                 Two for each
                                                                                 lubrication
                                                                                 stall, rack,
   Automobile service stations                                                or pit, and 1
                                                                                 for each
                                                                                 gasoline
                                                                                 pump.
   Laundromats and coin-operated dry cleaners                                 One for each
                                                                                 2 machines.
                                                                                 Three for
                                                                                 each 1 hole
   Miniature or “par-3" golf courses                                        plus 1 for
                                                                                 each 1
                                                                                 employee.
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 50 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 assembly room
                                                                                 usable floor
                                                                                 space,
   Mortuary establishment                                                     parlors and
                                                                                 slumber rooms
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 1 occupancy
                                                                                 unit plus 1
                                                                                 for each 1
                                                                                 employee.
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 1 occupancy
   Motel, hotel, or other commercial lodging establishments                   unit plus 1
                                                                                 for each 1
                                                                                 employee
                                                                                 One for each
                                                                                 200 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 usable floor
   Motor vehicle sales and service establishments                             space sales
                                                                                 room and 1
                                                                                 for each 1
                                                                                 auto service
                                                                                 stall in the
                                                                                 service room.
Industrial
                                                                                 Five plus 1
                                                                                 for every 1-
                                                                                 1/2 employees
                                                                                 in the
                                                                                 largest
                                                                                 working
                                                                                 shift, or 1
                                                                                 for 550
                                                                                 square feet
                                                                                 of usable
                                                                                 floor space,
                                                                                 or whichever
   Industrial or research establishments                                      is determined
                                                                                 to be the
                                                                                 greater.
                                                                                 Space on-site
                                                                                 shall also be
                                                                                 provided for
                                                                                 all
                                                                                 construction
                                                                                 workers
                                                                                 during
                                                                                 periods of
                                                                                 plant
                                                                                 construction.
                                                                                 Five plus 1
                                                                                 for every 1
                                                                                 employee in
                                                                                 the largest
                                                                                 working
                                                                                 shift, or 1
   Wholesale establishments                                                   for every
                                                                                 1,700 square
                                                                                 feet of
                                                                                 usable floor
                                                                                 space,
                                                                                 whichever is
                                                                                 greater.
 
(Prior Code, App., § 1304) (Ord. 92-8, passed 9-17-1992; Am. Ord. 98-3, passed
3-19-1998; Am. Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-5-2018; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-2021)
§ 160.215 OFF-STREET PARKING SPACE LAYOUT, STANDARDS, CONSTRUCTION AND
MAINTENANCE.
   Whenever the off-street parking requirements in §
160.214 require the building of an off-street parking facility, or where P-
1 Vehicular Parking Districts are provided, the off-street parking lots shall
be laid out, constructed and maintained in accordance with the following
standards and regulations:
   (A)   No parking lot, parking strip, parking bay or driveway shall be
constructed unless and until a permit therefor is issued by the Building
Inspector. Applications for a permit shall be submitted to the Building
Department in such form as may be determined by the Building Inspector and
shall be accompanied with 2 sets of plans for the development and construction
of the parking lot showing that the provisions of this section will be fully
complied with.
   (B)   Plans for the layout of off-street parking facilities shall be in
accord with the following minimum requirements:
 
                                                      Total Width  Total Width
                                                      of One Tier  of Two Tiers
Parking       Maneuvering Parking Space Parking Space of Spaces    of Spaces
Pattern       Lane Width  Width         Length        Plus         Plus
                                                      Maneuvering  Maneuvering
                                                      Lane         Lane
0° (parallel 12 ft.      8 ft.         23 ft.        20 ft.       28 ft.
parking)
30° to 53°  12 ft.      8 ft. 6 in.   20 ft         32 ft.       52 ft.
54° to 74°  15 ft.      8 ft. 6 in.   20 ft.        36 ft. 6 in. 58 ft.
75° to 90°  20 ft.      9 ft.         20 ft.        40 ft.       60 ft.
 
   (C)   All spaces shall be provided adequate access by means of maneuvering
lanes. Backing directly onto a street shall be prohibited.
   (D)   Adequate ingress and egress to the parking lot by means of clearly
limited and defined drives shall be provided for all vehicles. Ingress and
egress to a parking lot lying in an area zoned for other than single family
residential use shall not be across land zoned for single family residential
use.
   (E)   All maneuvering lane widths shall permit one-way traffic movement,
except that the 90-degree pattern may permit 2-way movement.
   (F)   Each entrance and exit to and from any off-street parking lot located
in an area zoned for other than single-family residential use shall be at least
25 feet distant from adjacent property located in any single family residential
district.
   (G)   (1)   The off-street parking area shall be provided with a continuous
and obscuring wall not less than 4 feet 6 inches in height measured from the
surface of the parking area on all sides where the next zoning district is
designated as a single family residential district.
      (2)   When a front yard setback is required, all land between the wall
and the front property line or street right-of-way line shall be kept free from
refuse and debris and shall be landscaped with deciduous shrubs, evergreen
material and ornamental trees. The ground area shall be planted and kept in
lawn. All such landscaping and planting shall be maintained in a healthy,
growing condition neat and orderly in appearance.
   (H)   The entire parking area, including parking spaces and maneuvering
lanes, required under this section, shall be provided with a durable and
dustless surface and shall be graded and drained so as to dispose of all
surface water in accord with the requirements and subject to the review and
approval of the City Engineer.
   (I)   All lighting used to illuminate any off-street parking area shall be
so installed as to be confined within and directed onto the parking area only.
   (J)   In all cases where a wall extends to an alley which is a means of
ingress and egress to an off-street parking area, it shall be permissible to
end the wall not more than 10 feet from such alley line in order to permit a
wider means of access to the parking area.
   (K)   The Board of Appeals, upon application by the property owner of the
off-street parking area, may modify the yard or wall requirements where, in
unusual circumstances, no good purpose would be served by compliance with the
requirements of this section.
   (L)   Whenever a durable and dustless parking area, as defined by this
chapter, is required by this section, the owner shall execute and deliver to
the Planning Commission an approved performance bond guaranteeing that the
parking area will be hard surfaced as required within 1 year after occupancy.
Delivery of the bond shall be a condition precedent to the site plan approval.
   (M)   Pedestrian walkways within parking lots. For the safety of
pedestrians, in large (100 spaces or more) high-turnover parking lots, separate
raised pedestrian walkways connecting the main building perimeter sidewalk with
existing or proposed sidewalks along street rights-of-way shall be provided.
This requirement shall not apply to uses within an Industrial District. Not
less than 1 such walkway shall be provided for each street frontage. The
walkways shall be constructed of concrete, asphalt, stone, brick, or other hard
surface material. The walkways shall be not be less than 6 feet in width and
shall be enhanced with landscaping along both sides, to help separate them from
traffic and distinguish them from the parking area. The walkways must be
integrated with the city's overall plan for pedestrian improvements where
applicable. Parked cars shall not be permitted to overhang pedestrian walkways.
The land used for this connecting sidewalk shall be countable in the
computation of the required percentage of landscape area as provided in §
160.219(F).
(Prior Code, App., § 1305) (Ord. 84-24, passed 11-15-1984; Am. Ord. 04-03,
passed 5-6-2004; Am. Ord. 2018-03, passed 4-5-2018)
§ 160.216 OFF-STREET LOADING AND UNLOADING.
   (A)   On the same premises with every building, structure or part thereof,
involving the receipt or distribution of vehicles or materials or merchandise
except the business district described in §
160.214, there shall be provided and maintained on the lot, adequate space for
standing, loading and unloading in order to avoid undue interference with
public use of dedicated rights-of-way.
   (B)   The space shall be provided as follows:
      (1)   All spaces shall be provided as required in §
160.195 note after minimum rear yards, except as hereinafter provided for “I”
Districts.
      (2)   All spaces shall be laid out in the dimension of at least 10 feet
by 50 feet, or 500 square feet in area, with a clearance of at least 14 feet in
height. Loading dock approaches shall be provided with a permanent, durable and
dustless surface. All space in “I” Districts shall be provided in the following
ratio of space to floor area.
 
Gross Floor Area (in square feet) Loading and Unloading Space Required in Terms
                                  of Square Feet of Usable Floor Area
0—1,400                         None
1,401—20,000                    1 space
20,001—100,000                  1 space, plus 1 space for each 20,000 square
                                  feet in excess of 20,001 square feet
100,001 and over                  5 spaces
 
(Prior Code, App., § 1306)
§ 160.217 USES NOT OTHERWISE INCLUDED WITHIN A SPECIFIED USE DISTRICT.
   (A)   Because the uses hereinafter referred to possess unique
characteristics making it impractical to include them in a specific use
district classification, they may be permitted by the Board of Appeals under
the conditions specified, and after public hearing. These uses require special
consideration since they service an area larger than the city and require
sizable land areas, creating problems of control with reference to abutting use
districts.
   (B)   Reference to those uses falling specifically within the intent of this
section is as follows:
      (1)    Kennels:
         (a)    Kennels shall be permitted as a special land use only in
industrially zoned districts, either I-1 Light Industrial or I-2 Heavy
Industrial.
         (b)    The number of animals to house within a kennel shall be
directly proportionate to the facility in which they are housed; the size and
number of exterior runs, and the size of the property on which the kennel is
located.
         (c)    The method in which waste material is handled shall be clearly
noted and subject to review by the city. Exterior runs shall be cleaned
regularly and shall not be allowed to accumulate waste material.
         (d)   The means of managing noise from both the kennel and exterior
runs shall be clearly noted and subject to review by the city. These means may
include, but are not limited to landscaping, fencing, additional setback, and
special building materials as determined by the city. The city may limit the
hours of outdoor activity to limit any inconvenience to surrounding properties.
         (e)   Any medications or vaccines on the premises shall be kept in a
locked location.
         (f)   Adequate parking shall be indicated on the site plan.
         (g)   No kennels or outdoor runs shall be located in the front yard.
         (h)   Any and all necessary state and/or county permits shall be
obtained by the kennel operator and kept current. Copies of all necessary
permits and licenses shall be provided to the city to ensure compliance.
      (2)   Soil excavation and filling: The removal of topsoil, subsoil, sand,
gravel, rock, aggregates, earth and other similar materials and the depositing
and dumping of sand, gravel, earth, rock, stone, concrete minerals and other
similar materials shall be subject to the following:
         (a)   The Board of Appeals shall first seek the findings and
recommendations of the Planning Commission clearly demonstrating that the
removal, depositing or dumping of the above materials will not permanently
impair the intended land use potential of the property in question.
         (b)   The Board of Appeals may issue a permit and only after a proper
notice shall have been made and only after a public hearing shall have been
had.
         (c)   The Board of Appeals may establish standards, operating
requirements, applications and review procedures, bonds and other such
conditions, restrictions, and safeguards as may be deemed necessary in the
interest of public health, safety, and welfare.
      (3)   Outdoor theaters: Because outdoor theaters possess the unique
characteristic of being used only after darkness and since they develop a
concentration of vehicular traffic in terms of ingress and egress from their
parking area, they shall be permitted within an “I” Industrial District and
only when the site in question is surrounded by an “I” District. Outdoor
theaters shall further be subject to the following conditions:
         (a)   The proposed internal design shall receive approval from the
Building Inspector and the City Engineer as to adequacy of drainage, lighting,
screening and other technical aspects.
         (b)   Outdoor theaters shall abut directly upon a major thoroughfare
and points of ingress and egress shall be available to the outdoor theater only
from the major thoroughfares and shall not be available from any residential
street.
         (c)   All vehicles, waiting or standing to enter the facility, shall
be provided off-street waiting space. No vehicle shall be permitted to wait or
stand within a dedicated right-of-way.
         (d)   The area shall be laid out so as to prevent the movie screen
from being viewed from residential areas or adjacent major thoroughfares. All
lighting used to illuminate the area shall be so installed as to be confined
within, and directed unto, the premises of the outdoor theater site.
         (e)   The proposed outdoor theater shall be subject further to the
review and approval of the City Commission.
      (4)   Television and radio towers: Television and radio towers and their
attendant facilities shall be permitted in any “I” District and only when the
site in question is surrounded by an “I” District, subject further to the
following conditions:
         (a)   The use shall be located centrally on a continuous parcel having
a dimension at least equal to the height of the tower measured from the base of
the tower to all points on each property line.
         (b)   The proposed site plan shall receive approval from the City
Engineer as to adequacy of drainage, lighting, general safety and other
technical aspects.
      (5)   Airports and related uses: Airports, landing fields and platforms,
hangers, masts and other facilities for the operation of aircraft, shall be
permitted in “I” Industrial Districts, and shall be subject to the following
conditions:
         (a)   The plans for such facility shall be given approval by the
Federal Aviation Agency prior to submittal to the Board of Appeals for review
and action.
         (b)   The standards for determining obstructions to air navigation as
announced in the FAA Technical Order –18, April 26, 1950 (as amended July 30,
1952) and any other amendments thereto shall be complied with. These standards
shall be applied by the class of airport as determined by the FAA.
         (c)   The area of the clear zone (see FAA definition) shall be
provided for within the land area under airport ownership.
         (d)   To enable the Board of Appeals to determine that the above
conditions have been satisfactorily complied with all applications for such
uses shall submit detailed site plans showing the location of the site, clear
zones and proof of ownership of the land designated as the clear zone.
         (e)   The proposed airport or related use shall be subject further to
the review and approval of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, App., § 1307) (Ord. 91-10, passed 10-17-1991; Am. Ord. 13-06,
passed 8-1-2013)
§ 160.218 PERFORMANCE STANDARDS.
   No use otherwise allowed shall be permitted within any district which does
not conform to the following standards of use, occupancy, and operations, which
standards are hereby established as the minimum requirements to be maintained
within the area.
   (A)   Smoke.
      (1)   It shall be unlawful for any person, firm or corporation to permit
the emission of any smoke from any source whatever to a density greater than
that density described as No. 1 of the Ringlemann Chart, provided that the
following exceptions shall be permitted: Smoke, the shade or appearance of
which is equal to but not darker than No. 2 of the Ringlemann Chart for a
period, or periods, aggregating 4 minutes in any 30 minutes.
      (2)   For the purpose of grading the density of smoke, the Ringlemann
Chart, as now published and used by the United States Bureau of Mines, which is
hereby made a part of this chapter, shall be the standard. However, the
Umbrascope readings of smoke densities may be used when correlated with
Ringlemann’s Chart.
   (B)   Dust, dirt and fly ash.
      (1)   No person, firm or corporation shall operate or cause to be
operated, maintained or cause to be maintained, any process for any purpose, or
furnace or combustion device for the burning of coal or other natural or
synthetic fuels, without maintaining and operating, while using the process or
furnace or combustion device, recognized and approved equipment, means, method,
device or contrivance to reduce the quantity of gasborne or airborne solids or
fumes emitted into the open air, which is operated in conjunction with the
process, furnace or combustion device so that the quantity of gasborne or
airborne solids shall not exceed 0.20 grains per cubic foot of the carrying
medium at a temperature of 500°F.
      (2)   For the purpose of determining the adequacy of such devices these
conditions are to be conformed to when the percentage of excess air in the
stack does not exceed 50% of full load. The foregoing requirement shall be
measured by the A.S.M.E. Test Code for dust-separating apparatus. All other
forms of dust, dirt and fly ash shall be completely eliminated insofar as
escape or emission into the open air is concerned. The Building Inspector may
require such additional data as is deemed necessary to show that adequate and
approved provisions for the prevention and elimination of dust, dirt and fly
ash have been made.
   (C)   Glare and radioactive materials. Glare from any process (such as or
similar to arc welding, or acetylene torch cutting) which emits harmful
ultraviolet rays shall be performed in such a manner as not to be seen from any
point beyond the property line, and as not to create a public nuisance or
hazard along lot lines. Radioactive materials and wastes, and including
electro-magnetic radiation such as x-ray machine operation, shall not be
emitted to exceed quantities established as safe by the U.S. Bureau of
Standards, when measured at the property line.
   (D)   Fire and explosive hazards. The storage and handling of flammable
liquids, liquefied petroleum, gases and explosives shall comply with the State
Rules and Regulations as established by Public Act 1941, as amended, [M.C.L.A.
§§ 29.1 et seq.], and shall conform with all codes and ordinances of the City
of Marine City.
   (E)   Noise. Objectionable sounds, including those of an intermittent
nature, shall be controlled so as not to become a nuisance to adjacent uses.
   (F)   Odors and fumes. Creation of offensive odors and fumes shall be
prohibited.
   (G)   Wastes. No waste shall be discharged in the public sewer system which
is dangerous to the public health and safety. The following standards shall
apply at the point wastes are discharged into the public sewer.
      (1)   Acidity or alkalinity shall be neutralized within an average pH
range of between 5-1/2 to 7-1/2 as a daily average on the volumetric basis,
with a temporary variation of pH 4.50 to 10.0.
      (2)   Wastes shall contain no cyanides. Wastes shall contain no
chlorinate solvents in excess of 0.1 ppm; no fluorides shall be in excess of 10
ppm; and shall contain no more than 5 ppm of hydrogen sulphide and shall
contain not more than 10 ppm of sulphur dioxide and nitrates, and shall contain
not more than 25 ppm of chromates.
      (3)   Wastes shall not contain any insoluble substance in excess of
10,000 ppm or exceed a daily average of 500 ppm or fail to pass number eight
standard sieve or have a dimension greater than 1/2 inch.
      (4)   Wastes shall not have chlorine demand greater than 15 ppm.
      (5)   Wastes shall not contain phenols in excess of .05 ppm.
      (6)   Wastes shall not contain any grease or oil or any oily substance in
excess of 100 ppm or exceed daily average of 25 ppm.
(Prior Code, App., § 1308)
§ 160.219 LANDSCAPING, SCREENING, GREENBELTS, BUFFERS, AND FENCING.
   (A)   Intent. The intent of this section is to promote the public health,
safety and general welfare by: minimizing noise, air and visual pollution;
improving the appearance of off-street parking and other vehicular use areas;
requiring buffering between incompatible land uses; regulating the appearance
of property abutting public rights-of-way; protecting and preserving the
appearance and character of the community; promoting the conservation of
property values and natural resources; and preventing soil erosion. Landscaping
and greenbelts are capable of enhancing the visual environment, preserving
natural features, improving property values, and alleviating the impact of
noise, traffic, and visual disruption related to intensive uses. Screening,
buffers and fencing are important to protect less-intensive uses from the
noise, light, traffic, litter, and other impacts of intensive nonresidential
uses.
   (B)   Scope of application, modification or waiver of requirements.
      (1)   These requirements shall apply to all uses for which site plan
review is required under §
160.300, except that said requirements shall not apply within the B-1, Central
Business District.
      (2)   In cases where a lot or parcel, which was lawfully created prior to
the adoption of this section, does not contain sufficient land area to
reasonably accommodate all of the requirements contained herein, the Planning
Commission may modify or waive 1 or more of these requirements when, in the
opinion of the Planning Commission, it would be impractical to fully comply and
the difficulty is not self-created.
      (3)   No site plan shall be approved unless said site plan shows
landscaping consistent with the provisions of this section.
      (4)   Furthermore, where landscaping is required, a building permit shall
not be issued until the required landscape plan is submitted and approved.
      (5)   A certificate of occupancy shall not be issued unless provisions
set forth in this section have been met or a performance guarantee has been
posted in accordance with the provisions set forth in §
90.162, "Performance Bonds".
      (6)   In cases where an existing building is to be structurally altered
or enlarged, or when the use lawfully changes to a different use, or an
existing building is structurally altered or enlarged, all of the standards set
forth herein shall be met.
   (C)   Landscape plan required. A separate detailed landscape plan shall be
submitted as part of the site plan. The landscape plan shall include, but not
necessarily be limited to, the following items:
      (1)   The landscape plan shall be prepared by or under the direction of a
landscape architect and shall bear the seal of landscape architect licensed to
practice in the State of Michigan. This requirement may be waived by the
Planning Commission when, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, the size,
scope or mature of the landscaping improvements is not sufficient to warrant
professional design and when the value (as determined by the Planning
Commission) of landscaping improvements (labor and material) is less than
$5,000;
      (2)   Minimum scale: 1 inch = 60 feet;
      (3)   Existing and proposed contours on-site and 50 feet beyond the site
at intervals not to exceed 2 feet;
      (4)   Location, spacing, size, and root type (bare root (BR) or balled
and burlaped (BB)) and descriptions for each plant type proposed for use within
the required landscape area;
      (5)   Typical straight cross section including slope, height and width of
berms and type of ground cover, or height and type of construction for all
proposed walls and fences, including footings;
      (6)   Significant construction details to resolve specific site
conditions, such as tree wells to preserve existing trees or culverts to
maintain natural drainage patterns;
      (7)   Planting and staking details in either text or drawing form to
ensure proper installation and establishment of proposed plant materials;
      (8)   Identification of existing vegetative cover, stands, groupings, and
groves of existing trees. In addition, all individual trees having a caliber of
6 inches or more, shall be identified as to species and located accurately on a
topographic survey. The plan shall indicate areas of existing vegetative cover
and those stands, groupings, and groves, and all individual specimen trees to
be preserved. The plan shall also indicate the method of protection for
existing trees as required in this section and the scheduling for said
protection during construction;
      (9)   Identification of grass and other ground cover and method of
planting;
      (10)   Identification of landscape maintenance program including
statement that all diseased, damaged, or dead materials shall be replaced in
accordance with the standards of this section; and
      (11)   An irrigation plan showing the design of an underground sprinkler
system conforming to the requirements of this section.
   (D)   Review of landscape plan by Planning Commission. The Planning
Commission, upon receipt of a written report and recommendation from the Zoning
Administrator and/or City Planner shall review said landscape plan relative to:
      (1)   The proper spacing, placement and location of plant materials
relative to the length, width and general configuration of the required
landscape element so as to ensure that the intended landscaping effect,
including the necessary horizontal and vertical obscuring of proposed land
uses, will be achieved;
      (2)   The choice and selection of plant materials so as to ensure that
the root system will not interfere with public utilities and that fruit and
other debris will not constitute a nuisance within the public right-of-way, or
to abutting property owners;
      (3)   The proposed relationship between deciduous and evergreen plant
materials so as to ensure that the intended landscaping effect, including
maximum obscuring effect where appropriate, will be maintained;
      (4)   The size of plant materials (both starting and ultimate) to ensure
adequate maturity and optimum screening and/or shading effect of proposed plant
materials.
   (E)   Landscape design standards.
      (1)   Quality. Plant material and grasses shall be of generally
acceptable varieties and species, free of insects and diseases, hardy to St.
Clair County, conform to the current minimum standard of the American
Association of Nurserymen, and shall have proof of any required governmental
regulations and/or inspections.
      (2)   Composition. A mixture of plant material, such as evergreen,
deciduous trees and shrubs is recommended as a protective measure against
insect and disease infestation. A limited mixture of hardy species is
recommended rather than a large quantity of different species to produce a more
aesthetic, cohesive design and avoid a disorderly appearing arrangement.
      (3)   Plant material sizes and spacing.
         (a)   Plant materials shall not be placed closer than 4 feet from the
fence line or property line, unless specifically modified by the Planning
Commission.
         (b)   Where plant materials are planted in 2 or more rows, plantings
shall be staggered in rows.
         (c)   Evergreen trees shall have a starting size of at least 6 feet in
height. When planted in informal groupings, they shall be spaced not more than
20 feet on center. When planted in rows, they shall be spaced not more than 12
feet on center.
         (d)   Narrow evergreens shall have a starting size of at least 5 feet
in height. When planted in informal groupings shall be space not more than 10
feet on center. When planted in rows, they shall be spaced not more than 5 feet
on center.
         (e)   Large deciduous trees shall have a minimum starting size of 2-1/
2 caliper inches. They shall be planted not more than 30 feet on center when
placed in informal groupings.
         (f)   Small deciduous trees shall have a minimum starting size of at
least 2 caliper inches. They shall not be spaced more than 15 feet on center
when placed in informal groupings.
         (g)   Large shrubs shall have a starting size of at least 30 inches in
height. They shall be placed not more than 6 feet on center when placed in
informal groupings and not more than 4 feet on center when planted in rows.
         (h)   Small shrubs shall have a starting size of not less than 24
inches in height or spread and shall be planted not more than 4 feet on center.
      (4)   Suggested plant materials. The following list of plant materials is
not intended to be all-inclusive, but rather suggests certain material which is
suitable for landscaping purposes:
         (a)   Evergreen trees. Juniper, Hemlock, Pine, Spruce, Douglas Fir,
Fir.
         (b)   Narrow evergreens. Column Honoki Cypress, Blue Columnar Chinese
Juniper, Pyramidal Red-Cedar, Swiss Stone Pine, Pyramidal White Pine, Hicks
Yew, Irish Yew, Douglas Arborvitae, Columnar Giant Arborvitae, Pyramidal
Japanese.
         (c)   Large deciduous trees. Oak, Linden, Hackberry, Hop Hornbeam,
Ginkgo (male), Hard Maples, Sweet Gum, Honey Locust (seedless, thornless),
Birch, Beech, Sycamore, Ash (seedless).
         (d)   Small deciduous trees. Hornbeam, Serviceberry, Mountain Ash,
Russian Olive, Hawthorn(thornless), Magnolia, Redbud, Rose of Sharon, Flowering
Crabapple, Flowering Dogwood(disease resistant), Flowering Cherry, Plum, Pear.
         (e)   Large shrubs. Honeysuckle, Mock-orange, Buckthorn, Pyracantha,
Mugo Pine, Lilac, Euonymus, Ninebark, Barberry, Savin Juniper, Viburnum,
Forsythia, Dogwood (Red Osier & Grey), Sargent Crabapple, Sumac, Flowering
Quince, Weigela, Cottoneaster (Peking & Spreading), Hazelnut, Border Privet
(hedge planting), Pfitser Juniper, Yew, Tall Hedge (hedge planting).
         (f)   Small shrubs. Regal Privet, Potentilla, Dwarf Mungo Pine, Low
Spreading Junipers (Hughes, Tamarix, and the like), Cottoneaster (Cranberry,
Rockspray), Fragrant Sumac, Compact Burning Bush, Spreading Yews, Japanese
Quince, Big Leaf Winter Creeper, Euonymous varieties, Brown's, Wards's Sebion
Yews, Dwarf Winged.
         (g)   Ground cover. Periwinkle, Baltic Ivy, Euonymous varieties, Hall
Honeysuckle, Pachysandra.
         (h)   Vines. Euonymous varieties, Virginia Creeper, Baltic Ivy,
Wisteria.
         (i)   Trees not permitted. Box Elder, Catalpa, Cottonwood, Soft Maples
(Red-Silver), Elms, Poplars, Willows, Horse Chestnut (nut bearing), Tree of
Heaven.
   (F)   General landscaping. In addition to any interior parking lot
landscaping and/or screening/buffer between land uses required by this section,
not less than 10% of the site area, excluding existing thoroughfare rights-of-
way, shall be landscaped. Areas used for storm drainage purposes, such as
unfenced drainage courses or retention areas in front or side yards, may be
included as a portion of the required landscaped area not to exceed 5% of the
site area.
      (1)   All portions of the landscaped area shall be planted with grass,
ground cover, shrubbery, or other suitable plant material, except that paved
patios, terraces, sidewalks, and similar site features may be incorporated with
Planning Commission approval.
      (2)   A mixture of evergreen and deciduous trees shall be planted at the
rate of 1 tree for each 3,000 square feet or portion thereof of required
landscaped open-space area.
      (3)   Required trees and shrubs may be planted at uniform intervals, at
random, or in groupings.
      (4)   A portion of the required general landscaping, acceptable to the
Planning Commission, shall be provided immediately adjacent to principal
buildings. Said landscaping shall be of a size and extent proportionate with
the building it is intended to enhance and soften. Larger and taller plant
materials, such as deciduous, evergreen, and ornamental trees must comprise a
significant portion of the required landscaping adjacent to larger structures
or monotonous expanses of a building's exterior wall. The location, width, and
configuration of planting beds as well as the number, size, type, and spacing
of plant materials shall be subject to the review and approval of the Planning
Commission. For buildings having a height of 14 feet or less, the average width
of the planting beds shall not be less than 5 feet. When the height of the
building exceeds 14 feet, the average minimum width of the planting beds shall
be increased an additional 1 foot for each additional 2 feet of building
height, up to a maximum required minimum average width 15 feet.
      (5)   The total landscaped area shall be the basis for determining the
required number of trees or shrubs, irrespective of the portion of the site,
which is devoted to patios, terraces, sidewalks, or other site features.
      (6)   Areas used for storm drainage purposes, such as but not limited to
drainage courses, detention ponds, and retention ponds shall be landscaped with
a mixture of evergreen and deciduous trees and shrubs in a manner acceptable to
the Planning Commission. In the case of ponds or drainage courses that are
required to be fenced, trees and shrubs shall be provided along the exterior
side of said fencing so as to substantially obscure the fencing. For unfenced
ponds or drainage courses, landscaping shall be arranged so as to provide a
natural, rather than formal, planting effect. In addition, detention or
retention ponds, which may be likely to retain water for an extended period of
time, insofar as is practical, shall be designed and constructed to have a
natural rather than a regular or rectangular shape.
   (G)   Interior parking lot landscaping.
      (1)   In off-street parking areas containing greater than 20 spaces,
interior parking lot landscaping shall be provided in accordance with the
following schedule:
         (a)   In an I-1 or I-2 District, 1 deciduous tree for each 4,000
square feet of the total of the paved driveway and parking lot surface is
required.
         (b)   In all other districts, 1 deciduous tree shall be required for
each 3,000 square feet of paved driveway and parking lot surface, provided that
no less than 2 trees are provided.
      (2)   Trees shall be distributed evenly throughout the parking area.
Whenever possible, parking lot landscaping shall be arranged to improve the
safety of pedestrian and vehicular traffic, guide traffic movement, and improve
the appearance of the parking area.
      (3)   Parking lot landscaping shall be no less than 5 feet in any single
dimension and no less than 150 square feet in any single area. Landscaping
shall be protected from parking areas with continuous raised reinforced
concrete curbing to prevent vehicular encroachment onto the landscaped areas.
      (4)   A minimum of 1 deciduous tree having a clear trunk height of at
least 6 feet shall be planted in each landscaped area.
      (5)   A minimum of 3 feet shall be established between trunk of the
proposed tree and the backside of the curb or edge of the pavement for
protection.
      (6)   The landscape plan shall designate the sizes, quantities, and types
of plant material to be used in parking lot landscaping.
      (7)   All interior landscaped areas not dedicated to trees or to
preservation of existing vegetation shall be landscaped with grass, ground
cover, shrubs, or other appropriate landscape treatment. Sand, stones, gravel,
or other pavement shall not be considered appropriate landscape treatment.
      (8)   Required landscaping elsewhere on the parcel shall not be counted
in meeting parking lot landscaping requirements.
      (9)   Landscaped islands within the parking area shall be designed and
placed so as not to unduly interfere or impede the removal of snow. Adequate
areas shall be provided on-site for the disposition and storage of snow.
   (H)   Perimeter parking lot landscaping. The purpose of perimeter
landscaping requirements is to define parking areas, shield views of parked
cars to passing motorists and pedestrians, and prevent 2 adjacent lots from
becoming 1 large expanse of paving. The provision of perimeter landscaping
between adjacent parking lots shall not preclude the need to provide vehicular
access between lots. Landscape strips shall be provided around the perimeter of
lots as follows:
      (1)   Perimeter landscape strips separating parking lots and driving
lanes from abutting rights-of-way:
         (a)   General requirements. Whenever an off-street parking lot or
driving lane abuts a right-of-way, public or private, a perimeter landscape
strip shall be created which meets the minimum standards established in this
section. The perimeter strip shall extend along the length of the boundary
between the edge of the planned right-of-way and the parking lot or driving
lane. Accessways from public rights-ofway through required landscaped strips
shall be permitted, but such accessways shall not be subtracted from the lineal
dimension used to determine the minimum number of trees required unless such
calculation would result in a violation of the spacing requirements set forth
in this section.
         (b)   The strip meet shall be landscaped and planted in 1 of the
following approved methods:
            1.   A 15 foot wide strip planted with 1 deciduous tree and 10
shrubs for each 35 feet of frontage;
            2.   A berm that is at least 2-1/2 feet higher than the finished
elevation of the parking lot planted with 1 deciduous tree and 5 shrubs for
each 35 feet of frontage;
            3.   An 8 foot wide landscaped strip with a minimum 3 foot grade
drop from the right-of-way to the parking lot planted with 1 deciduous tree and
5 shrubs for each 35 feet of frontage;
            4.   An 8 foot wide buffer strip with a 3 foot high wall of brick,
stone, or decorative finished concrete to screen the lot with 1 deciduous tree
for each 35 feet of frontage planted between the wall and the right-of-way; or
            5.   If existing woodlands are available, the applicant may
preserve a 25 foot wide strip in lieu of the landscaping requirement.
         (c)   For divisions 1 through 4 above, 2 ornamental or 2 evergreen
trees may be substituted for each required deciduous tree.
      (2)   Other perimeter landscaping strips. In addition to the perimeter
landscaping required in division (1) above, perimeter landscaping strips shall
be required along the remaining boundaries of a parking lot or driving lane as
follows:
         (a)   A landscaped strip at least 8 feet wide planted with 1 deciduous
tree and 3 shrubs for each 35 feet of perimeter. For small, shallow, narrow, or
unusually shaped lots, the Planning Commission may reduce the required width,
modify the plantings required, or waive this requirement upon demonstration
that compliance with this section would cause an undue hardship.
         (b)   If existing woodlands are available, the applicant may preserve
a 25 foot wide strip in lieu of the landscaping requirement.
   (I)   Buffers between conflicting land uses. All landscaping plans shall
conform to all applicable provisions of §
160.221 entitled "Obscuring Walls and Fences". Notwithstanding the requirements
of §
160.221, the Planning Commission may permit the substitution of a landscaped
greenbelt, a landscaped greenbelt with fence, or a landscaped earth berm in the
place of a required masonry obscuring wall provided that, in the opinion of the
Planning Commission, an alternate buffer type will provide an equally suitable
form of separation and screening, and provided that the following conditions
can be met:
      (1)   All other pertinent provisions of this section are met, including
but not limited to the following sections entitled: "Intent", "Scope of
Application, Modification or Waiver of Requirements", and "Landscape Design
Standards";
      (2)   A landscape plan is submitted for review and approval in compliance
with the following sections entitled: "Landscape Plan Required", and "Review of
Landscape Plan by Planning Commission";
      (3)   It can be clearly demonstrated in the landscape plan that the
completed screening will provide a minimum visual obstruction of 60% in the
winter and 80% in the summer to the minimum height of that specified for the
required masonry obscuring wall.
   (J)   Landscaping of balance of developed site. In addition to the minimum
required landscaping elements and areas set forth above, all developed areas of
the site which are not devoted to buildings, parking lots, driveways,
sidewalks, patios, terraces, or other approved site features shall be planted
with grass, ground cover, shrubbery, or other suitable plant material and shall
be maintained in a healthy growing condition, free of weeds and debris, and
neat and orderly in appearance.
   (K)   Existing trees.
      (1)   Existing vegetative cover and existing stands, groupings, and
groves of existing trees, and all trees having a caliber of 6 inches or more
shall be retained preserved and maintained to the maximum extent feasible and
practical, as determined by the Planning Commission.
      (2)   If existing plant material is labeled "To Remain" on site plans by
the applicant or required by the city, protective techniques, such as, but not
limited to, fencing or barriers placed at the dripline around the perimeter of
the plant material shall be installed during construction. No vehicle or other
construction equipment shall be parked or stored within the dripline of any
plant material intended to be saved. Other protective techniques may be used
provided such techniques are approved by the city.
      (3)   In the event that healthy trees which are used to meet the minimum
requirements of this section or those labeled to remain are cut down,
destroyed, damaged, or excavated at the dripline, as determined by the city,
the owner shall replace them with trees which meet section requirements.
   (L)   Berms.
      (1)   Where required or utilized under this section, berms shall be
constructed with slopes not to exceed a 1:3 gradient with side slopes designed
and planted to prevent erosion, and with a rounded crest a minimum of 2 feet in
width at the highest point of the berm, extending the length of the berm. For
the purposes of this provision, grade elevation shall be the ground elevation
at the property line adjacent to the proposed berm. A berm shall be designed
and placed so as not to impede storm drainage.
      (2)   The berm shall be planted with grass or other suitable ground cover
to ensure that it withstands wind and weather and retains it height and shape.
      (3)   A minimum of 1 deciduous or evergreen tree shall be planted for
each 30 linear feet or portion of required berm.
      (4)   Eight shrubs per tree may be planted as a substitute of the trees
required division (3) above.
      (5)   Required trees and shrubs may be planted at uniform intervals, at
random, or in groupings.
      (6)   For the purpose of determining required plant material, required
berm length shall be measured along the exterior periphery of the berm.
      (7)   The height of berms, except where otherwise specified in this
chapter, shall not be less than 4 feet, 6 inches. The Planning Commission may,
in a specific instance, require additional height when necessary to achieve the
desired obscuring effect and when this section does not clearly specify a
particular height.
   (M)   Regulations pertaining to landscaping areas used for sight distance.
When a driveway intersects a public right-of-way or when the subject property
abuts the intersection of public rights-of-way, all landscaping within the
corner triangular areas described below shall permit unobstructed cross-
visibility. Shrubs located in the triangular area shall not be permitted to
grow to a height of more than 30 inches above the pavement grade at the edge of
the pavement. Portions of required berms located within sight distance
triangular areas shall not exceed 30 inches above the pavement grade at the
edge of the pavement. Trees may be maintained in this area provided that all
branches are trimmed to maintain a clear vision for a vertical height of 8 feet
above the roadway surface. Landscaping, except grass or ground cover, shall not
be located closer than 3 feet from the edge of a driveway. The triangular areas
referred to above are:
      (1)   The area formed at the corner of a public right-of-way and a
driveway, 2 sides of the triangle area being 10 feet in length measured along
the right-of-way line and driveway line and the third side being a line
connecting these 2 sides;
      (2)   Two sides of the triangular area being 25 feet in length measured
along the abutting public rights-of-way lines and the third side being a line
connecting these 2 sides.
   (N)   Landscaping of rights-of-way and other adjacent public open-space
areas. Public rights-of-way and other public open-space areas adjacent to
required landscaped areas and greenbelts shall be planted with grass or other
suitable ground cover and maintained by the owner of the adjacent property as
if they were part of required landscaped areas and greenbelts.
   (O)   Maintenance. The owner of property, required to be landscaped by this
section, shall maintain such landscaping in a reasonably healthy condition,
free from weeds, refuse and debris. All unhealthy and dead material shall be
replaced within 1 year of damage or death or the next appropriate planting
period, whichever comes first. All landscaped areas, including parking lot
islands, shall be irrigated by means of a properly maintained and operated
underground sprinkler system with automatic timing controls.
   (P)   Fencing and screening. Unless otherwise specified or determined by the
Planning Commission, Zoning Administrator, or Zoning Board of Appeals, fencing
and screening is to be 6 feet in height. Gateposts and other superstructures
over site entrances and exits may be up to 12 feet in height. Fencing and
screening materials of a height greater than 3 feet are not to be located
within a required front yard setback or side setback adjacent to a street.
      (1)   Mechanical equipment. (This section does not apply to single-family
residential uses or to any use in an Industrial District except if it abuts a
residential district or use). When located outside of a building, support
equipment including air conditioning and heating devices, water and gas meters,
but not including plumbing or exhaust vents or chimneys, are to be screened to
the height of the particular piece of equipment as follows:
         (a)   Roof-mounted equipment. To be screened by architectural features
from the view of abutting streets and parcels.
         (b)   Equipment at grade. When located on the ground adjacent to a
building, mechanical equipment is to be screened by landscaping, a solid wall
or fencing from the view of the street or surrounding properties.
      (2)   Outdoor storage. To be screened on all sides by a solid wall or
fence.
      (3)   Trash receptacles. Developments located within the Commercial
Districts which have off-street parking lots containing 250 or more parking
spaces, shall provide trash receptacles, of a design approved by the Planning
Commission, at evenly dispersed locations throughout the parking area at a
ratio of 1 receptacle per each 50 spaces for use by patrons. All trash
enclosures and trash receptacles shall be kept in good repair and maintained in
a clean and orderly manner.
      (4)   Materials for fencing and screening may consist of the following:
         (a)   Solid board fences with posts not less than 4 inches by 4 inches
and solid board cover not less than 1 inch (nominal) thick.
         (b)   Masonry piers may be substituted for wood posts.
         (c)   Posts or piers shall be spaced not more than 8 feet on center.
         (d)   The finished side of the wood shall face abutting properties.
         (e)   Stockade type fencing is not permitted.
(Ord. 04-03, passed 5-6-2004)
§ 160.220 SIGNS.
   (A)   This section regulates signs in Marine City that are on lands open to
the public, visible from public road rights-of-way, private roads, public
facilities, trails open to the public, and navigable waterways. It is a basic
tenet of this division that unrestricted signing does not benefit either
private enterprise or the community-at-large. Depending on their size, numbers,
and character, signs may attract or repel visitors, affect the visual quality
enjoyed by daily residents, affect the safety of vehicular traffic, and define
the character of the area. Thus aesthetic considerations impact economic values
as well as public health, safety, and welfare. Therefore this division of this
section sets standards for the following purposes:
      (1)   Maintain and enhance the visual quality of the community.
      (2)   Improve pedestrian and motorist safety by minimizing distractions
and obstacles to clear views of the road and directional or warning signs.
      (3)   Support and complement the land use objectives of the City Master
Plan and this ordinance.
      (4)   Protect and enhance economic viability by assuring that the city
will be a visually pleasant place to visit or live.
      (5)   Protect property values and private/public investments in property.
      (6)   Protect views of the natural landscape and sky.
      (7)   Avoid personal injury and property damage from structurally unsafe
signs.
      (8)   Provide businesses with effective and efficient opportunities for
identification by reducing competing demands for visual attention.
      (9)   Reflect the primary purpose of signing as being the identification
of a particular user or use on a property, but not necessarily every activity
or service performed thereon.
      (10)   Avoid excessive signing in order to give each business or use
optimum visibility to passer-by traffic and if possible, prevent clutter, and
to prevent 1 sign from blocking the view of another sign.
      (11)   Achieve some uniformity and balance in the size, number and
placement of signs.
      (12)    Accommodate special circumstances or events that may create a
need for temporary signs for a limited and reasonable time period.
   (B)    It is, therefore, within the health, safety and welfare
responsibility of the city that this section is promulgated.
      (1)   Definitions. For the purpose of this section, the following
definitions shall apply unless the context clearly indicates or requires a
different meaning.
         SIGN. Any announcement, declaration, display, billboard, illustration
and insignia when designed and placed so as to attract general public
attention. SIGN shall include any banner, bulbs or other lighting devices,
streamer, pennant, inflated or deflated membrane device, propeller, flag and
any similar device of any type or kind whether bearing lettering or not.
            1.   AWNING SIGN. Any sign that is part of, or attached to, a
canopy, awning or other fabric, plastic, or structural protective cover over a
door, entrance, window or outdoor service area and which does not extend
vertically or horizontally beyond the limits of the canopy. For the purposes of
this definition, a canopy shall be defined as a shelter projecting from and
supported by the exterior wall of a building constructed of nonrigid materials
on a supporting framework.
            2.   BALLOON SIGN. A temporary sign that is lighter-than-air or
gas-filled attached by means of a rope or tether or other device to a definite
or fixed location.
            3.   BANNER SIGN. A temporary sign of lightweight fabric or similar
material that is attached to a building or other structure.
            4.   GROUND SIGN. A permanent display sign supported by 1 or more
columns, uprights or braces or mounted directly in and upon the ground surface
and having a height not in excess of 6 feet.
            5.    MARQUEE SIGN. A sign on or attached to a permanent
overhanging shelter that projects from the face of the building and is
supported entirely by the building.
            6.   MURAL. A work of art or architectural detail, generally
directly painted on a portion of a permanent structure.
            7.    PERMANENT SIGN. A sign intended to be used indefinitely, or
used indefinitely without change, in the same state or place.
            8.   PORTABLE SIGN. A sign and sign structure which is designed to
facilitate the movement of the sign from one zoning lot to another or from one
location to another on the site on which it is located. The sign may or may not
have wheels, changeable lettering and/or hitches for towing. Portable signs
shall include signs designed in an A-frame fashion, having back-to-back sign
faces, or similar signs which are located outside of a business on a daily
basis and which are not permanently attached to the ground.
            9.    PROJECTING SIGN. A sign which is affixed to any building or
structure, other than a marquee, and any part of which extends beyond the
building wall or structure more than 15 inches.
            10.   POLE SIGN. A display sign supported by 1 or more columns,
uprights or braces in the ground surface and having a height in excess of 6
feet.
            11.   TEAR DROP FLAG. A temporary sign with or without characters,
letters, illustrations, or ornamentations applied to cloth, paper, flexible
plastic, or fabric of any kind with only such material for backing. TEAR DROP
FLAGS are generally a single sign attached to a support post and typically
having a dimensional ratio of at least 4 high to 1 wide. Such signs are also
known as feather flags, windfeather flags, or bow flags.
            12.   TEMPORARY SIGN. A sign, display or other informational device
constructed of cloth, canvas, fabric, plastic or other light temporary
material, with or without a structural frame, which is intended for a limited
period of display.
            13.   WALL SIGN. A display sign which is painted on or attached
directly to the building wall.
         SIGN, ACCESSORY. A sign which pertains to the principal use of the
premises.
         SIGN, NONACCESSORY. A sign which does not pertain to the principal use
of the premises.
         SIGN ALTERATION. The changing, enlarging or relocating of any sign,
excluding the changing of movable parts of an approved sign that is designed
for such changes or the repainting or reposting of original display matter,
shall be deemed an alteration.
         ERECT. To build, construct, attach, hang, place, suspend, affix or
paint.
      (2)   General requirements for all signs. The following conditions shall
also apply to all signs erected or located in any use district:
         (a)   All signs shall conform to all codes and ordinances of the city
and, where required, shall be approved by the Building Inspector and a permit
issued.
         (b)   No sign, except those established and maintained by the city,
county, state or federal governments, shall be erected, located or placed in,
project into or overhang a public right-of-way or dedicated public easement.
The owner of any sign which has been removed by the city from the right-of-way
because it is in violation of this provision shall pay to the city the actual
costs of removal and storage or charges of $5 per day, whichever is greater. If
the sign is not claimed within 5 days, it shall be destroyed.
         (c)   No sign otherwise permitted shall project above or beyond the
maximum height limitation of the use district in which located.
         (d)   No sign above a height of 2 feet shall be located within,
project into or overhang the triangular area formed at the intersection of
street right-of-way lines by a straight line drawn between the right-of-way
lines at a distance along each line of 25 feet from their point of
intersection.
         (e)   Accessory signs shall be permitted in any use district and may
be located in the required front yard except as otherwise provided herein.
         (f)   Non-accessory signs shall be permitted only in I districts.
         (g)   Illumination of signs shall be directed or shaded downward so as
not to interfere with driver visibility, become hazardous to traffic or the
vision of persons on adjacent streets or property. Flashing or intermittent
type signs shall not be permitted.
         (h)   Any sign, including framing, now or hereafter existing, which no
longer advertises a bona fide business conducted or a product or entertainment,
service or commodity offered or sold on the lot, shall be taken down and
removed by the owner, agent or person having the beneficial use of the building
or structure upon which such sign shall be found within 30 days after written
notice from the Building Inspector. Notice shall be sent to the property owner
of record, as indicated in city tax rolls, by certified mail. The owner may
petition the Zoning Board of Appeals for temporary approval to install blank
sign faces when it can be demonstrated that the sign structure is likely to be
reused by a future business and the sign framework is in sound structural
condition.
         (i)   Connections to an energy source for lighting shall be in accord
with all codes of the city and shall not be exposed in any way that may
constitute a safety hazard to the public.
         (j)   A minimum of five (5) feet of unobstructed pedestrian access
along the sidewalk shall be maintained at all times.
      (3)   Exempt signs.
         (a)   Signs not exceeding four (4) square feet in area and four (4)
feet in height, measured from grade, when located along the edge of a driveway
and intended to be visible from a public road. Only one such sign may be
allowed at each driveway access to a public road and no such sign shall be
allowed within the public right-of-way.
         (b)   Signs not exceeding two (2) square feet in area and six (6) feet
in height, measured from grade, when located along the edge of, and intended to
be visible from, an internal access driveway, internal pedestrian walkway, or
off-street parking space.
         (c)   Non-illuminated wall signs, not exceeding two (2) square feet in
display surface area and not exceeding one (1) per street frontage.
         (d)   Memorial signs or tablets which are either cut into the face of
a masonry surface or constructed of bronze or other noncombustible material
when located flat on the face of a building.
         (e)   Traffic, or other municipal signs, also private traffic control
signs which conform to the requirements of the Michigan Manual of Uniform
Traffic Control Devices.
         (f)   Signs located on properties registered as a National or State
Historic Site, when in compliance with the Michigan State Historic Preservation
Office's standards for National or State Historic Site plaques.
         (g)   Signs located on properties owned or controlled by essential
service providers and generally required by federal or state laws or for public
safety purposes.
         (h)   Signs required to be erected to meet federal or state laws when
in compliance with the sign design and placement specifications of such federal
or state laws.
         (i)   Non illuminated window signs, each not exceeding six (6) square
feet in display area. Illuminated window signs, not exceeding two (2) square
feet in display area and not more than two (2) such signs per frontage, may
also be allowed. The total area of all window signs in a single window shall
not cover more than twenty-five (25) percent of the area of such window.
         (j)   Flags, provided no more than three (3) flags are allowed per
property and no single flag shall exceed fifteen (15) square feet in area.
Flags may either be attached to ground-mounted flag poles anchored in concrete
or affixed to a building. The height of the flag pole shall not exceed the
height restriction of the zoning district in which it is located. Flags,
whether ground-mounted or wall-mounted, shall be grouped in a single area of
the site or building.
         (k)   Decorative holiday displays.
         (l)   Public artwork or murals with no commercial message.
      (4)   Permitted signs by zoning district.
         (a)   R-I A, R-1B, R-M and MHP district sign types allowed.
            1.   One (1) wall and one (1) ground sign, or combination thereof,
may be permitted for any permitted non-residential use or lawful nonconforming
use within a residential district. Such sign shall not exceed twenty (20)
square feet in surface area and six (6) feet in height.
            2.   One (1) sign per street frontage may be permitted by Zoning
Administrator approval to be placed flat against a building within an apartment
complex provided that it shall not exceed twelve (12) square feet in surface
display area. Such a sign may be illuminated provided that the source of the
light is not visible beyond the property lines of the parcel upon which it is
located.
            3.    permanent ground sign may be permitted by Zoning
Administrator approval for each separate street frontage occupied by a
subdivision, apartment, multi-family development or condominium complex or for
each means of entrance to the subdivision, apartment, multi-family development
or condominium complex from a public road, provided that the sign and structure
shall be harmonious and appropriate in appearance with the existing and
intended character of the general vicinity. No such sign shall exceed twenty
(20) square feet in area and six (6) feet in height.
         (b)   B-1, B-2, W-M and P-I district sign types allowed.
            1.   Ground sign.
               a.   One ground sign shall be permitted per lot. However, if a
lot fronts on 2 or more collector or arterial streets, a ground sign may be
permitted for each such frontage, provided that such signs are separated by a
minimum distance of 150 feet at any point on the sign.
               b.   Except as permitted above, not more than 1 ground sign may
be erected accessory to any one development, regardless of the number of
buildings, separate parties, tenants or uses contained therein.
               c.   For any frontage where a ground sign is permitted, such
ground sign may be used in lieu of a pole sign, but not in addition to a pole
sign.
               d.   Except as provided below, a ground sign shall have a sign
area of not more than 1 square foot of sign area (per sign face) for each 3
lineal feet of street frontage up to a maximum of 50 square feet for a single
face and 100 square feet for a total of all sign faces.
               e.   A ground sign shall not exceed 6 feet in height above the
average grade of the immediately adjacent land upon which it is located.
               f.   The distance measured between the principal sign faces of
any ground sign shall not exceed 18 inches at any point.
               g.   A ground sign shall be at least 10 feet from a building
wall.
               h.   The minimum required setback for a ground sign from the
property line separating the lot from the street shall be as follows:
 
Height of ground sign                Setback
Less than 2 feet                     3 feet
At least 2 feet but less than 3 feet 6 feet
At least 3 feet but less than 4 feet 9 feet
At least 4 feet but less than 5 feet 12 feet
At least 5 feet but less than 6 feet 15 feet
 
                i.   A ground sign shall be setback at least 3 feet from all
other property lines, except that when abutting a residential district or
residential use, it shall be setback a distance not less than its height.
               j.    Ground signs may be substituted for an equal number of
pole signs. In such cases, ground signs may be increased in area by up to 20%
from that permitted above.
               k.    Ground signs may be illuminated as required by division
(B)(2)(i).
            2.   Awning and marquee signs.
               a.   Such signs may not project more than six feet into the
public right-of-way nor be erected closer than three feet to any street
curbline.
               b.   Any text, logos or other graphic representation qualifying
as a sign which is placed on a canopy or marquee shall be included within the
calculation of total permissible wall sign area.
               c.   A minimum clearance of eight (8) feet for canopies and ten
(10) feet for marquees shall be maintained from ground level.
               d.    Canopies and marquees shall be permitted to be backlit
only on those sides of the building which contain a public entryway or those
having a pedestrian sidewalk immediately adjacent to the building.
               e.   Letters on a canopy or marquee sign shall not exceed twelve
(12) inches in height.
               f.   The entire canopy shall be considered a wall sign when a
translucent fabric canopy with signage is internally illuminated.
            3.   Pole sign.
               a.   Not more than 1 pole sign may be erected accessory to any 1
development regardless of the number of buildings, separate parties, tenants or
uses contained therein.
               b.   It shall be unlawful to erect any pole sign to a height
greater than 30 feet above the level of the street upon which the sign faces.
The distance from the ground to the bottom shall be not less than 8 feet, and
the sign shall be so erected as not to obstruct traffic vision.
               c.   Pole signs may be illuminated as required by division (B)
(2)(i).
               d.   All pole signs shall be securely built, constructed and
erected upon posts and standards at least 42 inches below the material surface
of the ground and shall be embedded in concrete. Wood or wood products shall be
of wolmanized or equal treatment.
               e.   All letters, figures, characters, items or representations
in cutout or irregular form maintained in conjunction with, attached to or
superimposed upon any sign shall be safely and securely built or attached to
the sign structure. Loose or missing letters, figures, characters or items
shall constitute a maintenance violation.
               f.   The distance measured between the principal faces of any
pole sign shall not exceed 18 inches.
               g.   Sign height, setback and size for pole signs.
Maximum Height (feet) Minimum Setback Required  Maximum Area* of Single Sign
                      (feet)                    Face (in square feet)
Maximum Height (feet) Minimum Setback Required  Maximum Area* of Single Sign
                      (feet)                    Face (in square feet)
13                    13                        50
14                    18                        56
15                    20                        62
16                    22                        68
17                    24                        74
18                    26                        80
19                    28                        86
20                    30                        92
21                    32                        98
22                    34                        104
23                    36                        110
24                    38                        116
25                    40                        122
26                    42                        128
27                    44                        134
 
            4.   Wall signs.
               a.   Wall signs may be provided on all street sides, front sides
or parking lot sides of a building, and the total surface area of all wall
signs shall not exceed 10% of the area of the front elevation (including doors
and windows) of the principal building or 3 square feet for each lineal foot of
building frontage, or 100 square feet, whichever is less. Where a single
principal building is devoted to 2 or more or commercial uses, the operator of
each such use may install a front wall sign. The maximum area of each such sign
shall be determined by determining the proportionate share of the front face
(including doors and windows) of the principal building occupied by each such
use and applying the proportion of the total sign area permitted from the front
wall of the building; or the per cent agreed to by the occupants, total not to
exceed the above area limitations. It is the responsibility of the applicant to
provide the required information when applying for a sign permit.
               b.   The sign may be illuminated as required by division (B)(2)
(i).
               c.   All wall signs of a greater area than 50 square feet shall
have a have a surface or facing of noncombustible material.
               d.    Limitation on placement. No wall sign shall cover wholly
or partially any wall opening nor project beyond the ends or top of the wall
which attached.
               e.   No wall sign shall have a greater thickness than 12 inches
measured from the wall to which it is attached to the outermost surface. Wall
signs may project over the public right-of-way not to exceed 12 inches,
provided clearance of not less than 7 feet 6 inches is maintained below the
sign if the sign projects more than 4 inches. The sign shall not project above
the roof line.
               f.   All wall signs shall be safely and securely attached to
structural members of the building by means of metal anchors, bolts or
expansion screws. In no case shall any wall sign be secured with wire, strips
of wood or nails. The method of attachment shall be stated on the permit
application. All plans for the erection of signs shall be submitted to the
Building Inspector for review and approval and shall be further subject to all
codes and ordinances of the city.
            5.   Mural signs. Mural signs which contain commercial messages, or
images or messages which are associated with or related to a business, may be
allowed after review and approval by the Planning Commission and are further
subject to the following:
               a.   Only one wall of a building or structure may be used for
the mural. The portion of the wall occupied by the mural shall not be greater
than twenty-five percent (25%) of the total wall area.
               b.    Murals shall only be permitted on the side or rear walls
of buildings.
               c.    Murals shall be allowed only on building walls that do not
contain wall signs on the same wall as occupants of the building.
               d.    Murals depicting offensive or obscene materials, or
partially nude or seminude persons, shall be prohibited.
               e.    Materials utilized in painting a mural shall have proven
durability and shall be maintained or removed if not maintained.
               f.   The unauthorized inscribing, spraying of paint, or making
symbols using chalk, dye, ink, paint, spray paint or similar materials on
public or private places, structures, or other surfaces shall not be permitted.
         (c)   I-1 and I-2 District sign types allowed. All sign types allowed
and as controlled for business districts, plus the following: non-accessory
signs shall be permitted but shall not be located closer than 200 feet to any
public right-of-way line or district zoned for residential use and provided
further that there shall be not less than 1,000 feet between signs located on
the same side of a right-of-way. In any I-1 District non-accessory signs shall
not exceed 150 square feet in size on any one face, nor likewise, 350 square
feet in any I-2 District. The height of any sign shall not exceed 30 feet.
         (d)   NM-Nautical Mile District. In addition to the requirements of
this section, for uses located in the Nautical Mile overlay district, signs
shall also conform to the provisions set forth herein.
      (5)   Prohibited signs. The following signs are prohibited within the
city:
         (a)   String lights used in connection with business premises, other
than holiday decorations;
         (b)   Any sign unlawfully installed, erected or maintained;
         (c)   Signs erected on any post tree, utility pole, public right-of-
way or dedicated public easement or other object within any area, whether
public or private;
         (d)   Any sign or banner erected upon or across any public right-of-
way or dedicated public easement except by permission of the City Commission;
         (e)   Signs which incorporate in any manner any flashing lights;
         (f)   Any sign or other advertising structure upon which is displayed
any obscene, indecent or immoral matter;
         (g)   Rotating signs;
         (h)   Signs on park-type benches;
         (i)   Any sign on the roof of any building;
         (j)   Vehicles used as signs: any sign on a motor vehicle or trailer
which is parked in front of or at a business, or in such a manner that is
visible from a public street or from a residential zoning district; and
         (k)   Any sign type that is not defined within this chapter shall be
subject to review and approval by the city.
      (6)   Temporary and portable signs.
         (a)   Temporary signs, as defined herein, may be allowed within the R-
IA, R-1B, R-M and MHP Districts, provided the following requirements are met.
Portable signs, as defined herein, are not allowed within the R-IA, R-1B, R-
M and MHP Districts.
            1.   No more than one (1) temporary sign may be allowed per street
frontage. Up to one (1) additional temporary signper street frontage is allowed
during any of the below listed time periods:
               a.    During the time period starting when an election ballot
has been certified by the County Clerk and extending 7 days after an election.
               b.    During the time period noted on a building permit issued
by Marine City allowing for construction activities to occur on the site.
               c.    During the time period where the property is actively
listed for sale.
            2.   Temporary signs shall not exceed 6 square feet of display area
and 4 feet in height.
            3.   Temporary signs must be safely affixed, properly maintained
and not allowed to become unsightly through disrepair or action of the
elements.
            4.   The location of any sign permitted by this section shall not
interfere with pedestrian traffic, driver safety, or handicap access.
         (b)   Temporary signs, as defined herein, may be allowed within the B-
1, B-2, W-M, P-1, I-1 and I-2 Districts, provided the following requirements
are met:
            1.   No more than one (1) ground-affixed temporary sign and one (1)
building-affixed temporary sign may be allowed per street frontage. Up to one
(1) additional ground-affixed or building-affixed temporary signper street
frontage is allowed during any of the below listed time periods:
               a.    During the time period starting when an election ballot
has been certified by the County Clerk and extending 7 days after an election.
               b.    During the time period noted on a building permit issued
by Marine City allowing for construction activities to occur on the site.
               c.    During the time period where the property is actively
listed for sale.
            2.   Temporary signs affixed to the ground shall not exceed 16
square feet of display area and 10 feet in height. Temporary signs affixed to a
building shall not exceed 20 square feet of display area nor more than 10 feet
in any single dimension.
            3.   Temporary signs must be safely affixed, properly maintained
and not allowed to become unsightly through disrepair or action of the
elements.
            4.   The location of any sign permitted by this section shall not
interfere with pedestrian traffic, driver safety, or handicap access.
            5.   Additional requirements for specific temporary sign types: The
following specific sign types shall require permit approval by the Zoning
Administrator for specified time periods which, in total, do not exceed 60 days
in any one calendar year:
               a.    Banners, provided they are affixed to a building wall,
over a permanent sign, or by other means necessary so long as the banner is
stationary and safely supported.
               b.   Tear drop flags.
         (c)   Portable signs, as defined herein, may be allowed within the B-
1, B-2, W-M, P-1, I-1 and I-2 Districts, provided the following requirements
are met:
            1.   Such signs may be located outside for display only during
regular business hours.
            2.   No more than 1 portable sign may be allowed per street
frontage.
            3.   Portable signs shall not exceed 9 square feet of display area
and 4 feet in height.
            4.   Portable signs must be properly maintained and not allowed to
become unsightly through disrepair or action of the elements.
            5.   The location of portable signs shall not interfere with
pedestrian traffic, driver safety, or handicap access.
      (7)   Nonconforming signs.
         (a)   All existing signs that do not conform to the provisions of this
chapter shall be permitted to continue as nonconforming signs until such time
as they are removed or until any changes are necessary, at which time they
shall conform to the provisions of this chapter. The provisions of this
division shall not apply to electrical maintenance and repainting.
         (b)   A nonconforming use shall not be permitted to add additional
signs to the building or premises other than those existing. Signs on
nonconforming uses shall be maintained in good repair or be removed, and such
removal shall be conditional to divisions (B)(9) and (10) hereof.
         (c)   No permits for the installation, erection or placement of any
new signs shall be issued while a nonconforming sign or an unlawful sign
remains in use upon the same premises.
      (8)   Enforcement. This section shall be enforced by the Building
Inspector or any employee designated by the City Commission.
      (9)   Unsafe, damaged and unlawful signs. Signs shall be subject to
inspections, and when the condition of a sign is questionable, the owner or
occupant shall obtain a professional engineer's report, certifying the
condition of the sign. Failure to submit the report and make any specified
corrections is a direct violation which will result in court action and order
for the sign removal.
      (10)   Sign maintenance. The Building Inspector may forward to the
prosecutor a violation report seeking a court order for the maintenance of the
sign.
         (a)   Maintenance. All signs, including those for which a permit is
not required, together with all their supports, braces, guys and anchors, shall
be maintained in good working order and when not galvanized or constructed of
approved corrosion resistant, noncombustible materials shall be painted when
necessary to prevent corrosion. The exteriors of all signs, supporting members,
painted surfaces, advertising materials and lettering shall be kept painted and
in good repair so as to present a neat and orderly appearance and so as not to
create visual blight within the city. All bulbs or component parts of the sign,
including the electrical switches, boxes and wiring used in the illumination of
the sign, must be well and in good repair. Loose or missing letters, figures,
characters or items shall constitute a maintenance violation. Signs which lack
maintenance shall be removed.
         (b)   Housekeeping. It shall be the duty and responsibility of the
owner or lessee of every sign to maintain the immediate premises occupied by
the sign in a clean, sanitary and healthful condition.
      (11)   Sign permits required. It shall be unlawful for any person to
erect, repair, paint, alter or relocate any sign within the city, as defined in
this section, without first obtaining a permit from the Building Inspector,
with the exception of the following:
         (a)   Signs for which a permit is not required.
            1.   Exempt signs listed in division (B)(3).
            2.    Temporary signs as regulated by division (B)(6), unless
otherwise specified therein.
         (b)   Application for sign permit. Applications for permits shall be
made upon forms provided by the Building Inspector and shall contain or have
attached thereto the following information.
            1.   Name, address and telephone number of the applicant;
            2.   Location of building, structure or lot to which or upon which
the sign or other advertising structure is to be attached or erected;
            3.   Position and location of the sign or other advertising
structure in relation to nearby buildings or structures;
            4.   Two blueprints or drawings of the plans and specifications and
methods of construction and attachment to the building or in the ground;
            5.   Name of person, firm, corporation or association erecting the
structure and as required by division (B)(2)(a) above;
            6.   Written consent of the owner where the sign is to be erected
on vacant land;
            7.   In all cases where wiring is to be used in connection with the
structure, it shall comply with the city's Electrical Code. The Electrical
Inspector shall approve and affix his or her signature to the permit if it is
deemed necessary by the Electrical Inspector;
            8.   Insurance policy or bond as required by division (B)(2)(a) of
this section; and
            9.    Such other information as the Building Inspector shall
require to show full compliance with this section and all other ordinances of
the city.
         (c)   Sign permit fee. It shall be unlawful for any person to erect or
alter any sign, except those signs specifically exempted herein, unless a
permit shall first have been obtained from the Building Inspector for such
erection or alteration and a permit fee paid to the city according to the
schedule as shall be established from time to time by resolution of the City
Commission.
         (d)   Sign permit revocable at any time. All rights and privileges
accrued under the provisions of this section or any amendment thereto are mere
licenses and may be revoked upon the violation of any of the conditions
contained herein. If the work authorized under an erection permit has not been
completed within 6 months after the date of issuance the permit shall become
null and void and a new permit shall be necessary to continue the project.
Partially completed signs, if abandoned, shall be removed by the erector upon
notice from the Building Inspector.
         (e)   Permit number. Every sign hereafter erected shall have placed in
a conspicuous place thereon, in letters not less than 1/2 inch in height, the
date of erection, the permit number and the voltage of any electrical apparatus
used in connection therewith.
      (12)   Substitution clause. The owner of any sign which is otherwise
allowed under this section may substitute noncommercial copy in lieu of any
other commercial or noncommercial copy. This substitution of copy may be made
without any additional approval or permitting. The purpose of this provision is
to prevent any inadvertent favoring of commercial speech over noncommercial
speech, or favoring of any particular noncommercial message over any other
noncommercial message. This provision prevails over any more specific provision
to the contrary. This provision does not create a right to increase the total
amount of signage on a lot or allow the substitution of an off-site commercial
message in place of an on-site commercial message.
      (13)   Severability clause. If any part, subsection, paragraph,
subparagraph, sentence, phrase, clause, term, or word in this section is
declared invalid, such invalidity shall not affect the validity or
enforceability of the remaining portions of the section.
(Prior Code, App., § 1310) (Ord. 97-4, passed 8-7-1997; Am. Ord. 08-05, passed
10-2-2008; Am. Ord. 11-04, passed 8-4-2011; Am. Ord. 2018-007, passed 9-20-
2018; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-2021)
§ 160.221 OBSCURING WALLS AND FENCES.
   (A)   For those Use Districts and uses listed below, there shall be provided
and maintained on those sides abutting or adjacent to a residential district an
obscuring masonry wall as set out below:
Minimum Wall or Fence Use Height Required
Minimum Wall or Fence Use                                            Height
                                                                     Required
                                                                     6' high
P-1 Vehicular Parking District                                       masonry
                                                                     wall
Off-Street Parking Area (Other than P-1 Districts and not including  6' high
One-Family Residential Districts)                                    masonry
                                                                     wall
                                                                     6' high
B-1, B-2, or W-M Districts                                           masonry
                                                                     wall
                                                                     6' to 8'
I Districts—Open storage area, loading or unloading areas, service high
areas                                                                masonry
                                                                     wall
                                                                     6' high
Hospital, ambulance and delivery areas                               masonry
                                                                     wall
Utility buildings, stations and/or substations except that in cases
where all equipment is contained within a building or structure      6' high
constructed so as to be similar in appearance to the residential     masonry
building in the surrounding area, the board of appeals may waive the wall
wall requirements
                                                                     6' high
All sites located in the R-M, B-1, B-2, W-M, I-1 and I-2 Districts   masonry
shall enclose all trash collection sites utilizing dumpsters and/or  wall with
4 or more trash containers                                           enclosed
                                                                     gate for
                                                                     access
 
   (B)   Required walls and fences shall be located on the lot line except
where utilities interfere and except in instances where this chapter requires
conformance with front yard setbacks. Required walls may, upon approval of the
Board of Appeals, be located on the opposite side of an alley right-of-way from
a nonresidential zone that abuts a residential zone when mutually agreeable to
affected property owners. The continuity of the required wall on a given block
will be a major consideration of the Board of Appeals in reviewing the request.
   (C)   (1)   The walls and screening barrier shall have no openings for
vehicular traffic or other purposes, except as otherwise provided in this
chapter and except the openings as may be approved by the Building Inspector.
All walls herein required shall be constructed of materials approved by the
Building Inspector, to be durable, weather resistant, rust proof and easily
maintained and wood or wood products shall be specifically excluded.
      (2)   Masonry walls shall be erected on a concrete foundation which shall
have a minimum depth of 42 inches below a grade approved by the Building
Inspector and shall be not less than 4 inches wider than the wall to be
erected.
      (3)   Masonry walls may be constructed with openings above 32 inches
above grade provided such openings are not larger than 64 square inches and do
not comprise more than 1/3 of the total area of that part of the wall located
more than 32 inches above grade.
   (D)   (1)   The Board of Appeals may waive or modify the foregoing
requirements where cause can be shown that no good purpose would be served,
provided that in no instance shall a required wall be permitted to be less than
4 feet in height.
      (2)   In consideration of requests to waive wall requirements between
nonresidential and residential districts, the Board shall refer the request to
the Planning Commission for a determination.
      (3)   In such cases as the Planning Commission determines the residential
district to be a future nonresidential area, the Board may temporarily waive
wall requirements for an initial period not to exceed 12 months. Granting of
subsequent waivers shall be permitted, provided that the Planning Commission
shall make a determination as hereinbefore described, for each subsequent
waiver prior to the granting of such waiver by the Board.
   (E)   A permit shall be required prior to the erection of an obscuring wall
or fence in accordance with §
156.20 of this code.
(Prior Code, App., § 1311) (Ord. 83-9, passed 11-3-1983; Am. Ord. 87-5, passed
5-7-1987; Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.222 RESIDENTIAL ENTRANCEWAY.
   In all “R” Districts, so called entranceway structures, including but not
limited to walls, columns, and gates, marking entrances to single family
subdivisions or multiple housing projects may be permitted and may be located
in a required yard, except as provided in §
160.223; corner clearance, provided that the entranceway structures shall
comply to all codes and ordinances of the City of Marine City, be approved by
the Building Inspector and a permit issued.
(Prior Code, App., § 1312)
§ 160.223 CORNER CLEARANCE.
   No fence, wall, shrubbery, sign or other obstruction to vision above a
height of 30 inches from the established street grades shall be permitted
within the triangular area formed at the intersection of any street right-of-
way lines by a straight line drawn between the right-of-way lines at a distance
along each line of 25 feet from their point of intersection.
(Prior Code, App., § 1313)
§ 160.224 USE RESTRICTION.
   (A)   No portion of a lot or parcel once used in complying with the
provisions of this chapter for yards, lot area per family, density as for a
development in the multiple family district, or percentage of lot occupancy, in
connection with an existing or proposed building or structure, shall again be
used as part of the lot or parcel required in connection with any other
building or structure existing or intended to exist at the same time.
   (B)   Uses not expressly permitted under this chapter are prohibited in all
districts.
(Prior Code, App., § 1314) (Am. Ord. 11-06, passed 10-6-2011; Am. Ord. 14-01,
passed 3-20-2014)
§ 160.225 EXTERIOR LIGHTING.
   (A)   All lighting for parking areas or for the external illumination of
buildings or grounds or for the illumination of signs shall be directed away
from and shall be shielded from adjacent residential districts and shall also
be so arranged as to not adversely affect driver visibility on adjacent
thoroughfares.
   (B)   Within all developments, the height of light standards shall not
exceed 30 feet for parking lots and private roadways nor 15 feet for pedestrian
walkways. These restrictions shall not apply in the Industrial Districts where,
except as otherwise permitted, the height of light standards shall be limited
to the height limit for structures in the district. When necessary to determine
compliance, the Planning Commission may require the submission of an exterior
illumination plan.
(Prior Code, App., § 1315) (Am. Ord. 04-03, passed 5-6-2004)
§ 160.226 WATERFRONT LOTS.
   All lots or parcels which border on a lake, river or canal shall be
considered as waterfront lots. The setback from the shoreline shall equal the
average setback of principal buildings located on abutting properties or where
no buildings exist on abutting properties the setback shall equal the average
of those existing in the same block or as established by the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, App., § 1316)
§ 160.227 DIVISION OF PARCELS OF LAND AND SPLITTING LOTS.
   The division of any parcel of land or the splitting of any lot in a recorded
plat may be permitted and shall be subject to and comply with the following
provisions and restrictions:
   (A)   The applicant shall be owner of the parcel or lot, including the fee
title owner if the owner is a land contract purchaser.
   (B)   The applicant shall submit to the Building Inspector 4 copies of the
sketch of the proposed division or split, together with the following
information:
      (1)   Name and address of the applicant;
      (2)   The date of the sketch, north arrow and the scale;
      (3)   Boundary lines and area of the parcel or parcels to be split;
      (4)   Names of all streets, rights-of-ways and roadways of all existing
or proposed streets within or abutting the parcel or parcels proposed to be
split;
      (5)   All existing structures and physical features which would influence
the layout and design of the proposed lot split;
      (6)   Location, width and purpose of existing and proposed easements;
      (7)   Legal description of existing parcels to be split; and
      (8)   Proposed legal description of each parcel.
   (C)   The Building Inspector and the city’s Planning Commission shall
jointly approve the application provided it is in conformance with all
ordinances, including the zoning ordinance, and administrative rules and
regulations of the City of Marine City.
   (D)   Approval of the application, or disapproval thereof with reasons
therefor, shall be delivered promptly to the City Commission for final action
thereon by appropriate resolution.
   (E)   The applicant shall pay a fee as set by resolution of the City
Commission upon the filing of any application or revised application.
   (F)   This chapter shall be effective 10 days after publication thereof.
(Prior Code, App., § 1317) (Ord. 65, passed 11-18-1971; Am. Ord. 81-17, passed
1-7-1982; Am. Ord. 06-02, passed 4-6-2006)
§ 160.228 REGULATION OF CONDOMINIUM DEVELOPMENTS.
   The following regulations shall apply to all condominium developments within
the City of Marine City.
   (A)   Initial information. Concurrently with notice required to be given
City of Marine City pursuant to § 71 of Public Act 59 of 1978, as amended (the
Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.276), a person, firm or
corporation intending to develop a condominium project shall provide the
following information:
      (1)   The name, address and telephone number of:
         (a)   All persons, firms or corporations with an ownership interest in
the land on which the condominium development will be located together with a
description of the nature of each entity’s interest (for example, fee owner,
optionee or land contract vendee);
         (b)   All engineers, attorneys, architects, planners or registered
land surveyors associated with the project; and
         (c)   The developer or proprietor of the condominium development.
      (2)   The legal description of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed together with appropriate tax identification
numbers;
      (3)   The acreage content of the land on which the condominium
development will be developed;
      (4)   The purpose of the development (for example, residential,
commercial, industrial and the like);
      (5)   Approximate number of condominium units to be developed on the
subject parcel;
      (6)   Whether or not a community water system is contemplated; and
      (7)   Whether or not a community septic system is contemplated.
   (B)   Information to be kept current. The Initial Information shall be
furnished to the City Zoning Administrator and shall be kept updated until such
time as a certificate of occupancy has been issued, pursuant to §
160.294 of this chapter.
   (C)   Site plans for new projects. Prior to recording of the Master Deed,
required by § 72 of Public Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to
559.276, as amended, the condominium development shall undergo site plan review
and approval, pursuant hereto. In addition, the city shall require appropriate
engineering plans, including as-built drawings and inspections, prior to the
issuance of any certificates of occupancy.
   (D)   Site plans for expandable or convertible projects. Prior to expansion
or conversion of a condominium development to additional land, the new phase of
the project shall undergo site plan review and approval, pursuant hereto.
   (E)   Master deed, restrictive covenants and “as-built” survey to be
furnished. The condominium development developer or proprietor shall furnish
the Zoning Administrator with the following: 1 copy of the recorded Master
Deed; 1 copy of all restrictive covenants, and 2 copies of an “as-built
survey.” The “as-built survey” shall be reviewed by the City Engineer for
compliance with city ordinances. Fees for this review shall be established by
resolution of the City Commission.
   (F)   Monuments required.
      (1)   All condominium projects. All condominium projects shall be marked
at their boundaries with monuments meeting the requirements of division (F)(2)
(a) below.
      (2)   Site condominium projects. All condominium developments, which
consist in whole or in part of condominium units which are residential,
commercial, or industrial building sites, mobile home sites, or recreational
sites, shall be marked with monuments as provided in this division.
         (a)   All monuments used shall be made of solid iron or steel bars at
least 1/2 inch in diameter and 36 inches long, and completely encased in
concrete at least 4 inches in diameter.
         (b)   Monuments shall be located in the ground: at all angles in the
boundaries of the condominium development, at the intersection lines of
streets, at the intersection of the lines of streets with the boundaries of the
condominium development, and at the intersection of alleys with the boundaries
of the condominium development, at all points of curvature, points of tangency,
points of compound curvature, points of reverse curvature and angle points in
the side lines of streets and alleys, and at all angles of an intermediate
traverse line. It is not intended or required that monuments be placed within
the traveled portion of a street to mark angles in the boundary of the
condominium development if the angle points can be readily reestablished by
reference to monuments along the sidelines of the streets.
         (c)   If the required location of a monument is in an inaccessible
place or where the locating of a monument would be clearly impracticable, it is
sufficient to place a reference monument nearby and the precise location
thereof be clearly indicated on the plans and referenced to the true point.
         (d)   If a point required to be monumented is on a bedrock
outcropping, a steel rod, at least 1/2 inch in diameter shall be drilled and
grouted into solid rock to a depth of at least 8 inches.
         (e)   All required monuments shall be placed flush with the ground
where practicable.
         (f)   All unit corners, all intersections in the boundary or
boundaries of all limited common elements, and all interesections in the
boundary or boundaries of common elements shall be monumented, in the field, by
iron or steel bars or iron pipes at least 18 inches long and 1/2 inch in
diameter, or other approved markers.
         (g)   The City Commission may waive, for a reasonable time, not-to-
exceed 1 year, the placing of any of the required monuments and markers, on the
condition that the proprietor deposits, with the City Clerk, in an amount to be
established by the City Commission, by resolution: cash, a certified check, or
irrevocable bank letter of credit to the City of Marine City, whichever the
proprietor selects. The cash, certified check or irrevocable bank letter of
credit shall be returned to the proprietor upon receipt of a certificate,
issued by a surveyor, that the monuments and markers have been placed as
required and within the time specified.
   (G)   Compliance with federal, state and local laws. All condominium
developments shall comply with federal and state statutes and local ordinances.
   (H)   Occupancy. The Zoning Administrator may allow occupancy of the
condominium development before all improvements, required by this chapter are
installed, provided that cash, a certified check or an irrevocable bank letter
of credit is submitted, sufficient in amount and type, to provide for the
installation of improvements before the expiration of the temporary occupancy
permit and without expense to the city.
   (I)   Site condominiums.
      (1)   Review procedures. Pursuant to authority conferred by § 141 of the
Condominium Act, Act 59 of 1978, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.276, as
amended, before condominium units may be sold or site improvements initiated,
all condominium subdivision plans must be approved by the City Commission,
following review and recommendation for approval by the Planning Commission. In
determining whether to recommend a condominium subdivision plan for approval to
the City Commission, the Planning Commission shall consult with the Zoning
Administrator, City Attorney, City Engineer and City Planner regarding the
adequacy of the Master Deed, deed restrictions, utility systems and streets,
development layout, and design and compliance with all requirements of the
Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.276 and City Zoning
Ordinance. The review process shall consist of 2 steps:
         (a)   Preliminary plan review. In the preliminary plan review phase,
the Planning Commission shall review the overall plan for the site, including
basic road and unit configurations and the consistency of the plans with all
applicable provisions of the Marine City Zoning Ordinance and Master Plan.
Plans submitted for preliminary review shall include information specified
herein.
         (b)   Final plan review. Upon receipt of preliminary plan approval,
the applicant should prepare the appropriate engineering plans and apply for
Final Review by the Planning Commission. Final plans shall include information
as required hereby. The plans shall be reviewed by the City Planner, City
Attorney, and City Engineer. Further, the plans shall be submitted for review
and comment to all applicable local, county and state agencies as may be
appropriate, and as determined by the Planning Commission. The City Commission
may grant approval of the final plans after receiving the recommendation of the
Planning Commission, and following expiration of the time allotted to other
parties to review and comment on the plans.
      (2)   Exhibits required. In addition to the requirements of § 66 of the
Condominium Act, being M.C.L.A. §§ 559.101 to 559.276 and the requirements for
site plans contained herein, all plans for site condominium projects presented
for approval shall contain the following information:
         (a)   Survey of the condominium subdivision site;
         (b)   A survey or drawing delineating all natural features on the site
including, but not limited to: ponds, streams, lakes, drains, floodplains,
wetlands and woodland areas;
         (c)   The location size, shape, area and width of all condominium
units and common elements, and the location of all proposed streets;
         (d)   A generalized plan for the provision of utilities and drainage
systems;
         (e)   A copy of the Master Deed and a copy of all restrictive
covenants to be applied to the project;
         (f)   A utility plan showing all sanitary sewer, water, and storm
drainage improvements, including all easements to be granted to the City for
repair and maintenance of all utilities;
         (g)   A street construction, paving and maintenance plan for all
streets within the proposed condominium subdivision;
         (h)   A storm drainage and stormwater management plan, including all
lines, swales, drains, basins and other facilities; and
         (i)   A mechanism contained in the Master Deed and/or Bylaws providing
for the continued maintenance of all common elements.
      (3)   Compliance with Zoning Ordinance. A site condominium development,
whether intended for residential, commercial or industrial use shall be subject
to all of the requirements and standards of the applicable Zoning District in
which the development is located.
      (4)   Streets. The design of streets within a site condominium project
shall be subject to the same Design Layout Standards as established for
subdivisions as set forth in the subdivisions chapter of the Code of Ordinances
of the City of Marine City, except as may otherwise be provided by this
chapter. All newly created streets, regardless of whether they are to be in
public or private ownership, shall conform to at least all minimum requirements
of the general specifications and typical cross sections, including bituminous
or concrete paving standards, as set forth herein. All streets which are not
dedicated to the public shall be properly maintained. The road surface shall be
kept in good repair. Accumulations of snow and ice shall be promptly removed.
The master deed shall contain adequate mechanisms to insure that streets will
be properly maintained. The provisions shall be reviewed and approved by the
City Engineer and City Attorney.
      (5)   Condominium units. Condominium units within site condominium
developments shall conform to the following standards:
         (a)   The unit size, width, depth and shape of any site condominium
shall be appropriate for the location and type of development contemplated.
         (b)   Condominium unit areas and widths and building setback lines
shall conform to at least the minimum lot and setback requirements of the
Zoning Ordinance for the District in which the site condominium is proposed.
         (c)   Condominium units situated on corners in residential condominium
subdivisions shall be at least 10 feet wider than the minimum lot width
permitted by the Zoning Ordinance. In instances where the minimum required lot
width is greater than 100 feet, this requirement shall not apply.
         (d)   Excessive condominium unit depth in relation to width shall be
avoided. A depth-to-width ratio of 3 to 1 shall normally be considered a
maximum.
         (e)   Condominium units intended for purposes other than residential
use shall be specifically designed for such purposes, and shall have adequate
provision for off-street parking, setbacks, and other requirements in
accordance with the Zoning Ordinance.
         (f)   Every condominium unit shall front or abut on a street for the
full width of the unit. The measurement of unit width shall be determined in
the same manner as prescribed in the Zoning Ordinance for “lots”.
         (g)   Side condominium unit lines shall be at right angles or radial
to the street lines.
         (h)   Residential condominium units abutting major thoroughfares or
collector streets, where marginal access streets are not desirable or possible
to attain, shall be situated with reverse frontage condominium units or with
side condominium unit lines parallel to the major traffic streets.
         (i)   Condominium units shall have a front-to-front relationship
across all streets where possible.
         (j)   Where condominium units border upon bodies of water, the front
yard may be designated as the waterfront side of the condominium unit, provided
the buildable area of the condominium unit has sufficient depth to provide
adequate setback on the street side to maintain a setback for all structures
equal to the front setback on the street side as well as on the waterfront
side.
      (6)   Blocks.
         (a)   Maximum length for blocks shall not exceed 1,400 feet in length,
except where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, conditions may justify
a greater distance.
         (b)   Widths of blocks shall be determined by the condition of the
layout and shall be suited to the intended layout.
      (7)   Natural resources. The natural features and character of lands must
be preserved wherever possible. Due regard must be shown for all natural
features such as large trees, natural groves, water courses and similar
community assets that will add attractiveness and value to the property, if
preserved. The preservation of drainage and natural stream channels must be
considered by the proprietor and the provision of adequate barriers, where
appropriate, shall be required.
      (8)   Provision of common elements (excluding roads). In the case of
residential developments, not less than 5% of the gross land area of the parcel
to be developed as a “site condominium” shall be designated as a general common
element. The common element shall be permanently reserved for use as active or
passive recreational areas or natural resource preserve or a combination of
both.
      (9)   Sidewalks. Sidewalks shall be installed by the developer in all
site condominium developments. Sidewalks shall be a minimum of 5 feet in width
along both sides of collector and minor streets and 6 feet in width along all
major thoroughfares. Sidewalks shall be placed within the street right-of-way
and shall be located 1 foot from the edge of the right-of-way. Sidewalks shall
also be constructed within the public right-of-way along existing public
roadways on the side or sides of the roadway abutting the site condominium
development. In instances where the right-of-way of an adjacent public roadway
is not sufficient to construct said sidewalk, the developer shall dedicate such
additional land as may be necessary to properly accommodate the sidewalk.
Pedestrian access to all general common areas shall be provided. Upon review of
the site plan, the Planning Commission may approve alternate locations for the
sidewalks or may waive the sidewalk requirement if it would not serve the
purpose of providing adequate pedestrian circulation. Notwithstanding the
above, in instances where the average width of condominium units is greater
than 100 feet, sidewalks along internal streets shall not be required.
      (10)   Utilities.
         (a)   Storm drainage. An adequate storm drainage system, including
necessary storm sewers, catch basins, manholes, culverts, bridges and other
appurtenances, as approved by the City Engineer, shall be required in all
developments. Adequate provision shall be made for proper drainage of storm
water from the rear yards of condominium units. Drainage of each yard shall be
self-contained and shall be drained from rear to front except where topography
or other natural features require otherwise. The City Commission may require
that all storm sewers be installed within the public rights-of-way or within
the general common elements and dedicated to the City when, in the opinion of
the City Commission, dedication of the same would be in the best interest of
the city.
         (b)   Sewage disposal. A sanitary sewer system including all
appurtenances shall be required in all developments which shall connect and
outlet into a city sanitary sewer system.
         (c)   Water supply. A water supply system including appurtenances
shall be required in all developments which shall be connected to a city water
supply system.
         (d)   Requirements for underground wiring. The proprietor shall make
arrangements for all lines for telephone, electric, television, and other
similar services, distributed by wire or cable, to be placed entirely
underground throughout the development area; and the conduits or cables shall
be placed within private easements provided to the service companies by the
developer, or within dedicated public ways; provided, only, that overhead lines
may be permitted upon written recommendation of the City Engineer and the
approval of the Planning Commission at the time of site plan approval, where it
is determined that overhead lines will not constitute a detriment to the
health, safety, general welfare, design and character of the development. All
such facilities, placed in dedicated public ways, shall be planned so as not to
conflict with other underground utilities. All such facilities shall be
constructed in accordance with standards of construction approved by the
Michigan Public Service Commission. All drainage and underground utility
installations, which traverse privately held property, shall be protected by
easements granted by the proprietor.
      (11)   For the purpose of insuring proper response by emergency vehicles,
road name signs and traffic control signs shall be installed at all street
intersections within or abutting the condominium development in accordance with
the city standards. Street names shall be designated in a manner so as not to
duplicate or be confused with preexisting streets within the city or postal
zone. For private streets, in addition to the above requirements, a sign,
meeting city standards, with the words “Not a Public Street”, shall be
installed and maintained at all points where private streets meet public
streets.
      (12)   Street lighting. For the purpose of protecting public safety,
street lights meeting the standards of the Marine City County Road Commission
and the public utility providing such lighting shall be installed and
maintained within the condominium development at all street intersections. The
association of co-owners shall be responsible for the full cost of operation of
street lights.
      (13)   Street trees and landscaping.
         (a)   Street trees shall be provided in the ratio of at least 1 per
dwelling unit, shall be placed along the right-of-way, and shall not be less
than 8 feet in height. This requirement may be waived by the Planning
Commission in cases where the site contains substantial woodlands which are to
be preserved, and where, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, no useful
public purpose would be served. Unless otherwise approved by the city, street
trees, when required, shall be planted in the strip between the sidewalk and
the curb.
         (b)   The following trees are prohibited:
            1.   Box elder;
            2.   Soft maples (red, silver);
            3.   Elms;
            4.   Poplars;
            5.   Willows;
            6.   Horse chestnut (nut bearing);
            7.   Tree of Heaven; and
            8.   Catalpa.
         (c)   All unimproved surface area of the site shall be planted with
grass, ground cover, shrubbery, or other suitable landscape materials, except
that patios, terraces, decks, and similar site features may be allowed.
      (14)   Maintenance bond. Prior to acceptance by the city of any
improvements which are to be dedicated to the city, a 2 year maintenance bond
in an amount set by the City Commission, upon recommendation from the City
Engineer, shall be posted by the proprietor.
      (15)   Final documents to be provided. After submittal of the condominium
plan and bylaws as part of the master deed, the proprietor shall furnish to the
city a copy of the site plan on a Mylar sheet of at least 13 inches by 16
inches with an image not to exceed 10-1/2 inches by 14 inches.
(Prior Code, App., § 1318) (Ord. 97-2, passed 6-5-1997)
§ 160.229 LOT LIMITATIONS.
   In the R-1A and R-1B zoning districts only 1 single-family dwelling shall be
constructed on a lot. In the case of a licensed mobile home park or in the case
of a “site condominium” where no “subdivision” of land under Public Act 288 of
1967 (the Subdivision Control Act), as amended, has taken place, and where the
land therefore remains as 1 “lot or parcel,” this restriction shall not apply;
however, in this instance, not more than 1 single-family dwelling shall be
constructed upon an individual “unit of ownership” within a site condominium
development.
(Prior Code, App., § 1319) (Ord. 97-2, passed 6-5-1997)
§ 160.230 FRONTAGE.
   Every dwelling or principal building shall be located upon a lot which shall
front upon a public street for the minimum required width of the lot.
Modification of this requirement may be permitted by the Zoning Commission of
Appeals after recommendation from the Planning Commission in cases where
unusual topographic or geographic conditions exist. Except that, in the case of
a “site condominium”, which has been approved by the city, a dwelling unit may
be constructed upon an individual “unit of ownership” that has the required
frontage upon an approved street, regardless of whether the street has been
dedicated to the city or remains under the ownership and control of the
association of co-owners.
(Prior Code, App., § 1320) (Ord. 97-2, passed 6-5-1997)
§ 160.231 SIDEWALKS ALONG PUBLIC STREETS.
   (A)   Applicability. For all developments which occur in the R-M, MHP, B-1,
B-2, W-M, I-1 and I-2 Districts, and for all developments, except single-family
and two-family residences, in the R-1A and R-1B Districts, a concrete sidewalk
shall be constructed across all public street frontages on the side or sides of
the roadway abutting the development. The provision of sidewalks within a
subdivision which is submitted for approval shall be governed by the City of
Marine City Subdivision Regulations Ordinance. All construction plans for
sidewalks shall also be approved by the City Engineer, County Road Commission
or Michigan Department of Transportation as applicable.
   (B)   Width. For major thoroughfares and collector thoroughfares (as shown
on the city’s Thoroughfare Plan) the width of said sidewalk shall be 6 feet.
The width of the sidewalk may be reduced to 5 feet when located along a local
thoroughfare. The sidewalks shall be increased to 8 feet in width (and may,
when part of the proposed bicycle path network, be constructed of asphalt) in
order to safely accommodate bicycle traffic, when such additional width is
indicated on a plan for the area as adopted or accepted by the Planning
Commission or City Commission, or if located on a major throughfare with a
planned right-of-way width of 100 feet or more and determined by the Planning
Commission to be necessary to serve anticipated levels of pedestrian and non-
motorized traffic.
   (C)   Location. Unless otherwise approved by the Planning Commission, all
sidewalks shall be located within the right-of-way at a distance of 1 foot from
the edge of the right-of-way. In cases where the width of the planned right-of-
way is greater than the width of the existing right-of-way, the sidewalk may be
located 1 foot from the edge of the planned right-of-way, provided that an
easement is granted to the applicable road agency for sidewalk purposes.
(Prior Code, App., § 1321) (Ord. 98-2, passed 3-19-1998; Am. Ord. 04-03, passed
5-6-2004)
§ 160.232 PERMITTED EXTERIOR WALL BUILDING MATERIALS.
   (A)   Purpose. These regulations are established to promote the consistent,
orderly development of the community, to preserve property values and to
protect and enhance the character of the city’s visual environment. The
requirements of this section are not intended to regulate structural quality,
workmanship or the various performance and maintenance characteristics of the
various materials listed in the following schedule.
   (B)   Applicability. All exterior wall materials installed in the Zoning
Districts listed below shall comply with the Schedule Regulating Exterior Wall
Building Materials. For purposes of this Schedule the Zoning Districts shall be
grouped in the following categories.
      (1)   All exposed exterior surfaces of a building, inclusive of window
and door surfaces, shall be included in the calculation to determine the total
exposed building wall facade area. That total area shall represent 100% of the
exterior building wall facade.
      (2)   If variation in color and pattern of the material is used in order
to articulate the building’s facade, up to 100% of this material may be used.
      (3)   Includes all common types of aluminum siding and all other
aluminum, porcelain, stainless steel, steel or other pre-finished metal siding.
      (4)   Chimneys located on exterior walls of a multiple-family residential
structure shall be treated with face brick or stone on 100% of all exposed
surfaces. The Planning Commission may grant an exception when the brick or
stone would, in the opinion of the Planning Commission, be incompatible with or
detract from the overall architectural design.
      (5)   On the side of the structure where the garage door is located the
exterior wall surface above the garage door shall be treated with the same
material as the remainder of the wall adjacent to the door.
      (6)   The rear elevation of all multiple-family residential structures
shall provide at least 1 horizontal offset of at least 4 feet to provide for
three-dimensionality to the facade. The rear-roofline configuration shall also
provide similar vertical offsets.
      (7)   (a)   There shall be a minimum of 50% face brick, granite, marble
or limestone on all multiple-family residential, commercial and office
structures.
         (b)   The office portion of an industrial/warehouse building shall be
constructed of high quality masonry materials which shall include a minimum of
75% face brick, jumbo brick and/or structural brick units. An exception to the
minimum brick/stone requirement may be granted for structures which meet the
criteria specified as follows: Where the developer is proposing homes which
reproduce specific historical periods in order to create a theme (e.g.
traditional New England Colonials or Saltbox, Victorian, Queen Anne, Early
American Bungalow or Farmhouse Styles), the Planning Commission may vary the
standards in this schedule in order to create a unique and creative design
theme (see division (B)(8)(a)).
      (8)   (a)   Where the developer is proposing homes which reproduce
specific historical periods in order to create a theme (e.g. traditional New
England Colonials or Saltbox, Victorian, Queen Ann, Early American Bungalow or
Farmhouse Styles), the Planning Commission may vary the standards in this
schedule in order to create a unique and creative design theme.
         (b)   For commercial, office and industrial buildings and/or
developments, the Planning Commission may approve modifications to these
standards to achieve a specific architectural objective as demonstrated by the
project sponsor in meeting the overall development objectives of the community.
      (9)   Scored block shall not be construed to be included in the category
of shadow pattern or split face block. Scored block may be used for
architectural accents only and shall not exceed 10% of the exposed exterior
surfaces of a building.
(04-04, passed 5-6-2004)
§ 160.233 ON-SITE USE WIND SYSTEMS.
   (A)   Intent. An on-site use wind energy system (see §
160.005 for definition) is intended to primarily serve the needs of the
consumer. A utility grid wind energy system (see §
160.005 for definition) is not a permitted use under this section.
   (B)   General requirements in all zoning districts.
      (1)   Connection. Shall not be connected to utility grid. The commercial
sale of surplus energy is prohibited.
      (2)   Noise. Sound pressure levels shall not exceed 55 dB(A) at the
property line closest to the wind energy system. This sound pressure level may
be exceeded during short-term events such as utility outages and/or severe wind
storms. If the ambient sound pressure level exceeds 55 dB(A), the standard
shall be ambient dB(A) plus 5 dB(A).
      (3)   Setback. The base of tower shall be set back a distance of not less
than 1-1/2 times the height of tower from the nearest property line. In
addition, no part of the wind energy system structure, including guy wire
anchors, may extend closer than 10 feet to the nearest property line.
      (4)   Safety.
         (a)   Vertical clearance. The minimum vertical blade tip clearance
from grade shall be 20 feet for a wind energy system employing a horizontal
axis rotor. Blade or rotor arc must be demonstrated to be a safe and reasonable
distance from any separate building, structure, utility wire, or tree.
         (b)   Guy wire visibility. If a wind energy system tower is supported
by guy wires, the wires shall be clearly visible to a height of at least 6 feet
above the guy wire anchors.
         (c)   Rotor or blade integrity protection. An on-site use wind energy
system shall have automatic braking, governing, or a feathering system to
prevent uncontrolled rotation or over speeding.
         (d)   Lightning. All wind energy system towers shall have lightning
protection.
      (5)   Construction codes, towers, and interconnection standards. On-site
use wind energy systems, including towers, shall comply with all applicable
state construction and electrical codes and local building permit requirements.
On-site use wind energy systems, including towers, shall comply with Federal
Aviation Administration requirements, the Michigan Airport Zoning Act, the
Michigan Tall Structures Act, and local jurisdiction airport overlay zone
regulations.
      (6)   Wiring. All wiring between the tower and the principal building
shall be underground.
   (C)   Residential districts. When located in R-1A, R-1B, R-M, and MHP
Districts, the following additional regulations shall apply:
      (1)   An on-site use wind energy system shall be located only in a rear
yard; and
      (2)   The height of the tower above the average grade of the lot shall
not exceed 35 feet to the top of the blade in its vertical position.
   (D)   Business districts. When located in B-1, B-2, or W-M Districts, the
following additional regulations shall apply: the height of the tower above the
average grade of the lot shall not exceed 50 feet to the top of the blade in
its vertical position.
   (E)   Industrial districts. When located in I-1 or I-2 Districts, the
following additional regulations shall apply: the height of the tower above the
average grade of the lot shall not exceed 65 feet to the top of the blade in
its vertical position.
(Ord. 08-01, passed 5-15-2008)
§ 160.234 OUTDOOR DISPLAYS OF MATERIALS.
   The outdoor display of products or materials intended for retail sale or
rental, outdoor seating, and/or planters may be permitted only in the B-1,
Central Business District, B-2, General Business District, W-M, Waterfront
Recreation and Marina District, and NMD, Nautical Mile District, subject to the
following conditions. Outdoor display shall not include any signage in addition
to that permitted with the permitted use:
   (A)   General Standards.
      (1)    An outdoor display shall be considered as an accessory use to the
principal use conducted on the premises.
      (2)   The exterior of the premises shall be kept clean, orderly and
maintained.
      (3)   The City shall not be held liable or responsible for any type of
damage, theft or personal injury that may occur as a result of an outdoor
display.
      (4)   An outdoor display shall not occupy or obstruct the use of any fire
lane, required off-street parking or landscaped area required to meet the
requirements of this Zoning Ordinance.
      (5)   An outdoor display shall comply with the corner clearance
requirements of §
160.223.
      (6)   Approval for the outdoor display is to be reviewed and completed
administratively by the Zoning Administrator.
      (7)   In the administration of these provisions, the Zoning Administrator
shall be permitted to refer a request to the Planning Commission for review and
approval where, in the sole discretion of the Zoning Administrator, the site
conditions may create difficulty in adherence to the standards contained
herein.
      (8)   Outdoor displays, seating and /or planters are prohibited from
December 1, through and including March 31.
   (B)   Standards within the B-1, W-M and Nautical Mile Districts.
      (1)    An outdoor display may be located in front or adjacent to the
principal use establishment. An outdoor display that extends beyond the
property lines of the principal use property shall require the written
permission of the affected property owners.
      (2)   If an outdoor display is located on a public sidewalk, a minimum of
five (5) feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along the sidewalk shall be
maintained at all times. An outdoor display on a public sidewalk shall be
confined to normal business hours. Fences, barricades or similar enclosures
which may damage the public sidewalk are prohibited.
   (C)   Standards within the B-2 Districts. An outdoor display may be located
within any required yard but shall not be located within any public road right-
of-way.
   (D)   Building materials, nursery stock and garden supplies.
      (1)    Outdoor sales areas shall not be located within the required front
setback, except for sales of living nursery stock. Ornamental displays
associated with the sale of nursery stock shall be permitted; however, in no
case shall the outdoor storage or sale of bulk materials, such as topsoil,
mulch or gravel, whether packaged or not, be permitted within the front yard
setback.
      (2)   Outdoor sale and display areas that abut residentially zoned or
used property shall be screened in accordance with §
160.219(I) and §
160.221.
(Ord. 2018-006, passed 11-1-2018)
§ 160.235 OUTDOOR CAFÉ SERVICE.
   An outdoor cafe service operated by an eating or drinking establishment
which sells food or drink for immediate consumption may be permitted in the B-
1, Central Business District, B-2, General Business District, W-M, Waterfront
Recreation and Marina District, and NMD, Nautical Mile District, subject to the
following conditions:
   (A)   A sketch plan depicting the location and layout of the café facility
shall be required. Approval for the use is to be reviewed and completed
administratively by the Zoning Administrator. A permit shall remain in effect,
unless there is a change in ownership, a material change in the sketch plan, or
the operation of the café fails to meet the standards contained herein.
   (B)   An outdoor café may be located in the front yard of or adjacent to the
principal use establishment. An outdoor café that extends beyond the property
lines of the principal use property shall require the written permission of the
affected property owners.
   (C)   Within the B-1, W-M and NMD Districts, an outdoor café may be located
on a public sidewalk, provided:
      (1)   A minimum of five (5) feet of unobstructed, pedestrian access along
the sidewalk shall be maintained.
      (2)   The outdoor café shall be designed and maintained to ensure that
this required unobstructed space is free of all obstructions and trip hazards.
      (3)   A minimum clearance height of eight (8) feet shall be provided from
the sidewalk surface and any overhead projection associated with the outdoor
café, such as an umbrella.
      (4)   Adequate space shall be provided for vehicle entry between on-
street parking spaces and the sidewalk café.
      (5)   Fences, barricades or similar enclosures which may damage the
public sidewalk are prohibited.
      (6)   No outdoor café shall be located within the triangular area formed
at the intersection of any street edge with another street edge or driveway
edge by a line drawn between the street or driveway edges at a distance along
each line of 10 feet from their point of intersection.
      (7)   Additional restrictions may be placed, or exceptions to the above
restrictions may be granted, by the Zoning Administrator to ensure that the use
of the city sidewalk is conducted in a safe manner.
   (D)   An outdoor café shall comply with the corner clearance requirements of
§
160.223.
   (E)   An outdoor cafe shall be allowed only during normal operating hours of
the principal use establishment.
   (F)   The exterior of the premises shall be kept clean, orderly and
maintained or the permit may be revoked. All food preparation shall be inside
of the premises of the principal use establishment. There shall be no food
cooking or preparation within the designated outdoor café space.
   (G)   The City shall not be liable or responsible for any type of damage,
theft or personal injury, which may occur as a result of a public sidewalk café
operation.
   (H)   All outdoor cafes shall comply with applicable regulations of the
County Health Department and the State, including the Michigan Liquor Control
Commission where any form of alcohol service is proposed.
   (I)   Any outdoor café operation shall be disclosed to the insurance carrier
for the principal use establishment and shall be insured accordingly. The
Zoning Administrator reserves the right to confirm insurance coverage for the
café.
   (J)   Outdoor displays, seating and /or planters are prohibited from
December 1, through and including March 31.
(Ord. 2018-006,passed 11-1-2018)
§ 160.236 PLANNED DEVELOPMENT.
   (A)   Purpose. The purpose of this Section is to permit flexibility in the
regulation of land development; encourage innovation in land use and variety of
design, layout and type of structures constructed; achieve efficiency in the
use of land, natural resources, energy, and the provision of public services
and utilities; encourage useful open space; and provide better housing,
employment, and shopping opportunities particularly suited to the needs of
residents in the City in accordance with § 503 of Public Act 110 of 2006, as
amended.
   (B)   Authority. The City Commission shall have the authority to approve,
deny, or approve with conditions applications for a Planned Development Project
(PDP).
   (C)   Amendment required. The approval of a PDP shall require an amendment
to the Zoning Ordinance to revise the official Zoning Map to designate the
subject property as a PDP. Approval granted under this Section (including the
development agreement, all aspects of the final plan, and any conditions
imposed on it) shall constitute an inseparable part of the zoning amendment.
   (D)   Qualifying conditions. In order to qualify for Planned Development
Project (PDP) consideration, the following conditions shall be met to the
satisfaction of the City Commission.
      (1)   Recognizable benefits. The PDP shall result in recognizable and
substantial benefits to the ultimate users of the project and to the community,
where such benefits would otherwise be unlikely to be achieved under the
regulations of the underlying zoning districts. The following benefits shall
accrue from the PUD:
         (a)   The permanent protection and preservation of open space,
valuable natural resources, and wildlife habitat.
         (b)   Efficient use of land and natural resources.
         (c)   The efficient arrangement of utilities and design of traffic
circulation systems including limitations on the number of vehicular access
points along the existing road network, thus minimizing traffic conflicts while
satisfying emergency needs.
         (d)   Structures are sited so as to preserve important visual,
ecological, recreational, cultural and historic resources.
         (e)   Residential amenities to serve residents of the PDP, such as
playground areas, hiking trails, tennis courts and other outdoor recreational
facilities.
      (2)   Site area and control. The minimum site area necessary to be
considered for a PDP shall be 5 acres. If the PDP consists of multiple parcels,
they must be contiguous. The existence of a public road dividing parcels or
lots included in the proposed development shall not be a basis for the
disqualification of contiguity. The proposed development shall be under single
ownership or control such that there is a single person or entity having
responsibility for completing the project in conformity with the Ordinance and
the specifications of the PDP approval.
      (3)   Mixed use. The PDP shall consist of at least two land uses
authorized in this Ordinance. Two or more different types of housing,
including, but not limited to, single-family dwellings and multiple family
dwellings, may qualify as a PDP.
   (E)   Project design standards.
      (1)    Applicable base regulations. Unless otherwise waived or modified
as part of an approval in accordance with Subsection (E),(2) below, all yard
and bulk, parking, loading, landscaping, lighting, and other standards for the
districts listed below shall be applicable for uses proposed in a PDP:
         (a)   Single family residential uses shall comply with the regulations
applicable in the R-1B District.
         (b)   Multiple family residential uses shall comply with the
regulations applicable in the R-M District.
         (c)   Retail commercial uses and office uses shall comply with the
regulations applicable in the B-2 District.
         (d)   Industrial uses shall comply with the regulations in the I-
1 District.
         (e)   Mixed uses shall comply with the regulations applicable for each
individual use.
      (2)   Regulatory flexibility. The City Commission may consider and permit
flexibility in the regulation of land development to: encourage innovation in
land use and variety in design, layout, and type of structures constructed;
achieve economy and efficiency in the use of land, available infrastructure,
natural resources, energy, and the provision of public services and utilities
while continuing to meet goals and objectives of the city's Master Plan;
encourage useful open space; provide better housing, employment, and shopping
opportunities particularly suited to the needs of the residents of the city;
and/or respond to market conditions provided any variation granted would also
result in the overall design being compatible with neighboring development and
zoning. In such instances, building and/or site improvement requirements and
standards need not be uniform with regard to each type of land use provided.
Such variation(s) shall be compatible with adjacent uses of land, the natural
environment, and the capacities of public services and facilities affected by
the land use.
      (3)    Residential density. Increases in the density of residential
development may be permitted by the City Commission upon determination that the
desired density will not adversely impact water and sewer services, storm water
drainage, road capacity, traffic flow, parks and recreation services, fire and
police services, schools, character of the area, and any planned public or
private improvements in the area. Such increased density may be interspersed
throughout the development. To qualify for density increases, the applicant
must present and describe examples of benefits to the residents of the
development and/or the citizens of the city. By way of example, such benefits
may include one or more that:
         (a)   Augment the recognizable benefit standards required by the City
Commission as outlined in Subsection (E),(1),(a)-(e) above.
         (b)   Provide economic, environmental, or social benefits apart from
those required by this Ordinance.
         (c)   Enhance new or ongoing cultural activities.
         (d)   Provide opportunities for the enhancement of public education.
         (e)   Implement the Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design
(LEED) green building principles in the design, construction, and operation of
structures.
      (4)    Open space requirements. Planned development projects containing a
residential component shall provide and maintain usable open space as shown on
the approved PDP plan. The required open space shall be set aside by the
developer through an irrevocable conveyance, such as a deed restriction or
covenant that runs with the land, assuring that the open space will be
developed according to the PDP plan and never changed to another use. Such
conveyance shall:
         (a)   Provide for maintenance of the privately owned open space by
private property owners with an interest in the open space.
         (b)   Provide maintenance standards and a schedule.
         (c)   Prove for assessment of the private property owners by the City
for the cost of maintenance of the open space in the event that it is
inadequately maintained and becomes a public nuisance.
      (5)   Compatibility with the Master Plan. The proposed PDP shall be
consistent with the City's Master Plan.
      (6)   Availability and capacity of public Services. The proposed type and
density of use shall not exceed the capacity of existing public services,
facilities and utilities.
      (7)   Pedestrian and vehicular circulation. A pedestrian circulation
system shall be provided throughout the project that is insulated from the
vehicular circulation system. The layout of vehicular and pedestrian
circulation routes shall respect the pattern of existing streets, sidewalks,
and bicycle pathways in the vicinity of the site.
      (8)   Privacy for dwelling units. The design of a PDP shall provide
visual and sound privacy for any and all dwelling units within and surrounding
the development. Fences, walks, and landscaping shall be used in the site
design to protect the privacy of dwelling units.
      (9)   Utilities. All new utilities serving a planned development,
including electric, telephone, and cable television lines, shall be placed
underground.
      (10)   Emergency access. The configuration of buildings, driveways, and
other improvements shall allow convenient and direct emergency vehicle access.
      (11)   Design integration. Signage, lighting and building materials shall
reflect an integrated development.
      (12)   Phasing. Where a project is proposed for construction in phases,
it shall be so designed that each phase, when completed, shall be capable of
standing on its own in terms of the presence of services, facilities and open
space, and shall contain the necessary components to insure protection of
natural resources and the health, safety and welfare of the users of the PDP
and residents of the surrounding area.
   (F)   Application procedure. Application shall be made to the City for
rezoning as a Planned Development Project. Applications for planned development
zoning shall include applicable data required for site plan review as specified
in §
160.300, and the following:
      (1)    A written statement explaining in detail the full intent of the
applicant indicating the specifics of the site plan as it relates to the type
of dwelling units contemplated and resultant population; the extent of
nonresidential development and the resultant traffic generated and parking
demands created; and providing supporting documentation such as but not limited
to: market studies supporting the land use request, traffic studies, and the
intended scheduling of development, as may be appropriate for the specific
project submitted.
      (2)    Overall PDP plan. The overall plan shall graphically represent the
development concept using maps and illustrations to indicate each type of use,
square footage or acreage allocated to each use, approximate locations of each
principal structure and use in the development, setbacks, and typical layouts
and elevations for each type of use. The overall plan shall clearly delineate
each type of residential use; office, commercial, and other non-residential
use; each type of open space; community facilities and public areas; and other
types of land uses.
      (3)    Traffic data and information concerning traffic generated by the
proposed PDP. Sufficient information shall be provided to allow the City to
evaluate the impact of the proposed development on adjoining roads. The
following traffic related information shall be provided:
         (a)    Estimates of the volume of traffic generated by each use.
         (b)    The peak hour volume of traffic expected to be generated by the
proposed development.
         (c)    A schematic drawing indicating vehicular movement through the
site, including anticipated turning movements.
         (d)    Measures being proposed to alleviate the impact of the
development on the circulation system.
      (4)    Fiscal impact. Analysis of the fiscal impact of the proposed
planned development on the City of Marine City and the school district.
      (5)    Market study. Evidence of market need for the proposed use(s) and
the feasibility of completing the project in its entirety. This requirement may
be waived by the City Commission upon making the determination, based on
existing evidence and knowledge about the local economy, that market support
does exist for the proposed uses.
      (6)    Legal documentation of single ownership or control. The
documentation shall be in the form of agreements, contracts, covenants, and
deed restriction which indicate that the development can be completed as shown
on the plans, and further, that all portions of the development that are not to
be maintained at public expense will continue to be operated and maintained by
the developers or their successors.
      (7)    Schedule. A schedule of the development and construction details,
including specific phasing dates and timing of all proposed improvements.
      (8)    Documents. A draft of ownership and governance documents is
required. These documents shall include the following:
         (a)    Deeds.
         (b)    Warranties guaranteeing ownership conveyed and described in the
deeds.
         (c)    A list of covenants, conditions, and restrictions that are
conditions of ownership upon the purchasers and owners in the planned
development.
         (d)    Association bylaws (for example, condominium association by-
laws) that describe how the association is organized; the duties of the
association to operate, manage, and maintain common elements of the planned
development; and, the duties of individual shareholders to manage and maintain
their own units.
         (e)    A draft PDP agreement.
   (G)   Preliminary review procedure. The following procedures and
requirements provide for preliminary review of PDP proposals by City officials.
      (1)    Submission of a completed plan. The planned development
application materials, required fees, and sufficient copies of the completed
plan, prepared in the manner specified in this Section, shall be submitted to
the city for review.
      (2)    Review by city officials. The Zoning Administrator and other
appropriate city officials and review committees shall review the site plan and
application materials pursuant to the project design standards outlined in this
section, and shall prepare a written review, which shall specify any
deficiencies in the site plan and make recommendations as appropriate.
      (3)    Submission of a revised plan and planned development application.
The applicant shall revise the plan and application materials, based on the
recommendations set forth in the City's review. The applicant shall then submit
sufficient copies of the revised plan for further review by staff and the
Planning Commission at the same time.
   (H)   Planning Commission review and recommendation to the City Commission.
The following procedures and requirements provide for detailed review of PDP
proposals by the Planning Commission.
      (1)    Acceptance for processing. After all application materials have
been received and review fees paid, the Zoning Administrator shall forward
copies to the Planning Commission for review and action.
      (2)    Public hearing. The Planning Commission shall hold a public
hearing with notice as provided in §
160.305 of this Zoning Ordinance.
      (3)    Review and action. Following the public hearing, the Planning
Commission shall review the PDP application pursuant to the project design
standards of this Section, requested modifications, and consistency with the
purposes and intent of this section.
      (4)    Plan revision. If the Planning Commission determines that
revisions are necessary to bring the PDP proposal into compliance with
applicable standards and regulations, the applicant shall be given the
opportunity to submit a revised plan. Following submission of a revised plan,
the planned development proposal shall be placed on the agenda of the next
available scheduled meeting of the Planning Commission for further review and
possible recommendation to the City Commission.
      (5)    Planning Commission recommendation. The Planning Commission shall
review the application for a PDP, together with the public hearing findings and
reports and recommendations from the City officials and other appropriate
reviewing bodies. The Planning Commission shall then make a recommendation to
the City Commission. The Planning Commission may recommend approval, approval
with conditions, or denial as follows:
         (a)    Approval. Upon determination by the Planning Commission that
the final plan for planned development is in compliance with the standards and
requirements of this Ordinance and other applicable ordinances and laws, the
Planning Commission may recommend approval to the City Commission.
         (b)    Approval with conditions. The Planning Commission may recommend
that the City Commission impose reasonable conditions with the approval of a
PDP proposal, to the extent authorized by law, for the following purposes:
            1.    To ensure that public services and facilities affected by the
proposed development will be capable of accommodating increased service loads
caused by the development.
            2.    To protect the natural environment and conserve natural
resources and energy.
            3.    To ensure compatibility with adjacent uses of land.
            4.    To promote the use of land in a socially and economically
desirable manner.
            5.    To protect the public health, safety, and welfare of the
individuals in the development and those immediately adjacent, and the
community as a whole.
            6.    To achieve the purpose and intent of this Ordinance.
            In the event that the planned development is approved subject to
conditions, such conditions shall become a part of the record of approval, and
shall be modified only as provided herein.
         (c)    Denial.
            1.   Upon determination by the Planning Commission that a PDP
proposal does not comply with the standards and regulations set forth in this
ordinance, fails to comply with the purpose and intent of this section, or
otherwise could be injurious to the public health, safety, welfare, and orderly
development of the City, the Planning Commission shall recommend denial.
            2.   The Planning Commission shall prepare and transmit a
recommendation to the City Commission stating its conclusions and findings, the
basis for a recommendation regarding the creation of a PDP zone, and any
recommended conditions relating to an affirmative decision.
   (I)   Preparation of final development agreement. Upon the approval
recommendation of a PDP plan by the Planning Commission, the applicant shall
prepare a written agreement setting forth any and all conditions upon which
approval was based. The Zoning Administrator shall review the agreement, with
assistance from the City Attorney and other advisors. After approval of the
ordinance granting the zoning map amendment and development agreement by the
City Commission, the agreement shall be recorded in the Office of the St Clair
County Register of Deeds at the expense of the applicant. The agreement shall,
at a minimum:
      (1)   Incorporate by reference the final approved site plan.
      (2)   If open space or common areas are indicated in the project for use
by the residents, the open space or common areas shall be conveyed in fee or
otherwise committed by dedication to the residents, and the use shall be
irrevocably dedicated for use as open space for park, recreation or other
common uses.
      (3)   Detail a program and related financing mechanisms for maintaining
common areas, amenities and features, such as walkways, signs, lighting and
landscaping.
      (4)   Assure that any natural features will be preserved as shown on the
site plan.
      (5)   Assure the financing for the construction and maintenance of all
roadways and necessary utilities (including public water, waste water
collection and treatment) through a performance bond or other means, for any
and all phases of the project. In the case of phased project, this requirement
shall be reviewed for compliance at the time of construction plan approval for
each phase of the project.
      (6)   Address any other concerns or conditions placed on the approval by
the Planning Commission or the City Commission.
   (J)   Final action by City Commission. The following procedures and
requirements provide for final action on PDP proposals by the City Commission.
      (1)    After the Planning Commission makes its recommendation, the
applicant shall make any required revisions and submit sufficient copies of the
revised site plan and supporting materials for City Commission review.
      (2)    Public hearing. Upon receipt of the PDP plan and Planning
Commission recommendation, the City Commission, solely at their option, may
schedule an additional public hearing
      (3)    City Commission determination. The City Commission shall make a
determination based on review of the final plan together with the findings of
the Planning Commission, and the reports and recommendation from the City
officials and other appropriate reviewing bodies. Following completion of its
review, the City Commission shall approve, approve with conditions, or deny a
PDP proposal along with its related map change and development agreement in
accordance with the guidelines described for the Planning Commission in
subsection (H)(5) above.
      (4)    Upon approval by the City Commission of the ordinance amendment,
the PDP plan shall become an integral part of the zoning amendment, and for
purposes of city record keeping, shall be referred to as "Planned Development
Project No. ____," which number shall correspond to the number of the amending
ordinance.
      (5)    All approved plans and records shall be filed with the City Clerk.
   (K)   Required conditions. Planned development projects shall be subject to
the following required conditions:
      (1)    Approval of a PDP shall constitute an amendment to the Zoning
Ordinance. All improvements and land uses of the site shall be in conformity
with the planned development project plan, any conditions imposed, and the
approved development agreement. Changes to the approved PDP that are not
considered minor by the Zoning Administrator shall be reviewed in accordance
with the procedure for the original application.
      (2)    Approval of a principal use, and building and/or site improvement
plans as part of the rezoning, shall be effective for a period of 12 months,
except that the Planning Commission may, at its discretion and upon application
by the land owner and/or his representative and for cause shown, grant an
extension for an additional 12 months. At the end of the 24 month period, if
the development is not completed, the Planning Commission shall review the
progress to date and make a recommendation to the City Commission as to action
relative to permitting continuation under the original approval for an
additional time period. In the event an extension is not granted by the City
Commission past the 24 month period, the approval and allowances, including the
PDP development agreement, site plan, zoning designation, and any conditions
imposed pursuant to this Section shall become null and void and of no further
force and effect. In the event that an approved planned development plan
becomes null and void, the City Planning Commission shall initiate proceedings
to amend the zoning classification of the site.
      (3)    Plans for building and/or site improvements of the proposed PDP
shall be in accordance with all other requirements of this Ordinance.
   (L)   Minor changes.
      (1)    Minor changes may be approved by the Zoning Administrator, subject
to a finding that:
         (a)    The proposed changes will not affect the basis upon which
approval was granted.
         (b)   The proposed minor changes will not adversely affect the overall
planned development in light of the purpose and intent of this Section.
         (c)   The proposed changes will not affect the character nor the
intensity of use, the general configuration of a buildings and uses on the
site, vehicular or pedestrian circulation, drainage patterns, or the demand for
public services.
      (2)   Examples of minor changes include, but shall not be limited to
additions or alteration to the landscape plan or landscape materials;
alterations to the internal layout of an off-street parking lot, provided that
the total number of spaces does not change; relocation of a trash receptacle
changes in locations or tree types on an approved landscape plan, or location
of designated parking spaces; or an increase in floor area of less than twenty
percent (20%) of the initial total floor area, up to 5,000 square feet maximum.
   (M)   Performance guarantee. The City Commission may require the applicant
to deposit a performance guarantee in accordance with §
90.162 of the Marine City Code.
   (N)   Fees. Fees for legal, engineering, and planning review of plans shall
be established for resolution of the City Commission in an amount sufficient to
cover the actual costs incurred by the city.
   (O)   Zoning Board of Appeals Authority. The ZBA shall have no authority to
consider any appeal of a decision by the City Commission concerning a PDP
application.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.237 HOME OCCUPATIONS.
   (A)   Permitted home occupations. The following uses shall be permitted as
home occupations within any zoning district, subject to compliance with the
requirements of this section:
      (1)   Home offices for such professionals as architects, doctors,
brokers, engineers, insurance agents, lawyers, realtors, accountants, computer
programmers, writers, salespersons and similar occupations.
      (2)   Personal services, including barber shops, beauty parlors, manicure
and pedicure shops, grooming, catering, and chauffeuring services.
      (3)   Music, dance, art and craft classes, tutoring, and studios for
artists, sculptors, musicians and photographers.
      (4)   Workshops for tailors, dressmakers, milliners, and craft persons,
including weaving, lapidary, jewelry making, model making, cabinetry, and wood-
working.
      (5)   Repair services, limited to watches and clocks, small appliances,
instruments, computers, electronic devices, and similar small devices.
      (6)   Telephone answering or telemarketing.
      (7)   Any other use determined by the Zoning Administrator to be similar
to, and compatible with, the above listed uses.
   (B)   Prohibited home occupations. The following uses are expressly
prohibited as a home occupation:
      (1)   Automobile truck, recreation vehicle, boat, motorcycle or small
engine repair, bump and paint shops, salvage or storage yards.
      (2)   Kennels or veterinary clinics.
      (3)   Medical or dental clinics.
      (4)   Retail sales of merchandise.
      (5)   Eating and/or drinking establishments.
      (6)   Undertaking and funeral homes.
      (7)   Adult uses and sexually-oriented businesses.
   (C)   Use standards.
      (1)   A home occupation must be clearly incidental and secondary to the
primary use of the dwelling unit for dwelling purposes. No more than 25% of the
floor area of the dwelling and 25% of the floor area of any accessory structure
shall be devoted to a home occupation.
      (2)   A home occupation use shall not change the character of the
residential nature of the premises, both in terms of use and appearance.
      (3)   A home occupation use shall not create a nuisance or endanger the
health, safety, welfare, or enjoyment of any other person in the area, by
reason of noise, vibration, glare, fumes, odor, unsanitary or unsightly
conditions, fire hazards, or the like, involved in or resulting from such home
occupation.
      (4)   A home occupation shall not generate sewage or water use in excess
of what is normally generated from a single family dwelling in a residential
area.
      (5)   No employees shall be permitted other than members of the immediate
family resident in the dwelling unit.
      (6)   All activities shall be carried on within an enclosed structure.
There shall be no outside display of any kind, or other external or visible
evidence of the conduct of a home occupation.
      (7)   No signage beyond that which is allowed for single-family dwellings
within the zoning district shall be permitted.
      (8)   No vehicular traffic shall be permitted for the home occupation,
other than that which is normally generated for a single dwelling unit in a
residential area, both as to volume and type of vehicles.
      (9)   Exterior storage of equipment, accessory items or outdoor display
of any kind are prohibited in connection with a home occupation.
      (10)   The establishment of a home occupation shall not necessitate
exterior modification, except as may be required to accommodate physically
handicapped persons, or as may be required by the building code.
      (11)   Customer or client visits, and deliveries associated with the home
occupation shall be limited to between the hours of 7:00 a.m. and 8:00 p.m.
   (D)   Permits.
      (1)   A permit must be obtained to lawfully operate a home occupation.
Application shall be made to the Zoning Administrator, who shall approve such
requests which demonstrate compliance with the requirements of this Section. In
the administration of these provisions, the Zoning Administrator shall be
permitted to refer a request to the Planning Commission for review and approval
where site conditions may create difficulty in adherence to the standards
contained herein.
      (2)   Should a lawfully established home occupation no longer meet the
conditions outlined above or other conditions stipulated for approval, a
violation shall be cited against the operator of the home occupation. The
operator of the home occupation shall have 10 working days to correct the
referenced violations. If the violations are not corrected within that time,
the permit to operate the home occupation shall be revoked and all related
activities must cease.
      (3)   Home occupation permits shall be limited to the applicant who
legally resides in the residence.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
GENERAL EXCEPTIONS AS TO AREA, HEIGHT AND USE
§ 160.245 GENERALLY.
   The regulations in this chapter shall be subject to the following
interpretations and exceptions.
(Prior Code, App.)
§ 160.246 ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
   Essential services shall be permitted as authorized and regulated by law and
other ordinances of the city; it being the intention hereof to exempt such
essential services from the application of this chapter.
(Prior Code, App., § 1400)
§ 160.247 VOTING PLACE.
   The provisions of this chapter shall not be so construed as to interfere
with the temporary use of any property as a voting place in connection with a
municipal or other public election.
(Prior Code, App., § 1401)
§ 160.248 HEIGHT LIMIT.
   The height limitations of this chapter shall not apply to farm buildings,
chimneys, church spires, flag poles, public monuments or wireless transmission
towers; provided, however, that the Board of Appeals may specify a height limit
for any such structure when the structure requires authorization as a use
permitted on special approval or under §
160.217.
(Prior Code, App., § 1402)
§ 160.249 LOT AREA.
   Any lot existing and of record at the time this chapter became effective may
be used for any principal use, other than uses permitted on special approval
for which special lot area requirements are specified in this chapter,
permitted in the district in which the lot is located whether or not such lot
complies with the lot area requirements of this chapter; provided that all
requirements other than lot area requirements prescribed in this chapter are
complied with; and provided that not more than 1 dwelling unit shall occupy any
lot except in conformance with the provisions of this chapter for required lot
area for each dwelling unit.
(Prior Code, App., § 1403)
§ 160.250 LOTS ADJOINING ALLEYS.
   In calculating the area of a lot that adjoins an alley or lane, for the
purpose of applying lot area requirements of this chapter, 1/2 the width of the
alley abutting the lot shall be considered as part of the lot.
(Prior Code, App., § 1404)
§ 160.251 YARD REGULATIONS.
   When yard regulations cannot reasonably be complied with, as in the case of
a planned development in the multiple-family district, or where their
application cannot be determined on lots existing and of record at the time
this chapter became effective, and on lots of peculiar shape, topography or due
to architectural or site arrangement, the regulations may be modified or
determined by the Board of Appeals.
(Prior Code, App., § 1405)
§ 160.252 MULTIPLE DWELLING SIDE YARD.
   For the purpose of side yard regulations, a two-family, a terrace, a row
house, or a multiple-dwelling shall be considered as 1 building occupying 1
lot.
(Prior Code, App., § 1406)
§ 160.253 PROJECTIONS INTO YARDS.
   Architectural features, not including vertical projections, may extend or
project into a required side yard not more than 3 inches for each 1 foot of
width of the side yard and may extend or project into a required front yard or
rear yard not more than 3 feet. Architectural features shall not include those
details which are normally demountable.
(Prior Code, App., § 1407)
§ 160.254 FENCES AND WALLS.
   Fences and walls may occupy a required rear or side yard.
(Prior Code, App., § 1408)
§ 160.255 LOT COVERAGE.
   Structures 4 feet in height or less shall not be considered in computing
maximum percent of lot coverage.
(Prior Code, App., § 1409)
§ 160.256 TRAILER OR BOAT STORAGE.
   Repealed by Ord. of 9-19-1974.
(Prior Code, App., § 1410)
§ 160.257 ACCESS THROUGH YARDS.
   For the purpose of this chapter, access drives may be placed in the required
front or side yards so as to provide access to rear yards and/or accessory or
attached structures. These drives shall not be considered as structural
violations in front and side yards. Further any walk, terrace or other pavement
servicing the like function, and not in excess of 9 inches above the grade upon
which placed, shall for the purpose of this chapter not be considered to be a
structure, and shall be permitted in any required yard.
(Prior Code, App., § 1411)
§ 160.258 TERRACE.
   An open unenclosed paved terrace may project into a front yard for a
distance not exceeding 10 feet, but this shall not include or permit fixed
canopies.
(Prior Code, App., § 1412)
SPECIAL LAND USE APPROVAL REQUIREMENTS
§ 160.270 INTENT.
   The formulation and enactment of this chapter is based upon the division of
the city into districts in each of which are permitted specified uses which are
mutually compatible. In addition to such permitted compatible uses however,
there are certain other uses which may be necessary or desirable to allow in
certain locations in certain districts, but because of their actual or
potential impacts on neighboring uses or public facilities there is a need to
carefully regulate them with respect to their location for the protection of
the community. These uses, due to their peculiar locational need or the nature
of the service offered, may have to be established in a district where they
cannot be reasonably allowed as a permitted use.
(Prior Code, App., § 2100) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
§ 160.271 AUTHORITY TO GRANT PERMITS.
   The Planning Commission, as set forth herein, shall have the authority to
grant special approval use permits, subject to such conditions of design,
operation, and safeguards as may be determined for all special approval uses
specified in the various provisions of this chapter.
(Prior Code, App., § 2101) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
§ 160.272 APPLICATION AND FEE.
   Application for any special approval use permit permissible under the
provisions of this chapter shall be made to the Planning Commission through the
City Clerk by filing an official special approval use permit application form;
exhibits and information; and depositing the required fee as established by
resolution of the City Commission.
(Prior Code, App., § 2102) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
§ 160.273 DATA, EXHIBITS AND INFORMATION REQUIRED IN APPLICATION.
   An application for a special approval use permit shall contain the
applicant’s name and address in full, a statement that the applicant is the
owner involved or is acting on the owner’s behalf, the address of the property
involved; a site plan in accordance herewith and a statement of supporting
data, exhibits, information, and evidence regarding the required findings set
forth in this chapter.
(Prior Code, App., § 2103) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
§ 160.274 PUBLIC HEARINGS AND NOTICES.
   Upon receipt of an application for a special land use which requires a
decision on discretionary grounds, a public hearing shall be held thereon by
the Planning Commission with notice as provided in §
160.305 of this Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, App., § 2104) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998; Am. Ord. 2019-002,
passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.275 REQUIRED STANDARDS AND FINDINGS FOR MAKING DETERMINATIONS.
   The Planning Commission shall review the particular circumstances and facts
of each proposed use in terms of the following standards and required findings,
and shall find and record adequate data, information and evidence showing that
such a use on the proposed site, lot, or parcel meets the following
requirements:
   (A)   Will be in accordance with the general objectives, intent, and
purposes of this chapter;
      (1)   Will be consistent with maintenance of the public health, safety,
and welfare.
      (2)   Will be of such location, size and character that it will be in
harmony with all applicable regulations of the zoning district in which it is
to be located.
   (B)   Will be served adequately by essential public facilities and services
such as highways, streets, police and fire protection, drainage structures,
refuse disposal, or that persons or agencies responsible for establishment of
the proposed use shall be able to provide adequately any service.
   (C)   Will be of a nature that will make vehicular and pedestrian traffic no
more hazardous than is normal for the district involved, taking into
consideration vehicular turning movements in relation to routes of traffic
flow, proximity and relationship to intersections, adequacy of sight distances,
location and access of off-street parking and provisions for pedestrian
traffic, with particular attention to minimizing child-vehicle contacts in
residential districts.
   (D)   Will be compatible with adjacent uses of land and the natural
environment.
      (1)   Will be of such location, size and character that it will be in
harmony with the appropriate and orderly development of the surrounding
neighborhood.
      (2)   Will be designed such that the location, size, intensity, site
layout and periods of operation of any such proposed use shall eliminate any
possible nuisance emanating therefrom which might be noxious to the occupants
of any other nearby permitted uses, whether by reason of dust, noise, fumes,
vibration, smoke, or lights.
      (3)   Will be designed such that the proposed location and height of
buildings or structures and location, nature and height of walls, fences and
landscaping will not interfere with or discourage the appropriate development
and use of adjacent land and buildings.
      (4)   Will not cause substantial injury to the value of other property in
the neighborhood in which it is located.
   (E)   Will promote the use of land in a socially and economically desirable
manner.
   (F)   Will relate harmoniously with the physical and economic aspects of
adjacent land uses as regards prevailing shopping habits, convenience of access
by prospective patrons, continuity of development, and need for particular
services and facilities in specific areas of the city.
(Prior Code, App., § 2105) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
§ 160.276 DETERMINATION AND IMPOSITION OF CONDITIONS.
   (A)   If the facts in the case establish that the findings and standards set
forth in this chapter apply to the proposed use, and have been met, the
Planning Commission shall grant special approval. In granting a special
approval use permit, the Planning Commission may impose such reasonable
conditions of use as is determined necessary to protect the best interest of
the city and the surrounding property, and to achieve the objectives of this
chapter.
   (B)   Conditions imposed shall meet all of the following requirements:
      (1)   Be designed to protect natural resources, the health, safety, and
welfare and the social and economic well being of those who will use the land
use or activity under consideration, residents and landowners immediately
adjacent to the proposed land use or activity, and the community as a whole.
      (2)   Be related to the valid exercise of the police power, and purposes
which are affected by the proposed use or activity.
      (3)   Be necessary to meet the intent and purpose of the Zoning
Ordinance, be related to the standards established in the ordinance for the
land use or activity under consideration, and be necessary to insure compliance
with those standards.
   (C)   The conditions imposed with respect to the approval of a land use or
activity shall be recorded in the record of the approval action, and shall
remain unchanged except upon the mutual consent of the Planning Commission and
the landowner. The Planning Commission shall maintain a record of conditions
which are changed.
(Prior Code, App., § 2106) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
§ 160.277 APPROVAL AND APPEAL PROCEDURES.
   (A)   Approval, grant of permit. Upon holding a public hearing, and findings
that the requirements of this chapter have been satisfactorily met by the
applicant, the Planning Commission shall within 30 days grant special approval.
The Planning Commission’s decision on a special approval use shall be
incorporated in a statement containing the conclusions relative to the special
approval under consideration which specifies the basis for the decision, and
any conditions imposed. Upon approval, a special approval permit shall be
issued to the applicant. The Planning Commission shall forward a copy of the
permit to the applicant, Clerk, and Zoning Administrator. This record shall be
on file in the Clerk’s Office as well as being made a part of the site plan or
building records for that parcel. The statement of conditions will be recorded
in the County Register of Deeds.
   (B)   Appeal to Circuit Court. Decisions of the Planning Commission with
respect to special land uses are final. However, a person having an interest
affected by a special land use decision of the City Planning Commission may
appeal to the Circuit Court.
(Prior Code, App., § 2107) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
§ 160.278 VOIDING OF SPECIAL APPROVAL USE PERMIT.
   (A)   Any approval given by the Planning Commission, under which premises
are not used or work is not started within 18 months or when such use or work
has been abandoned for a period of 6 months, shall lapse and cease to be in
effect. The Planning Commission may grant the applicant 1 or more 6-month
extensions of time if good cause is shown.
   (B)   A violation of a requirement, condition, or safeguard shall be
considered a violation of this chapter and grounds for the Zoning Administrator
to suspend the special approval use permit until review by the Planning
Commission. The Planning Commission shall determine if a violation has indeed
occurred. In the case of a violation, the Planning Commission shall direct such
corrective action as it determines is necessary to bring conformance with this
chapter, or the Planning Commission shall cancel the special approval use
permit in question.
(Prior Code, App., § 2108) (Ord. 98-10, passed 10-15-1998)
ADMINISTRATION AND ENFORCEMENT
§ 160.290 ENFORCEMENT.
   The provisions of this chapter shall be administered and enforced by the
Building Inspector, or the Chief of Police, or by such deputies of his
department as the Chief of Police may delegate to enforce the provisions of
this chapter. The Zoning Administrator is hereby designated as the authorized
city official to issue municipal civil infraction citations (directing alleged
violators to appear in court) or municipal civil infraction violation notices
(directing alleged violators to appear at the City of Marine City Municipal
Ordinance Violations Bureau).
(Prior Code, App., § 1500) (Ord. 95-13, passed 2-1-1996)
§ 160.291 DUTIES OF BUILDING INSPECTOR.
   (A)   The Building Inspector shall have the power to grant zoning compliance
and occupancy permits, to make inspections of buildings or premises necessary
to carry out his or her duties in the enforcement of this chapter. It shall be
unlawful for the Building Inspector to approve any plans or issue any permits
or certificates of occupancy for any excavation or construction until he or she
has inspected such plans in detail and found them to conform with this chapter;
provided, however, that all site plans, except for single-family residential
uses, shall have been first approved by the Planning Commission.
   (B)   The Building Inspector and/or such other officers or departments as
shall be designated by the Commission, shall record in duplicate, 1 copy of
which shall be filed with the City Clerk, all nonconforming uses of land
existing at the effective date of this chapter for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions hereof.
   (C)   The Building Inspector is under no circumstances permitted to make
changes in this chapter nor to vary the terms of this chapter in carrying out
his or her duties as Building Inspector.
   (D)   The Building Inspector shall not refuse to issue a permit when
conditions imposed by this chapter are complied with by the applicant despite
violations of contracts, such as covenants or private agreements which may
occur upon the granting of the permit.
(Prior Code, App., § 1501) (Ord. passed 6-6-1974)
§ 160.292 PLOT PLAN.
   The Building Inspector shall require that all applications for building
permits shall be accompanied by plans and specifications including a plot plan,
in triplicate, drawn to scale, showing the following:
   (A)   The actual shape, location, and dimensions of the lot;
   (B)   The shape, size and location of all buildings or other structures to
be erected, altered or moved and of any building or other structures already on
the lot;
   (C)   The existing and intended use of the lot and of all such structures
upon it including, in residential areas, the number of dwelling units the
building is intended to accommodate; and
   (D)   Such other information concerning the lot or adjoining lots as may be
essential for determining whether the provisions of this chapter are being
observed.
(Prior Code, App., § 1502)
§ 160.293 PERMITS.
   The following shall apply in the issuance of any permit:
   (A)   Permits not to be issued. No building permits shall be issued for the
erection, alteration or use of any building or structure or part thereof, or
for the use of any land, which is not in accordance with all provisions of this
chapter.
   (B)   Permits for new use of land. No land heretofore vacant shall hereafter
be used or an existing use of land be hereafter changed to a use of a different
class or type unless a certificate of occupancy is first obtained for the new
or different use.
   (C)   Permits for new use of building. No building or structure, or part
thereof, shall be changed to or occupied by a use of a different class or type
unless a building permit is first obtained for the new or different use.
   (D)   Permits required. No building or structure, or part thereof, shall be
hereafter erected, altered, moved, or repaired unless a building permit shall
have been first issued for the work. The terms “altered” and “repaired” shall
include any changes in structural parts, stairways, type of construction, type,
class or kind of occupancy, light or ventilation, means of egress and ingress,
or other changes affecting or regulated by the City Building Code, Housing Law
of Michigan, or this chapter, except for minor repairs or changes not involving
any of the aforesaid features.
(Prior Code, App., § 1503)
§ 160.294 CERTIFICATES.
   (A)   No land, building or part thereof, shall be occupied by or for any use
until a certificate of occupancy shall have been issued for such new use.
   (B)   The following shall apply in the issuance of any certificate:
      (1)   Certificates not to be issued. No certificates of occupancy
pursuant to the Building Code of the City of Marine City shall be issued for
any building, structure or part thereof or for the use of any land, which is
not in accordance with all the provisions of this chapter.
      (2)   Certificates required. No building or structure, or parts thereof,
which is hereafter erected or altered, shall be occupied or used or the same
caused to be done, unless and until a certificate of occupancy shall have been
issued for such building or structure.
      (3)   Certificates including zoning. Certificates of occupancy as
required by the Building Code for new buildings or structures, or parts
thereof, or for alterations to or changes of use of existing buildings or
structures, shall also constitute certificates of occupancy as required by this
chapter.
      (4)   Certificates for existing buildings. Certificates of occupancy
shall be issued for existing buildings, structures, or parts thereof, or
existing uses of land if, after inspection, it is found that such buildings,
structures, or parts thereof, or such use of land are in conformity with the
provisions of this chapter. Certificates of occupancy may be issued for
business buildings in B-1 and B-2 zones existing at the effective date of this
chapter which change occupancy and which do not provide sufficient parking as
required hereunder, provided there is no decrease in the number of spaces
existing at the effective date of this chapter.
      (5)   Temporary certificates. Nothing in this chapter shall prevent the
issuance of a temporary certificate of occupancy for a portion of a building or
structure in process of erection or alteration, provided that such temporary
certificate shall not be effective for a period of time in excess of 6 months,
and provided further that such portion of the building, structure, or premises
is in conformity with the provisions of this chapter.
      (6)   Records of certificates. A record of all certificates issued shall
be kept on file in the office of a Building Inspector, and copies shall be
furnished upon request to any person having a proprietary or tenancy interest
in the property involved.
      (7)   Certificates for dwelling accessory buildings. Buildings accessory
to dwellings shall not require separate certificates of occupancy but may be
included in the certificate of occupancy for the dwelling when shown on the
plot plan and when completed at the same time as such dwellings.
      (8)   Application for certificates.
         (a)   Application for certificates of occupancy shall be made in
writing to the Building Inspector on forms furnished by the city, and such
certificates shall be issued within 10 days after receipt of such application
if it is found that the building or structure, or part thereof, or the use of
land is in accordance with the provisions of this chapter.
         (b)   If such certificate is refused for cause, the applicant
therefore shall be notified of the refusal and cause thereof, within the
aforesaid 10 day period.
(Prior Code, App., § 1504)
§ 160.295 FINAL INSPECTION.
   The holder of every building permit for the construction, erection,
alteration, repair or moving of any building, structure or part thereof, shall
notify the Building Inspector immediately upon the completion of the work
authorized by the permit, for a final inspection.
(Prior Code, App., § 1505)
§ 160.296 FEES.
   Fees for inspection and the issuance of permits or certificates or copies
thereof, required or issued under the provisions of this chapter, may be
collected by the Building Inspector in advance of issuance. The amount of the
fees shall be established by resolution of the City Commission and shall cover
the cost of inspection and the supervision resulting from enforcement of this
chapter.
(Prior Code, App., § 1506)
§ 160.297 INTERPRETATION, PURPOSE AND CONFLICT.
   In interpreting and applying the provisions of this chapter they shall be
held to be the minimum requirements for the promotion of the public safety,
health, convenience, comforts, morals, prosperity and general welfare. It is
not intended by this chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any
ordinance, rules, regulations, or permits previously adopted or issued, and not
in conflict with any of the provisions of this chapter, or which shall be
adopted or issued pursuant to law relating to the use of buildings or premises
and likewise not in conflict with this chapter; nor is it intended by this
chapter to interfere with or abrogate or annul any easements, covenants or
other agreements between parties, provided, however, that where this chapter
imposes a greater restriction upon the use of buildings or premises or upon
height of buildings, or requires larger open spaces or larger lot areas than
are imposed or required by such ordinance or agreements, the provisions of this
chapter shall control.
(Prior Code, App., § 1507)
§ 160.298 ZONING COMMISSION.
   The City Planning Commission is hereby designated as the Commission
specified in § 301 of Act 110 of the Public Acts of 2006, and shall perform the
duties of the Commission as provided in the statute in connection with the
amendment of this chapter.
(Prior Code, App., § 1508) (Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.299 PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
   (A)   In cases where the City Planning Commission is empowered to approve
certain use of premises under the provisions of this chapter the applicant
shall furnish such surveys, plans or other information as may be reasonably
required by the Commission for the proper consideration of the matter.
   (B)   The Planning Commission shall investigate the circumstances of each
such case and shall notify such parties, who may in its opinion be affected
thereby, of the time and place of any hearing which may be held relative
thereto as required under its rules of procedure.
   (C)   The Planning Commission may impose such conditions or limitations in
granting approval as may in its judgment be necessary to fulfill the spirit and
purpose of this chapter.
   (D)   Any approval given by the Planning Commission, under which premises
are not used or work is not started within 6 months or when the use or work has
been abandoned for a period of 6 months, shall lapse and cease to be in effect.
(Prior Code, App., § 1509)
§ 160.300 SITE PLAN REVIEW REQUIRED IN SPECIFIC DISTRICTS.
   (A)   Site plan review and approval of all developmental proposals within
specific zoning districts is required by the following provisions. The intent
of this section is to provide for consultation and cooperation between the
developer and the Planning Commission so that both parties might realize
maximum utilization of land and minimum adverse effect upon the surrounding
land uses.
   (B)   Through the application of the following provisions, the attainment of
the Master Plan will be assured and the city will develop in an orderly
fashion.
      (1)   Site plan review required. A site plan shall be submitted to the
Planning Commission for review and approval for the following:
         (a)   Any uses (except for single- or two-family dwellings, buildings
and uses accessory to single- or two-family dwellings, and farm buildings)
within the following districts: RM - Multiple-Family Residential, WM -
Waterfront Recreation and Marina, MHP - Mobile Home Park, B-1 - Central
Business, B-2 - General Business, I-1 - Light Industrial, I-2 - Heavy
Industrial, P-1 - Vehicular Parking District.
         (b)   All special uses in single-family districts such as, but not
limited to, churches, schools and public facilities.
         (c)   All site condominium or condominium projects.
         (d)   Any use or development for which the submission of a site plan
is required by any provisions of this chapter.
         (e)   Any change and/or conversion of use as permitted and regulated
by this chapter within the same zoning district.
         (f)   Any addition to an existing principal or accessory building
within districts listed above and subject to the following provisions:
            1.   Wherein the proposed addition constitutes an increase of 500
square feet or 10% or more as compared to the existing building or use
whichever is less.
            2.   Wherein the proposed addition or expansion would require a
variance from the provisions of this chapter no matter what size the addition
or expansion.
      (2)   Site plan review criteria. The site plan shall be reviewed and
approved by the Planning Commission upon finding that the following conditions
are met:
         (a)   The proposed use will not be injurious to the surrounding
neighborhood.
         (b)   There is a proper relationship between thoroughfares and
proposed service drives, driveways, and parking areas.
         (c)   The location of buildings, outside storage receptacles, parking
areas, screen walls, and utility areas is such that the adverse effects of such
uses will be minimized for the occupants of that use and the oocupants of
surrounding areas.
         (d)   It provides for proper development of roads, easements, and
public utilities and protects the general health, safety, welfare and character
of the city.
         (e)   It meets city requirements and standards for grading and surface
drainage and for the design and construction of storm sewers, storm water
holding facilities, water mains, sanitary sewers, and driveway approaches.
         (f)   All buildings or groups of buildings shall be so arranged as to
permit emergency vehicle access by some practical means to all sides.
         (g)   Natural resources are preserved by developing in a manner which
will not detrimentally affect or destroy natural features such as lakes, ponds,
streams, wetlands, steep slopes, and woodlands.
         (h)   Sites which include storage of hazardous materials or waste,
fuels, salt, or chemicals will be designed to prevent spills and discharges of
polluting materials to the surface of the ground, groundwater, or nearby water
bodies.
         (i)   The location of buildings, parking, drives, landscaping and
other improvements on the site is appropriate for the lot size and
configuration.
         (j)   Landscaping, including trees, shrubs and other vegetative
material, is provided to maintain and improve the aesthetic quality of the site
and the area.
         (k)   The proposed use is in compliance with all city ordinances and
any other applicable laws.
      (3)   Information required on site plan.
         (a)   Plans submitted for site plan approval shall contain all of the
following data prior to approval of such plans by the Planning Commission.
Final construction plans must be-submitted to the Building Department and such
construction plans must be reviewed and approved prior to obtaining a building
permit.
         (b)   Site plans shall consist of an overall plan for the entire
development. Sheet size shall be at least 24" by 36" with plan view drawn to a
minimum scale of 1".20' if the subject property is less than 3 acres and
1'1=50' if 3 acres or more. Included on the site plan will be all dimensions
and the following:
         (a)   General information.
            1.   Proprietors name, address, and telephone number;
            2.   Date (month, day, year), including revisions;
            3.   Title block;
            4.   Scale;
            5.   North point;
            6.   Location map drawn at a scale of 1"=2,000' with north point
indicated;
            7.   Architect, engineer, surveyor, landscape architect, or
planner’s seal;
            8.   Existing lot lines, building lines, structures, parking areas
and the like on the parcel, and within 100 feet of the site;
            9.   Proposed lot lines, property lines and all structures, parking
areas and the like within the site, and within 100 feet of the site;
            10.   Centerline and existing and proposed right-of-way lines;
            11.   Zoning classification of petitioner’s parcel and all abutting
parcels;
            12.   Gross acreage figure; and
            13.   Proximity to major thoroughfare and/or section corners.
         (b)   Physical features.
            1.   Proposed locations of access drives, street intersections,
driveway locations, sidewalks, signs, curbing, and acceleration, deceleration,
and passing lanes;
            2.   Location of existing and proposed service facilities above and
below ground, including: storage, loading and disposal areas for chemicals,
hazardous substances, salt, and fuels water main, hydrants, pump houses,
standpipes, and building services and sizes; sanitary sewers and pumping
stations; stormwater control facilities and structures including storm sewers,
swales, retention and detention basins, drainageways, and other facilities,
including calculations for sizes; location of all easements;
            3.   All buildings with dimensioned floor plans, setback and yard
dimensions, and typical elevation views of proposed structures;
            4.   Dimensioned parking spaces and calculations, drives and method
of surfacing;
            5.   Exterior lighting locations and illumination patterns;
            6.   Location and description of all existing and proposed
landscaping, berms, fencing and walls;
            7.   Sidewalks and bike paths;
            8.   Trash receptacle pad location and method of screening;
            9.   Transformer pad location and method of screening;
            10.   Dedicated road or service drive locations;
            11.   Entrance details including sign locations and size;
            12.   Designation of fire lanes; and
            13.   Any other pertinent physical features.
         (c)   Natural features.
            1.   Existing topography with a maximum contour interval of 2 feet
indicated. Topography on the site and beyond the site for a distance of 100
feet in all directions shall be indicated;
            2.   A grading plan showing finished contours at a maximum interval
of 2 feet, correlated with existing contours so as to clearly indicate required
cutting, filling and grading;
            3.   Location of existing drainage courses, lakes, ponds, wetlands,
rivers and streams, including their water surface elevation, floodplain
elevation, and ordinary high water mark; and
            4.   Location of other natural resource features, including
woodlands.
         (d)   Additional requirements for Multiple-Family, and PUD
Developments.
            1.   Density calculations by type of unit by bedroom count;
            2.   Designation of units by type of unit in each building;
            3.   Carport locations and details where proposed;
            4.   Specific amount of space and locations;
            5.   Type of recreation facilities to be provided in recreation
space; and
            6.   If proposed, details of community building and fencing of
swimming pool.
         (e)   Additional requirements for commercial and industrial
developments.
            1.   Loading/unloading areas;
            2.   Gross and useable floor area; and
            3.   Number of employees in peak usage.
         (f)   The Planning Commission may waive any of the above required site
plan information, when such information is determined to be not pertinent to
the proposed development.
      (4)   Application procedure. An application for site plan review shall be
processed in the following manner.
         (a)   All site plans shall be submitted to the Zoning Administrator at
least 21 days prior to the next regularly scheduled meeting of the Planning
Commission and must contain the following to be accepted:
            1.   A signed and complete application;
            2.   Ten copies of the site plan;
            3.   All items as required hereby shown on the site plan; and
            4.   Required fees.
         (b)   Upon acceptance of the site plan, the Zoning Administrator
shall:
            1.   Forward a copy of the site plan and application to the City
Planner or Engineer for review;
            2.   Place review of the site plan on the next Planning Commission
agenda; and
            3.   Forward a copy of the site plan and application to each
Commission member.
      (5)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission shall approve,
approve with conditions, or deny the site plan within 90 days of the date of
the Planning Commission meeting at which the site plan is first heard. The time
limit may be extended upon a written request by the applicant and approved by
the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission may suggest and/or require
modifications in the proposed final site plan as are needed to gain approval.
      (6)   Administrative sketch plan review. The intent of this section is to
permit the submittal of a sketch plan in certain specific instances where a
complete site plan is not considered essential to ensure compliance with the
intent and standards of this ordinance. The intent is to also provide for an
administrative review by city staff of Planning Commission approved site plans
for compliance with conditions as imposed by the Planning Commission.
         (a)   In lieu of a complete site plan prepared in accordance with
subsection (3), a sketch plan may be submitted for the uses or activities
identified below.
            1.   Accessory uses incidental to a conforming existing use where
said use does not require any variance or further site modifications.
            2.   Expansion and/or addition of 1,500 square feet or less to an
existing conforming structure or use.
            3.   Alterations to off-street parking layout or installation of
pavement or curbing improvements provided the total number of spaces does not
change the number of parking spaces by more than 5% or to meet various federal,
state, or ADA requirements.
            4.   Improvements or installation of walls, fences, lighting or
trash containers/enclosures.
            5.   Approval for establishment of a home occupation.
            6.   Change of use to a permitted use in any zoning district,
limited to a use not exceeding 2,500 square feet.
         (b)   Procedure.
            1.   The procedure for administrative approval of a sketch plan
shall involve the submittal of a sketch plan meeting the requirements of this
subsection. Additionally, the required application form and fee shall be
submitted. The Zoning Administrator shall review the sketch plan in accordance
with the standards of subsection (2). The Zoning Administrator shall make a
report of administrative sketch plan reviews to the Planning Commission.
            2.   The Zoning Administrator retains the option to require
additional information or a complete site plan for review by the Planning
Commission, particularly for sites which do not comply with previously approved
site plans, sites with parking deficiencies, sites abutting residential
districts or sites experiencing problems with drainage, traffic, noise,
aesthetics or other general health and safety issues. If a complete site plan
is required, the Zoning Administrator shall inform the applicant to submit a
set of plans in accordance with this article within 14 days of receipt of the
application. The Zoning Administrator shall also have authority to refer any
site plan eligible for administrative review to any consultants employed by the
city for the purposes of site plan review.
         (c)   Sketch plan information required.
            1.   Details of the propose changes to the use or structure in
question.
            2.   Proprietors', applicants', and owners' names, addressed and
telephone numbers.
            3.   Location map with north point indicated.
            4.   Locations of existing landscaping, lighting, parking, if
applicable, including the proposed method of refuse collection.
            5.   Gross acreage and building figures.
            6.   Zoning classification of petitioners' parcel and all abutting
parcels.
            7.   Estimated cost of proposed site improvements including
roadways, lighting, utilities, sidewalks, drainage, fences, walls, and
landscaping.
      (7)   Effect of approval. When an applicant receives final site approval,
he or she must develop the site in complete conformity with the approved site
plan. The site plan approval shall be valid for a period of 1 year. If the
project is not under construction with a building permit at the expiration of
the approval time, the site plan approval becomes null and void and the
developer shall make a new application for approval. Prior to the date of
expiration, the applicant may request and the Planning Commission may approve
an extension for a period no longer than 1 year.
      (8)   Phasing of development. The applicant may, at his discretion,
divide the proposed development in two (2) or more phases. In such case, the
site plan shall clearly indicate the location, the size, and character of each
phase. The approval of the first phase shall be valid for a period of 1 year in
accordance with division (7) above. As part of site plan approval, the Planning
Commission may designate the time period for which the approval of any
subsequent phases shall be valid. Time extensions for site plan phases may be
granted by the Planning Commission in accordance with division (7) above.
      (9)   Amendment of approved site plan. The Zoning Administrator shall
have the authority to determine if a proposed change requires an amendment to
an approved final site plan. A site plan may be amended upon application and in
accordance with the procedure herein for a final site plan. The Zoning
Administrator may approve minor changes in an approved final site plan,
provided that a revised final site plan drawing(s) be submitted showing such
minor changes, for purposes of record.
      (10)   Modification of plan during construction. All improvements shall
conform to the final site plan. Any changes, which result in a material
alteration of the site plan approved by the Planning Commission, shall require
resubmittal to the Planning Commission. The Planning Commission, or Zoning
Administrator may require the applicant to correct the changes so as to conform
to the approved final site plan.
(Prior Code, App., § 1509A) (Ord. 97-5, passed 10-2-1997; Am. Ord. 2019-002,
passed 2-21-2019; Am. Ord. passed 10-21-2021)
§ 160.301 CHANGES AND AMENDMENTS.
   (A)   (1)   The City Commission may, from time to time, change the district
boundaries or the regulations herein provided, however, that before any
amendment shall become effective, 1 public hearing shall be held thereon by the
Planning Commission with notice as provided in §
160.305 of this Zoning Ordinance. The City Commission shall require a report
from the Planning Commission on any proposed amendment before taking final
action thereon. The Planning Commission shall submit its final report, which
shall include a summary of comments submitted at the public hearing. The City
Commission may hold additional public hearings if it considers it necessary.
(Am. Ord. 07-04, passed 7-19-2007)
      (2)   The City Commission shall grant a public hearing on a proposed
amendment to an interested property owner who requests a hearing by certified
mail, addressed to the City Clerk. A public hearing under this subsection is
not subject to the requirements as provided in §
160.305, except that notice of the hearing shall be given to the interested
property owner as specified in the Zoning Enabling Act, Public Act 110 of 2006.
   (B)   If the owner of 20 or more percent of the frontage in the area
proposed to be altered or the owners of 20 or more percent of the frontage of
property abutting the area proposed to be altered, or either of such groups
shall file a written protest at or before the time of the hearing in this
section provided, then and in such event such amendment shall not be passed
except by a 3/4 vote of the entire membership of the City Commission then
holding office and qualified to vote.
   (C)   (1)   If a parcel of land is owned by the entireties, by joint
tenants, by tenants in common or by legal and equitable owners, then one of
such owners may sign the protest for the parcel so owned.
      (2)   The term ABUTTING PROPERTY as used in this section shall mean the
property immediately adjoining the area proposed to be changed either in the
rear or at the side thereof and also the frontage directly opposite the
frontage proposed to be changed.
      (3)   The term FRONTAGE, as used herein, shall mean frontage on the
street; provided, however, that a corner lot shall not be considered to have
frontage on both streets, but only on the street where the lot has a smaller
number of feet frontage. In determining abutting property, there shall be
included all the property in a common ownership used as a single unit.
(Prior Code, App., § 1510) (Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.302 FEES; PETITION FOR AMENDMENT.
   Upon presentation of petition for amendment of the Zoning Ordinance by the
owner of real estate to be affected, or by owners of real estate within 300
feet of any part of the premises to be affected the petition shall be
accompanied by a deposit of a sum as set by the City Commission by resolution,
which amount shall be placed in the General Fund to partly defray the expense
of publishing the required notices of public hearings, and the expenses of the
public hearing.
(Prior Code, App., § 1511) (Ord. 82-9, passed 8-5-1982)
§ 160.303 VALIDITY.
   (A)   This chapter and the various parts, sections and clauses thereof are
hereby declared to be severable.
   (B)   If any part, sentence, paragraph, section or clause is adjudged
unconstitutional or invalid, it is hereby provided that the remainder of the
ordinance shall not be affected thereby.
(Prior Code, App., § 1512)
§ 160.304 REQUIREMENTS FOR TRAFFIC IMPACT STUDIES.
   (A)   Traffic Impact Study Defined. A traffic impact study is a complete
analysis and assessment of traffic generated by a proposed development, and of
the impact on the surrounding transportation system. The study shall be
completed and sealed by a licensed professional engineer
   (B)   When Required. A traffic impact study is required for any proposed
development expected to generate over 100 peak hour directional trips. The
following table gives examples of land use that is expected to meet or exceed
the 100 peak hour directional trip threshold. The City Zoning Administrator
will inform the developer of the required impact study.
Examples of Land Use Size Thresholds Based on Trip Generation Characteristics
Land Use 100 Peak Hour Directional
Examples of Land Use Size Thresholds Based on Trip Generation Characteristics
Land Use                                     100 Peak Hour Directional
Residential                                   
   Single-family                          150 units
   Apartments                             245 units
   Condominiums/Town houses               295 units
   Mobile Home Park                       305 units
Shopping Center (GLA)                        15,500 sq. ft.
Fast Food Restaurant w/drive-in (GFA)        5,200 sq. ft.
Gas Stations & Convenience Store w/gas (GFA) 1,300 sq. ft. or 5 pumps
Banks w/drive-in (GFA)                       4,400 sq. ft.
Hotel/Motel                                  250 rooms
General Office                               55,000 sq. ft.
Medical/Dental Office                        37,000 sq. ft.
Research & Development                       85,000 sq. ft.
Light Industrial                             115,000 sq. ft.
Manufacturing                                250,000 sq. ft
 
   (C)   Review and approval. When required, the traffic impact study shall be
reviewed and approved by the Planning Commission prior to approval of the site
plan for the development. The Planning Commission shall engage the services of
a professional traffic engineer to review the traffic impact study and make
comments and recommendations indicating any changes and improvements that will
be necessary for the protection of the health, safety, convenience, and welfare
of the general public. The applicant shall bear all reasonable expenses
incurred by the City in relation to such review.
   (D)   Contents of study. A traffic impact study should include:
      (1)   A narrative summary at the beginning of the report, including but
not limited to:
         (a)   The applicant and project name;
         (b)   A location map;
         (c)   The size and type of development; and
         (d)   Generated traffic volumes based on type and size of land use
which are compatible with those listed in the Institute of Transportation
Engineers publication Trip Generation (current edition).
      (2)   Project phasing identifying the year of development activities per
phase and proposed access plan for each phase.
      (3)   A transportation system inventory, which describes the physical,
functional and operational characteristics of the study area highway system and
where appropriate, locate transit services. The description should provide,
where pertinent, data on:
         (a)   Peak-hour volumes (existing and projected);
         (b)   Number of lanes;
         (c)   Cross-section;
         (d)   Intersection traffic signals and configuration;
         (e)   Traffic signal progression;
         (f)   Percentage of heavy trucks;
         (g)   adjacent access point locations;
         (h)   Jurisdiction; and
         (i)   Grades.
      (4)   Plan showing proposed roadway per phase for each access. Driveway
design and roadway improvements shall meet Michigan Department of
Transportation or St. Clair County Road Commission standards and guides, as
applicable.
      (5)   Capacity analysis shall be performed at each access point. Default
values shall not be used when actual values are reasonably available or
obtainable. The interaction of conflicting traffic movements shall be addressed
in the traffic impact study. Any proposed signalized access within 1/2 mile of
an existing signalized intersection shall be analyzed in coordination with the
existing signal timing. A time-space diagram should also be included.
      (6)   A traffic impact study shall be analyzed with and without the
proposed development on the existing system, and with the proposed development
for both existing and projected traffic volumes.
         (a)   The traffic volumes for the development shall assume a total
build out.
         (b)   The completed analysis shall be summarized in a table showing
all the Measures of Effectiveness (MOE) for all of the above conditions.
      (7)   Required operational changes shall be part of the site plan
approval and driveway permit approval process. All required traffic
improvements, determined by the study to be necessary to accommodate or
alleviate impacts of the development, shall be fully constructed and completed
prior to the issuance of a certificate of occupancy. All cost incurred for the
review and construction of the required improvements shall be the sole
responsibility of the developer.
(Ord. 04-05, passed 5-20-2004)
§ 160.305 PUBLIC NOTIFICATION.
   All applications for development approval requiring a public hearing shall
comply with the Michigan Zoning Enabling Act, P.A. 110 of 2006 and the other
provisions of this section with regard to public notification.
   (A)   Responsibility. When the provisions of this chapter or the Michigan
Zoning Enabling Act require that notice be published, the Zoning Administrator
shall be responsible for preparing the content of the notice, having it
published in a newspaper of general circulation in the City of Marine City and
mailed or delivered as provided in this section.
   (B)   Content. All mail, personal and newspaper notices for public hearings
shall:
      (1)   Describe the nature of the request. Identify whether the request is
for a rezoning, text amendment, special approval use, planned unit development,
variance, appeal, ordinance interpretation or other purpose.
      (2)   Location. Indicate the property that is the subject of the request.
The notice shall include a listing of all existing street addresses within the
subject property. Street addresses do not need to be created and listed if no
such addresses currently exist within the property. If there are no street
addresses, other means of identification may be used such as a tax parcel
identification number, identifying the nearest cross street, or including a map
showing the location of the property. No street addresses must be listed when
11 or more adjacent properties are proposed for rezoning, or when the request
is for an ordinance interpretation not involving a specific property.
      (3)   When and where the request will be considered. Indicate the date,
time and place of the public hearing(s).
      (4)   Written comments. Include a statement describing when and where
written comments will be received concerning the request. Include a statement
that the public may appear at the public hearing in person or by counsel.
      (5)   Handicap access. Include information concerning how handicap access
will be accommodated if the meeting facility is not handicap accessible.
   (C)   Personal and mailed notice.
      (1)   General. When the provisions of this chapter or state law require
that personal or mailed notice be provided, notice shall be provided to:
         (a)   The owners of property for which approval is being considered,
and the applicant, if different than the owner(s) of the property.
         (b)   Except for rezoning requests involving 11 or more adjacent
properties or an ordinance interpretation request that does not involve a
specific property; to all persons to whom real property is assessed within 300
feet of the boundary of the property subject to the request, regardless of
whether the property or occupant is located within the boundaries of the City
of Marine City. If the name of the occupant is not known, the term “occupant”
may be used in making notification. Notification need not be given to more than
1 occupant of a structure, except that if a structure contains more than 1
dwelling unit or spatial area owned or leased by different individuals,
partnerships, businesses, or organizations, 1 occupant of each unit or spatial
area shall receive notice. In the case of a single structure containing more
than 4 dwelling units or other distinct spatial areas owned or leased by
different individuals, partnerships, businesses or organizations, notice may be
given to the manager or owner of the structure who shall be requested to post
the notice at the primary entrance to the structure.
         (c)   All neighborhood organizations, public utility companies,
railroads and other persons which have requested to receive notice pursuant to
division (E), Registration to receive notice by mail.
      (2)   Notice by mail/affidavit. Notice shall be deemed mailed by its
deposit in the United States mail, first class, properly addressed, postage
paid. The Zoning Administrator shall prepare a list of property owners and
registrants to whom notice was mailed, as well as of anyone to whom personal
notice was delivered.
   (D)   Timing of notice. Unless otherwise provided in the Michigan Zoning
Enabling Act, P.A. 110 of 2006, or this chapter where applicable, notice of a
public hearing shall be provided on an application for a rezoning, text
amendment, special approval use, planned unit development, variance, appeal, or
ordinance interpretation: not less than 15 days before the date the application
will be considered for approval.
   (E)   Registration to receive notice by mail.
      (1)   General. Any neighborhood organization, public utility company,
railroad or any other person may register with the Zoning Administrator to
receive written notice of all applications for development approval pursuant to
division (C), Personal and mailed notice, or written notice of all applications
for development approval within the zoning district in which they are located.
The Zoning Administrator shall be responsible for providing this notification.
Fees may be assessed for the provision of this notice, as established by the
legislative body.
      (2)   Requirements. The requesting party must provide the Zoning
Administrator information on an official form to ensure notification can be
made. All registered persons must re-register every other year to continue to
receive notification pursuant to this section.
(Am. Ord. 07-04, passed 7-19-2007)
§ 160.306 CONDITIONAL REZONING.
   (A)   Intent. It is recognized that there are certain instances where it
would be in the best interests of the city, as well as advantageous to property
owners seeking a change in zoning boundaries, if certain conditions could be
proposed by property owners as part of a request for a rezoning. It is the
intent of this section to provide a process consistent with the provisions of §
405 of Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, by which an owner seeking a rezoning
may voluntarily propose conditions regarding the use and/or development of land
as part of the rezoning request.
   (B)   Application and offer of conditions.
      (1)   An owner of land may voluntarily offer in writing conditions
relating to the use and/or development of land for which a rezoning is
requested. This offer may be made either at the time the application for
rezoning is filed or may be made at a later time during the rezoning process.
      (2)   The required application and process for considering a rezoning
request with conditions shall be the same as that for considering rezoning
requests made without any offer of conditions, except as modified by the
requirements of this Section.
      (3)   The owner's offer of conditions may not purport to authorize uses
or developments not permitted in the requested new zoning district.
      (4)   The owner's offer of conditions shall bear a reasonable and
rational relationship to the property for which rezoning is requested.
      (5)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions
that would require a special land use permit under the terms of this ordinance
may only be commenced if a special land use permit for such use or development
is ultimately granted in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
      (6)    Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions
that would require a variance under the terms of this ordinance may only be
commenced if a variance for such use or development is ultimately granted by
the Board of Appeals in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
      (7)   Any use or development proposed as part of an offer of conditions
that would require site plan approval under the terms of this ordinance may
only be commenced if site plan approval for such use or development is
ultimately granted in accordance with the provisions of this ordinance.
      (8)    The offer of conditions may be amended during the process of
rezoning consideration provided that any amended or additional conditions are
entered voluntarily by the owner. An owner may withdraw all or part of its
offer of conditions any time prior to final rezoning action of the City
Commission provided that, if such withdrawal occurs subsequent to the Planning
Commission's public hearing on the original rezoning request, then the rezoning
application shall be referred to the Planning Commission for a new public
hearing with appropriate notice and a new recommendation.
   (C)   Planning Commission review. The Planning Commission, after public
hearing and consideration of the standards for approval set forth in Subsection
(E), may recommend approval, approval with recommended changes or denial of the
rezoning; provided, however, that any recommended changes to the offer of
conditions are acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner.
   (D)   City Commission review. After receipt of the Planning Commission's
recommendation, the City Commission shall deliberate upon the requested
rezoning and may approve or deny the conditional rezoning request. The City
Commission's deliberations shall include, but not be limited to, a
consideration of the standards for approval set forth in Subsection (E). Should
the City Commission consider amendments to the proposed conditional rezoning
advisable and if such contemplated amendments to the offer of conditions are
acceptable to and thereafter offered by the owner, then the City Commission
shall, in accordance with Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended, refer such
amendments to the Planning Commission for a report thereon within a time
specified by the City Commission and proceed thereafter in accordance with said
statute to deny or approve the conditional rezoning with or without amendments.
   (E)   Factors. In reviewing an application for the rezoning of land where
there is an offer of conditions, factors that should be considered by the
Planning Commission and the City Commission shall include the following:
      (1)   Whether the proposed rezoning is consistent with the goals,
policies and Future Land Use Map of the City of Marine City Master Plan;
      (2)   The compatibility of all the potential uses allowed in the proposed
zoning district with surrounding land uses and zoning districts in terms of
land suitability, impacts on the environment, density, and influence on
property values;
      (3)   Whether any public services and facilities would be significantly
adversely impacted by a development or use allowed under the requested
rezoning. Consideration of impact on drains and roads is specifically required;
and,
      (4)   Whether the uses allowed under the proposed rezoning would be
equally or better suited to the area than uses allowed under the current zoning
of the land.
   (F)   Approval.
      (1)   If the City Commission finds the rezoning request and offer of
conditions acceptable, the offered conditions shall be incorporated into a
formal written statement of conditions acceptable to the owner and conforming
in form to the provisions of this section. The statement of conditions shall be
incorporated by attachment or otherwise as an inseparable part of the ordinance
adopted by the City Commission to accomplish the requested rezoning.
      (2)   The statement of conditions shall:
         (a)    Be in a form recordable with the Register of Deeds of St Clair
County or, in the alternative, be accompanied by a recordable Affidavit or
Memorandum prepared and signed by the owner giving notice of the statement of
conditions in a manner acceptable to the City Commission.
         (b)    Contain a legal description of the land to which it pertains.
         (c)    Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of
conditions runs with the land and is binding upon successor owners of the land.
         (d)    Incorporate by attachment or reference any diagram, plans or
other documents submitted or approved by the owner that are necessary to
illustrate the implementation of the statement of conditions. If any such
documents are incorporated by reference, the reference shall specify where the
document may be examined.
         (e)   Contain a statement acknowledging that the statement of
conditions or an affidavit or memorandum giving notice thereof shall be
recorded with the Register of Deeds of St Clair County by the owner with a copy
of the recorded document provided to the city within 45 days of its recording.
         (f)   Contain the notarized signatures of all of the owners of the
subject land preceded by a statement attesting to the fact that they
voluntarily offer and consent to the provisions contained within the statement
of conditions.
      (3)   Upon the rezoning taking effect, the Zoning Map shall be amended to
reflect the new zoning classification along with a designation that the land
was rezoned with a Statement of Conditions. The City Clerk shall maintain a
listing of all lands rezoned with a statement of conditions.
      (4)   The approved statement of conditions or an affidavit or memorandum
giving notice thereof shall be filed by the owner with the Register of Deeds of
St Clair County. The owner shall provide a copy of the recorded document to the
city within 45 days of the date of its recording. The City Commission shall
have authority to waive this requirement if it determines that, given the
nature of the conditions and/or the time frame within which the conditions are
to be satisfied, the recording of such a document would be of no material
benefit to the city or to any subsequent owner of the land.
      (5)    Upon the rezoning taking effect, the use of the land so rezoned
shall conform thereafter to all of the requirements regulating use and
development within the new zoning district as modified by any more restrictive
provisions contained in the statement of conditions.
   (G)   Compliance with conditions.
      (1)    Any person who establishes a development or commences a use upon
land that has been rezoned with conditions shall continuously operate and
maintain the development or use in compliance with all of the conditions set
forth in the statement of conditions. Any failure to comply with a condition
contained within the statement of conditions shall constitute a violation of
this Zoning Ordinance and be punishable accordingly. Additionally, any such
violation shall be deemed a nuisance per se and subject to judicial abatement
as provided by law.
      (2)    No permit or approval shall be granted under this ordinance for
any use or development that is contrary to an applicable statement of
conditions.
   (H)   Time period for establishing development or use. Unless another time
period is specified in the ordinance rezoning the subject land, the approved
development and/or use of the land pursuant to building and other required
permits must be commenced upon the land within 36 months after the rezoning
took effect and thereafter proceed diligently to completion. This time
limitation may upon written request be extended by the City Commission if: (1),
it is demonstrated to the City Commission's reasonable satisfaction that there
is a strong likelihood that the development and/or use will commence within the
period of extension and proceed diligently thereafter to completion; and (2),
the City Commission finds that there has not been a change in circumstances
that would render the current zoning with statement of conditions incompatible
with other zones and uses in the surrounding area or otherwise inconsistent
with sound zoning policy; and (3) the written request shall be made to the City
Commission requesting the extension within 6 months of the end of the 36 month
period.
   (I)   Reversion of zoning. If approved development and/or use of the rezoned
land does not occur within the time frame specified under Subsection (H) above,
then the land shall revert to its former zoning classification as set forth in
Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended. The reversion process shall be initiated by
the City Commission requesting that the Planning Commission proceed with
consideration of rezoning of the land to its former zoning classification. The
procedure for considering and making this reversionary rezoning shall
thereafter be the same as applies to all other rezoning requests.
   (J)   Subsequent rezoning of land. When land that is rezoned with a
Statement of Conditions is thereafter rezoned to a different zoning
classification or to the same zoning classification but with a different or no
statement of conditions, whether as a result of a reversion of zoning pursuant
to subsection (I) above or otherwise, the statement of conditions imposed under
the former zoning classification shall cease to be in effect. Upon the owner's
written request, the City Clerk shall record with the Register of Deeds of St.
Clair County a notice that the statement of conditions is no longer in effect.
   (K)   Amendment of conditions.
      (1)   During the time period for commencement of an approved development
or use specified pursuant to subsection (H) above or during any extension
thereof granted by the City Commission, the city shall not add to or alter the
conditions in the statement of conditions.
      (2)   The statement of conditions may be amended thereafter in the same
manner as was prescribed for the original rezoning and statement of conditions.
   (L)   City right to rezone. Nothing in the statement of conditions nor in
the provisions of this Section shall be deemed to prohibit the city from
rezoning all or any portion of land that is subject to a Statement of
Conditions to another zoning classification. Any rezoning shall be conducted in
compliance with this ordinance and Public Act 110 of 2006, as amended.
   (M)   Failure to offer conditions. The city shall not require an owner to
offer conditions as a requirement for rezoning. The lack of an offer of
conditions shall not affect an owner's rights under this ordinance.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
BOARD OF APPEALS
§ 160.315 CREATION AND MEMBERSHIP.
   There is hereby established a Zoning Board of Appeals, which shall perform
its duties and exercise its powers as provided in the Michigan Zoning Enabling
Act of 2006 (M.C.L.A. §§ 125.3101 to 125.3702) and in such a way that the
objectives of this chapter shall be observed, public safety secured and
substantial justice done. The Board shall consist of 7 members appointed by the
City Commission, one of whom may be a member of the City Commission and one of
whom may be a member of the Planning Commission. The terms of office for
members appointed to the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be for 3 years except
for members serving because of their membership on the City Commission or
Planning Commission, whose terms shall be limited to the time they are members
of those bodies. Each member of the Board of Appeals shall be a resident of the
city and shall be a qualified and registered elector on the date of appointment
and throughout his or her tenure of office. A member of the Board of Appeals
may be removed from such office as provided for in the Zoning Enabling Act. Any
appointive vacancies shall be filled by the City Commission for the remainder
of the unexpired term. The Board of Appeals shall annually elect its own
Chairperson, Vice-Chairperson and Secretary, however, the City Commission
member of the Board may not serve as Chairperson. The compensation of the
appointed members of the Board of Appeals shall be fixed by the City
Commission. The City Commission may appoint alternate members as provided in
the Zoning Enabling Act. A member of the Zoning Board of Appeals who is also a
member of the Planning Commission or City Commission shall not participate in a
public hearing on or vote on the same matter that the member voted on as a
member of the Planning Commission or City Commission. However, the member may
consider and vote on other unrelated matters involving the same property.
(Prior Code, App., § 1600) (Ord. 78-10, passed 1-4-1979; Am. Ord. 07-04, passed
7-19-2007; Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019; Am. Ord. 24-005, passed 8-1-
2024)
§ 160.316 MEETINGS.
   All meetings of the Board of Appeals shall be held at the call of the
chairperson and at such times as such Board may determine. All hearings
conducted by said Board shall be open to the public and notice of same shall be
published in a newspaper of general circulation within the city not less than
15 days before the meeting. The Board shall keep minutes of its proceedings
showing the vote of each member upon each question, or if absent, or failing to
vote, indicating such fact; and shall also keep records of its hearings and
other official action. Three members of the Board shall constitute a quorum for
the conduct of its business. The Board shall have the power to subpoena and
require the attendance of witnesses, administer oaths, compel testimony and the
production of books, papers, files and other evidence pertinent to the matters
before it.
(Prior Code, App., § 1601) (Ord. 78-10, passed 1-4-1979; Am. Ord. 07-04, passed
7-19-2007)
§ 160.317 APPEAL.
   (A)   An appeal may be taken to the Board of Appeals by any person, firm or
corporation, or by any office, department, board or bureau aggrieved by a
decision of the Building Inspector. The appeal shall be taken within such time
as shall be prescribed by the Board of Appeals by general rule, by filing with
the Building Inspector and the Board of Appeals a notice of appeal, specifying
the grounds thereof. The Building Inspector shall forthwith transmit to the
Board all of the papers constituting the record upon which the action appealed
from was taken.
   (B)   An appeal shall stay all proceedings in furtherance of the action
appealed from, unless the Building Inspector certifies to the Board of Appeals
after the notice of appeal has been filed with him that by reason of facts
stated in the certificate a stay would, in his or her opinion, cause imminent
peril to life or property, in which case the proceedings shall not be stayed,
otherwise than by a restraining order, which may be granted by the Board of
Appeals or by a court of record on application, on notice to the Building
Inspector and on due course shown.
   (C)   The Board shall select a reasonable time and place for the hearing of
the appeals and give due notice thereof to the parties and shall render a
decision on the appeal without unreasonable delay. Any person may appear and
testify at the hearing, either in person or by duly authorized agent or
attorney.
   (D)   The City Commission shall, from time to time, determine by resolution
the fee which shall be paid to the Secretary of the Board of Appeals at the
time that notice of appeal is filed, which the Secretary shall forthwith pay
over to the City Treasurer to the credit of the General Fund of the city.
(Prior Code, App., § 1602) (Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.318 JURISDICTION.
   The Board of Appeals shall have the following powers and it shall be its
duty:
   (A)   To hear and decide on all matters referred to it upon which it is
required to pass under this chapter.
   (B)   To hear and decide appeals where it is alleged there is error of law
in any order, requirement, decision or determination made by the Building
Inspector in the enforcement of this chapter.
   (C)   In hearing and deciding appeals the Board of Appeals shall have the
authority to grant such variance therefrom as may be in harmony with their
general purpose and intent so that the function of this chapter be observed,
public safety and welfare secured, and substantial justice done, including the
following:
      (1)   Interpret the provisions of the chapter in such a way as to carry
out the intent and purpose of the plan, as shown upon the Zoning Map fixing the
use districts, accompanying and made part of this chapter, where street layout
actually on the ground varies from the street layout as shown on the map
aforesaid.
      (2)   Permit the erection and use of a building or use of premises in any
use district for public utility purposes.
      (3)   Permit the modification of the automobile parking space or loading
space requirements where, in the particular instance, such modification will
not be inconsistent with the purpose and intent of such requirements.
      (4)   Permit such modification of the height and area regulations as may
be necessary to secure an appropriate improvement of a lot which is of such
shape, or so located with relation to surrounding development or physical
characteristics, that it cannot otherwise be appropriately improved without
such modification.
      (5)   Permit temporary buildings and uses for periods not to exceed 2
years in undeveloped sections of the city and for periods not to exceed 6
months in developed sections.
   (D)   To hear and decide variance requests as set forth in section M.C.L.A.
§ 125.3604 of the Zoning Enabling Act. However, this shall not include the
authority to grant use variances.
   (E)   In consideration of all appeals and all proposed variations to this
chapter, the Board of Appeals shall, before making any variations from the
chapter in a specific case, first determine that the proposed variation will
not impair an adequate supply of light and air to adjacent property, or
unreasonably increase the congestion in public streets, or increase the danger
of fire or endanger the public safety, or unreasonably diminish or impair
established property values within the surrounding area, or in any other
respect impair the public health, safety, comfort, morals or welfare of the
inhabitants of the City. The concurring vote of 3 members of the Board of
Appeals shall be necessary to reverse any order, requirements, decision, or
determination of the Building Inspector, or to decide in favor of the applicant
any matter upon which it is authorized by this chapter to render a decision.
   (F)   Nothing herein contained shall be construed to give or grant to the
Board of Appeals the power or authority to alter or change the Zoning Ordinance
or the Zoning Map, such power and authority being reserved to the City
Commission of the City of Marine City in the manner provided by law.
   (G)   To obtain a variance from such dimensional requirements as lot area
and width regulations, building height and square foot regulations, yard width
and depth regulations, off-street parking and loading space regulations, sign
regulations and other similar requirements as specified in this Ordinance, the
applicant must submit an affidavit indicating that a "practical difficulty"
exists by demonstrating all of the following:
      (1)   That the strict enforcement of the provisions of the Zoning
Ordinance would cause practical difficulties and deprive the owner of rights
enjoyed by all other property owners owning property within the same zoning
district or render conformity with such restrictions unnecessarily burdensome.
      (2)   That the conditions and circumstances are unique to the property
and are not similarly applicable to other properties in the same zoning
district.
      (3)   That the conditions and circumstances unique to the property were
not created by the owner, or his predecessor in title, within the time
following the effective date of the provisions alleged to adversely affect such
property.
      (4)   That the requested variance will not confer special privileges that
are denied other properties similarly situated and in the same zoning district.
      (5)   That the requested variance will not be contrary to the spirit and
intent of this Zoning Ordinance.
(Prior Code, App., § 1603) (Ord. 78-10, passed 1-4-1979; Am. Ord. 07-04, passed
7-19-2007; Am. Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.319 EXERCISING POWERS.
   In exercising the above powers, the Board of Appeals may reverse or affirm
wholly or partly, or may modify the order, requirement, decision or
determination appealed from and may make such order, requirement, decision or
determination as ought to be made, and to that end shall have all the powers of
the Building Inspector from when the appeal is taken.
(Prior Code, App., § 1604)
§ 160.320 NOTICE.
   The Board of Appeals shall grant no variance except in a specific case and
after a public hearing conducted by the Board. Upon receipt of a written
request seeking an interpretation of the zoning ordinance, an appeal of an
administrative decision, or a variance, a notice stating the time, date, and
place of the public hearing shall be published in a newspaper of general
circulation within the city and shall be sent by mail or personal delivery to
the person requesting the interpretation or to the owners of property for which
variance approval is being considered. Notice shall also be sent to all persons
to whom real property is assessed within 300 feet of the property and to
occupants of all structures within 300 feet of the property regardless of
whether the property or occupant is located in the zoning jurisdiction. The
notice shall be given not less than 15 days before the date the publication
will be considered for approval and shall conform to the requirements of
M.C.L.A. § 125.3101 of the Zoning Enabling Act.
(Prior Code, App., § 1605) (Ord. 78-10, passed 1-4-1979; Am. Ord. 79-1, passed
5-3-1979; Am. Ord. 07-04, passed 7-19-2007)
§ 160.321 MISCELLANEOUS.
   (A)   No order of the Board of Appeals permitting the erection or alteration
of a building shall be valid for a period longer than 1 year, unless a building
permit for the erection or alteration is obtained within the period and the
erection or alteration is started and proceeds to completion in accordance with
the terms of the permit.
   (B)   No order of the Board of Appeals permitting a use of a building or
premises shall be valid for a period longer than 1 year unless such use is
established within the period provided, however, that where the use permitted
is dependent upon the erection or alteration of a building, the order shall
continue in force and effect if a building permit for the erection or
alteration is obtained within the period and the erection or alteration is
started and proceeds to completion in accordance with the terms of the permit.
(Prior Code, App., § 1606) (Ord. 78-10, passed 1-4-1979)
§ 160.322 APPEAL TO CIRCUIT COURT.
   The decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall be final. A party
aggrieved by a decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals may appeal to the
Circuit Court. An appeal from a decision of the Zoning Board of Appeals shall
be filed within 30 days after the Zoning Board of Appeals issues its decision
in writing signed by the chairperson, if there is a chairperson, or signed by
the members of the Zoning Board of Appeals, if there is no chairperson, or
within 21 days after the Zoning Board of Appeals approves the minutes of its
decision. The court may affirm, reverse, or modify the decision of the Zoning
Board of Appeals.
(Ord. 2019-002, passed 2-21-2019)
§ 160.999 PENALTY.
   (A)   Violations. Any firm, corporation or person who violates any provision
of this zoning ordinance is responsible for a municipal civil infraction as
defined in §
10.99, and is subject to payment of a civil fine of not less than $50, plus
costs and other sanctions, for each infraction. Repeat offenses under this
chapter shall be subject to increased fines as provided in §
10.99. The civil fine set forth herein may be amended from time to time by
resolution of the City Commission.
   (B)   Public nuisance, per se. Any building or structure which is erected,
altered, or converted, or any use of premises or land which is begun or changed
subsequent to the time of passage of this chapter and in violation of any of
the provisions thereof is hereby declared to be a public nuisance per se, and
may be abated by order of any court of competent jurisdiction.
   (C)   Rights and remedies. The rights and remedies provided herein are
cumulative and in addition to any other remedies provided by law.
   (D)   General responsibilities. The City Commission or its duly authorized
representative is hereby charged with the duty of enforcing the Ordinance and
the Commission is hereby empowered to commence and pursue any and all necessary
and appropriate actions and/or proceedings in the Circuit Court of St. Clair
County, Michigan, or any other court having jurisdiction, to restrain and/or
prevent any non-compliance with or violation of any of the provisions of this
chapter, and to correct, remedy and/or abate the non-compliance or violation.
And it is further provided that any person aggrieved or adversely affected by
such a non-compliance or violation may institute suit and/or join the City
Commission in such a suit to abate the same.
(Prior Code, App., § 1513) (Ord. 95-13, passed 2-1-1996; Am. Ord. 07-06, passed
11-1-2007)
TABLE OF SPECIAL ORDINANCES
Chapter
   
I.   FRANCHISES
   
II.   ZONING MAP CHANGES
TABLE I: FRANCHISES
 
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
11       11-8-1977   Electricity franchise (30 years) between the city and
                     Detroit Edison
12       12-8-1979   Cable television franchise (30 years) between the city and
                     Harron Communications Corporation
87-14    8-6-1987    Gas franchise (30 years) between the city and Southeastern
                     Michigan Gas Company
95-2     2-2-1995    Cable television franchise (15 years) between the city and
                     Harron Communications Corporation
2000-01  1-6-2000    Electricity franchise (5 years) between the city and
                     Nordic Electric, LLC
 
TABLE II: ZONING MAP CHANGES
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
Ord. No. Date Passed Description
99-5     5-20-1999   Changing described land from R-M to I-1
99-7     11-4-1999   Changing described land from R-1A to B-2
99-10    12-2-1999   Changing described land from B-2 to I-1
99-11    12-16-1999  Changing described land from W-M to B-2
2000-06  11-2-2000   Changing described land from W-M to B-2
04-02    4-15-2004   Changing described land from I-1 to B-2
04-08    10-7-2004   Changing described land from I-1 to R-M
05-01    2-17-2005   Changing described land from I-1 to R-M
05-02    5-5-2005    Changing described land from R1-A to WM
09-03    11-19-2009  Changing described land from W-M to I-2.
24-013   12-19-2024  Allowing Planned Development Project and Plan for
                     described land in M-R.
                    
 
PARALLEL REFERENCES
References to Michigan Compiled Laws Annotated
References to Prior Code
References to Ordinances
REFERENCES TO MICHIGAN COMPILED LAWS ANNOTATED
M.C.L.A. Cites Code Section
M.C.L.A. Cites          Code Section
                        90.103;
                        112.04;
15.231–15.246         112.16 ,
                        155.098 ,
                        155.101
                        31.05;
15.261–15.275         91.55 ,
                        155.098 ,
                        155.101
24.201 et seq.          52.47
28.451 et seq.          136.02
28.601 et seq.          30.55
29.1 et seq.            Ch. 92;
                        160.218
30.401 et seq.          31.02
38.161 et seq.          32.37
38.1681–38.1689       32.37
38.1701 et seq.         32.37
38.1701–38.1711       32.37
41.801 et seq.          92.05
46.401 et seq.          Charter §
                        15.3
                        Charter §§
81.1 et seq.            1.2,
                        2.1
82.1                    Charter §
                        1.2
                        Charter; Charter §§
117.1 et seq.           1.2,
                        2.2
117.3                   Charter §
                        3.2
117.3(a)                Charter §
                        4.1
117.3(b)                Charter §
                        4.11
117.3(c)                Charter §
                        4.1
                        Charter §§
                        3.3,
117.3(d)                3.5,
                        3.12-
                        3.16;
                        5.1
117.3(i)                Charter §
                        9.2
117.3(j)                Charter §
                        6.9
                        Charter §§
117.3(k)                7.2,
                        7.7
                        Charter §§
                        6.4,
117.3(l)                9.5,
                        9.7,
                        9.10,
                        17.4
                        Charter §§
                        10.1,
117.4a                  10.2,
                        11.2;
                        Ch. 154
                        Charter §
117.4b                  11.2;
                        Ch. 154
117.4c                  Charter §
                        12.1
114.4d                  Ch. 154; Charter §
                        11.2
114.4f                  Charter §
                        12.1
117.4i                  10.99; Charter §
                        3.19
117.4i(6)               Charter §
                        7.10
117.4i(10)              Charter §
                        7.5
                        Charter; Charter §§
117.5                   5.9,
                        11.2;
                        Ch. 154
117.5a                  Charter §
                        9.1
                        Charter §
117.5b                  7.9;
                        10.01
117.5f                  Charter §
                        13.3
117.5i                  Charter §
                        14.2
117.18                  Charter §
                        1.2
117.21 et seq.          Charter
123.61 et seq.          Charter §
                        12.4
123.166                 51.36
125.31 et seq.          152.01
125.31                  Ch. 152
125.32                  152.02
125.538                 158.110
125.1401 et seq.        155.076
125.1401–125.1499c    155.077
125.1501-125.1531       155.105 ,
                        155.106
125.2301 et seq.        153.40
125.2301–125.2350     160.066
125.3101                160.320
                        Ch. 160;
125.3101–125.3702     160.001;
                        160.315
125.3101–125.3707     157.01
125.3604                160.318
133.9                   154.079; Charter §
                        11.7
141.101 et seq.         51.36
141.121                 51.36
141.2507                154.040
168.1                   Charter §
                        4.1
168.327                 Charter §
                        5.4
168.544a                Charter §
                        4.12
168.552                 Charter §
                        4.13
168.555                 Charter §
                        4.14
168.706                 Charter §
                        4.15
168.861 et seq.         Charter §
                        4.17
168.951 et seq.         Charter §
                        4.18
168.642a et seq.        30.40
168.644a et seq.        Charter §
                        4.10
168.654 et seq.         Charter §
                        4.2
211.1 et seq.           Charter §
                        9.2
211.2 et seq.           Charter §
                        9.4
211.7 et seq.           Charter §
                        9.3
211.30a                 Charter §
                        9.10
242.1 et seq.           Charter §
                        17.1
247.241 et seq.         95.45
247.651–247.675       112.12
252.201 et seq.         117.43
257.1–257.923         70.001
257.319                 130.21
257.625(1)(C)           70.999
257.648                 70.102
257.716 et seq.         70.076
257.1301–257.1340     118.22
281.1001 et seq.        Ch. 150
281.1072                150.02
287.286                 94.50;
                        94.51
287.290                 Ch. 94
311.1 et seq.           135.04
324.20101 et seq.       92.05
333.27951 et seq.       119.02,
                        119.03
333.27953               119.02
333.27956               119.03
333.6104                130.21
333.6107                130.21
333.7101 et seq.        130.21
333.7106                137.01A
300.201 et seq.         155.116
399.203                 155.130
399.203 (1) through (3) 155.099
399.205(3)              155.104
399.203(4)              155.098
399.205(6)              155.097
432.1 et seq.           134.03
432.101 et seq.         134.03
436.1 et seq.           Ch. 114
436.28a                 Ch. 115
436.1101–436.2303     114.02;
                        114.19
436.1105                130.21
436.1109                130.23
436.1701                130.21
436.1703                130.21;
                        130.23
436.1915                114.01
445.371 et seq.         110.60
445.401 et seq.         Ch. 117
445.471 et seq.         Ch. 117
484.2102                112.03
484.2551                112.04
484.3101–484.3120     112.01;
                        112.03
500.3101                70.102
559.101–559.276       160.228
559.101–559.279       160.005
560.101 et seq.         Ch. 159;
                        159.03
600                     10.99
600.8701–600.8735     10.99
                        Charter §§
600.9921                5.8,
                        16.2
712A.1–712A.32        130.21
722.1–722.6           130.21
722.751                 130.20
722.752                 130.20
722.753                 130.20
750.49 et seq.          Ch. 94
750.50                  94.11
750.81 et seq.          131.01
750.116                 132.04
750.167(1)              130.02
750.167(1)(a)           131.03
750.167(1)(c)           130.03
750.167(1)(h)–(j)     130.04
750.167(1)(k)           131.02
750.169                 133.02
750.170                 133.01
750.217a et seq.        132.05
750.227                 135.01
750.240                 Ch. 92
750.280                 132.05
750.301 et seq.         134.03
750.309                 130.02
750.335a                134.01
750.356 et seq.         132.03
750.377a et seq.        132.02
750.377b                Ch. 92
750.390                 134.04
750.448 et seq.         134.02
750.479                 130.01
750.546 et seq.         132.01
752.91                  94.15
752.525                 133.02
752.541 et seq.         133.03
752.811                 Ch. 115
764.9c                  10.10
                        
 
REFERENCES TO PRIOR CODE
Prior Code 2007 Code
Prior Code     2007 Code
App.           160.245
App., Preamble 160.002
App., Title    160.001
App., § 100   160.003
App., § 200   160.004
App., § 201   160.005
App., § 300   160.020
App., § 301   160.021
App., § 302   160.022
App., § 303   160.023
App., § 400   160.035
App., § 401   160.036
App., § 402   160.037
App., § 403   160.038
App., § 500   160.050
App., § 500.1 160.065
App., § 501   160.051
App., § 501.1 160.066
App., § 502   160.052
App., § 502.1 160.067
App., § 503   160.053
App., § 503.1 160.068
App., § 504   160.054
App., § 600   160.080
App., § 601   160.081
App., § 602   160.082
App., § 603   160.083
App., § 604   160.084
App., § 700   160.095
App., § 701   160.096
App., § 702   160.097
App., § 703   160.098
App., § 800   160.110
App., § 801   160.111
App., § 802   160.112 
App., § 803   160.113
App., § 804   160.114
App., § 900   160.125
App., § 901   160.126
App., § 902   160.127
App., § 903   160.128
App., § 904   160.129
App., § 1000  160.140
App., § 1001  160.141
App., § 1002  160.142
App., § 1100  160.155
App., § 1101  160.156
App., § 1102  160.157
App., § 1103  160.158
App., § 1104  160.159
App., § 1105  160.160
App., § 1106  160.161
App., § 1107  160.162
App., § 1108  160.163
App., § 1200  160.195;
               160.196
App., § 1300  160.210
App., § 1301  160.211
App., § 1302  160.212
App., § 1303  160.213
App., § 1304  160.214
App., § 1305  160.215
App., § 1306  160.216
App., § 1307  160.217
App., § 1308  160.218
App., § 1310  160.220
App., § 1311  160.221
App., § 1312  160.222
App., § 1313  160.223
App., § 1314  160.224
App., § 1315  160.225
App., § 1316  160.226
App., § 1317  160.227
App., § 1318  160.228
App., § 1319  160.229
App., § 1320  160.230
App., § 1321  160.231
App., § 1400  160.246
App., § 1401  160.247
App., § 1402  160.248
App., § 1403  160.249
App., § 1404  160.250
App., § 1405  160.251
App., § 1406  160.252
App., § 1407  160.253
App., § 1408  160.254
App., § 1409  160.255
App., § 1410  160.256
App., § 1411  160.257
App., § 1412  160.258
App., § 1500  160.290
App., § 1501  160.291
App., § 1502  160.292
App., § 1503  160.293
App., § 1504  160.294
App., § 1505  160.295
App., § 1506  160.296
App., § 1507  160.297
App., § 1508  160.298
App., § 1509  160.299
App., § 1509A 160.300
App., § 1510  160.301
App., § 1511  160.302
App., § 1512  160.303
App., § 1513  160.999
App., § 1600  160.315
App., § 1601  160.316
App., § 1602  160.317
App., § 1603  160.318
App., § 1604  160.319
App., § 1605  160.320
App., § 1606  160.321
App., § 2000  160.175
App., § 2001  160.176
App., § 2002  160.177
App., § 2003  160.178
App., § 2004  160.179
App., § 2005  160.180
App., § 2006  160.181
App., § 2007  160.182
App., § 2008  160.183
App., § 2100  160.270
App., § 2101  160.271
App., § 2102  160.272
App., § 2103  160.273
App., § 2104  160.274
App., § 2105  160.275
App., § 2106  160.276
App., § 2107  160.277
App., § 2108  160.278
1-7            10.99
2-20           30.01
2-21           30.02
2-22           30.03
2-23           30.04
2-24           30.05
3-1            113.01
3-2            113.02
4-1            114.01
4-2            114.02
4-21           114.15
4-22           114.16
4-23           114.17
4-24           114.18
4-26           114.20
4-27           114.19
5-16           115.01
5-17           115.02
5-18           115.03
5-19           115.04
5-26           115.05
5-27           115.06
5-28           115.07
5-29           115.08
5-30           115.09
5-42           115.20
5-43           115.21
5-44           115.22
5-45           115.23
5-46           115.24
5-56           115.25
5-57           115.26
5-58           115.27
5-59           115.28
6-1            94.01
6-2            94.02
6-3            94.03
6-4            94.04
6-5            94.05
6-6            94.06
6-7            94.07
6-8            94.08
6-9            94.09
6-10           94.10
6-11           94.11
6-12           94.12
6-13           94.13
6-14           94.14
6-15           94.15
6-16           94.16
6-17           94.17
               94.30-
6-18           94.37;
               94.99
6-19           94.50
6-20           94.51
6-21           94.99
7-16           158.001
7-23           158.015
7-24           158.016
7-26           158.030
7-29           158.031
7-30           158.032
7-31           158.033
7-32           158.034
7-33           158.035
7-37           158.036
7-38           158.037
7-39           158.038
7-40           158.039
7-41           158.040
7-42           158.041
7-43           158.042
7-44           158.043
7-45           158.044
7-46           158.045
7-47           158.046
7-48           158.046
7-49           158.046
7-50           158.047
7-51           158.048
7-52           158.049
7-53           158.050
7-54           158.051
7-55           158.052
7-56           158.053
7-57           158.054
7-58           158.055
7-59           158.056
7-60           158.057
7-61           158.058
7-62           158.059
7-63           158.060
7-64           158.061
7-65           158.062
7-66           158.063
7-67           158.064
7-68           158.065
7-69           158.066
7-70           158.067
7-71           158.068
7-72           158.069
7-73           158.070
7-74           158.071
7-75           158.072
7-76           158.073
7-77           158.074
7-78           158.075
7-79           158.076
7-80           158.077
7-81           158.095
7-83           158.096
7-84           158.097
7-111          158.110
7-112          158.111
7-113          158.112
7-114          158.113
7-115          158.114
7-116          158.115
7-117          158.116
7-118          158.117
7-119          158.118
7-130          158.130
7-141          158.145
7.5-1          91.01
7.5-2          91.02
7.5-3          91.03
7.5-4          91.04
7.5-5          91.05
7.5-6          91.06
7.5-7          91.07
7.5-8          91.08
7.5-9          91.09
7.5-10         91.10
7.5-10.1       91.11
7.5-11         91.12
7.5-12         91.12
7.5-31         91.25
7.5-32         91.26
7.5-33         91.27
7.5-34         91.28
7.5-35         91.29
7.5-36         91.30
7.5-46         91.45
7.5-47         91.46
7.5-48         91.47
7.5-49         91.48
7.5-50         91.49
7.5-51         91.50
7.5-52         91.51
7.5-53         91.52
7.5-54         91.53
7.5-55         91.54
7.5-56         91.55
9-1            30.40
9-2            30.41
10-1           156.01
10-2           156.02
11-1           92.01
11-2           92.02
11-3           92.03
11-4           92.04
11-16          92.15
11-17          92.16
11-18          92.17
11-31          92.30
11-32          92.31
11-33          92.32
11-34          92.33
11-35          92.34
11-36          92.35
11.5-1         157.01
11.5-2         157.02
11.5-3         157.03
11.5-4         157.04
11.5-5         157.05
11.5-6         157.06
11.5-7         157.07
11.5-8         157.08
11.5-20        157.20
11.5-21        157.21
11.5-22        157.21
11.5-23        157.22
11.5-35        157.35
11.5-36        157.36
11.5-37        157.37
11.5-38        157.38
12-1           50.01
12-2           50.02
12-3           50.03
12-4           50.04
12-5           50.05
12-6           50.06
13-71          155.055
13-72          155.056
13-73          155.057
13-74          155.058
13-75          155.059
13-76          155.060
13-86          155.075
13-87          155.076
13-88          155.077
13-89          155.078
13-90          155.079
13-91          155.080
13-92          155.081
13-93          155.082
13-94          155.083
14-1           110.01
14-2           110.02
14-3           110.03
14-4           110.04
14-5           110.05
14-6           110.06
14-7           110.07
14-8           110.08
14-9           110.09
14-10          110.10
14-11          110.11
14-12          110.12
14-13          110.13
14-14          110.14
14-16          110.16
14-17          110.17
14-18          110.18
14-20          110.19
14-21          110.20
14-23          110.21
14-24          110.22
14-25          110.22
14-26          110.22
14-38          110.40
14-39          110.40
14-40          110.40
14-41          110.41
14-42          110.42
14-54          110.60
14-55          110.61
14-56          110.62
14-57          111.01
14-58          111.02
14-59          111.03
14-60          111.04
14-61          111.05 
14-62          111.06
14-63          111.07
14-64          111.08
14-65          111.09
14-66          111.99
15-16          130.20
15-17          130.20
15-18          130.20
15-31          130.21
15-32          130.21
15-33          130.21
15-34          130.21
15-44          130.22
15-45          130.22
15-46          130.22
16-1           153.01
16-2           153.02
16-3           153.15
16-4           153.16
16-5           153.17
16-6           153.18
16-7           153.19
16-8           153.20
16-9           153.21
16-10          153.22
16-11          153.23
16-12          153.24
16-13          153.25
16-14          153.26
16-16          153.40
16-17          153.41
16-29          153.55
16-30          153.56
16.5-1         10.99
16.5-2         10.99
16.5-3         10.99
16.5-4         10.99
16.5-5         10.99
16.5-6         10.99
17-1           95.01
17-2           95.02
17-3           95.03
17-4           95.04
17-5           95.05
17-6           95.06
17-7           95.07
17-8           95.08
17-9           95.09
17-10          95.10
17-11          95.11
17-12          95.12
17-13          95.13
17-14          95.14
18-1           95.25
18-2           95.26
18-3           95.27
18-4           95.28
18-5           95.29
18-6           95.30
18-7           95.31
18-8           95.32
18-9           95.33
19-1           130.01
19-2           130.02
19-4           130.03
19-6           130.05
19-7           130.06
19-8           130.07
19-9           130.08
19-10          130.09
19-31          131.01
19-32          131.02
19-33          131.03
19-45          132.01
19-46          132.02
19-48          132.03
19-49          132.04
19-50          132.05
19-51          132.06
19-61          133.01
19-62          133.02
19-63          133.03
19-64          133.04
19-65          133.05
19-78          134.01
19-79          134.02
19-80          134.03
19-81          134.04
19-97          135.01
19-98          135.02
19-99          135.03
19-100         135.04
19-120         137.01
19-121         137.02
19-122         137.03
19-123         137.04
19-124         137.05
19-125         137.99
19-126         137.99
19-127         137.99
19.5-1         93.01
19.5-2         93.02
19.5-3         93.03
19.5-4         93.04
19.5-5         93.05
19.5-6         93.06
19.5-7         93.07
19.5-8         93.08
19.5-9         93.09
19.5-10        93.10
19.5-11        93.99
20-1           116.01
20-2           116.02
20-3           116.03
20-4           116.04
20-5           116.05
20-6           116.06
20-7           116.07
20-8           116.08
20-9           116.09
20-21          116.20
20-22          116.21
20-23          116.22
20-24          116.23
20-25          116.24
21-16          152.01
21-17          152.02
21-19          152.03
21-20          152.04
21-21          152.05
21-22          152.06
21-23          152.07
21-24          152.08
21-25          152.09
21-26          152.10
21-27          152.11
22-16          30.55
22-17          30.56
23-16          117.01
23-17          117.02
23-18          117.03
23-19          117.04
23-20          117.05
23-21          117.06
23-31          117.07
23-32          117.08
23-45          117.20
23-46          117.21
23-47          117.22
23-48          117.23
23-49          117.24
23-56          117.25
23-57          117.26
23-58          117.27
23-71          117.40
23-72          117.41
23-73          117.42
23-74          117.43
23-81          117.44
23-82          117.45
23-83          117.46
23-91          117.60
23-92          117.61
23-93          117.62
23-94          117.63
23-95          117.64
25-1           154.001
25-2           154.002
25-3           154.003
25-4           154.004
25-5           154.005
25-6           154.006
25-7           154.007
25-19          154.020
25-20          154.021
25-21          154.022
25-22          154.023
25-34          154.035
25-35          154.036
25-36          154.037
25-37          154.038
25-38          154.039
25-39          154.040
25-51          154.055
25-52          154.056
25-53          154.057
25-54          154.058
25-55          154.059
25-56          154.060
25-57          154.061
25-58          154.062
25-71          154.075
25-72          154.076
25-73          154.077
25-74          154.078
25-75          154.079
25-76          154.080
25-78          154.081
25-79          154.082
25-80          154.083
26-1           90.001
26-2           90.002
26-3           90.003
26-4           90.004
26-5           90.004
26-17          90.015
26-18          90.016;
               90.017
26-59          90.060
26-66          90.061
26-67          90.062
26-68          90.063
26-81          90.075
26-82          90.076
26-83          90.077
26-84          90.078
26-85          90.079 
26-86          90.080
26-106         90.115
26-107         90.116
26-116         90.117
26-117         90.118
26-118         90.119
26-119         90.120
26-131         90.135
26-137         90.136
26-138         90.137
26-139         90.138
26-140         90.139
26-141         90.140
26-142         90.141
26-145         90.155
26-146         90.156
26-147         90.157
26-148         90.158
26-149         90.159
26-150         90.160
26-151         90.161
26-152         90.162
27-1           159.01
27-2           159.02
27-3           159.03
27-4           159.04
27-5           159.05
27-6           159.06
27-7           159.07
27-8           159.08
27-21          159.20
27-22          159.21
27-23          159.22
27-24          159.23
27-25          159.24
27-37          159.35
27-38          159.36
27-39          159.37
27-40          159.38
27-41          159.39
27-42          159.40
27-43          159.41
27-55          159.55
27-56          159.56
27-57          159.57
27-58          159.58
27-59          159.59
27-60          159.60
27-61          159.61
27-62          159.62
28-1           151.01
28-2           151.02
28-3           151.03
28-4           151.04
28-5           151.05
28-6           151.06
28-7           151.07
28-8           151.08
28-9           151.09
28-10          151.10
28-11          151.11
28-23          151.25
28-24          151.26
28-25          151.27
28-26          151.28
28-27          151.29
29-16          70.015
29-17          70.016
29-18          70.017
29-19          70.018
29-20          70.019
29-21          70.020
29-22          70.021
29-23          70.022
29-35          70.035
29-36          70.036
29-37          70.037
29-38          70.038
29-39          70.039
29-40          70.040
29-41          70.041
29-42          70.042
29-50          70.050
29-51          70.051
29-53          70.054
29-56          70.054
29-57          70.054
29-74          70.999
30-16          51.01
30-17          51.02
30-18          51.03
30-19          51.04
30-20          51.05
30-21          51.06
30-31          51.20
30-32          51.21
30-33          51.22
30-34          51.23
30-35          51.24
30-36          51.25
30-48          52.01
30-49          52.02
30-50          52.03
30-51          52.04
30-52          52.05
30-53          52.06
30-61          52.20
30-62          52.21
30-81          52.35
30-82          52.36
30-83          52.37
30-84          52.38
30-85          52.39
30-86          52.40
30-87          52.41
30-88          52.42
30-89          52.43
30-90          52.44
30-91          52.45
30-92          52.46
30-93          52.47
30-94          52.99
30-95          52.48
30-96          52.49
30-97          52.50
31-1           95.45
31-11          95.46
31-12          95.46
31-13          95.46
31-21          95.47
31-22          95.48
31-23          95.49
31-24          95.50
32-1           118.01
32-2           118.02
32-3           118.03
32-4           118.04
32-5           118.05
32-6           118.06
32-7           118.07
32-8           118.08
32-26          118.20
32-27          118.21
32-28          118.22
32-29          118.23
32-30          118.24
32-31          118.25
32-32          118.26
32-33          118.27
32-49          118.40
32-50          118.41
33-1           150.01
33-2           150.02
33-3           150.03
33-4           150.04
33-5           150.05
               
 
REFERENCES TO ORDINANCES
Ord. No. Date Passed Code Section
Ord. No.                        Date Passed Code Section
01-03                           - -         31.01-
                                            31.15
                                            112.01-
03-02                           - -         112.19;
                                            112.99
41                              - -         150.03
-                               6-25-1957   10.04
                                            151.01-
39                              10-15-1959  151.11;
                                            151.25-
                                            151.29
-                               11-3-1960   130.20
42                              10-23-1961  130.06
44                              10-21-1965  70.035-
                                            70.042
-                               7-21-1966   151.04
-                               1-5-1967    156.01;
                                            156.02
                                            130.01;
                                            131.03;
-                               11-2-1967   132.02-
                                            132.04;
                                            135.03
49                              11-2-1967   30.55;
                                            30.56
                                            158.034-
                                            158.037;
50                              1-4-1968    158.049-
                                            158.051;
                                            158.057-
                                            158.077
-                               4-11-1968   130.21
51                              5-16-1968   158.096;
                                            158.097
                                            159.01-
                                            159.08;
                                            159.20-
53                              8-21-1969   159.24;
                                            159.35-
                                            159.41;
                                            159.55-
                                            159.62
55                              2-19-1970   150.02
61                              3-18-1971   30.41
62                              9-2-1971    92.03
64                              11-18-1971  130.22
65                              11-18-1971  160.227
-                               2-15-1973   159.36
                                            158.058;
                                            158.061-
                                            158.064;
-                               3-15-1973   158.066-
                                            158.072;
                                            158.074-
                                            158.077
68                              6-21-1973   155.055-
                                            155.060
69                              10-4-1973   114.01
70                              10-18-1973  51.02-
                                            51.05
-                               5-16-1974   160.082
-                               6-6-1974    160.291
-                               9-19-1974   160.005;
                                            160.256
-                               2-27-1975   114.02;
                                            130.21
77                              3-6-1975    160.037
79                              1-8-1976    133.05;
                                            135.04
                                            95.11;
                                            110.01-
                                            110.14;
                                            110.16–
                                            110.22;
                                            110.40-
                                            110.42;
                                            110.60-
                                            110.62;
                                            115.01-
                                            115.07;
                                            115.09;
                                            115.20-
-                               5-20-1976   115.26;
                                            115.28;
                                            116.01;
                                            116.02;
                                            116.07-
                                            116.09;
                                            116.20-
                                            116.22;
                                            116.24;
                                            117.01-
                                            117.08;
                                            117.20-
                                            117.27;
                                            117.40-
                                            117.46
77-4                            7-21-1977   134.04
11                              11-8-1977   TSO I
                                            158.038;
                                            158.058;
78-2                            3-16-1978   158.061-
                                            158.064;
                                            158.066-
                                            158.077
                                            158.031-
                                            158.033;
                                            158.036;
                                            158.038-
78-4                            3-16-1978   158.048;
                                            158.051-
                                            158.056;
                                            158.058;
                                            158.065
                                            160.315;
                                            160.316;
78-10                           1-4-1979    160.318;
                                            160.320;
                                            160.321
12                              12-8-1979   TSO I
79-1                            5-3-1979    160.320
                                            157.01-
                                            157.08;
79-3                            7-19-1979   157.20-
                                            157.22;
                                            157.35-
                                            157.38
79-6                            9-6-1979    130.21
79-7                            9-6-1979    130.21
79-9                            10-18-1979  160.023
80-1                            3-20-1980   30.01-
                                            30.04
80-4                            4-17-1980   91.25-
                                            91.30
-                               11-20-1980  32.01–
                                            32.39
81-3                            3-19-1981   132.06
81-8                            7-2-1981    91.30
81-14                           12-1-1981   158.110-
                                            158.118
81-15                           1-7-1982    153.15-
                                            153.26
                                            91.05-
81-16                           1-7-1982    91.10;
                                            91.12
81-17                           1-7-1982    160.227
82-2                            2-4-1982    90.001
82-8                            6-17-1982   157.01
82-9                            8-5-1982    160.302
83-5                            7-7-1983    160.195
83-6                            7-7-1983    160.213
83-7                            7-7-1983    91.30
83-9                            11-3-1983   160.221
83-10                           11-3-1983   135.02
84-4                            3-15-1984   130.20
84-6                            5-17-1984   160.037
84-11                           6-21-1984   117.60-
                                            117.64
84-15                           9-6-1984    91.11
84-24                           11-15-1984  160.215
84-25                           1-3-1985    160.213
                                            118.01-
                                            118.08;
85-2                            2-7-1985    118.20-
                                            118.27,
                                            118.40;
                                            118.41
85-4                            7-18-1985   32.13
85-6                            11-21-1985  130.21
                                            93.01-
86-1                            4-17-1986   93.10;
                                            93.99
86-2A1                          6-19-1986   155.075-
                                            155.083
86-5                            11-20-1986  150.04
86-7                            12-4-1986   32.23
87-5                            5-7-1987    160.221
                                            95.45;
87-6                            5-7-1987    95.47-
                                            95.50
87-10                           5-21-1987   160.037
87-11                           5-21-1987   160.195
                                            137.01-
87-12                           5-21-1987   137.05;
                                            137.99
87-14                           8-6-1987    TSO I
87-15                           8-20-1987   160.082;
                                            160.083
                                            70.050;
87-16                           11-5-1987   70.051;
                                            70.054
88-1                            3-17-1988   160.175-
                                            160.183
                                            70.076;
88-4                            6-2-1988    70.077;
                                            70.999
88-5                            6-16-1988   91.30
88-8                            10-20-1988  160.037
88-10                           1-5-1989    160.037
                                            111.01-
88-11                           1-5-1989    111.09;
                                            111.99
89-3                            4-6-1989    160.037
89-4                            5-4-1989    160.005;
                                            160.037
                                            115.06;
                                            115.20;
89-8                            4-5-1990    116.04;
                                            130.21;
                                            153.01;
                                            153.40
90-1                            5-3-1990    92.15-
                                            92.19
90-7                            6-21-1990   91.30
90-8                            7-5-1990    32.13
90-9                            8-2-1990    130.20
90-10                           8-2-1990    160.083
91-1                            2-21-1991   90.155-
                                            90.162
                                            160.020;
91-4                            9-5-1991    160.065-
                                            160.068
91-7                            9-19-1991   150.05
                                            94.01-
                                            94.17;
                                            94.30-
91-8                            10-7-1991   94.37;
                                            94.50;
                                            94.51;
                                            94.99
                                            32.05;
91-9                            9-19-1991   32.12;
                                            32.15;
                                            32.24
91-10                           10-17-1991  160.217
                                            94.07;
91-11                           11-7-1991   94.15;
                                            94.17
                                            52.35-
92-7                            8-20-1992   52.50;
                                            52.99
92-8                            9-17-1992   160.214
                                            91.27;
93-1                            3-4-1993    91.28;
                                            91.45-
                                            91.55
93-5                            11-4-1993   91.30
94-8                            3-17-1994   114.15-
                                            114.20
94-9                            3-17-1994   130.20
94-13                           5-5-1994    32.25
94-14                           5-5-1994    158.145
94-12                           6-2-1994    50.05;
                                            50.06
94-15                           6-16-1994   10.13
94-16                           6-16-1994   130.09
94-20                           6-16-1994   92.16
94-21                           8-18-1994   92.30-
                                            92.35
95-2                            2-2-1995    TSO I
95-7                            12-7-1995   95.46
95-9                            12-21-1995  51.21
95-11                           2-1-1996    10.02;
                                            10.99
95-12                           2-1-1996    94.01;
                                            94.99
95-13                           2-1-1996    160.290;
                                            160.999
95-14                           2-1-1996    10.99
96-3                            4-18-1996   30.01;
                                            30.05
96-4                            5-2-1996    115.28
96-5                            5-2-1996    118.26
96-6                            5-2-1996    110.06
96-7                            6-20-1996   95.46
96-11                           12-19-1996  32.14
96-15                           2-20-1997   92.15-
                                            92.17
97-1                            5-1-1997    130.20
                                            160.005;
97-2                            6-5-1997    160.054;
                                            160.228-
                                            160.230
97-4                            8-7-1997    160.220
97-5                            10-2-1997   160.300
97-7                            12-4-1997   90.015
98-1                            3-5-1998    130.21
98-2                            3-19-1998   160.231
                                            160.110-
                                            160.114;
98-3                            3-19-1998   160.195;
                                            160.196;
                                            160.214
98-4                            5-21-1998   160.126
98-7                            8-20-1998   32.14
98-10                           10-15-1998  160.270-
                                            160.278
99-1                            2-4-1999    160.195;
                                            160.196
99-2                            2-4-1999    160.082
99-3                            3-18-1999   50.01
99-5                            5-20-1999   TSO II
99-6                            7-1-1999    160.097
99-7                            11-4-1999   TSO II
99-8                            11-18-1999  90.095-
                                            90.104
99-10                           12-2-1999   TSO II
99-11                           12-16-1999  TSO II
2000-01                         1-6-2000    TSO I
00-02                           3-16-2000   70.001
                                            32.02;
00-04                           5-4-2000    32.03;
                                            32.36
2000-06                         11-2-2000   TSO II
                                            32.02;
                                            32.04;
                                            32.06;
                                            32.07;
02-01                           6-27-2002   32.11;
                                            32.12;
                                            32.15;
                                            32.37;
                                            32.40
                                            32.02;
                                            32.04;
                                            32.06;
                                            32.07;
02-02                           6-30-2002   32.11;
                                            32.12;
                                            32.15;
                                            32.37;
                                            32.40
03-01   2-6-2003   32.02;  .13        
                                            158.001;
                                            158.015;
04-01                           3-18-2004   158.016;
                                            158.030;
                                            158.095;
                                            158.130
04-02                           4-15-2004   TSO II
                                            160.215;
04-03                           5-6-2004    160.219;
                                            160.225;
                                            160.231
04-04                           5-6-2004    160.232
04-05                           5-20-2004   160.304
04-07                           8-19-2004   160.096,
                                            160.099
04-08                           10-7-2004   TSO II
05-01                           2-17-2005   TSO II
05-02                           5-5-2005    TSO II
05-04                           7-1-2005    91.30
05-06                           9-15-2005   113.03
06-01                           2-16-2006   160.320
06-02                           4-6-2006    160.227
                                            152.02;
07-01                           5-17-2007   157.03;
                                            157.07
07-02                           6-7-2007    155.060
                                            160.305;
                                            160.315;
07-04                           7-19-2007   160.316;
                                            160.318;
                                            160.320
07-05                           11-1-2007   Adopting Ordinance
                                            10.99;
                                            90.118;
                                            90.120;
07-06                           11-1-2007   90.140;
                                            91.30;
                                            118.25;
                                            155.060;
                                            160.999
07-07                           11-1-2007   152.02
07-08                           1-17-2008   160.037;
                                            160.052
08-01                           5-15-2008   160.005;
                                            160.233
08-03                           9-4-2008    33.01 -
                                            33.62
08-04                           10-2-2008   155.130
08-05                           10-2-2008   160.220
09-01                           2-5-2009    32.01 -
                                            32.40
09-03                           11-19-2009  T.S.O. II
09-04                           12-3-2009   70.005
09-05                           12-3-2009   70.010
09-06                           12-3-2009   133.06
09-07                           12-3-2009   131.02
09-08                           12-3-2009   10.99
10-01                           4-15-2010   158.005
10-02                           6-3-2010    160.037
10-05                           10-21-2010  130.21
10-06                           12-16-2010  92.05
11-02                           6-2-2011    51.36
11-04                           8-4-2011    160.182,
                                            160.220
11-05                           8-4-2011    160.212
11-06                           10-6-2011   160.224
11-07                           10-6-2011   160.069,
                                            160.112
12-01                           6-22-2012   51.35;
                                            52.60
12-02                           8-16-2012   93.11
                                            136.01 -
12-03                           11-15-2012  136.06,
                                            136.99
                                            53.01 -
13-01                           4-18-2013   53.21,
                                            53.99
13-02                           6-20-2013   51.35;
                                            52.60
13-03                           6-20-2013   110.10
13-04                           7-19-2013   158.145 -
                                            158.148
13-05                           8-1-2013    94.03
13-06                           8-1-2013    160.005,
                                            160.217
13-07                           8-1-2013    150.06
13-08                           8-1-2013    150.07
13-09                           11-7-2013   90.175 -
                                            90.177
14-01                           3-20-2014   160.224
14-02                           6-5-2014    92.05
14-03                           6-19-2014   51.35 ,
                                            52.60
                                            155.095  -
14-04                           9-18-2014   155.115 ,
                                            155.999
                                            51.02 ;
                                            51.03 ;
01-2015                         2-18-2015   51.07 ;
                                            51.08 ;
                                            51.99
02-2015                         4-16-2015   TSO I
03-2015                         5-7-52015   137.01A
04-2015                         6-18-2015   51.35;
                                            52.60
2016-01                         2-4-2016    51.26
                                            156.01–
2016-02                         3-3-2016    156.06;
                                            156.20–
                                            156.22
2016-03                         8-4-2016    70.002
2016-04                         7-21-2016   90.030;
                                            90.040
2016-05                         7-21-2016   51.35;
                                            52.60
2017-01                         6-15-2017   Adopting Ordinance
2017-02                         6-15-2017   51.35;
                                            52.60
2018-01                         4-5-2018    70.039
2018-02                         7-19-2018   153.56
2018-03                         4-5-2018    160.214;
                                            160.215
2018-004                        4-5-2018    130.23
2018-005                        6-21-2018   51.35;
                                            52.60
                                            160.082;
2018-006                        11-1-2018   160.234;
                                            160.235
2018-007                        9-20-2018   160.220
2018-008                        10-4-2018   155.055–
                                            155.060
                                            70.080–
                                            70.082;
2019-001                        2-7-2019    90.016;
                                            95.46;
                                            158.147
                                            160.005;
                                            160.024;
                                            160.036;
                                            160.037;
                                            160.052;
                                            160.081;
                                            160.175;
                                            160.195;
                                            160.213;
                                            160.221;
2019-002                        2-21-2019   160.236;
                                            160.237;
                                            160.274;
                                            160.298;
                                            160.300;
                                            160.301;
                                            160.306;
                                            160.315;
                                            160.317;
                                            160.318;
                                            160.322
                                            32.27–
2019-003                        2-21-2019   32.30;
                                            33.57
                                            119.01–
2019-004                        3-7-2019    119.03;
                                            119.99
                                            136.01–
2019-005                        4-18-2019   136.06;
                                            136.99
                                            96.01–
2019-006                        5-16-2019   96.08;
                                            96.99
2019-007                        7-1-2019    51.35;
                                            52.60
2019-008                        6-6-2019    155.001–
                                            155.006
2019-010                        8-15-2019   70.006;
                                            70.999
2019-011                        11-7-2019   50.07
2019-012                        11-21-2019  158.006–
                                            158.014
2019-013                        11-21-2019  116.21–
                                            116.23
2019-014                        11-21-2019  70.100–
                                            70.104
2019-015                        11-21-2019  70.007
2019-016                        11-21-2019  70.999
2020-001                        6-4-2020    51.35;
                                            52.60
2021-02                         10-21-2021  92.03
                                            160.081;
                                            160.175-
- -                             10-21-2021  160.183;
                                            160.214;
                                            160.220;
                                            160.300
2022-001                        5-5-2022    51.35;
                                            52.60
22-002                          7-21-2022   158.155-
                                            158.165
22-003                          9-15-2022   155.001–
                                            155.006
                                            110.01 -
22-004                          10-20-2022  110.22;
                                            110.40 -
                                            110.42
2023-002                        5-18-2023   51.35,
                                            52.60
23-003                          9-7-2023    114.01
23-004                          9-7-2023    150.08
                                            120.01-
23-006                          11-2-2023   120.08,
                                            120.98,
                                            120.99
24-002                          3-7-2024    70.050 -
                                            70.055
2024-003                        5-16-2024   51.35;
                                            52.60
2024-004                        7-11-2024   155.098
24-005                          8-1-2024    160.315
Proposal 1                      11-5-2024   Charter §
                                            3.3
Proposal 2                      11-5-2024   Charter §
                                            3.11
Proposal 3                      11-5-2024   Charter §
                                            3.20
Proposal 4                      11-5-2024   Charter §
                                            5.4
Proposal 5                      11-5-2024   Charter §
                                            13.1 (repeals §§ 13.2, 13.3)
                                            155.101;
24-009                          12-5-2024   155.116–
                                            155.118
24-010                          12-5-2024   97.01–
                                            97.10
24-011                          12-19-2024  30.20–
                                            30.25
24-013                          12-19-2024  TSO II
25-001                          1-23-2025   34.01–
                                            34.14
25-002                          1-23-2025   51.37
                                           
 
 
